factor xiii deficiency and intracranial hemorrhages in infancy . we report an infant with factor xiii deficiency who had 2 seemingly spontaneous intracranial hemorrhages . it is important to consider factor xiii deficiency as a possible cause of unexplained intracranial hemorrhages in infancy . ongoing factor replacement therapy is recommended to prevent further bleeding episodes . 
recombinant lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor inhibits tissue thromboplastin-induced intravascular coagulation in the rabbit . lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor produces feed-back inhibition of tissue factor ( tissue thromboplastin ) - induced coagulation in the presence of factor xa recombinant lipoprotein-associated coagulation inhibitor ( rlaci ) was tested for its ability to modify thromboplastin-induced intravascular coagulation in a rabbit model that allows monitoring of iodine-125 fibrin accumulation/disappearance in the lung and sampling of blood for the measurement of coagulation parameters . infusion of thromboplastin into the rabbit caused a rapid increase of radioactivity over the lungs , possibly due to the accumulation of 125i fibrin in the lungs , followed by a rapid decline of radioactivity , suggestive of removal of fibrin from the lungs . thromboplastin also caused a rapid decrease of systemic fibrinogen that was accompanied by a lengthening of the activated partial thromboplastin time and prothrombin time . the effect of coinfusion of rlaci with thromboplastin or bolus injection of rlaci before thromboplastin infusion was studied . at a high dose of rlaci ( 800 micrograms/kg body weight ) , the thromboplastin-induced radioactivity increase in the lungs and the systemic fibrinogen decrease were completely suppressed . the activated partial thromboplastin time and prothrombin time of the plasma samples lengthened , possibly due to the presence of thromboplastin in circulation . the thromboplastin-induced radioactivity increase over the lungs was not completely suppressed by lower doses of rlaci ( 135 to 270 micrograms/kg body weight ) , but these doses of rlaci prevented systemic fibrinogen decrease . at a bolus dose of 23 micrograms/kg body weight , rlaci provided 50 % protection of the fibrinogen consumption ( fibrinogen decreased to 82 % compared with 65 % in rabbits treated with thromboplastin alone ) . these results show that rlaci is effective in the inhibition of thromboplastin-induced coagulation in vivo . 
effect of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor administration on the lymphocyte subsets of patients with refractory aplastic anemia . human recombinant granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( rhgm-csf ) was administered to 14 patients with refractory aplastic anemia ( aa ) . the effect of rhgm-csf therapy on the lymphocyte phenotype ; on the proliferative responses to the mitogen phytohemagglutinin , candida albicans , and tetanus toxoid antigens ; and on the natural killer ( nk ) activity of the circulating lymphocytes was studied . samples were collected before ( baseline ) and twice during the rhgm-csf administration . the absolute number of circulating lymphocytes remained relatively constant during the first period , but experienced a significant increase ( p less than .001 ) during the second period . the increase was most prominent in the b cells ( p less than .001 ) , but the t cells ( p less than .016 ) also increased . detailed investigation of lymphocyte subsets showed an increase of the markers cd38 ( leu17 ) , hla-dr , and the transferrin receptor throughout the treatment course giving evidence of lymphoid cell activation . the nk cell activity was suppressed ( p less than .008 ) throughout the treatment . however , proliferative responses to phytohemagglutinin , candida antigen , and tetanus toxoid were unaffected . although the mechanism is not yet defined , gm-csf does induce activation and increase in absolute lymphoid cell number , especially b cells , together with a decrease in nk cytotoxicity . the implication of these immune cell changes in relation to host resistance to microorganisms remains to be established . 
surgical aspects of malaria . the spread of drug-resistant organisms and increased international travel makes malaria a disorder of ever-increasing importance . this report reviews those aspects of malaria of surgical relevance . the importance of the spleen in host defence against malaria and other infections makes splenic preservation desirable whenever possible after rupture of the spleen . tropical splenomegaly is caused by an abnormal immune response to malaria and is best managed medically . careful selection of blood donors is essential to prevent transfusion malaria , and routine antimalarial prophylaxis is indicated for blood recipients in many endemic areas . the risk of postoperative malaria may justify chemoprophylaxis in certain patients . 
sarcoidosis of the eyelid skin . a 64-year-old white woman presented with nodular lesions on the arms and face , including both medial canthi and the left upper eyelid . histopathological examination of the biopsied eyelid lesion and other facial lesions disclosed the presence of noncaseating granulomas strongly suggestive of sarcoidosis . no other evidence of ocular sarcoidosis was present . the patient had clinical , radiologic and laboratory findings consistent with a diagnosis of systemic sarcoidosis . therapy with chloroquine phosphate led to regression of the cutaneous lesions . 
ultrastructure and three-dimensional organization of the telangiectases of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia . we studied 10 cutaneous telangiectatic lesions of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ( hht ) , ranging in size from pinpoint to 2 mm , by light and electron microscopy . four representative lesions were reconstructed by computer from serial 1 - or 2-mm plastic embedded sections . the earliest clinically detectable lesion of hht is a focal dilatation of postcapillary venules , which continue to enlarge and eventually connect with dilated arterioles through capillaries . as the vascular lesion increases in size , the capillary segments disappear and a direct arterio-venous communication is formed . this entire sequence of morphologic events is associated with a perivascular mononuclear cell infiltrate in which the majority of cells are lymphocytes and the minority are monocytes/macrophages by ultrastructure . comparison of these findings with the telangiectatic mats of scleroderma and cherry angiomas revealed that the former , previously shown to be composed of dilated postcapillary venules , are also associated with perivascular infiltrates , but the latter , which are produced by capillary loop aneurysms , are not . 
isolation and quantitation of human erythrocyte deformability classes . a new technique is described that fractionates erythrocytes according to their deformability . the method is a modification of the method of beutler et al . ( j lab clin med 1976 ; 88:328 -33 ) , in which small cellulose columns are used to remove white cells from blood samples . we find that when the length-to-width ratio of the columns is increased , the mixed cellulose bed also fractionates the red cells . measurement of mean cell volume , mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration , hemoglobin level , deformability index , and cell density showed that deformability is the physical property of the erythrocyte that forms the basis for the fractionation . this is a separation modality that complements the numerous density gradient techniques for red cells . the following experimental results can be obtained by using the technique : ( 1 ) the number of cells with a defined degree of rigidity can be quantitated in an erythrocyte population . ( 2 ) large numbers of cells that differ with respect to their deformability can be isolated . ( 3 ) application of the method to sickle cells has quantitated the remarkable heterogeneity of these cells with regard to their deformability . 
immune activation is associated with phenylhydrazine-induced anemia in the rat . long-term phenylhydrazine ( phz ) treatment caused pronounced anemia and a concomitant increase in the numbers of circulating leukocytes in long-evans rats . the leukocytosis was caused mainly by an elevation in mononuclear cells , most notably in the lymphocyte population . phz has been reported to cause the direct lysis of erythrocytes by nonimmune mechanisms . however , recent reports indicate that phz can cross-link red cell band 3 protein ( senescent antigen ) , resulting in the binding of autologous immunoglobulin g ( igg ) . recognition of this complex by macrophage fc receptor mechanisms triggers rapid erythrophagocytosis-in the spleen and possibly the liver as well . in our study , analysis of the blood , bone marrow , and spleen cells of long-term ( 1 to 6 weeks ) phz-treated rats was performed by using flow cytometry . total serum igg levels were determined by radial immunodiffusion , and antibodies reactive with red cells that were sensitized to phz either in vivo or in vitro were titered by using the indirect coombs ' method . serum prostaglandin e2 titers also were determined at different time intervals after phz administration . the results indicate that phz induces an increase in circulating antibody and prostaglandin e2 titers that correlates with the onset of anemia and that the serum of phz-treated rats can induce anemia in normal recipients after passive transfer . cytofluorographic studies revealed a marked increase in the b-cell population of the peripheral blood and spleen and an altered ratio t-helper to t-suppressor cells at certain time intervals after phz injection . the results indicate that in addition to inducing senescence-like alterations in erythrocyte membrane proteins , phz stimulates the production of the autologous igg that recognizes these sites and promotes lymphoid blastogenesis , most notably in the b-cell lineage . 
low plasma iron status and akathisia . thirty patients were examined to test the hypothesis that a depletion of iron levels is associated with symptoms of akathisia . fifteen akathisic patients were pair-matched with 15 non-akathisic patients . plasma ferritin levels were significantly decreased in the akathisic patients , and there was a significant inverse correlation between plasma iron levels and akathisia rating . in addition , akathisia ratings were found to be correlated with a scale measuring symptoms of tardive dyskinesia . 
prolonged administration of oral etoposide in patients with relapsed or refractory small-cell lung cancer : a phase ii trial . twenty-two patients with recurrent small-cell lung cancer ( sclc ) were treated with single-agent etoposide 50 mg/m2/d by mouth for 21 consecutive days . eleven patients had received previous chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , and vincristine ( cav ) or etoposide ( cae ) or both ( cave ) . four of the latter patients also received salvage treatment with cisplatin and etoposide ( ep ) . nine patients had been treated with ep as induction therapy , while two patients had received high-dose cyclophosphamide , etoposide and cisplatin ( hdcep ) . altogether , 18 patients had received previous intravenous etoposide . the median time off chemotherapy was 4.5 months ( range , 1 to 28.9 months ) . ten patients ( 45.5 % ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 27 % to 65 % ) achieved a complete or partial response . responses were most common in patients who had responded to previous chemotherapy and who had not received any treatment in the 90 days before initiation of oral etoposide . median response duration was 4 months ( range , 1.5 to 9.5 months ) and median survival was 3.5 + months ( range , 1.0 to 15 + months ) . leukocyte and platelet nadirs were 1,800 / microl and 160,000 / microl , respectively , during cycle 1 of treatment and occurred between days 21 and 28 . overall , total leukocyte count decreased to less than 1,000 / microl during 10 of 56 cycles ( 18 % ) . five patients required six hospitalizations for neutropenia and fever . there were two toxic deaths due to sepsis . platelet counts less than 50,000 / microl occurred in 14 cycles ( 25 % ) . alopecia developed in all patients ; gastrointestinal toxicity was uncommon . this schedule of etoposide administration warrants further study in combination with other active agents in previously untreated patients with sclc . 
bone marrow transplantation for myelodysplasia and secondary acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia . twenty-three patients with primary myelodysplasia ( mds ) or secondary myelodysplasia/acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( mds/anll ) were treated with allogeneic or syngeneic bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) . only one patient was in a chemotherapy-induced hematologic remission . graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis included methotrexate , methotrexate plus cyclosporine , cyclosporine , or t-cell depletion using one of two anti-cd5 monoclonal antibodies . for patients with primary mds , the median age was 19 years ( range , 11 to 41 years ) and the actuarial disease-free survival was 56 % + / - 21 % ( median follow-up , 2 years ; range , 0.8 to 5 years ) . there were three graft failures ( two with autologous recovery ) and two early deaths . outcome appeared to be related to french-american-british ( fab ) classification . for patients with secondary mds/anll , the median age was 28 years ( range , 3 to 16 years ) and the actuarial disease-free survival was 27 % + / - 13 % ( median follow-up , 5 years ; range , 2.5 to 8.5 years ) . there were no graft failures , two relapses , and four early deaths . the presence of marrow fibrosis per se did not predict for graft failure ( p = .21 ) ; however , the use of t-cell depleted marrow in patients with marrow fibrosis resulted in graft failure in three of five individuals . our results suggest that in patients with primary mds or secondary mds/anll , bmt should be considered early in the course of the disease , and that attempts at inducing a remission prior to bmt appeared to be unnecessary . in mds patients with marrow fibrosis , t-cell depletion should be avoided . 
phase i study of repeated cycles of high-dose cyclophosphamide , etoposide , and cisplatin administered without bone marrow transplantation forty-two patients with advanced malignancy judged unlikely to respond to standard treatment received high-dose combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide , etoposide , and cisplatin in a phase i trial . twenty-two of these patients who had at least a partial response ( pr ) to the first cycle of therapy received a second cycle , and eight patients received three or more cycles of therapy . bone marrow replacement was not used . the maximum-tolerated doses ( mtds ) were cyclophosphamide 2.5 g/m2 on days 1 and 2 ; etoposide 500 mg/m2 on days 1 , 2 , and 3 ; and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 on days 1 , 2 , and 3 . hematologic toxicity was not dose-limiting by study design . recovery to an absolute granulocyte count above 100/microl occurred at a median of 9 days from onset ( range , 3 to 23 days ) at the mtd . recovery was delayed after the third cycle . only one patient on his third cycle failed to recover peripheral blood counts and died of sepsis an day 43 . hematologic toxicity was not dose-dependent . nonhematologic toxicities included emesis , fatigue , alopecia , diarrhea , and anorexia and were generally well tolerated . the dose-limiting toxicities were fatal pulmonary or cardiac toxicities in five of nine patients treated at the highest dose level . patients likely to do well can be selected by tumor type , response to prior therapy , and performance status . nine of 36 assessable patients had a complete response ( cr ) and 13 a pr for a response rate of 61 % . five patients ( 12 % ) remain alive and free of disease at 15 to 32 months . repeated cycles of dose-intensive combination therapy can produce long-term disease-free remissions in patients with refractory tumor types . the toxicity of the regimen is acceptable if patients are carefully selected . 
spinal cord arteriovenous malformation with an associated lymphatic anomaly . case report . spinal cord arteriovenous malformations ( avm 's ) , like other vascular anomalies of the central nervous system , can be associated with similar vascular lesions of the skin and viscera . a 7-year-old girl , who presented with rapidly progressing paraplegia , was found to have a spinal cord avm , cutaneous angioma , and a chylous malformation of the lymphatic system . she had previously undergone treatment for a posterior thoracic cutaneous angioma . at surgery , upon incision of the paravertebral muscle fascia , viscous pale fluid was encountered emanating from a foramen in the thoracic lamina . the spinal avm was resected in spite of concern that the abnormality represented spinal osteomyelitis . postoperatively , there was full return of function in the lower extremities , along with recurrent episodes of chylothorax , which slowly came under control with dietary manipulation . a review of the anatomy of the thoracic duct and nontraumatic causes of chylothorax is presented , and the association of cutaneous and central angiomas is discussed . finally , the treatment of chylothorax is delineated . 
impairment of neutrophil chemotactic and bactericidal function in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and partial reversal after in vitro exposure to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor . because polymorphonuclear neutrophils are the most important component of host defense against bacteria , we assessed their function in 13 children with asymptomatic and 12 with symptomatic infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) , and compared their values with healthy adult control values . the functions assessed were ( 1 ) chemotaxis , ( 2 ) bacterial phagocytosis , ( 3 ) superoxide generation , and ( 4 ) bactericidal activity . chemotaxis of polymorphonuclear neutrophils toward the chemoattractant n-formylmethionyl leucyl phenylalanine ( fmlp ) was significantly decreased in symptom-free infected children compared with control subjects ( p less than 0.0001 ) , but was increased in children with symptomatic infection ( p less than 0.025 ) . bactericidal activity of the neutrophils against staphylococcus aureus was defective in 8 of 12 children with asymptomatic infection ( p = 0.016 ) , and in 8 of 9 children with symptomatic infection ( p less than 0.00001 ) . superoxide generation by polymorphonuclear neutrophils on stimulation with fmlp and phagocytosis of s. aureus were normal . serum from patients with symptomatic hiv-1 infection was not as efficient in low concentrations as normal serum in the ability to opsonize s. aureus . the in vitro bactericidal defect was partially corrected by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) . the results suggest that both cellular ( neutrophils ) and humoral defects contribute to the increased incidence of bacterial infections in hiv-1-infected children , and that gm-csf may improve the defective bactericidal activity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in these patients . 
diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell anemia by magnetic resonance angiography the study of blood flow by means of magnetic resonance techniques has led to a noninvasive magnetic resonance angiography ( mra ) technique for imaging large cerebral vessels . ten children with sickle cell hemoglobinopathy and a history of acute neurologic syndromes were studied with combined parenchymal magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) and mra . six had abnormal mri findings and mra-defined luminal lesions in the vascular distribution of these parenchymal infarctions . the three children with previous intraarterial angiography had mra abnormalities that corresponded with vascular lesions on conventional angiograms . four had normal mri and mra findings . we conclude that a combination of mri and mra provides a noninvasive screening test for large-vessel disease in this population . 
benefits and risks of anemia correction with recombinant human erythropoietin in children maintained by hemodialysis . ten children with renal failure ( age range 2 years 6 months to 18 years 9 months ; median 11 years 10 months ) , maintained by long-term hemodialysis , had successful correction of their anemia after intravenous administration of recombinant human erythropoietin in a dosage escalating every 2 weeks ( 75 to 150 to 300 to 450 iu/kg/wk ) . mean hemoglobin concentration increased from 6.4 + / - 0.9 to 11.5 + / - 1.0 gm/dl . blood cell counts used to evaluate the correction of anemia were done after dialysis ; this was especially important for children less compliant with water restriction . the higher hemoglobin concentration resulted in improvement of the quality of life , a greater tolerance for physical effort ( exercise tolerance doubled and the ventilatory anaerobic threshold increased significantly ) , correction of some subclinical central nervous system abnormalities detected by evoked potentials testing , and reduction of bleeding time . few side effects were noted ; severe hypertension developed in one patient when postdialysis hematocrit was only 28 % , and there were two episodes of hypertransaminasemia with no other evidence of liver dysfunction . we conclude that in children with renal failure the use of recombinant human erythropoietin to correct anemia is safe and strongly advisable , because of the resolution of many of the symptoms correlated with anemia . 
treatment of kawasaki syndrome : a comparison of two dosage regimens of intravenously administered immune globulin . because intravenously administered immune globulin ( ivig ) is effective in reducing the incidence of coronary artery aneurysms in kawasaki syndrome when given at a dose of 400 mg/kg daily for 4 days , we undertook a multicenter clinical trial comparing two dosage regimens of ivig . patients were randomly assigned to receive ivig at either 400 mg/kg daily for 4 days ( 22 patients ) or 1 gm/kg as a single dose ( 22 patients ) . all patients received aspirin therapy , and all were enrolled within 7 days of onset of fever . the presence of coronary artery aneurysms was evaluated by means of two-dimensional echocardiography before infusion ; at days 4 to 6 , 14 to 21 , and 42 to 49 after infusion ; and at 1 year . coronary artery aneurysms were detected in 3 of the 44 patients , including one patient receiving 400 mg/kg and two patients receiving 1 gm/kg ( p value not significant ) . no giant aneurysms were detected . no major side effects occurred with either dosage regimen . patients receiving the 1 gm/kg dose had a faster resolution of fever and were discharged from the hospital approximately 1 day sooner than the 400 mg/kg group ( p = 0.01 ) . although the relatively small sample size in this trial does not allow for a more definitive statement regarding the occurrence of coronary artery aneurysms , it appears that the 1 gm/kg dose is associated with a more rapid clinical improvement and a shorter hospital stay . 
beneficial effects of long-term treatment with sk&f 105685 in murine lupus nephritis . mrl/mp-lpr/lpr ( mrl/lpr ) mice were studied from 6 to 19 weeks of age . proteinuria began to increase at 15 weeks , and continued to increase until the animals were sacrificed at 19 weeks . this proteinuria was associated with lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly , as well as changes in lymph node cell phenotype and histologic changes in the glomeruli . oral administration of sk&f 105685 starting at 12 weeks of age prevented the increased urinary protein loss , inhibited the histologic changes in the glomeruli , reduced the increase in spleen and lymph node weight and modified the phenotypic profile of the lymphoid cells . sk&f 105685 appears to act by increasing the number/activity of nonspecific suppressor cells in mrl/lpr mice . on the basis of this evidence , we conclude that sk&f 105685 can attenuate the progression of renal damage in mrl/lpr mice by exerting a unique effect on cells which may be involved in the autoimmune process . 
suppressed serum erythropoietin response to anemia and the efficacy of recombinant erythropoietin in the anemia of rheumatoid arthritis . serum erythropoietin ( epo ) was measured by radioimmunoassay in 67 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . twenty of these patients judged to have iron deficiency anemia , based on reduced serum ferritin levels , had higher serum epo levels than did the 24 other anemic patients with normal or elevated serum ferritin levels . a significant negative correlation between serum epo and hemoglobin concentrations was noted in the former group , but not in the latter . human recombinant erythropoietin ( r-epo ) was administered to 6 anemic patients with ra , resulting in improvement of anemia in 4 patients , 2 of whom showed no change in ra activity . these findings suggest a suppressed serum epo response ot anemia and the effectiveness of r-epo in treating anemia associated with ra . 
rheumatoid arthritis in a patient with sickle cell disease . sickle cell disease has various articular manifestations . coexistent rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and sickle cell disease has been reported rarely . we present a patient with sickle cell disease and seropositive erosive ra demonstrating characteristic radiographic findings of the 2 entities . 
systemic lupus erythematosus presenting as thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . we describe a 10-year-old girl , who presented with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) and shortly thereafter developed systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . the association between ttp and sle is known , but this is the first report of sle presenting as ttp . 
extrarenal production of calcitriol . under normal circumstances extrarenal sources of calcitriol probably constitutes a microendocrine system involved in cell differentiation and local intercellular communication with no influence on systemic calcium homeostasis . under pathological conditions such as chronic renal failure , extrarenal sources have the potential to normalize serum calcitriol after adequate stimulation ( such as , 25 ( oh ) d administration ) . extrarenal 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 synthesis is controlled by physiological levels of calcitriol . however , in sarcoidosis and other granulomatous diseases , 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 production by macrophages is deregulated , causing severe alterations in systemic calcium homeostasis . 
long-term versus short-term treatment with recombinant interferon alfa-2a in patients with chronic hepatitis b : a prospective , randomized treatment trial . we conducted a prospective , randomized trial to study the efficacy and tolerance of long-term versus short-term treatment with recombinant interferon alfa-2a in patients with chronic hepatitis b. ten patients were randomly assigned to a 6-month interferon regimen , and 10 patients were assigned to a 3-week interferon trial . eleven patients ( five assigned to long-term treatment and six to short-term treatment ) did not complete interferon therapy : eight had either severe thrombocytopenia or neutropenia ; one had pronounced fatigue in relationship to administration of interferon ; one had spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and sepsis and died ; and one had a massive fatal variceal hemorrhage during interferon therapy . most of the serious hematologic complications occurred in patients with cirrhosis and hypersplenism . in one patient , seroconversion to hepatitis b virus dna negativity occurred before the onset of treatment . four of the five patients able to complete the 6-month interferon regimen and only one of four patients able to complete the 3-week trial had seroconversion to hepatitis b virus dna negativity . thus , we conclude that the therapeutic response was better among patients who were able to complete a 6-month interferon trial . in patients with cirrhosis and hypersplenism , development of either severe thrombocytopenia or leukopenia associated with interferon therapy precluded completion of treatment . 
rapid detection and prenatal diagnosis of beta-thalassaemia : studies in indian and cypriot populations in the uk . the application of the amplification refractory mutation system ( arms ) to the detection of individual beta-thalassaemia mutations in heterozygous parents and " at risk " fetuses has been assessed in indian and cypriot immigrant populations in the uk . 100 first trimester prenatal diagnoses have been done , entailing the detection of 17 different mutations . the method , which allows the determination of the mutations in both parental and fetal dna on the same day , should have wide application to the carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis of monogenic diseases with heterogeneous molecular defects . 
antenatal intervention for congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation . in 2 fetuses with congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation ( ccam ) with hydrops , in-utero resection of the enlarged pulmonary lobe reduced mediastinal shift and allowed expansion of normal lung tissue in both cases . in case 1 , the 27-week-gestation fetus died from severe hydrops after premature delivery . in case 2 , fetal ccam resection was completed at 23 weeks ' gestation . at 30 weeks a girl was delivered with no evidence of pulmonary hypoplasia . fetal surgery can now be entertained for otherwise fatal space-occupying intrathoracic lesions . 
fetal platelet counts in thrombocytopenic pregnancy fetal platelet counts were assessed by percutaneous umbilical blood sampling in 64 pregnancies ( 62 women ) with maternal thrombocytopenia . in 33 pregnancies associated with chronic immune thrombocytopenia , 11 of the fetuses had platelet counts below 150 x 10 ( 9 ) / l and 4 were severely thrombocytopenic ( less than 50 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . in 31 pregnancies with symptomless maternal thrombocytopenia as an incidental finding , 4 fetuses were thrombocytopenic , 1 of them severely . maternal indices , including antiplatelet antibodies , did not correlate with risk of fetal thrombocytopenia ; and in those with repeat measurements there was no evidence of benefit from treatment with either corticosteroids ( 4 cases ) or intravenous immunoglobulin ( 3 cases ) . percutaneous umbilical blood sampling , a safe procedure in experienced hands , provides accurate platelet counts in thrombocytopenic pregnancy , as an aid to decisions on mode of delivery and to assessment of treatments . 
the twin-twin transfusion syndrome . twin-twin transfusion syndrome is a complication of monozygotic-monochorionic twinning with serious perinatal implications . an extensive literature review revealed that our current understanding of the anatomy and pathogenesis of the syndrome has not changed over the last 3 decades . however , modern diagnostic modalities , such as sonography and doppler studies , allow antenatal diagnosis and therefore may change the current definition of the syndrome . based on these data , a new composite definition of the syndrome is suggested . this definition includes the following criteria : 1 ) sonographic signs ( inter-twin differences in abdominal circumference greater than 18 mm , polyhydramnios-oligohydramnios , and signs of monozygosity ) , 2 ) doppler velocimetry of the umbilical arteries ( inter-twin difference in systolic/diastolic ratios above 0.4 ) , 3 ) demonstration of a transplacental vascular shunt , 4 ) inter-twin birth weight difference of 15 % or more , and 5 ) inter-twin hemoglobin difference of 5 g/dl or more . in addition , prenatal diagnosis may help in the management of this complication , and it seems that intrauterine treatment of the placental vascular anomalies may be more effective than other antenatal therapeutic options . 
pregnancy complicated by preeclampsia-eclampsia with the syndrome of hemolysis , elevated liver enzymes , and low platelet count : how rapid is postpartum recovery ? the rapidity of postpartum disease recovery for severe preeclampsia associated with hemolysis , elevated liver enzymes , and low platelet count ( hellp syndrome ) has not been well studied . between january 1980 and march 1989 , 158 pregnancies with preeclampsia-eclampsia complicated by hellp syndrome were managed at the university of mississippi medical center . the 70 patients with platelet nadir below 50,000 / microl ( class 1 hellp syndrome ) required as long as 11 days for all members to achieve a platelet recovery concentration of more than 100,000 / microl , whereas all 88 gravidas with platelet nadir between 50,000-100 ,000 / microl ( class 2 hellp syndrome ) exceeded this platelet concentration by the sixth postpartum day , a statistically significant difference ( p less than .0001 ) . the interval between delivery and the onset of diuresis ( mean + / - sd ) was significantly longer in class 1 than in class 2 patients with milder disease ( 22.7 + / - 18.9 compared with 15.9 + / - 11.1 hours ) . significantly more postpartum days were required in class 1 than in class 2 hellp parturients for the lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) concentration to decrease below 500 iu/l ( 4.2 + / - 4.9 compared with 3.2 + / - 2.7 days ) . no women in the class 2 group required plasma exchange therapy to effect disease arrest and reversal , but 11 of 58 severely ill women in class 1 were treated with this modality . we conclude that the platelet count and ldh serum concentration , as indicators of hellp severity and recovery , are clinically useful tools and that a more protracted postpartum recovery period should be expected for progressively severe expressions of hellp syndrome . 
congenital chyloperitoneum as a cause of isolated fetal ascites . isolated fetal ascites is an unusual prenatal finding and must be differentiated from immune and nonimmune hydrops . this entity is most commonly associated with gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies . fetal chyloperitoneum , however , should be considered as a possible cause . pulmonary hypoplasia and abdominal dystocia during attempted vaginal delivery are potential complications . we present a case of isolated fetal ascites due to congenital chyloperitoneum . 
trap sequence -- successful outcome with indomethacin treatment . a case of twin reversed arterial perfusion ( trap ) sequence ( acardiac twin ) complicated by hydramnios was managed by maternal administration of indomethacin . successful outcome was achieved after 8.5 weeks of therapy with delivery of a normal live-born infant at 34 weeks . 
ongoing fetomaternal hemorrhage treated by serial fetal intravascular transfusions . nonimmune hydrops secondary to atraumatic , massive fetomaternal hemorrhage was diagnosed at 33.5 weeks ' gestation by a maternal kleihauer-betke stain , confirmed by funipuncture . the initial fetal hematocrit was 6.5 % . kleihauer-betke testing revealed a fetomaternal hemorrhage of approximately 230 ml . fetal karyotype , total immunoglobulin m , and liver function tests were normal . maternal parvovirus serology was negative . treatment with two fetal intravascular transfusions provided only transient improvement because the fetomaternal hemorrhage proved to be unrelenting . 
immune hydrops fetalis attributable to anti-hjk . we describe a new low-frequency antigen as the cause of immune hydrops fetalis in a fetus presenting at 27 weeks with a hematocrit of 6 % . the fetus was treated successfully by intravascular transfusion . this antigen , temporarily identified as hjk , has been detected in only one family . 
premature alveolar bone loss in erdheim-chester disease . erdheim-chester disease is a rare histiocytosis also known as lipoid granulomatosis . oral findings have not been reported previously to our knowledge . this case report documents evidence of oral sequelae of erdheim-chester disease . a patient whose course was followed for 10 years at the national institutes of health had premature alveolar bone resorption . he underwent full-mouth extraction at age 29 years because of severe periodontitis . histopathologic evidence of erdheim-chester disease was demonstrated in the periodontal soft tissues . in the ensuring years , accelerated resorption of the residual ridges precluded the use of conventional dentures . we recommend early preventive dental management for patients with erdheim-chester disease . 
iron deficiency in the young athlete . although overt anemia is uncommon , depletion of body iron stores is common among adolescent female athletes . poor dietary iron intake , menstruation , and increased iron losses associated with physical training all appear to be important factors . whether nonanemic iron deficiency can impair exercise performance is uncertain . nonetheless , athletes with low ferritin levels are at risk for impaired erythropoiesis and should receive therapeutic iron supplementation . 
incomplete synthesis of n-glycans in congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type ii caused by a defect in the gene encoding alpha-mannosidase ii . congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type ii , or hereditary erythroblastic multinuclearity with a positive acidified-serum-lysis test ( hempas ) , is a genetic anemia in humans inherited by an autosomally recessive mode . the enzyme defect in most hempas patients has previously been proposed as a lowered activity of n-acetylglucosaminyltransferase ii , resulting in a lack of polylactosamine on proteins and leading to the accumulation of polylactosaminyl lipids . a recent hempas case , g.c. , has now been analyzed by cell-surface labeling , fast-atom-bombardment mass spectrometry of glycopeptides , and activity assay of glycosylation enzymes . significantly decreased glycosylation of polylactosaminoglycan proteins and incompletely processed asparagine-linked oligosaccharides were detected in the erythrocyte membranes of g.c. in contrast to the earlier studied hempas cases , g.c. cells are normal in n-acetylglucosaminyltransferase ii activity but are low in alpha-mannosidase ii ( alpha-manii ) activity . northern ( rna ) analysis of poly ( a ) + mrna from normal , g.c. , and other unrelated hempas cells all showed double bands at the 7.6-kilobase position , detected by an alpha-manii cdna probe , but expression of these bands in g.c. cells was substantially reduced ( less than 10 % of normal ) . in southern analysis of g.c. and normal genomic dna , the restriction fragment patterns detected by the alpha-manii cdna probe were indistinguishable . these results suggest that g.c. cells contain a mutation in alpha-manii-encoding gene that results in inefficient expression of alpha-manii mrna , either through reduced transcription or message instability . this report demonstrates that hempas is caused by a defective gene encoding an enzyme necessary for the synthesis of asparagine-linked oligosaccharides . 
haemopoietic growth factors . the availability of recombinant haemopoietic growth factors has permitted more precise in vitro experiments and human in vivo studies to be performed . in general , the results have been in accord with expectations from previous in vitro studies . the clinical exploitation of the haemopoietic growth factors offers great promise but careful studies are required to define their value . the effects of some growth factors are multiple and complex , and it can not be assumed that improvements in blood cell counts are per se beneficial to the patient under all circumstances . randomized controlled trials with clinical end-points are now essential . in the situation of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia , large studies would be required to show an improvement in mortality although lesser morbidity would be easier to demonstrate . in the field of cancer therapy the major benefit of the haemopoietic growth factors will be if they permit dosage escalation and there is a consequent improvement in response rate and long-term survival . this will require careful patient selection and large , probably multicentre , trials . it is also likely that such studies will be limited by the development of severe thrombocytopenia and an effective means to ameliorate this ( perhaps the elusive thrombopoietin ) will be required . the possibility of using haemopoietic growth factors as an adjunct to the treatment of severe infections is enticing , but designing a trial to evaluate this possibility is fraught with difficulties . finally , it must be noted that all the studies reported to date use single factors . this is just the beginning and the use of other factors and synergistic combinations may give greater efficacy without increased toxicity . 
the cutaneous manifestations in children with familial mediterranean fever ( recurrent hereditary polyserositis ) . a six-year study . in a six-year study of 46 children with familial mediterranean fever ( recurrent hereditary polyserositis ) , 20 children ( 43 per cent ) developed cutaneous manifestations . ten children had 18 episodes of erysipelas-like erythema which proved to be specific for the disease . twelve children ( 26 per cent ) had 31 episodes of non-specific purpuric rash and six children ( 13 per cent ) had nine episodes of henoch-schonlein purpura . other manifestations included diffuse erythema of the face , and/or trunk , angioneurotic oedema , diffuse erythema of the palms and soles followed by mild desquamation of the skin , raynaud 's phenomenon and a subcutaneous nodule . the mean frequency of the cutaneous lesions was 1.6 / patient/year before colchicine therapy and 0.4 / patient/year after colchicine therapy ( p = 0.0005 ) . the high incidence of cutaneous manifestations and their response to colchicine strongly suggest that skin involvement is an integral part familial mediterranean fever . 
priapism associated with the sickle cell hemoglobinopathies : prevalence , natural history and sequelae . to determine the prevalence and characteristics of priapism associated with sickle cell hemoglobinopathic conditions we interviewed and examined 52 men with sickle cell anemia , 10 with sickle c disease , 3 with sickle b ( + ) - thalassemia and 19 with sickle cell trait . of the men 20 with sickle cell anemia ( 38 % ) and 1 with sickle b ( + ) - thalassemia ( 33 % ) reported past priapism attacks . average patient age at onset in the sickle cell anemia patients was 19 years ( range 8 to 30 years ) . four men had had only 1 attack . the average number of attacks per year in the remaining patients ranged from 1 to 52 . of the patients who reported multiple attacks the average duration of a typical episode and the duration of the longest self-limiting episode was 1.6 and 7.0 hours , respectively . six patients had experienced 1 attack that persisted for longer than 24 hours . there were no significant differences between the clinical and hematological parameters of the sickle cell anemia patients who did and did not experience priapism or of the priapism patients who had and had not experienced episodes lasting greater than 24 hours . six patients had been hospitalized for priapism and 4 were treated with a shunting procedure . of the latter patients 2 were impotent but there was no significant alteration in the sexual function of the other study participants . 
quinine-induced disseminated intravascular coagulation . recurrent disseminated intravascular coagulation occurred in 3 women after ingestion of quinine tablets for cramp . all had circulating quinine-dependent antibodies to platelets and in 2 there was initial evidence of antibody consumption , with low titres that rose steeply over the next few days and remained high for many months . 
inferior hilar window . the authors undertook a study to determine the ability to detect mass or adenopathy in the " inferior hilar window , " a normally avascular region inferior to the shadow of the right pulmonary artery and vein and anterior to the descending left pulmonary artery on lateral chest radiographs . fifty patients with normal results of thoracic computed tomography ( ct ) and 25 with unilateral or bilateral hilar masses or adenopathy ( defined as opacity greater than 10 mm in diameter ) were selected retrospectively . patients with concomitant pulmonary masses or consolidation at ct that might be confused with or obscure an inferior hilar mass or adenopathy were excluded from study . the 75 corresponding lateral chest radiographs were then evaluated blindly . forty-seven of the 50 normal cases were correctly interpreted ( specificity = 94 % ) . the anterior walls of the right and left lower lobe bronchi were seen in 36 % and 84 % of normal cases , respectively ; the average thickness was 2 mm . of the 25 patients with inferior hilar masses , 22 were recognized as having abnormalities ( sensitivity = 88 % ) ; two of the three patients with false-negative results had right hilar masses . overall accuracy was 92 % . for only eight ( 32 % ) of the 25 patients was the laterality of abnormality correctly diagnosed . evaluation of the inferior hilar window on lateral chest radiographs is accurate in assessing the presence or absence of inferior hilar mass or adenopathy . 
mediastinal abnormalities : detection with storage phosphor digital radiography . conventional film radiography ( fr ) and six postprocessing algorithms of isodose storage phosphor digital radiography ( sr ) ( 0.2-mm x 10-bit pixel matrix ) were compared in the evaluation of 40 mediastinal and 30 pulmonary lesions in 60 patients who underwent computed tomography of the chest . the six sr algorithms varied among each other in only one image parameter . one algorithm approximated conventional image characteristics . the other five algorithms were designed to optimize imaging of the mediastinum and tested the effects of gray-scale reversal , adjustment of optical density , a linear instead of a sigmoid gradation curve , and moderate edge enhancement of high and medium spatial frequencies . performance was evaluated by calculating the average area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( az ) of 5,040 observations by six readers . post-processing with high-frequency edge enhancement and density optimization for the mediastinum significantly improved performance of sr over fr in the detection of mediastinal lesions ( az = .80 + / - .02 vs .73 + / - .01 , respectively ) . gray-scale reversal significantly decreased performance ( az = .64 + / - .03 ) . all sr algorithms that were postprocessed to optimize imaging of the mediastinum were significantly inferior to fr in the detection of pulmonary lesions . 
esophageal inflammation and stricture : complication of chronic granulomatous disease of childhood . esophagitis in children with immunodeficiency is most commonly due to opportunistic infection . the authors describe three patients with chronic granulomatous disease ( cgd ) of childhood who developed esophageal strictures that were believed to be complications of the primary disease . at radiologic examination , all three patients initially had a focal narrowing of the upper thoracic esophagus . endoscopy showed no signs of opportunistic infection or barrett esophagus . biopsy of the strictures in two patients revealed findings consistent with cgd . in two of the three patients , inflammation extended to involve the middle and distal esophagus . long-term response to balloon dilation was poor in the first two patients . the third patient was lost to follow-up after a partial clinical and radiographic response to dilation . 
sarcoidosis : abdominal manifestations at ct . there are few data in the literature on the abdominal manifestations of sarcoidosis at computed tomography ( ct ) . to determine whether differences in nodal distribution and appearance can be reliably used to distinguish between sarcoidosis and non-hodgkin lymphoma ( nhl ) , the authors retrospectively reviewed the abdominal and pelvic ct scans of 16 patients with biopsy-proved sarcoidosis and 20 patients with biopsy-proved nhl . eleven of the 16 patients with sarcoidosis had abdominal and/or pelvic lymphadenopathy , which was common at all nodal sites except for the retrocrural and pelvic locations . there was a statistically significant lower frequency of retrocrual adenopathy in sarcoidosis than in nhl . mean nodal size was significantly greater in nhl . nodes tended to be confluent in nhl and discrete in sarcoidosis . hepatomegaly was seen in six of the 16 patients ( 38 % ) with sarcoidosis and splenomegaly was present in nine of 15 ( 60 % ) . ct depicted hepatic lesions in only three of eight patients ( 38 % ) with biopsy-proved hepatic involvement . splenic lesions were seen at ct in five of the 15 patients ( 33 % ) . the authors believe that the overlap in nodal appearance and distribution poses a limitation for use of these criteria in accurate disease characterization . 
prognostic indicators of the resolution of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and survival of the fetus . to delineate any possible prognostic indicators , we reviewed the ultrasonographic and nonmorphometric findings in 19 antenatally diagnosed cases of nonimmune hydrops fetalis in which it was chosen to continue the pregnancy . thirteen fetuses died and six survived . of all parameters examined , including associated anomalies , abnormal karyotype , location of serous fluid , anemia , and possible cause of nonimmune hydrops fetalis , the most sensitive prognostic indicator was the real-time-directed m-mode echocardiographic measurement of the biventricular outer dimension in diastole . all fetuses with biventricular outer dimensions greater than 95 % died , whereas all but one with normal biventricular outer dimensions had resolution of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and survived . this was highly significant ( p less than 0.001 ) with the predictive value of a normal biventricular outer dimension being 86 % and the predictive value of an enlarged biventricular outer dimension being 100 % . 
plasma immunoreactive leukotriene c4 levels in patients with kawasaki disease . the incidence of wheezing in kawasaki disease ( kd ) has been investigated retrospectively . we measured plasma immunoreactive-leukotriene c4 ( i-ltc4 ) levels of patients with kd . wheezing was observed in 32 ( 12.5 % ) of the 256 patients with kd . patients who had a prior history of bronchial asthma wheezed more frequently than other patients . during the acute stage of kd , plasma i-ltc4 levels both of wheezing and nonwheezing were significantly higher than those of healthy children . during the convalescent stage , plasma i-ltc4 levels of wheezing cases were higher than those of nonwheezing cases . we speculate that ltc4 contributes to the appearance of inflammatory symptoms during the acute stage of kd . during the convalescent stage when patients were taking aspirin , the presence of wheezing was associated with increased plasma levels of i-ltc4 . more attention should be paid to the appearance of wheezing during the course of kd , especially in those cases in which the patient has a prior history of bronchial asthma . 
regressing atypical histiocytosis . aberrant prothymocyte differentiation , t-cell receptor gene rearrangements , and nodal involvement . two cases of regressing atypical histiocytosis were studied . new findings reported include the presence of cd1 epitope on large atypical histiocytoid cells and apparent early lymph node involvement . because regressing atypical histiocytosis may demonstrate aberrant thymic differentiation antigen expression and t-cell receptor gene rearrangements , initial lymph node involvement , and eventuation in conventional lymphoma in some cases , the alternative term regressing-phase anaplastic lymphoma is proposed as a more accurate designation for this entity . 
unusual skin tumors in langerhans ' cell histiocytosis . a case of langerhans ' cell histiocytosis with unusual skin manifestations in the form of multiple large skin tumors is described . the skin lesions responded partially to chemotherapy with etoposide and prednisone , and residual lesions were excised surgically . the patient developed central diabetes insipidus during treatment . 
igd immune complex vasculitis in a patient with hyperimmunoglobulinemia d and periodic fever . we describe a 27-year-old dutch woman with the hyperimmunoglobulinemia d and periodic fever syndrome . during febrile attacks she occasionally presented with skin lesions on the distal parts of her upper and lower extremities , with the histologic picture of a leukocytoclastic vasculitis . clear perivascular deposits of igd and c3 were presented in early lesional skin on immunofluorescence investigation . circulating igd immune complexes were demonstrated on several occasions , both during and in between clinical attacks . these findings are consistent with an igd immune complex-mediated pathogenesis for the skin lesions . in 10 patients with other forms of immune complex vasculitis of the skin , minimal perivascular deposits of igd were found in four cases . in these cases , however , igd was never found as the solitary immunoglobulin class . 
benzylacyclouridine reverses azidothymidine-induced marrow suppression without impairment of anti-human immunodeficiency virus activity . increased extracellular concentrations of uridine ( urd ) have been reported to reduce , in vitro , azidothymidine ( azt ) - induced inhibition of human granulocyte-macrophage progenitor cells without impairment of its antihuman immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) activity . because of the clinical toxicities associated with chronic urd administration , the ability of benzylacyclouridine ( bau ) to effect , in vivo , azt-induced anemia and leukopenia was assessed . this agent inhibits urd catabolism and , in vivo , increases the plasma concentration of urd in a dose-dependent manner , without urd-related toxicity . in mice rendered anemic and leukopenic by the administration of azt for 28 days in drinking water ( 1.5 mg/ml ) , the continued administration of azt plus daily bau ( 300 mg/kg , orally ) partially reversed azt-induced anemia and leukopenia ( p less than .05 ) , increased peripheral reticulocytes ( to 4.9 % , p less than .01 ) , increased cellularity in the marrow , and improved megaloblastosis . when coadministered with azt from the onset of drug administration , bau reduced azt-induced marrow toxicity . in vitro , at a concentration of 100 mumol/l , bau possesses minimal anti-hiv activity and has no effect on the ability of azt to reverse the hiv-induced cytopathic effect in mt4 cells . the clinical and biochemical implications of these findings are discussed . 
different effect of benzylacyclouridine on the toxic and therapeutic effects of azidothymidine in mice . it has been reported that in vitro uridine ( urd ) can reverse azidothymidine ( azt ) cytotoxicity without decreasing anti-human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) activity . our studies in mice have shown that daily oral doses of benzylacyclouridine ( bau ) , an inhibitor of urd breakdown , also reduces azt hematologic toxicity , presumably by elevating the plasma concentration of urd . we now extend these murine studies and report the effect of various doses of exogenous urd , various doses of bau , or the combination of bau and urd , administered daily , on azt-induced toxicity . in mice receiving concomitant azt , daily doses of urd of 1,000 to 2,000 mg/kg increase peripheral reticulocytes and slightly reduce azt-induced hematologic toxicity . however , the range of effective doses is narrow , and higher doses of urd ( greater than 3,000 mg/kg/d ) significantly enhance hematologic toxicity . at its most effective dose , ( 2,000 mg/kg/d ) , urd produces 28 % mortality . in contrast , bau doses up to 300 mg/kg/d reduced azt-related hematologic toxicity in a dose-dependent manner without mortality . higher daily doses of bau and the combination of bau with low doses of urd were not more effective . studies conducted in mice infected with the rauscher murine leukemia virus ( rlv ) indicate that bau does not impair the antiretroviral effect of azt when administered at doses that reduce azt-induced anemia and leukopenia . these findings may be significant for the treatment of patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and aids-related complex . 
long-term ( 5 to 20 years ) evolution of nongrafted aplastic anemias . the cooperative group for the study of aplastic and refractory anemias . in the presence of aplastic anemia ( aa ) , therapeutic choices should be determined while taking into account not only changes for immediate improvement , but also both the risks for late-occurring complications and the following quality of life . we report here data concerning a long-term clinical survey ( 5 to 18 years with a median of 12 years ) including 156 nongrafted patients receiving androgen therapy ; all patients were alive more than 5 years after diagnosis ( 40 % of patients included at time of diagnosis in our multicentric analysis ) . between the 5th and the 13th year follow-up , 21 patients died of various causes either related to aa or to its treatment : 12 of infection or hemorrhage secondary to pancytopenia ( 6 relapses and 6 that had never been improved ; 2 with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria [ pnh ] ) ; 5 of leukemia ; 1 of a non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ; 2 of late side effects following transfusion ( 1 acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and 1 chronic b hepatitis ) ; and a single case of myocardial infarction ( the latter could possibly result of androgen therapy ) . thirteen patients in total developed pnh ( among which 10 had clinical symptoms including 2 deaths , and 3 exhibited only biologic abnormalities ) . few long-term side effects of androgens could be noticed . adult height was normal in patients treated during childhood and so was young women 's fertility . no malignant hepatoma occurred . this survey allows the recording of late spontaneous hematologic improvement ( between 5 and 10 years of evolution ) . this occurred in 50 % of patients that had remained cytopenic 5 years after diagnosis . although bone marrow stem cell concentration remained abnormal after 10 years of evolution . 85 % of patients had a normal red blood cell count , 80 % a normal polymorphonuclear count , and 66 % a normal platelet count . all patients who did not show late complications had an excellent quality of life . 
isolation and characterization of an acquired antithrombin antibody . a 68-year-old man , following mitral valve replacement , presented with a low-grade chronic consumptive coagulopathy . laboratory analysis showed mild fibrinolysis , minimal effect of coumadin therapy , and a prolonged thrombin time ( greater than 150 seconds using bovine iia ) . when purified human iia was used the thrombin time normalized to within 17 seconds of controls , suggesting a possible inhibitor of bovine iia . an anti-iia antibody was isolated by protein a-sepharose ( sigma , st louis , mo ) chromatography followed by affinity chromatography using a bovine iia-sepharose column . the effects of this purified anti-iia antibody on both bovine and human iia procoagulant and anticoagulant functions were studied . the isolated immunoglobulin g ( igg ) was observed to inhibit bovine iia in all assays tested . this igg was also able to slightly prolong fibrinogen clotting by human iia . using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay it was observed that the igg bound to bovine iia , bovine ii , human iia , but not to human ii . further , binding was detectable at approximately 50-fold lower concentrations to bovine iia ( 1 nmol/l igg concentration ) than to human iia ( 50 nmol/l igg concentration ) . the effect of the antibody on the reaction between iia and at iii/heparin was investigated . human iia was found to be protected from at iii/heparin neutralization in the presence of this antibody . these results suggest that this patient developed an antibody that strongly binds to and inhibits the bovine iia in all assays tested . however , the antibody only significantly affects human iia neutralization by at iii/heparin , and has little effect on the human iia procoagulant activity . these data suggest that the decreased effect of at iii/heparin on this patient 's iia may have been a contributing factor in his coagulopathy . the exact cause of this antibody development is unclear , but the role of bovine topical thrombin used during cardiac valve replacement surgery is suspect . 
fibrinogen baltimore i : polymerization defect associated with a gamma 292gly ---- val ( ggc ---- gtc ) mutation . fibrinogen baltimore i is one of the very first congenital abnormal fibrinogens reported over several decades ago ; however , the molecular defect of this dysfibrinogen has eluded identification . in fact , several reports misidentified the functional defect of baltimore i , which has impaired fibrin monomer polymerization . reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography analysis of lysyl endopeptidase digest of the purified baltimore i gamma-chain showed an abnormal peptide not found in the co-existing normal gamma-chain of this heterozygote . amino acid sequencing of this peptide indicated that gamma-chain gly292 is replaced by valine . this observation was confirmed , and the genetic defect was determined by direct nucleotide sequencing of a polymerase chain reaction product containing codon gamma 292 , which is mutated : ggc ---- gtc . the molecular defect of fibrinogen baltimore i lies in a region of the gamma-chain required for fibrin polymerization , suggesting that the integrity of gamma gly292 is critical for fibrin assembly . 
sra , a private platelet antigen on glycoprotein iiia associated with neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia . a new platelet alloantigen , sra , is described that was defined by an alloantibody detected in the serum of a healthy mother who delivered a child with typical clinical signs of neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia ( nait ) . the antibody reacted strongly with the child 's and father 's platelets , but not with platelets of the mother or with those of a highly selected panel representing all known platelet alloantigens . platelets from 300 unselected normal blood donors also tested negative , suggesting a phenotype frequency in the german population of less than 0.01 . the antigen was present in 9 of 20 members within three generations of the paternal family , indicating autosomal codominant inheritance . by immunochemical analysis using a glycoprotein ( gp ) - specific immunoassay and a variety of gp iib/iiia-specific monoclonal antibodies for antigen immobilization ( maipa assay ) , radioimmunoassay , and western blotting , we could show that the antigen resides on a 68-kd proteolytic fragment of gp iiia . immunogenetic data and gene dosage studies revealed that the sra antigen is not related to any of the other known platelet alloantigens . in accordance with established criteria , the sra antigen represents the first example of a " private " platelet alloantigen that bears significance in rare instances of nait . 
down 's syndrome and acute leukemia in children : an analysis of phenotype by use of monoclonal antibodies and electron microscopic platelet peroxidase reaction the clinical , hematologic , and immunophenotypic features in 20 patients with down 's syndrome ( ds ) and acute leukemia were analyzed . of the 20 patients , all 14 patients who were 3 years old and less were diagnosed as having acute megakaryoblastic leukemia ( amkl ) by use of platelet-specific monoclonal antibodies and platelet peroxidase ( ppo ) reaction in electron microscopy . they were characterized by the presence of bone marrow fibrosis , having a history of myelodysplastic syndrome ( mds ) and a poor response to chemotherapy . only one patient has remained in continuous complete remission for more than 1 year . acute leukemia in six patients who were older than 4 years was classified as common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen ( calla ) - positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) . in one of six patients classified as all , the leukemic blasts simultaneously expressed myeloid-associated surface antigens . all six patients achieved a complete remission and have remained in continuous complete remission and have remained in continuous complete remission from 10 to 52 months from the initial diagnosis . although it has been suggested that the distribution of types of acute leukemia in patients with ds is similar to that in normal children , the present study shows that the distribution of acute leukemia types is quite different from that in patients without down 's syndrome . 
cd11c ( leu-m5 ) expression characterizes a b-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorder with features of both chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hairy cell leukemia . chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) and hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) are two common chronic lymphoproliferative disorders , each having characteristic clinical , morphologic , and immunologic features . phenotypically , cd5 reactivity in cll and cd11c ( leu-m5 ) reactivity in hcl have characterized these two leukemias among b-cell disorders . in this study , we report 14 cases of a novel chronic lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by lymphocytosis and cd11c expression , but morphologically similar to cll . the patients ' ages ranged from 46 to 81 years ( median 62 ) . eleven had palpable splenomegaly , five with markedly enlarged spleens ; only one patient had generalized lymphadenopathy . the white blood cell count ranged from 5.2 to 131.0 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ( median 20.8 ) . the morphologic diagnosis in all cases was cll , with the cells usually having abundant cytoplasm . no morphologic features , of hairy cells were evident ; tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase cytochemistry was negative in all cases . bone marrow biopsies were available in 8 of 14 . four showed focal nodular infiltrates and two had diffuse infiltrates similar to cll ; two showed only minimal interstitial involvement . all cases expressed multiple b-cell markers , and 12 of 14 had monoclonal surface immunoglobulin . the leukemic cells of all cases strongly expressed cd11c , while cd5 was expressed in 7 of 14 ; only 1 of the 14 cases expressed the lymph node homing receptor , leu-8 . this unique group of leukemias appears to represent the malignant transformation of lymphocytes arising from a stage of lymphocyte differentiation between that found in typical cases of cll and that of hcl . cd11c is known to have an important function in cellular adhesion and may be important in determining the pattern of lymphocyte tissue distribution found in this group of patients . 
human neutrophils release the leu-8 lymph node homing receptor during cell activation . the leu-8 molecule , the human homologue of the murine mel-14 peripheral lymph node homing receptor , is expressed on neutrophils in both species and may be important in localization of cells to sites of inflammation . most circulating human neutrophils express the leu-8 molecule , and activation of neutrophils with phorbol myristate acetate causes a rapid decline in leu-8 membrane fluorescence staining within 15 minutes . northern blot analysis of total cellular rna from neutrophils demonstrated two species of leu-8 messenger rna , a major one of 2.4 kb and a minor one of 1.9 kb . because two different leu-8 cdna clones were obtained from human lymphocytes that were predicted to encode both transmembrane and phosphatidylinositol ( pi ) - anchored forms of the molecule , experiments were conducted to determine whether leu-8 is anchored to neutrophils by a pi-anchor . there was a slight decrease in expression of leu-8 on neutrophils when they were treated with pi-specific phospholipase c ( pi-plc ) . however , leu-8 was abundant on neutrophils obtained from a patient with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria . to determine the fate of the leu-8 molecule during cell activation , neutrophils were labeled with 125i-anti-leu-8 . during activation antibody was rapidly lost from the cell surface and was not internalized , suggesting that leu-8 is released from the cell membrane during cell activation . when cell extracts of neutrophils were compared with extracts of lymphoid cells by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting , the leu-8 species expressed on neutrophils had a significantly higher and more variable relative mobility ( 70 to 120 kd for neutrophils v 70 kd for jurkat t cells ) . in addition , leu-8 molecules were detected in the supernatants of activated neutrophils . these results indicate that human neutrophils express a high-molecular-weight form of the leu-8 molecule that has a conventional transmembrane anchor and is rapidly released from the membrane during activation . the loss of the leu-8 membrane glycoprotein during activation may be a mechanism for rapid alteration of neutrophil adhesion characteristics . 
chemoprotective effects of recombinant human il-1 alpha in cyclophosphamide-treated normal and tumor-bearing mice . protection from acute toxicity , hematologic effects , development of late mortality , and enhanced therapeutic efficacy . in this study , recombinant human il-1 alpha ( rhil-1 alpha ) was used to protect normal and tumor-bearing balb/c mice from the acute toxicity caused by lethal doses of cyclophosphamide ( cy ) and 5-fluorouracil . pretreatment of mice for 7 days with 10,000 u/day of rhil-1 alpha protected 70 to 100 % of mice from the acute death induced by lethal doses of both cy ( 380 mg/kg ) and 5-fluorouracil ( 250 mg/kg ) . in contrast , post-treatment of mice with single or multiple doses of rhil-1 alpha was not chemoprotective . pretreatment of mice with rhil-1 alpha increased the acute ld90 of cy from 380 mg/kg to greater than 500 mg/kg in normal mice , an ld90 dose-modifying effect of at least 1.25 , was accompanied by a more rapid recovery from neutropenia and a less severe reduction in the number of bone marrow single lineage monocyte , myeloid , or myelomonocytic colonies . some of the mice ( 10 to 50 % ) that were successfully protected by pretreatment with rhil-1 alpha died after day 50 . these mice consistently presented with extensive pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis at death . mice bearing murine renal cancer ( renca ) were also protected from the acute toxic effects of cy ( 450 mg/kg ) by pretreatment with rhil-1 alpha . renca-bearing mice pretreated with rhil-1 alpha and either sublethal ( 300 mg/kg ) or lethal ( 450 mg/kg ) doses of cy exhibited enhanced survival times over those of untreated renca-bearing mice . interestingly , the cause of death in renca-bearing mice that ultimately failed treatment with rhil-1 alpha plus 300 mg/kg cy was recurrent tumor , whereas most mice treated with rhil-1 alpha plus 450 mg/kg cy had no detectable tumor , although several died from late pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis . thus , the dose escalation of cy in rhil-1 alpha-pretreated mice results in greater antitumor effects of cy . however , the dose escalation of some cytotoxic agents allowed by the use of myelostimulatory agents can result in late fatal complications not detected in acute toxicity testing . 
the effect of alcohol in isolated blunt splenic trauma . the effect of alcohol on trauma patients is controversial , with numerous authors citing no difference in mortality in acutely intoxicated patients . the purpose of our study was to retrospectively investigate the effect of alcohol in adult patients with isolated blunt splenic injury . from 1980 through 1989 , 47 adult patients with splenic trauma as the only major injury were admitted to the trauma service . there were 37 males and ten females with a mean age of 29 years ( range , 15 to 61 ) . motor vehicle accidents were responsible for 44 ( 94 % ) of the injuries . group 1 consisted of 24 patients with a mean blood alcohol level of 185 mg/dl ( range , 15 to 380 ) . in group 2 there were 23 patients without detectable blood alcohol . there were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in age , abbreviated injury severity score , initial hematocrit , and grade of splenic injury . hypotension was present in 13 patients ( 55 % ) in group 1 versus six patients ( 26 % ) in group 2 ( p less than 0.05 ) . significant abnormalities in clotting studies were present on admission in six patients ( 25 % ) in the alcohol-detected group versus one in the other group ( p less than 0.05 ) . blood transfusion requirements in the first 24 hours were significantly greater in group 1 ( mean , 3.9 units ) versus group 2 ( mean , 0.5 units ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . if alcohol was present , there was much less chance for splenic conservation , as 18 patients ( 75 % ) underwent splenectomy versus seven patients ( 30 % ) in the nonalcohol group ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was one death and this occurred in a patient acutely intoxicated who suffered a cerebral infarct . 
an intracranial mass lesion in systemic xanthogranulomatosis : case report . the authors describe a 42-year-old woman with systemic xanthogranulomatosis and bilateral intraorbital tumors , who subsequently developed multiple lesions of the intracranial dura mater , spinal cord , retroperitoneum , pericardium , and mediastinum . systemic xanthogranulomatosis is histologically similar to systemic weber-christian disease , except for the absence of subcutaneous panniculitis . immunohistochemical studies suggest that this clinical entity can be differentiated from histiocytosis x , because foamy cells in systemic xanthogranulomatosis demonstrate macrophages but not t-zone histiocyte markers . differentiation of this disease from other intracranial xanthogranulomas and treatment are discussed . 
evaluation and management of supraventricular tachycardia in children . emergency physicians may be called on to resuscitate acute complications in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease . supraventricular tachycardia , with or without hemodynamic decompensation , is one of the most serious complications . we present the case of a 22-month-old boy with a history of single ventricle who presented to our institution with a history of syncope and hemodynamically stable supraventricular tachycardia . initial attempts at pharmacologic conversion with propranolol and verapamil failed . the arrhythmia was terminated in response to an iv fluid bolus and dopamine infusion and probably resulted from a combination of anemia , hypovolemia , and impaired contractility . appropriate evaluation and management relating to the cre of acute supraventricular tachycardia in children are discussed . 
systemic lupus erythematosus in a boy with chronic granulomatous disease : case report and review of the literature . we describe a patient with x-linked chronic granulomatous disease ( cgd ) who developed systemic lupus erythematosus , which was characterized by photosensitivity , malar rash , glomerulonephritis , leukopenia , hypocomplementemia , antinuclear antibodies , and anti-double-stranded dna antibodies , at age 3 . the patient 's mother is an asymptomatic carrier of cgd , and her other son ( the patient 's half-brother ) also has cgd . neither the mother nor the brother has clinical or serologic evidence of systemic lupus erythematosus . previous cases of discoid lupus-like skin lesions have been reported both in carriers and in patients with cgd . our patient represents the first reported case of an individual with convincing clinical , serologic , and pathologic evidence of systemic lupus erythematosus . the association between defective host defense mechanisms and autoimmune phenomena has been described previously in patients with job 's syndrome and in patients with b cell and t cell deficiency disorders , including the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . the relationship between the known leukocyte defects in cgd and the pathogenesis of a lupus-like illness is unclear . 
factors influencing outcome of treatment with zidovudine of patients with aids in australia . the australian zidovudine study group . in a multicentre study of zidovudine therapy in australia commencing in june 1987 , 308 homosexual or bisexual men with aids started on zidovudine by 30 june 1988 . using follow-up data collected through 31 december 1988 , the outcome of the first 18 months of zidovudine therapy in these patients has been analysed in terms of efficacy , expressed as survival and as time to development of a new aids-defining condition , and in terms of safety , expressed as toxicity . median survival from time of diagnosis of aids was 124 weeks , significantly longer ( p less than 0.001 , logrank statistic ) than the median survival of 44 weeks in historical controls representing aids patients prior to the availability of zidovudine therapy . median survival time from starting zidovudine has not been reached in these patients , while 172 ( 56 % ) developed new aids-defining conditions , with median time to progression of 48 weeks . anaemia requiring transfusion was experienced by 155 patients ( 50 % ) . significant differences ( p less than 0.01 , logrank statistic ) in survival were found in favour of patients who commenced zidovudine therapy ( dx-zidovudine time ) within 12 weeks of diagnosis and had baseline karnofsky scores greater than or equal to 80 , haemoglobin greater than or equal to 11 g/dl , cd4 + cell counts greater than or equal to 50 x 10 ( 6 ) / l. therapy-related significant differences ( p less than 0.01 , logrank statistic ) in survival were found in favour of patients with no weight loss and who received the full zidovudine dose ( 1.2 g ) during the first 52 weeks of therapy . 
enhancement of erythrocytic adenosine deaminase following treatment of aids-related complex/aids patients with zidovudine . the levels of adenosine deaminase ( ada ) were determined in the erythrocytes of 10 patients with sexually transmitted hiv-1 infection [ five cases with aids-related complex ( arc ) and five with aids ] before and after therapy with zidovudine ( azidothymidine ; azt ) . a linear increase in ada activity was observed during the second and third months of zidovudine treatment , with a final increase of about threefold after 3 months of drug administration . the concentration of adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) was significantly lower in the erythrocytes of the same group of patients with respect to healthy controls , and a further decrease was noted after 3 months of zidovudine treatment . the results obtained indicate that treatment of arc/aids subjects with zidovudine induces metabolic changes which could be responsible for the development of anaemia , an adverse effect frequently associated with zidovudine therapy . 
molecular basis of spectrin and ankyrin deficiencies in severe hereditary spherocytosis : evidence implicating a primary defect of ankyrin . while varying degrees of spectrin deficiency have been found in the majority of patients with hereditary spherocytosis ( hs ) , a combined severe deficiency of both spectrin and the spectrin-binding protein , ankyrin , has been reported only in two patients with severe hs . to elucidate the molecular basis of these protein deficiencies , we have studied the synthesis , assembly , and the mrna levels of spectrin and ankyrin in peripheral blood reticulocytes in one of the previously reported probands . pulse-labeling studies showed that in hs reticulocytes , the synthesis of alpha-spectrin was comparable with control reticulocytes while that of beta-spectrin was increased about fourfold , presumably reflecting increased erythropoietic drive . on the hs reticulocyte membrane , the amount of newly assembled spectrin was reduced to about half of the control values , presumably reflecting a decrease in the synthesis of the spectrin binding protein , ankyrin : the ankyrin synthesis was nearly absent in the cytosol and the amounts of membrane-associated ankyrin were reduced to about half of the normal values . the changes in the amounts of spectrin and ankyrin mrnas quantitated by slot blot and northern blot analyses were comparable with changes in the synthesis of these proteins : the alpha spectrin mrna was within a control range and the beta-spectrin mrna was slightly increased , while the amounts of ankyrin mrna were reduced to about 50 % of control values . we conclude that the primary defect underlying the combined spectrin and ankyrin deficiency is a deficiency of ankyrin mrna leading to a reduced synthesis of ankyrin which , in turn , underlies the decreased assembly of spectrin on the membrane . 
variation in hemoglobin f production among normal and sickle cell adults is not related to nucleotide substitutions in the gamma promoter regions . single nucleotide substitutions in the promoter regions of the a gamma - and g gamma-globin genes have been associated with increased fetal hemoglobin ( hbf ) production . we wished to determine whether these or other unrecognized substitutions in the gamma promoter regions are responsible for the 20-fold variation in hbf production in sickle cell patients or normal adults . from a random sampling of 250 sickle cell ( ss ) patients and 125 normal adults , 17 individuals representing the highest and lowest hbf producers were selected for study . all three common restriction fragment length polymorphism beta-globin region haplotypes ( benin , central african republic , and senegal ) were found in both the highest and lowest hbf producers with ss disease . using the polymerase chain reaction amplification and direct sequencing of the amplified dna product , we examined the promoter regions of both the a gamma and g gamma genes from -350 bp to +50 bp of the cap site . no mutations were found in either gamma gene promoter region . we conclude that nucleotide substitutions in the promoter regions ( -350 to +50 bp ) of both gamma genes are not responsible for the marked variation in hbf production among ss or normal individuals . 
allogeneic marrow transplantation in patients positive for hepatitis b surface antigen . twenty patients who were positive for hepatitis b surface antigen ( hbsag ) underwent allogeneic marrow transplant for malignancy or other underlying hematologic disease between 1975 and 1986 . after transplant , one patient had serologic evidence of hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) reactivation whereas three patients had evidence of an immune response to hbv . among four patients with serologic follow-up of 1 year or more , three remained positive for hbsag and one became hbsag negative . six patients ( 30 % ) developed clinical evidence of venocclusive disease and seven patients ( 35 % ) developed acute graft-versus-host disease involving the liver , but the incidence of these complications was similar to that expected among patients who are not carriers of hbsag . three patients died with hepatorenal failure , but all three had venocclusive disease and the contribution of hbv infection to liver failure was unclear . available liver specimens obtained at autopsy ( six patients ) or biopsy ( two patients ) all showed either hbsag ( one specimen ) or hepatitis b core antigen ( four specimens ) or both ( three specimens ) by immunoperoxidase staining . although hbv reactivation leading to hepatic failure has been reported among allogeneic marrow transplant recipients as well as other immunocompromised patients , we did not observe an increase in the incidence of severe liver disease after transplant among these 20 patients positive for hbsag at the time of transplant , and do not consider positivity for hbsag to be a contraindication to allogeneic marrow transplantation . 
high risk of severe bleeding in aged patients with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura . the purpose of this study was to estimate the incidence and to establish which factors were associated with an increased risk of hemorrhagic complications in an historic cohort of 117 consecutive and unselected patients with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ( itp ) . sixty-eight patients ( 58 % ) underwent medical treatment and/or splenectomy and 33 ( 48 % of treated ) achieved a complete stable remission . at equivalent platelet count the incidence of major hemorrhagic complications was significantly higher in aged ( greater than 60 years ) than in younger ( less than 40 years ) patients ( 10.4 % v 0.4 % / pt-y , relative risk = 28.9 , p less than .01 ) . a previous hemorrhagic event was identified as another major risk factor for hemorrhage ( relative risk = 27.5 , p less than .0005 ) , while hypertension and underlying disorders had no influence . we conclude that age more than 60 years and a previous history of bleeding are major risk factors for severe hemorrhages in adults with itp . 
platelet vitronectin receptor expression differentiates iraqi-jewish from arab patients with glanzmann thrombasthenia in israel . glanzmann thrombasthenia is a rare , inherited disorder of the platelet glycoprotein iib/iiia ( gp iib/iiia ) complex . we previously identified two distinct populations with this disorder in israel , iraqi-jews and arabs . the groups are indistinguishable in hemorrhagic symptoms and platelet gp iib/iiia receptor deficiency , but they differ in their platelet immunodetectable gp iiia ( beta 3 ) , with the iraqi-jewish population expressing no detectable gp iiia and the arab population expressing small amounts . we have now examined the platelets of these two populations as well as normal platelets for the alpha v beta 3 vitronectin receptor . normal platelets contained between approximately 50 to 100 alpha v beta 3 vitronectin receptors as judged by the binding of antibodies to both alpha v ( lm142 ) and the intact alpha v beta 3 vitronectin receptor complex ( lm609 ) . in addition , normal platelets bound to immobilized vitronectin in the presence of 1 mmol/lmncl2 ; the adhesion was mediated predominantly through gp iib/iiia , but with a distinct contribution by the alpha v beta 3 vitronectin receptor , as determined by monoclonal antibody inhibition studies . iraqi-jewish patients ' platelets had a profound decrease in immunodetectable alpha v beta 3 vitronectin receptors , and their platelets did not adhere well to vitronectin . in contrast , arab patients ' platelets had normal or increased numbers of platelet alpha v beta 3 vitronectin receptors , and these receptors functioned well in the vitronectin adhesion assay , taking over much of the adhesion mediated by gp iib/iiia in normal platelets . these studies define further the heterogeneity of the molecular basis of glanzmann thrombasthenia ; they also have more widespread implications for understanding the synthesis and function of the beta 3 family of integrin receptors . 
chemotherapy for children with aggressive fibromatosis and langerhans ' cell histiocytosis . two disorders involving histologically benign proliferations of fibrous tissue or of histiocytes occur preferentially in children and often require combined management by an orthopedic surgeon and a pediatric oncologist . treatment of young people with aggressive fibromatosis usually begins with wide local excision of the lesion . however , some tumors can not be completely removed either because of their location or because of the risk of subsequent serious dysfunction . not infrequently , local recurrence supervenes despite previous wide local excision , and sometimes multiple tumors are present . in these situations a trial of multiple-agent chemotherapy incorporating vincristine , actinomycin d , and cyclophosphamide may be indicated in an attempt to control the disease . radiation therapy may also be useful , but the relatively high dose ( 5000 cgy or more ) needed in a growing child is at times a less attractive alternative . biopsy of a lytic bone lesion in young patients with langerhans ' cell histiocytosis , formerly known as histiocytosis x , is also indicated for initial diagnosis . biopsy and curettage are usually curative in the patient with an isolated lesion . patients with multiple simultaneous or recurrent lesions need chemotherapy if dysfunction of the liver , spleen , or lungs is present . drug therapy may also be beneficial for children with systemic symptoms . this article outlines suggestions for chemotherapeutic treatment in both diseases . 
cardiac rhabdomyoma . rare cause of fetal death . two cases of nonimmune hydrops fetalis and fetal death associated with cardiac rhabdomyoma are reported . case 1 presented with fetal supraventricular tachycardia , and cardiac rhabdomyoma was accurately diagnosed by fetal echocardiography . autopsy revealed multiple rhabdomyomata involving the right atrial free wall , the sinoatrial node , and the left ventricle . the left circumflex coronary artery was extrinsically compressed by adjacent tumor tissue , causing left ventricular myocardial infarction . case 2 had a unique , pedunculated , ball-like rhabdomyoma that almost totally occluded the mitral orifice . the causes of fetal death in patients with cardiac rhabdomyoma are analyzed and the possibility of fetal surgical management is proposed . 
helicobacter pylori infection in pernicious anemia : a prospective controlled study . although some authors believe that helicobacter pylori is the etiologic agent in chronic nonspecific gastritis , it has also been suggested that the bacterium colonizes inflamed mucosa as a secondary event . this study documents the prevalence of h. pylori in 28 patients with pernicious anemia and compares the findings with those of a group of 28 age - , race - , and sex-matched asymptomatic control subjects . all subjects underwent endoscopy with biopsy of the gastric antrum and corpus . a sample of serum was obtained before endoscopy for determination of antibodies ( immunoglobulin a and immunoglobulin g ) to h. pylori . the prevalence of h. pylori ( by biopsy ) in patients with pernicious anemia was significantly less than that in controls ( 11 % vs. 71 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . all patients with pernicious anemia had abnormalities of corpus histology ( inflammation and/or atrophy ) . in addition , 50 % of patients with pernicious anemia had a lymphocytic infiltration of the antrum . all controls with h. pylori had gastritis , 50 % having active chronic gastritis . atrophic changes of the corpus were more commonly found in patients with pernicious anemia ( 75 % vs. 7 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . serology and biopsy results correlated poorly in the patients with pernicious anemia : all 5 patients with positive serology results had negative biopsy results , whereas all 3 patients with positive cultures on biopsy had negative serological studies . in conclusion , patients with pernicious anemia are protected from infection with h. pylori , and h. pylori does not passively colonize mucosa inflamed by an unrelated process . 
neutrophil dysfunction in glycogen storage disease ib : association with crohn 's - like colitis . two cases of patients with crohn 's - like colitis and glycogen storage disease ib have been reported previously . in the current report , chronic inflammatory bowel disease that developed in another adolescent with this glycogenosis is described , thereby corroborating the association . the neutrophil dysfunction observed in glycogen storage disease ib is the most likely predisposing factor . neutrophil function was investigated in our patient in an attempt to shed light on the pathogenesis of his intestinal inflammation . the patient displayed reduced neutrophil chemotaxis to zymosan-activated serum , n-formyl-methionine-phenylalanine , and escherichia coli bacteria-derived factor and reduced intracellular killing of staphylococcus aureus 502a . others have found this defective bacteriocidal activity to be caused by impaired oxidative metabolism . the recent recognition of chronic inflammatory bowel disease in glycogen storage disease ib , as well as in chronic granulomatous disease , suggests that further study of respiratory burst activity of neutrophils in crohn 's disease is warranted . 
granulocytic sarcoma of the colon . granulocytic sarcoma is an extramedullary tumor consisting of immature cells of the granulocytic series known to occur in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome , chronic myelogenous leukemia , or acute myelogenous leukemia . this tumor may involve nodes , cervix , bone and periosteum , and infrequently the small intestine . granulocytic sarcoma rarely occurs in the colon and has not been previously described endoscopically . we encountered a 73-year-old man with myelodysplastic syndrome who presented with fever , diarrhea , and abdominal pain . colonoscopic evaluation ( focal ulceration , friability , and nodularity ) was compatible with crohn 's disease , although histology showed a dense myeloid cell infiltrate characteristic of granulocytic sarcoma . in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or acute or chronic myelogenous leukemia presenting with diarrhea , abdominal pain , and/or fever , colonoscopy and biopsy are indicated to determine if the colon is affected by granulocytic sarcoma . 
a mathematical model of the volume , ph , and ion content regulation in reticulocytes . application to the pathophysiology of sickle cell dehydration . we developed a mathematical model of the reticulocyte , seeking to explain how a cell with similar volume but much higher ionic traffic than the mature red cell ( rbc ) regulates its volume , ph , and ion content in physiological and abnormal conditions . analysis of the fluxbalance required by reticulocytes to conserve volume and composition predicted the existence of previously unsuspected na ( + ) - dependent cl - entry mechanisms . unlike mature rbcs , reticulocytes did not tend to return to their original state after brief perturbations . the model predicted hysteresis and drift in cell ph , volume , and ion contents after transient alterations in membrane permeability or medium composition ; irreversible cell dehydration could thus occur by brief k + permeabilization , transient medium acidification , or the replacement of external na + with an impermeant cation . both the hysteresis and drift after perturbations were shown to depend on the phi dependence of the k : cl cotransport , a major reticulocyte transporter . this behavior suggested a novel mechanism for the generation of irreversibly sickled cells directly from reticulocytes , rather than in a stepwise , progressive manner from discocytes . experimental tests of the model 's predictions and the hypothesis are described in the following paper . 
evidence for a direct reticulocyte origin of dense red cells in sickle cell anemia . to explore our hypothesis of a direct reticulocyte origin of irreversibly sickled cells ( iscs ) , we fractionated light , reticulocyte-rich , and discocyte-rich sickle anemia red cells on stractan gradients , and examined the effects of deoxygenation-induced sickling , external ca2 + , acidification , and replacing external na + by impermeant n-methyl-d-glucamine ( nmg + ) . sickling permeabilized light reticulocyte-rich cells to cations ( na + , k + , and ca2 + ) more than discocytes ; without external ca2 + , na + influx matched k + efflux , with stable cell volume ; with ca2 + , many light , low hemoglobin ( hb ) f reticulocytes dehydrated rapidly ( preventable by quinine , a ca2 ( + ) - dependent k + channel inhibitor ) . acidification of oxygenated discocytes ( high mean hb f ) and reticulocyte-rich fractions yielded denser , reticulocyte-enriched cells with lower hb f ( as in light reticulocyte or dense isc-rich fractions ) . light cells shrank when nmg + replaced na + , supporting predictions of a na ( + ) - dependent volume control system . demonstration of sickling-induced , ca2 ( + ) - dependent dehydration of hb f-free reticulocytes , and conservation of acid-stimulated k : cl cotransport among low hb f , reticulocyte-enriched cells in discocyte fractions support the hypothesis . ancillary new findings included heparin stimulation of sickling-induced na + and k + permeabilizations , and ca2 + inhibition of the na + leak . 
a deletion in the gene for glycoprotein iib associated with glanzmann 's thrombasthenia . the platelet fibrinogen receptor is composed of a complex of glycoproteins ( gp ) iib and iiia on the surface of platelets . deficient function of this receptor prevents normal platelet aggregation , resulting in glanzmann 's thrombasthenia ( gt ) . in this paper , we describe a black thrombasthenic patient who is either homozygous or hemizygous for a deletion within the gpiib gene . initial western blot analysis of platelet proteins from this patient did not detect any gpiib , but did detect small amounts of gpiiia of normal mobility . quantitation of vitronectin receptor ( vnr ) demonstrated that this thrombasthenic patient had approximately 1.5-2 times the number of these receptors per platelet compared with controls , a finding that has previously been noted in other thrombasthenic patients with defects in gpiib . genomic southern blot studies demonstrated a deletion in the gpiib gene of approximately 4.5 kilobasepairs ( kb ) . analysis of the isolated gpiib gene demonstrated that the deletion begins between two alu repeats within intron 1 and ends in intron 9 . polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) studies using platelet rna and oligonucleotides directed to both the 5 ' and 3 ' ends of the gpiib cdna sequence easily detected gpiib transcript , suggesting that the genomic deletion of exons 2-9 does not significantly decrease the level of the gpiib mrna . sequence analysis of pcr-generated gpiib cdna showed that a cryptic ag splice acceptor sequence was being utilized , resulting in a transcript that contained a portion of introns 1 and 9 , as well as having a deletion of exons 2-9 . unlike the gpiib gene , the gpiiia gene appears to be intact by southern blot analysis . pcr studies using platelet rna and oligonucleotides directed to the gpiiia cdna sequence demonstrated the presence of gpiiia mrna . in summary , the thrombasthenic state in this patient appears to be due to a gpiib gene deletion resulting in an abnormal transcript and no detectable platelet gpiib . platelet gpiiia levels were secondarily low presumably due to the known instability of gpiiia in the absence of gpiib . 
neutrophil nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase assembly . translocation of p47-phox and p67-phox requires interaction between p47-phox and cytochrome b558 . two of the cytosolic nadph oxidase components , p47-phox and p67-phox , translocate to the plasma membrane in normal neutrophils stimulated with phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) . we have now studied the translocation process in neutrophils of patients with chronic granulomatous disease ( cgd ) , an inherited syndrome in which the oxidase system fails to produce superoxide due to lesions affecting any one of its four known components : the gp91-phox and p22-phox subunits of cytochrome b558 ( the membrane-bound terminal electron transporter of the oxidase ) , p47-phox , and p67-phox . in contrast to normal cells , neither p47-phox nor p67-phox translocated to the membrane in pma-stimulated cgd neutrophils which lack cytochrome b558 . in one patient with a rare x-linked form of cgd caused by a pro- --- his substitution in gp91-phox , but whose neutrophils have normal levels of this mutant cytochrome b558 , translocation was normal . in two patients with p47-phox deficiency , p67-phox failed to translocate , whereas p47-phox was detected in the particulate fraction of pma-stimulated neutrophils from two patients deficient in p67-phox . our data suggest that cytochrome b558 or a closely linked factor provides an essential membrane docking site for the cytosolic oxidase components and that it is p47-phox that mediates the assembly of these components on the membrane . 
preferential expression of human fc gamma riiipmn ( cd16 ) in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria . discordant expression of glycosyl phosphatidylinositol-linked proteins . the isoform of fc gamma riii ( cd16 ) expressed on pmn has a gpi membrane anchor , and in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria ( pnh ) there is a deficiency in fc gamma riii expression on pmn . contrary to expectation , however , cd16 expression is preserved ( albeit at reduced levels ) in all affected pnh pmn that completely lack the gpi-anchored proteins daf ( cd55 ) and cd59 . fc gamma riii negative pmn are not observed in any of the six pnh patients examined in this study . analysis of the molecular weight of both glycosylated and deglycosylated fc gamma riii from pmn with reduced fc gamma riii expression indicates no variations in size relative to normal donor fc gamma riiipmn . indeed , the fc gamma riii expressed at intermediate levels is phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase c ( pi-plc ) - sensitive . thus , there is no evidence suggestive of expression of a transmembrane isoform and all data indicate that fc gamma riiipmn on affected cells in pnh is a gpi-linked isoform . with fc gamma riiipmn expression preserved at reduced levels on affected cells in pnh , pmn from pnh patients retain the capacity to internalize the fc gamma riiipmn-specific probe e-cona ( at reduced levels ) as well as igg-opsonized erythrocytes . reduced expression of gpi-anchored molecules on pnh pmn is not restricted to fc gamma riiipmn since intermediate levels of cd59 were observed in the pnh pmn that were decay-accelerating factor ( daf ) - negative and fc gamma riiipmn intermediate . in addition , discordant expression of gpi-linked molecules in individual cells is not restricted to pmn since daf + / cd14 - monocytes were observed in one pnh patient . these data suggest that , when analyzed on an individual cell level , the gpi anchor defect in pnh is not absolute and must involve either a hierarchy of access of different protein molecules to available gpi anchors , distinct anchor biochemistries for the different proteins , or differential regulation of protein-anchor assembly . 
use of cytoplasmic 5 ' nucleotidase for differentiating malignant from benign monoclonal gammopathies . bone marrow smears from 15 patients with multiple myeloma , 15 patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance ( mgus ) , and 15 control subjects were examined for the presence of cytoplasmic 5 ' nucleotidase ( c5nt ) in plasma cells . plasma cell positivity for c5nt ( mean and 95 % confidence interval ) in patients with multiple myeloma numbered 46.4 % ( 38.0-54 .8 % ) , in those with mgus it was 15.3 % ( 11.1-19 .6 % ) , and in control subjects it was 1.2 % ( 0.3-2 .1 % ) . these findings indicate that c5nt can be used to differentiate benign from malignant monoclonal gammopathies . 
erythroid colony growth from peripheral blood and bone marrow in polycythaemia . erythroid colony growth in the presence and absence of erythropoietin was compared in 23 patients with primary proliferative polycythaemia ( ppp ) , nine with idiopathic erythrocytosis , 10 with secondary polycythaemia , 15 with pseudopolycythaemia and in 76 normal subjects . erythroid colonies growing without erythropoietin stimulation ( endogenous erythroid colonies ) from peripheral blood ( bfu-e ) were found in 20 of 22 patients with ppp and in two of seven with idiopathic erythrocytosis . none was found in secondary polycythaemia , pseudopolycythaemia , or in normal subjects . small numbers of endogenous colony forming units-erythroid ( cfu-e ) ( though not bfu-e ) were cultured from the bone marrow of three of 24 normal subjects , suggesting that peripheral blood cultures provide a more specific indicator of clonal erythropoiesis . peripheral blood endogenous erythroid colony growth is an effective and convenient means of distinguishing patients with clonal erythrocytosis and may be of particular value when iron deficiency obscures the diagnosis of ppp on conventional criteria . 
the neuromuscular pathology of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) is a recently reorganized disorder in patients ingesting pharmacologic doses of l-tryptophan . we studied the lesions of skeletal muscle , peripheral nerve and skin in 12 cases of ems . perimyositis was severe in four , moderate in two , mild in three and absent in three cases . the lesions contained many eosinophils , t-helper cells , mast cells and activated macrophages . type 2 myofiber atrophy was present in five cases and in one , this was the only pathologic finding . severe epineurial inflammation was seen in the three sural nerve biopsies . indirect evidence for peripheral neurologic involvement in three other cases consisted of inflammation surrounding intramuscular nerve twigs ( two cases ) and neurogenic atrophy ( one case ) . phlebitis accompanied the connective tissue inflammation in five cases and endarteritis in one . fasciitis was present in three of four skin biopsies and dermal fibrosis in one . 
continuous infusion carboplatin on a 21-day schedule : a phase i and pharmacokinetic study . a phase i study with continuous infusion carboplatin for 21 days every 6 weeks using a venous access port and portable pump was performed over a dose range of 12 to 32 mg/m2/d , with increments of 2 mg/m2/d . forty-four patients received 107 courses ( median , two ; range , one to nine ) . world health organization ( who ) grade iii/iv leukopenia and thrombocytopenia occurred in one of seven patients at 30 mg/m2/d , and in two of six and four of six patients at 32 mg/m2/d . cumulative platelet depression was found at dose levels of 28 mg/m2/d or more . median glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) and effective renal plasma flow , monitored by radioisotope clearances at doses greater than or equal to 20 mg/m2/d , decreased 8.2 % ( p less than .05 ) and 10.9 % ( p less than .01 ) after two courses . there was a relationship ( r = .50 , p less than .0002 ) between the percentage of platelet depression and gfr . no other toxicity was observed . of the 17 patients who were evaluable , one complete response and four partial responses were observed . in addition , six patients had stable disease . pharmacokinetic analysis of total and ultrafiltrable platinum ( ufpt ) was performed by atomic absorption spectrophotometry . steady-state plasma levels for ufpt were reached after 8 hours . these levels could be detected from the 20 mg/m2/d dose . during steady state , carboplatin dose and ufpt plasma levels were not correlated , but steady-state ufpt and gfr ( r = -.27 , p less than .05 ) were . twenty-four percent of total platinum ( pt ) was present as ufpt during steady state ( x = 160 + / - 10 micrograms/l ) . total body clearance of ufpt exceeded gfr 2.2 times . mean area under the curve ( auc ) for ufpt during continuous infusion was 4,921.8 + / - 301.72 mg.min / l. for total pt , steady-state plasma levels were not reached ; total pt plasma levels increased between day 7 and day 21 ( p less than .0001 ) . there was a significant relation between total pt serum levels day 7 , 14 , and 21 and the drug dose administered . immunohistochemical analysis of dna-bound pt in leukocytes showed a linear increase from day 7 to day 14 to day 21 ( r = .97 ) between dna-bound pt and duration of infusion in individual patients . the maximum-tolerable dose of carboplatin is 30 mg/m2/d for 21 days ( total dose 630 mg/m2 ) and is recommended for phase ii studies . 
a randomized trial of cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin versus vinblastine , cisplatin , and etoposide in the treatment of advanced germ cell tumors of the testis : a southwest oncology group study this is a southwest oncology group ( swog ) prospective randomized trial of cisplatin , vinblastine , and bleomycin ( pvb ) versus vinblastine , cisplatin , and etoposide ( vp-16 ) ( vpv ) in the treatment of advanced germ cell tumors of the testis . the study objective was to determine what effect the replacement of bleomycin with vp-16 has on complete response ( cr ) , survival , and drug toxicity . one hundred sixty-nine patients were registered and randomized . of these patients , 160 were assessable for response . all had histologically confirmed disseminated germ cell neoplasms of testicular origin . forty-six had minimal metastatic disease , and 114 had maximal disease . seventy-seven were randomized to pvb and 83 to vpv chemotherapy . there was no significant difference in pretreatment characteristics between the two arms with regard to tumor burden , histologic type , and overall performance status . patients received four courses of induction chemotherapy , either pvb ( cisplatin 120 mg/m2 day 3 , vinblastine 12 mg/m2 day 1 , bleomycin 15 u/m2 twice per week ) or vpv ( vinblastine 8 mg/m2 day 1 , cisplatin 120 mg/m2 day 3 , vp-16 50 mg/m2 days 2 to 5 ) . chemotherapy was given every 3 weeks . cytoreductive surgery was done postinduction if a chemotherapy cr was not achieved . there was no difference in the percentage of patients achieving a disease-free status between pvb ( 77 % ) and vpv ( 73 % ) . the mean leukocyte nadir was similar for both treatments , but the mean platelet nadir was significantly lower ( p = .003 ) in the vpv arm . all bleomycin-related toxicities ( pulmonary , mucositis , skin ) were avoided in the vpv arm . we conclude that bleomycin can be replaced in first-line therapy for advanced germ cell tumors without sacrificing efficacy and with the advantage of avoiding unnecessary drug toxicity . 
absence of acetylcholine-induced current in epithelial cells from thymus glands and thymomas of myasthenia gravis patients . we investigated the activity of ion channels in epithelial cells from human thymus glands and thymomas kept in short-term cell culture by clamping the membrane potential of the cells at -85 mv and determining the membrane current flowing on application of acetylcholine , glycine , or gamma-aminobutyric acid . in concentrations of up to 10 ( -3 ) m , none of the neurotransmitters induced any detectable current . this suggests ( 1 ) that there are no acetylcholine receptors ( achrs ) or other products of the achr gene family having ion-channel properties in the membranes of these epithelial cells , and ( 2 ) that the alpha-bungarotoxin-binding protein of thymus and thymoma has no achr-like ion-channel property . these results support the hypothesis that the cross-reacting structures that elicit the anti-achr autoimmune response in thymoma-associated myasthenia gravis are antigens having only limited homology with the achr . myasthenia gravis not associated with thymoma might have a different pathogenesis . 
myelopathic neurosarcoidosis : diagnostic value of enhanced mri . neurosarcoidosis is an underdiagnosed variant of the systemic disease . we report a case of myelopathic neurosarcoidosis , noting the contribution made by mri in establishing the diagnosis , and we discuss the possibility that the disease is differentially responsive to various steroid formulations . 
dexamethasone as an adjunct in oropharyngeal obstruction in a patient with leukemia . incipient airway obstruction due to fulminating bacterial infection of pharyngeal tissues requires prompt and definitive intervention . a case is presented in which dexamethasone was a key adjunct to antibiotic therapy in averting this problem in a severely neutropenic patient with acute leukemia . 
short course chemotherapy for childhood tuberculosis a prospective study , with an attempted 24-month-post-treatment follow-up , of children with tuberculosis ( tb ) treated with short course chemotherapy ( scc ) for 6 months was carried out because published experience of scc in childhood tb was limited . all children in port moresby diagnosed as having tb between november , 1984 , and november , 1986 , entered the trial . of the 639 children 165 ( 26 % ) were younger than 2 years old . of these , 227 ( 35 % ) had extrapulmonary tb ( peripheral lymph node , 110 ; central nervous system , 43 ; abdominal , 27 ; miliary , 16 ; bone and joint , 11 ; pleural , 11 ; polyserositis , 9 ) . clinical response to scc was rapid . adverse drug reactions occurred in 15 ( 2 % ) , mainly to streptomycin . twelve ( 2 % ) died , 38 ( 6 % ) transferred out and 145 ( 28 % of the 518 who did not die , transfer or live too far from a treatment centre ) defaulted . three hundred seventy-three ( 58 % ) completed a 2-month course of daily rifampin , isoniazid , pyrazinamide and streptomycin followed by a 4-month course of twice weekly rifampin and isoniazid . a further 71 ( 11 % ) had their treatment modified because of their distance from a treatment center . only 70 ( 19 % ) of the 373 children available for post-treatment follow-up attended the every-3-month follow-up visits for 24 months , although 223 ( 60 % ) attended one or more of the follow-up visits . seven of the 373 children relapsed , mostly within 3 months . five of these children had been irregular with their treatment . scc for childhood tb is safe and effective for pulmonary and extrapulmonary disease . 
a randomized trial of fully intermittent vs. daily followed by intermittent short course chemotherapy for childhood tuberculosis fully intermittent short course chemotherapy regimens have been used successfully in adults but not in children . we report the results on 76 children with tuberculosis , excluding central nervous system tuberculosis and primary pulmonary complex . isoniazid , rifampin and pyrazinamide were used for treatment . they were randomly allocated to regimen a ( 52 doses ) and regimen b ( 94 doses ) . overall efficacy of both schedules was greater than 95 % in 27 children with lymphatic , 43 with pulmonary and 6 with disseminated tuberculosis . compliance in 10 children after 2 to 4 months of therapy was poor because rapid improvement was mistaken by parents for cure . two children died , probably of underlying lung disease . follow-up for up to 2 years did not reveal any case of relapse or recurrence of the disease . therapy for 6 months involving administration of only 52 or 94 doses of drugs was found to be economical , effective and safe for treating children with tuberculosis . 
agranulocytosis from antiarrhythmic agents . what to watch for when a medication is first prescribed . anyone who prescribes antiarrhythmic medications should strongly consider monitoring patients for the first 3 months of its use . if agranulocytosis is going to develop , it almost always does so in that period . a complete blood cell count every 1 to 2 weeks can detect neutropenia before symptoms and infectious complications appear . fever and associated systemic symptoms should always induce evaluation . treatment involves discontinuation of the causative agent , use of antibiotics and antifungal drugs for infectious complications as needed , and close observation . spontaneous recovery should occur within 5 weeks . if it does not , a nonpharmacologic cause should be considered . 
the butterfly rash and the malar flush . what diseases do these signs reflect ? the butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders . systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs . in pellagra , symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body . erysipelas produces brawny , fiery red facial lesions , and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption . lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern , and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face . carcinoid syndrome often causes flushing attacks that vary in duration , and facial flushing that lasts throughout treatment may accompany chemotherapy if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction . deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation . 
cryoglobulinemia induced by a murine igg3 rheumatoid factor : skin vasculitis and glomerulonephritis arise from distinct pathogenic mechanisms . mrl-lpr/lpr mice spontaneously develop a lupus-like syndrome characterized by immunopathological manifestations such as necrotizing vascular lesions of ear tips and severe glomerulonephritis . similar skin vascular and glomerular lesions associated with cryoglobulinemia can be induced in normal mice by injection of a monoclonal antibody ( mab ) -- 6-19 ( gamma 3 heavy chain and kappa light chain ) , exhibiting both cryoglobulin and anti-igg2a rheumatoid factor ( rf ) activities -- derived from the mrl-lpr/lpr autoimmune mouse . to determine the role of rf and/or igg3 fc fragment-associated cryoglobulin activities in 6-19 mab-induced tissue lesions , a 6-19-j558l hybrid mab ( gamma 3 heavy chain and lambda 1 light chain ) was produced by fusion between the 6-19 hybridoma and the j558l myeloma . here we report that the 6-19-j558l hybrid mab , which loses the rf activity but retains the cryoglobulin activity , fails to induce skin vascular lesions . however , it is still able to provoke glomerular lesions identical to those caused by the 6-19 mab . further , we have observed that the depletion of the corresponding autoantigen , igg2a , in mice by treatment with anti-igm antisera from birth also prevents the development of skin but not glomerular lesions . our results indicate that both rf and cryoglobulin activities of the 6-19 mab are required for the development of skin vasculitis , but its cryoglobulin activity alone is sufficient to cause glomerular lesions . in addition , cdna cloning and sequencing of the 6-19 mab has revealed that the 6-19 kappa light chain variable region amino acid sequence is encoded in a germ-line configuration , suggesting that immunoglobulin variable region germ-line genes could contribute to the generation of pathogenic autoantibodies . 
fetal hemoglobin , sickling , and sickle cell disease . increased numbers of f cells and large amounts of hb f/f cell appear to produce clinical benefit in rare variants of sickle cell disease and probably in more commonly encountered patients . fetal hemoglobin interferes with polymerization of hb s in vitro , but laboratory studies carried out with homogeneous hemoglobin solutions are inadequate models of events in vivo , because rbcs are heterogeneous in their mchc and hb f content . studies of hemoglobin switching in sheep , in tissue culture , and then in baboons led to use of 5-azacytidine for induction of increased hb f synthesis in ss patients . drug trials were successful but the theory that led to them was not . an alternate theory , not without flaws , led to the use of hydroxyurea . chronic administration of the drug can lead to very impressive increases in hb f synthesis and apparent clinical benefit . it is not clear that such clinical benefit is real rather than a placebo effect . nor is it entirely clear that all of the effect of hydroxyurea can be related to increased production of f cells and increased f/f cell . controlled clinical trials and studies of the properties of rbcs from treated patients may answer those questions . it is also likely that they will not only raise still other questions but probably show that our current understanding of the biology and treatment of sickle cell disease is far from complete . 
cat-scratch disease . acute encephalopathy and other neurologic manifestations . seventy-six patients with neurologic complications of cat-scratch disease are discussed . encephalopathy occurred in 61 , while 15 had either cranial or peripheral nerve involvement . the average age of the patients with encephalopathy was 10.6 years ( range , 1 to 66 years ) , and almost twice as many males as females were affected in contrast to patients with uncomplicated cat-scratch disease , in which the ratio was almost equal . fever was not documented in 50 % of patients with encephalopathy and only 26 % had temperatures higher than 39 degrees c. convulsions occurred in 46 % and combative behavior in 40 % . lethargy with or without coma was accompanied by variable neurologic signs . results of laboratory studies , including imaging of the central nervous system , were inconsistent and nondiagnostic . biopsy tissue from 14 patients showed histopathologic findings compatible with cat-scratch disease . the " english-wear bacillus " was demonstrated by the warthin-starry stain in 10 of 14 skin or lymph node specimens . of the 15 patients without encephalopathy , two children with facial nerve paresis displayed cranial nerve symptoms and/or signs , 10 patients had cat-scratch disease neuroretinitis , and three women had peripheral neuritis . all 76 patients recovered within 12 months ; 78 % recovered within 1 to 12 weeks . there were no neurologic sequelae . treatment consisted of control of convulsions and supportive measures . commonly used antibiotics administered to more than half of the patients were apparently ineffective . 
pearson syndrome and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy in a patient with a deletion of mtdna . a patient is described who has features of pearson syndrome and who presented in the neonatal period with a hypoplastic anemia . he later developed hepatic , renal , and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction . at the age of 5 years he developed visual impairment , tremor , ataxia , proximal muscle weakness , external ophthalmoplegia , and a pigmentary retinopathy ( kearns-sayre syndrome ) . muscle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of mitochondrial myopathy . analysis of mtdna from leukocytes and muscle showed mtdna heteroplasmy in both tissues , with one population of mtdna deleted by 4.9 kb . the deleted region was bridged by a 13-nucleotide sequence occurring as a direct repeat in normal mtdna . both pearson syndrome and kearns-sayre syndrome have been noted to be associated with deletions of mtdna ; they have not previously been described in the same patient . these observations indicate that the two disorders have the same molecular basis ; the different phenotypes are probably determined by the initial proportion of deleted mtdnas and modified by selection against them in different tissues . 
psychogenic purpura ( autoerythrocyte sensitization ) : an unsolved dilemma . experience at university hospitals of cleveland with 71 cases of gardner and diamond 's syndrome of autoerythrocyte sensitization is reviewed . gardner and diamond attributed the pathogenesis of the inflammatory bruises typical of this syndrome to sensitization to the stroma of the patients ' own erythrocytes , as demonstrated by reproduction of the lesion on intracutaneous injection of erythrocytic stroma . nearly all the cases my colleagues and i have seen were in adult women , in whom the onset of inflammatory bruising could often be precisely dated , frequently some weeks after an injury or surgical procedure or , more often , severe emotional stress . bouts of bruising were often preceded by sensations localized to the affected site . cutaneous responses to the injection of erythrocytes were erratic . the patients described a wide range of both hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic complaints , including , among others , severe headaches , paresthesias , repeated syncope , diplopia ( sometimes monocular ) , and " nervousness . " psychiatric studies indicated that patients had overt depression , sexual problems , feelings of hostility , and obsessive-compulsive behavior . the patients had traits that can be described as typical of a hysterical character disorder . therapy of autoerythrocyte sensitization -- that is , psychogenic purpura -- has been difficult ; in younger individuals , psychiatric therapy has appeared to be beneficial . 
erythrocyte membrane protein deficiencies in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria . paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria ( pnh ) is an acquired disorder characterized by intermittent hemolytic anemia . membrane abnormalities of blood cells from patients with pnh are the reason for the unusual sensitivity to lysis by autologous plasma complement . a patient with typical clinical disease consistent with pnh is described together with a few strategies and pitfalls for treatment . commonly used in vitro assays are discussed that document the complement-mediated lysis of aberrant pnh erythrocytes . membrane-associated proteins that are abnormal in pnh cells , the characteristics of these proteins , and their mechanism ( s ) of action are described ; these include the decay accelerating factor that inhibits the c3/c5 convertases of both complement pathways on cell surfaces , the c8 binding protein that modulates a step in terminal complement lysis , and other proteins that regulate complement-mediated lysis at early or late steps of the complement cascade . 
sickle cell trait revisited . variability in the clinical severity of sickle cell diseases is often genetically determined . coexistent alpha-thalassemia decreases some , but not all , associated morbid complications . polymorphisms within the beta-globin-like gene cluster influence disease severity by varying gamma-gene expression and the amount of hb f within the cells . few persons with the sickle cell trait experience adverse consequences attributable to the beta s gene . is this also due to genetic factors ? a literature search failed to answer this question . it is intriguing , however , that reported associations of sickle cell trait and splenic infarction have occurred exclusively in males and mostly in whites . plausible but scanty data suggest that splenic infarction , hematuria , and reduced renal concentrating ability may be associated with higher amounts of hb s. therefore , alpha-thalassemia may be protective . no evidence was found that the amount of hb s influenced the incidence of sudden death after exertion or that increased amounts of hb f accounted for protection against any complications . more detailed reporting of biochemical and genetic evaluations of persons with sickle cell trait who experience related clinical events may lead to a better understanding of risks in subpopulations of persons carrying a single beta s gene . 
chloramphenicol toxicity : 25 years of research . significant progress has been made in recent years in the understanding of the pathogenesis of the two types of hematologic toxicity from chloramphenicol . the common , dose-dependent , reversible bone marrow suppression from chloramphenicol is a consequence of mitochondrial injury . the greater erythroid susceptibility to chloramphenicol appears to be a function of the endogenous mitochondrial amino acid pools . the pathogenesis of aplastic anemia from chloramphenicol treatment remains uncertain . a large body of indirect evidence favors a complex mechanism involving metabolic transformation of the p-no2 group of chloramphenicol by the predisposed subject , leading to the production of a toxic intermediate causing stem cell damage . a concept is presented wherein metabolites of chloramphenicol generated by intestinal bacteria undergo further metabolic transformation in the bone marrow with in situ production of toxic intermediate . this concept of the marrow being both the metabolic site for the offending agent as well as the target for its toxic metabolites will likely apply to other potential myelotoxins . 
danazol . danazol is a synthetic attenuated androgen that can interfere with normal interactions between the pituitary-hypothalamic axis and the gonads . these effects are mediated by complex mechanisms , including those in which danazol can compete with natural steroids in binding to androgen receptors or to sex hormone-binding globulin , possibly displacing natural steroids from this protein , and in binding to reactive sites of enzymes required for synthesis of natural steroids , thereby depressing synthesis . because of danazol 's impairment of the pituitary-hypothalamic interactions with gonads , it is an effective therapeutic agent for treatment of endometriosis and cystic disease of the breast . it is effective in the treatment of hereditary angioneurotic edema , but the mechanism of this therapeutic success is unclear . danazol has been used , without universal success , in the treatment of other gynecologic and certain hematologic disorders . 
abnormalities of von willebrand factor multimers in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and the hemolytic-uremic syndrome . purpose : to analyze and review von willebrand factor ( vwf ) multimeric patterns in patients with single-episode thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) , intermittent ttp ( episodes at infrequent , irregular intervals ) , chronic relapsing ttp ( episodes at frequent , regular intervals ) , and the hemolytic-uremic syndrome ( hus ) . patients and methods : platelet-poor plasma samples were obtained in edta , citrate , or citrate-hirudin-aprotinin-leupeptin from 36 patients with single-episode ttp , eight patients with intermittent ttp , four patients with chronic relapsing ttp , and 26 patients with hus . the samples were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-agarose gel electrophoresis , overlaid with rabbit 125i-anti-human vwf igg , and analyzed by autoradiography . results : abnormalities of vwf multimers were found in platelet-poor plasma samples from 31 of 36 found in platelet-poor plasma samples from 31 of 36 patients ( 86 % ) at the onset of and during their single ttp episode . vwf multimers larger than those in normal plasma , and similar to vwf forms observed within normal human endothelial cells ( unusually large vwf multimers ) , were demonstrated in 31 % of the patients ; 19 % had either unusually large vwf multimers or a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf forms in different serial samples ; 36 % had a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf forms . these results imply that endothelial cell injury or intense stimulation , along with the attachment of unusually large vwf multimers and the largest plasma vwf forms to platelets , occurred during the single ttp episodes in most patients . patterns of vwf multimers were normal in 92 % of patients with single-episode ttp studied after recovery . all eight patients with intermittent ttp and the four patients with chronic relapsing ttp had unusually large vwf multimers in their plasma between episodes , and these multimers decreased or disappeared during relapses . of 26 children and adults with hus , 14 had a relative decrease in the largest plasma vwf multimeric forms and one had unusually large vwf multimers during the episode ( vwf multimeric abnormalities in 58 % of the patients ) . conclusion : it is probable that vwf was involved in the pathophysiology of ttp in most of these patients with the single-episode , intermittent , or chronic relapsing types of ttp , and in more than 50 % of the patients with hus . 
nitrogen metabolism in sickle cell anemia : free amino acids in plasma and urine . twenty-four hour urinary levels and fasting plasma concentrations of free amino acids ( aa ) were evaluated in adult sickle cell anemia ( hbss ) and age-matched hbaa subjects with comparable daily energy ( e ) and protein ( n ) intake . hbss elicited significant reduction in the sum of plasma indispensable ( eaa ) with no change in the dispensable ( naa ) amino acids , resulting in a prominent ( p less than 0.01 ) reduction in the eaa/naa ratio from 71 % to 55 % . arg ( -38 % ) , leu ( -32 % ) , val ( -28 % ) and his ( -32 % ) were among the aa most severely affected . despite a twofold increase in 24-hour urine volume in hbss compared with hbaa subjects , total urinary losses of eaa and naa were markedly reduced in the former group , with arg ( -53 % ) and gly ( -56 % ) levels most prominently affected . compared with hbaa controls , hbss subjects showed a three-fourfold increase in 24-hour urinary orotate excretion that had no relationship to amount of n intake . the results indicated that adult subjects with hbss , who consumed adequate n and e as per the rda for healthy individuals , behaved like normal hbaa controls on a low protein diet . there was evidence that the hbss subject might be in a precarious state with respect to sufficiency of several amino acids , particularly l-arg , which is now classified as conditionally indispensable for the human . 
thymoma : results of 241 operated cases clinical and histopathological aspects of 241 thymomas were reviewed . one hundred sixty of the patients with thymoma had myasthenia gravis and 15 had other autoimmune diseases ; 55 % of the thymomas were encapsulated and 45 % invasive . operation was radical resection in 87.5 % of the patients , subtotal resection with residual tumor in 8.7 % , and simple biopsy in 3.7 % . a tumor relapse was observed in 24 patients ( 10 % ) : 2 ( 1.5 % ) of 133 with encapsulated thymomas and 22 ( 20.4 % ) of 108 with invasive thymomas ; among these patients , a relapse was found in 20.6 % of the patients who received radiotherapy postoperatively and in 24.6 % who did not . adverse prognostic factors were clinical stage iva ( multiple pleural nodes ) , not feasible resection ( for technical reasons ) , inoperable tumor relapse , and association with one of the following autoimmune diseases : pure red cell aplasia , hypogammaglobulinemia , and lupus erythematosus . conversely , myasthenia gravis is now a curable disease ; it contributes to early discovery of associated thymoma , thus allowing a better survival for patients with thymoma who have myasthenia gravis compared with patients with thymoma but without myasthenia gravis ( p less than 0.05 ) . postoperative radiotherapy does not seem necessary after removal of encapsulated thymomas , but it is advisable in case of invasive thymomas , regardless of the extent of the resection . 
poisonings in laboratory personnel and health care professionals . a case report of an unresponsive chemist presenting to the emergency department is presented ; in retrospect , the patient was discovered to have intentionally ingested cyanide . a review of literature regarding ingestions in laboratory and health care personnel reveals five common points encountered in these personnel : barbiturates , carbon monoxide , cyanide , azides , and methemoglobin-inducing chemicals . key diagnostic findings , in the absence of history of exposure , are discussed for these five agents . 
cat-scratch disease : an unusual cause of combative behavior . acute encephalitis is an unusual manifestation of cat-scratch disease . the authors present the case of a 27-year-old man who exhibited the acute onset of encephalitis manifested by violent behavior and confusion . the diagnosis of drug abuse was presumed initially , but a careful examination revealed the true cause to be cat-scratch disease . emergency physicians are frequently faced with the challenging task of evaluating confused and combative patients . this case demonstrates the importance of a complete physical examination and a thorough laboratory evaluation . 
interleukin-8 production in red blood cell incompatibility . hemolytic transfusion reactions ( htr ) are characterized by fever , shock , organ system failure , intravascular coagulation , and possibly death . the same findings may be associated with sepsis . neutrophils have been implicated in the pathogenesis of htr , although a mechanism for neutrophil activation has not been shown . in addition , the possible role that cytokines may play in htr has not been investigated . we show that interleukin-8 ( il-8 ) , a cytokine with chemotactic and neutrophil-activation properties , is produced in whole blood following addition of abo-incompatible red blood cells , in a dose - and time-dependent manner related to the degree of hemolysis , and is inhibited by inactivation of complement . il-8 production is accompanied by increased gene expression in the buffy coat . this observation has implications for the understanding of the pathogenesis of and for the treatment of htr . 
interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) induces thrombocytosis in mice : possible implication of il-6 . we administered recombinant human interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) , the common mediator of inflammation process , to c57b1/6 male mice ( 0.5 microgram , every 12 hours over five times ) intraperitoneally and consequently induced a remarkable thrombocytosis . day 1 was designated as the following day of the last injection in the morning . a significant thrombocytosis was observed on days 1 through 5 with a peak on day 2 ( 162 + / - 9 x 10 ( 4 ) / mm3 ) compared with the control mice injected with heated il-1 beta ( 101 + / - 11 x 10 ( 4 ) / mm3 ) . a striking increase in mean size of marrow megakaryocytes was noted on days 1 and 2 . the incorporation of 75se-selenomethionine into circulating platelets as a measure of platelet production was about 2.3 times higher in il-1 beta-treated mice than in control mice . to determine which factor ( s ) is responsible for elicited thrombocytosis , the in vitro studies and bioassays for several hematopoietic factors were performed . il-1 beta by itself did not stimulate megakaryocytopoiesis in vitro , suggesting that the thrombocytosis is attributed to other factor ( s ) via il-1 beta stimulation . serum colony-stimulating factor ( csf ) activity after a single il-1 beta ( 0.5 microgram ) injection , monitored by colony assay with 10 % tested serum , peaked at 3 hours . formed colonies were mostly granulocyte ( g ) and granulocyte-macrophage ( gm ) - types , and studies using rabbit anti-mouse gm-csf serum or using human marrow as target cells showed that the csf activity of the tested serum consisted of , at least , gm-csf and g-csf . addition of il-3 concomitantly with the tested serum gave rise to a greater number of megakaryocytic colonies . serum il-3 , monitored by il-3-dependent cell line 32d clone 5 , and erythropoietin activities were not detected at serum level in il-1 beta-treated mice . serum il-6 assay by il-6-dependent mouse hybridoma cell line mh-60 . bsf2 showed high levels of the tested serum with a peak at 2.5 hours with no detection at 10 hours after the injection . heated il-1 beta caused an increase of neither il-6 nor csf activities . our data suggest that the thrombocytosis induced by il-1 beta is mediated by il-6 or a combination of il-6 and other cytokine ( s ) , and that il-6 may play a regulatory role in platelet production in vivo . 
surreptitious ingestion of a long-acting vitamin k antagonist/rodenticide , brodifacoum : clinical and metabolic studies of three cases . the vitamin k metabolism of three patients with factitious purpura due to brodifacoum ingestion was studied . these patients , who presented with bleeding disorders due to deficiency of the vitamin k-dependent blood clotting proteins , were refractory to vitamin k1 at standard doses and required fresh frozen plasma to control bleeding until large doses of vitamin k1 were used . metabolic studies demonstrated a blockade in vitamin k utilization , consistent with the presence of a vitamin k antagonist , but the patients denied use of anticoagulants . warfarin assays were negative . we show that the factitious purpura in each patient was due to the surreptitious ingestion of brodifacoum , a potent second generation long-acting vitamin k antagonist used as a rodenticide . the coagulopathies responded to long-term therapy with large doses of vitamin k1 . the serum elimination half-time for brodifacoum ranged from 16 to 36 days in these patients . the anticoagulant effect is of long duration , requiring chronic vitamin k treatment . with increasing availability of new rodenticides , factitious purpura due to surreptitious ingestion of these potent vitamin k antagonists is emerging as a new problem , previously associated with warfarin , with important implications for diagnosis and treatment . 
t ( 3 ; 21 ) ( q26 ; q22 ) : a recurring chromosomal abnormality in therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia . we have identified an identical reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 3 and 21 with breakpoints at bands 3q26 and 21q22 , [ t ( 3 ; 21 ) ( q26 ; q22 ) ] , in the malignant cells from five adult patients with therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome ( t-mds ) or acute myeloid leukemia ( t-aml ) . primary diagnoses were hodgkin 's disease in two patients and ovarian carcinoma , breast cancer , and polycythemia vera in one patient each . patients had been treated with chemotherapy including an alkylating agent for their primary disease 1 to 18 years before the development of t-mds or t-aml . we have not observed the t ( 3 ; 21 ) in over 1,500 patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukemia arising de novo or in over 1,000 patients with lymphoid malignancies . we have previously reported that the t ( 3 ; 21 ) occurs in philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) . thus , the t ( 3 ; 21 ) appears to be limited to t-mds/t-aml and cml , both of which represent malignant disorders of an early hematopoietic precursor cell . these results provide a new focus for the study of therapy-related leukemia at the molecular level . 
immunochemical and electrophoretic analyses of phosphorylated native and recombinant neutrophil oxidase component p47-phox . human polymorphonuclear neutrophils ( pmns ) possess a potent oxygen-dependent microbicidal system that depends on the activity of a stimulus-activated multicomponent nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate ( nadph ) oxidase . patients with chronic granulomatous disease ( cgd ) lack activity of this oxidase and consequently suffer severe and frequent infections . components of the oxidase include both membrane-bound factors ( most notably , cytochrome b559 , which is absent in the x-linked form of cgd ) and at least two cytosolic factors , one or the other of which is absent in autosomal cgd . patients with cgd , particularly the autosomal type , have defective phosphorylation of proteins in the 44 to 48 kd range . a polyclonal antiserum ( b-1 ) that recognizes cytosolic oxidase components of 47 and 67 kd was used to identify phosphoproteins in a cell-free oxidase system . two-dimensional gel electrophoresis showed the identity of the 47-kd cytosolic protein ( p47-phox ) recognized by b-1 and the cationic 47-kd protein that is phosphorylated in normal but not p47-phox-deficient cgd cytosol during activation of the nadph-dependent oxidase . all full-length and c-terminal recombinant p47-phox proteins augmented the superoxide-generating capacity of the cell-free system and were phosphorylated when added to cytosol from normal subjects or from a patient with p47-deficient autosomal cgd . these studies provide compelling evidence that the 47-kd cationic protein that is a substrate for phosphorylation during the activation of pmns is , in fact , p47-phox , a cytosolic protein previously shown to be critical for normal activity of the nadph-dependent oxidase of pmns . 
molecular basis for alpha-thalassemia associated with the structural mutant hemoglobin suan-dok ( alpha 2 109leu ---- arg ) [ published erratum appears in blood 1991 mar 15 ; 77 ( 6 ) :1404 ] . hemoglobin ( hb ) suan-dok ( alpha 109arg ) is a rare alpha-globin structural mutation that is linked to an alpha-thalassemia ( alpha-thal ) determinant . when inherited in trans to an alpha-thal-1 mutation ( - ) , it results in hb h disease associated with low levels ( 9 % ) of the suan-dok hb . the nature of the thalassemic defect associated with the alpha sd mutation has been investigated by structural and functional studies . sequence analysis of the cloned suan-dok allele showed a missense mutation ( t ---- g ) at codon 109 in an otherwise normal alpha 2-globin gene . when the alpha 2sd-globin gene was introduced into mouse erythroleukemia cells , the steady state alpha-globin messenger rna ( mrna ) level was equivalent to the alpha a-globin gene control . although in vitro translation of a synthetic alpha 2sd-globin mrna generated levels of alpha globin equivalent to alpha 2a-globin mrna at early time points , the ratio of alpha sd to alpha a globin decreased markedly at later time points . these data suggest that the thalassemic defect associated with the suan-dok mutation results from a significant instability of the alpha sd globin . 
reduction of graft failure by a monoclonal antibody ( anti-lfa-1 cd11a ) after hla nonidentical bone marrow transplantation in children with immunodeficiencies , osteopetrosis , and fanconi 's anemia : a european group for immunodeficiency/european group for bone marrow transplantation report . forty-six infants and children suffering from either inherited immunodeficiency disorders ( wiskott-aldrich syndrome , functional t-cell immunodeficiency with or without hla class ii expression deficiency ) , malignant osteopetrosis , or fanconi 's anemia received hla-nonidentical bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) from related donors . bone marrow was t-cell depleted to reduce the risk of graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) . to prevent graft failure , a mouse monoclonal antibody specific for the cd11a-lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 ( lfa-1 ) molecule was infused into the patients . eleven patients received five infusions of 0.1 mg/kg every other day from day -3 to +5 . thirty-five patients received 0.2 mg/kg daily from day -3 to +6 . the overall sustained engraftment rate was 72 % instead of 26.1 % in a historical control group of 24 patients similarly treated except for the infusion of the anti-lfa-1 antibody . no late rejection occurred . the t-cell depletion method ( e-rosetting or campath im plus complement ) resulted in different rate of engraftment ( 83.3 % v 57.9 % , respectively , p = .05 ) . engraftment rate was slightly but not significantly influenced by the degree of hla incompatibility between donor and recipient . acute gvhd of grade ii or more occurred in 35.5 % of the patients and the rate of chronic gvhd was 12.9 % . the overall actuarial survival rate with a functional graft is 47.3 % with a mean follow-up of 28.0 months for patients with immunodeficiency and osteopetrosis , while none of the four patients with fanconi 's anemia survived . the development of full t-cell functions took on the average 6 months and of full b-cell functions 10 months . significant infectious problems developed in the majority of the patients during the posttransplant course . epstein-barr virus-induced b-cell proliferative syndromes were observed in seven patients , six of whom had wiskott-aldrich syndrome . correction of immunodeficiency was comparable in terms of kinetics and quality with that observed in patients with severe combined immunodeficiency undergoing hla-nonidentical bmt . correction of osteopetrosis appears not to be different from what has been observed after hla-identical bmt . the in vivo use of an anti-cd11a-lfa-1 antibody as an additional immunosuppressive therapy in hla-nonidentical bmt may thus promote engraftment and survival with correction of the primary disease in a significant number of patients with life-threatening immunodeficiency and osteopetrosis , but not with fanconi 's anemia . 
interleukin-6 mrna and protein increase in vivo following induction of acute thrombocytopenia in mice . induction of experimental thrombocytopenia in rodents results in the enhancement of megakaryocytic growth and differentiation . interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) and il-6 , cytokines with a broad spectrum of biologic activities , stimulate megakaryocytopoiesis in vitro . to determine if expression of these factors might increase in response to experimental thrombocytopenia , we measured steady-state levels of il-3 and il-6 mrna following rabbit antiplatelet serum ( aps ) injection . groups of mice were injected intravenously with 0.2 ml aps while control animals received rabbit antilymphocyte serum ( als ) , normal rabbit serum ( nrs ) , or phosphate-buffered saline ( pbs ) . at various times up to 72 hours after injection mice were exsanguinated and splenectomized . platelet counts in the experimental animals were less than 12 % of controls . splenic rna was hybridized in solution to 32p-utp-labeled crna probes for il-3 and il-6 . rnase-resistant hybrids were resolved on denaturing gels and visualized autoradiographically . il-3 hybrids were undetectable at all time points tested , irrespective of the film exposure time or specific activity of the probe . conversely , il-6 hybrids were easily visualized and showed peak expression at 1.5 to 2.0 hours . by 3 hours , il-6 mrna had returned almost to the level of the controls . similar results were observed in the bone marrow , although maximal il-6 mrna in that tissue was observed 4 hours following aps administration . to determine if this mrna increment was associated with a concomitant increase in bioactive protein , serum was tested for its ability to stimulate il-6-dependent b9 cells . at 1.75 hours following injection , experimental animals showed a small but significant increment in il-6 activity compared with controls ( 200 + / - 30 u/ml il-6 compared with 129 + / - 17 u/ml in als-injected controls , 106 + / - 17 u/ml in nrs-injected controls and 84 + / - 17 u/ml in pbs-injected controls ) . the data show that il-6 mrna and bioactive protein increase in response to acute immunothrombocytopenia , while no increment in il-3 is detectable . these results suggest that il-6 may play a role in the physiologic response to acute immunothrombocytopenia . 
molecular defect in coagulation factor xfriuli results from a substitution of serine for proline at position 343 . our previous findings suggested that coagulation factor xfriuli could be functionally defective owing to a point mutation in the portion of the factor x gene coding for the fully activated heavy chain . to verify the existence of this postulated change , we analyzed all eight exons of the normal and friuli factor x gene . each exon was amplified from genomic dna using the polymerase chain reaction and cloned into the plasmid puc19 . the amplified dna inserts were subjected to direct sequencing by the dideoxy chain termination method with forward and reverse oligonucleotide sequencing primers . a point mutation ( c to t transition at nucleotide position 19,297 ) that results in coding for serine ( tcc ) in place of proline ( ccc ) at amino acid position 343 was found . this substitution involves a highly conserved proline residue oriented spatially close to both the cleavage site of the zymogen and the active site of the enzyme and explains the previous observations of discrete biochemical and functional differences between factor xfriuli and normal factor x. the mutation abolished an hgici restriction site present in the normal factor x gene , and this change constitutes the basis for a convenient method for screening individuals carrying this molecular defect . proline343 is in conserved region 5 of the serine protease superfamily to which factor x belongs and is part of a 14-residue l ***** p ****** c motif that occurs in at least 16 other enzymes . computer analysis suggests that the motif may be an essential aspect of conformational features important to functional properties of factor x as well as other serine proteases . 
hemoglobin cagliari ( beta 60 [ e4 ] val ---- glu ) : a novel unstable thalassemic hemoglobinopathy . this report describes a patient with thalassemia intermedia-like phenotype born to normal parents in whom globin gene sequencing detected a novel abnormal hemoglobin ( hb ) due to a t to a substitution at codon 60 of the beta-globin gene arising as a de novo mutation . normal sequences were detected at the homologous beta-globin locus . this mutation results in the substitution of a polar ( glutamic acid ) for a nonpolar ( valine ) residue near the corner of the heme pocket of the beta-globin chain . the novel variant has been designated hb cagliari , from the place of birth of the propositus . kinetics of globin synthesis performed following splenectomy suggest that this new hb variant is synthesized at a near normal rate but undergoes rapid breakdown . the extreme lability of the variant explains the clinical and hematologic picture characterized by marked ineffective erythropoiesis , thalassemia-like bone changes , iron overload , high proportion of hb f in the peripheral blood , reduced beta/alpha-globin chain synthesis ratio in peripheral blood reticulocytes , and absence of the abnormal hb in peripheral blood at extensive protein structural analysis before splenectomy . this case indicates that a thalassemic hemoglobinopathy should be suspected in the presence of a patient with a thalassemia intermedia-like phenotype born to normal parents , even when protein structural analysis fails to detect an abnormal hb . dna sequencing may allow to define the mutation , thus making the proper diagnosis . 
is the treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumor with interferon not as successful as suggested ? eight patients with metastatic carcinoid tumor , seven of whom had symptoms of the carcinoid syndrome , were treated with either human leukocyte interferon ( seven patients ) or recombinant alpha-interferon ( ifn alpha-2b ) ( one patient ) at doses of 4.5 to 21 x 10 ( 6 ) iu weekly for 1 to 21 ( mean , 8.5 ) months . tumor regression on computed tomography ( ct ) scan was found in one patient , the ct findings remained unchanged in three , and the tumor progressed in four patients . a clearcut and continuing decrease in urinary levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5-hiaa ) was observed in one patient and a transient one in four patients . the symptoms improved in only two of seven patients . four patients had leukopenia develop , which was circumvented by reducing the dose . the authors conclude that interferon therapy of the carcinoid tumor is not as successful as has been suggested in previous reports . 
a pilot study of intermediate-dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside , " spread-out " or " up-front , " in continuation therapy for childhood non-t , non-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia . a pediatric oncology group study . one hundred six children with newly diagnosed non-t - , non-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) were treated in a pediatric oncology group ( pog ) pilot study in which six courses of intermediate-dose methotrexate ( mtx ) and cytosine arabinoside ( ara-c ) ( 1 g/m2 each ) were added to a " backbone " of standard continuation therapy . the dose and sequence of mtx/ara-c administration were based on a preclinical model that demonstrated synergism between mtx and ara-c . poor-risk patients ( n = 49 ) were assigned to " up-front " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were administered during the initial 15 weeks of remission . standard-risk patients ( n = 57 ) were assigned to " spread-out " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were interspersed at 12-week intervals within continuation treatment . toxicity after intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c , principally neutropenia and fever , was judged significant but manageable . unexpectedly , the incidence of fever and neutropenia less than 500/mm3 was greater after " spread-out " therapy ( 38 % ) than after " up-front " therapy ( 6 % ) . at 4 years , the kaplan-meier estimate of event-free survival ( efs ) is 71 % ( + / - 7 % ) for standard-risk patients and 53 % ( + / - 8 % ) for poor-risk patients . the results of this pilot study support the use of intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c in additional studies . 
immunosuppressive acidic protein in malignant diseases . clinical relevance ? the immunosuppressive acidic protein ( iap ) has been described as a tumor associated marker in some solid tumors and hematologic diseases . to define the clinical relevance the authors determined the serum iap levels in 194 patients with malignancies before initiation of therapy , 14 patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ( itp ) , 28 patients with bacterial pneumonia , and 23 healthy volunteers . immunosuppressive acidic protein was measured by radial immunodiffusion . the mean value of our controls was 405 + / - 48 micrograms/ml . this is consistent with published data . the mean values for patients with malignancies varied from 554 micrograms/ml to 698 micrograms/ml . these are only marginally higher than those observed for the controls . in contrast patients with bacterial pneumonia demonstrated significantly elevated values ( 1038 + / - 261 micrograms/ml ) . the authors conclude that iap can not be used as a diagnostic marker for the malignant diseases examined in this study . 
pregnancy outcome in hematologic malignancies . by means of a mail questionnaire , information on a series of 56 pregnancies i in 48 women diagnosed with leukemia or lymphoma was collected from ten hospitals . seven patients conceived while receiving treatment for their neoplasms ; in 22 patients , the hematologic disease was diagnosed during pregnancy , and the remaining 27 patients became pregnant after completion of the antineoplastic treatment . when a comparison was made of the evolution of these pregnancies to that of pregnancies in a healthy population , no increase in the incidence of complications was observed : 64 % of the pregnancies went to term , 9 % resulted in spontaneous abortion , and 5 % resulted in premature births . the observed incidence of one major malformation in 56 pregnancies did not differ from the frequency of malformations in the offspring of healthy individuals . there were no fetal losses in six pregnancies in which conception occurred during the first year after chemotherapy . in spite of the inherent limitations derived from the design of this type of study and the type of subject analyzed , the data here support the hypothesis that the cytostatic treatment of hematologic malignancies , if deemed necessary , should not be postponed because of pregnancy . moreover , the authors agree with advice recommending that no antifolic or alkylating agents be used for prolonged periods and that radiotherapy be avoided , especially to those fields involving the pelvic area . 
skeletal involvement in children who have chronic granulomatous disease . chronic granulomatous disease is a rare disorder of the oxidative metabolism of the white blood cells that results in immunodeficiency . in a retrospective review of the records of forty-two patients who had chronic granulomatous disease , we identified thirteen patients who had a total of twenty skeletal infections . two types of infection were noted : type 1 , which resulted from a direct spread of the infection from an adjacent focus , usually of fungus or mycobacteria , and type 2 , which resulted from hematogenous spread , usually of nocardia or more common bacteria . the thoracic vertebrae , ribs , and metatarsals were the most commonly involved bones . all four patients in whom the vertebrae were involved had a type-1 fungal infection . paresis developed in three of these patients , and two of them died . antibiotics alone effectively eradicated the infection in only one patient . wide operative debridement combined with administration of antibiotics was the most successful treatment . comprehensive preoperative imaging and several cultures are necessary to locate the infection in the bone and to identify the organism . 
deformities of the hip in adults who have sickle-cell disease and had avascular necrosis in childhood . a natural history of fifty-two patients . we report the natural course of the hip in fifty-two patients ( ninety-five hips ) who had sickle-cell disease and had had avascular necrosis in childhood . there were twenty-one african , twenty-one west indian , and ten mediterranean patients . at the most recent follow-up examination ( at an average duration of nineteen years after the onset of the disease ) , 80 per cent of the hips that had been affected by avascular necrosis during childhood were painful and had permanent damage with regard to decreased mobility , limb-length discrepancy , and an abnormal gait . when the patients were evaluated , at an average age of thirty-one years , fifteen hips ( 16 per cent ) had had an operation for progressive disability and sixty ( 63 per cent ) had major problems because of pain . of the twenty hips ( 21 per cent ) that were not painful , five were in patients who had an abnormal gait , with decreased agility . the mean iowa hip-rating score at the most recent follow-up examination was 73 points ( range , 30 to 100 points ) . correlations were found between the hip score and the patient 's age at the onset of the disease and at the latest follow-up , between the hip score and degenerative changes in the hip , and between degenerative changes and radiographic evidence of deformity of the hip . 
potential role of igg avidity for diagnosing toxoplasmosis . sera from 20 cases of toxoplasmic lymphadenopathy were examined by an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay toxoplasma igg avidity ( elisa ) at two laboratories . the results obtained were largely in agreement and showed that sera from patients with acute infection had low avidity igg ( 30 % or less ) , whereas sera from patients with chronic infection had high avidity igg ( 40 % or more ) . it is suggested that this type of assay could have a useful complementary role in antenatal testing for toxoplasmosis . 
hypergastrinemia , gastric endocrine cell hyperplasia , and intractable diarrhea . a patient with pernicious anemia developed severe intractable diarrhea night and day . investigation revealed chronic atrophic gastritis and a markedly elevated level of serum gastrin . no obvious explantation for the diarrhea was found , but after antrectomy , the gastrin level returned to normal and the diarrhea subsided . possible mechanisms for an association between diarrhea and hypergastrinemia include colonic hypermotility secondary to release of acetylcholine and inhibition of fluid and electrolyte reabsorption within the small bowel . 
trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole-associated blood dyscrasias . ten years ' experience of the swedish spontaneous reporting system . during the 10-year period 1976-1985 , a total of 154 cases of blood dyscrasia were reported in sweden which were evaluated as having a probable or possible causal relationship with trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole ( t-sm ) . there were 61 cases of leucopenia ( of which 16 had agranulocytosis ) , 28 cases of thrombocytopenia , and two of non-haemolytic anaemia . there were also 32 cases of bicytopenia and 31 cases of tricytopenia . the median age varied from 38 years in the leucopenia group to 81 years in those with tricytopenia . the overall fatality rate was 17 % , ranging from 2 % in the group with mild leucopenia to 52 % in the group with tricytopenia . in relation to sales and prescription data , the overall incidence of reported t-sm blood dyscrasias was 5.3 per million defined daily doses , and among out-patients the incidence was one case per 18,000 prescriptions . thus the overall incidence of any blood reaction to t-sm appears to be low . in relation to prescription data , elderly people were overrepresented among the serious reactions . 
gall-bladder perforation after long-term dapsone therapy . a 65-year-old man on maintenance dapsone therapy for dermatitis herpetiformis for 30 years was admitted to hospital with acute abdominal pain and vomiting . investigations revealed a heinz body haemolytic anaemia . worsening symptoms prompted an emergency laparotomy that revealed a perforated gall bladder with pigmented biliary calculi . in previous reviews of the haematological abnormalities associated with dapsone therapy , life-threatening cholecystitis has not been described . 
a clinico-pathological and follow up study of 10 cases of essential type ii cryoglobulinaemic neuropathy . ten patients with essential cryoglobulinaemia type ii were examined for peripheral nerve damage . in six cases distal symmetrical nerve involvement was present , while in three other cases abnormalities restricted to single nerves were found . electrophysiological and morphological data were consistent with axonal damage , the larger myelinated fibres being most affected . although active signs of vasculitis and immunoperoxidase staining for immunoglobulins were not present , endoneurial vessels were widely damaged , with abnormally thick endothelial cells and redundant basal membranes . these findings , together with a patchy distribution of myelinated fibre loss , suggest ischaemia as a cause of peripheral neuropathy during essential cryoglobulinaemia type ii . a follow up examination , performed one year after haematologial remission , revealed that no further peripheral nerve damage had occurred . 
recognition of distinctive patterns of gallium-67 distribution in sarcoidosis . assessment of gallium-67 ( 67ga ) uptake in the salivary and lacrimal glands and intrathoracic lymph nodes was made in 605 consecutive patients including 65 with sarcoidosis . a distinctive intrathoracic lymph node 67ga uptake pattern , resembling the greek letter lambda , was observed only in sarcoidosis ( 72 % ) . symmetrical lacrimal gland and parotid gland 67ga uptake ( panda appearance ) was noted in 79 % of sarcoidosis patients . a simultaneous lambda and panda pattern ( 62 % ) or a panda appearance with radiographic bilateral , symmetrical , hilar lymphadenopathy ( 6 % ) was present only in sarcoidosis patients . the presence of either of these patterns was particularly prevalent in roentgen stages i ( 80 % ) or ii ( 74 % ) . we conclude that simultaneous ( a ) lambda and panda images , or ( b ) a panda image with bilateral symmetrical hilar lymphadenopathy on chest x-ray represent distinctive patterns which are highly specific for sarcoidosis , and may obviate the need for invasive diagnostic procedures . 
phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate : treatment of choice for malignant pericardial effusion . a 68-yr-old male with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia was given phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate intrapericardially for the treatment of malignant pericardial effusion . technetium-99m-sulfur colloid was used to verify catheter placement and to visualize distribution within the pericardium . estimated dosimetry for this mode of therapy is presented , and it is suggested that pericardial administration of phosphorus-32-colloidal chromic phosphate is the treatment of choice for malignant pericardial effusion . 
treatment of childhood angiomatous diseases with recombinant interferon alfa-2a . a heterogeneous group of five patients with progressive , invasive angiomatous diseases including pulmonary hemangiomatosis , angiosarcoma , or massive hemangioma with associated consumptive coagulopathy were treated with interferon alfa-2a for periods of 17 to 33 months . one patient with a large thoracic hemangioma , cardiorespiratory failure , and consumptive coagulopathy died after less than 2 months of treatment . the remaining four patients have shown beneficial responses , including ( 1 ) regression of abnormal vessels on pulmonary angiogram and improved exercise tolerance in pulmonary hemangiomatosis ( two patients ) , ( 2 ) decreased corticosteroid and/or platelet transfusion requirements in consumptive coagulopathy ( two patients ) , and ( 3 ) decreased size and number of tumor nodules in the one patient with angiosarcoma arising in preexisting angiomatous lesions . responses occurred during periods of 2 to 20 months of treatment . there was no measurable progression of angiomatous lesions in any patient receiving interferon at the therapeutic dose , except possibly in the one who died . each of the four surviving patients had improved linear growth and weight gain during interferon treatment . 
effects of recombinant human erythropoietin on cerebral and cutaneous blood flow and on blood coagulability . seizures , hypertensive encephalopathy , transient ischemic attacks , and thrombosis of hemodialysis accesses occurred in early clinical trials with recombinant human erythropoietin . to determine if these events may be caused by the increased hematocrit value or some direct effect of the recombinant human hormone , 10 transfusion-dependent hemodialysis patients were divided into two groups of five according to their serum ferritin concentration : group a. less than 800 microgram/liter , and group b. greater than 800 micrograms/liter . after a month of placebo administration , recombinant human erythropoietin was given ( 150 u/kg intravenously thrice weekly ) for four months and then stopped for one month . hematocrit values were maintained at 0.33 + / - 0.02 ( mean + / - sd ) by dose adjustment in group a and at 0.26 + / - 0.02 by thrice weekly phlebotomies in group b , who received a constant dose of erythropoietin . viscosity increased from subnormal to normal in group a ( p less than 0.02 ) and cerebral blood flow decreased from above normal to normal ( p less than 0.02 ) . in group b minor , statistically insignificant , changes in viscosity and reciprocal changes in cerebral blood flow also occurred . there was no change in either group in transcutaneous oxygen tension . bleeding time decreased toward normal in both groups during recombinant human erythropoietin administration but the changes did not reach statistical significance . fibrinogen levels were increased in all patients but remained unchanged . no other significant coagulation-related changes were observed . recombinant erythropoietin in the dosage and schedule of administration described in this study did not lead directly or indirectly to changes likely to precipitate seizures or intravascular thrombosis . 
development of a new radioimmunoassay for erythropoietin using recombinant erythropoietin . the development of a 24 hour radioimmunoassay for erythropoietin ( epo ) using epo derived from recombinant dna as both immunogen and ligand is described in the present paper . mixed breed rabbits immunized with 10 micrograms/kg of epo derived from a stably transfected cell line ( elanex pharmaceuticals inc. , bothel , washington , usa , through mcdonnell douglas corp. , st. louis , missouri , usa ; " md " ) produced antibodies to epo with high titer ( up to 1:896,000 final dilution in the tube ) , high affinity ( 8.4 x 10 ( 11 ) liter/m ) , and good specificity . purified epo from the above source or from amgen biologicals ( thousand oaks , california , usa ; " ag " ) were successfully radioiodinated with the chloramine-t method and used as ligand in the radioimmunoassay . standard dose-response curves prepared with epo from both commercial sources were not significantly different and showed a sensitivity of 0.75 to 0.96 mu/tube . the dose-response curves in both systems also showed parallelism with serially diluted serum from a patient with aplastic anemia . within-assay and between-assay precision were determined by assaying multiple replicates of a serum pool . recovery of exogenous epo added to a serum pool averaged 97 % for both systems . the range of normal human serum epo was determined by assaying the sera of 153 hematologically-normal adult subjects and was found to be 1.1 to 27.3 mu/ml for md epo and 0.5 to 16.7 mu/ml for ag epo . sera from several patients with hematologic abnormalities were also assayed , including those of 36 patients with anemia of end-stage renal disease ( mean + / - sem , 29.5 + / - 4.0 mu/ml ; p less than 0.01 ) . in conclusion , this new , more rapid and sensitive radioimmunoassay system can be used to measure epo levels in sera from normal human subjects and patients with several types of anemia , and should also be very useful in therapeutic drug monitoring of patients receiving epo from various commercial sources . 
lymphoedema/hypercalcaemia syndrome mediated by parathyroid-hormone-related protein . a 24-year-old woman presented with a cryptogenic , hypercalcaemic syndrome with metastatic pulmonary calcification and leg and massive breast enlargement and bilateral chylous pleural effusions compatible with a generalised lymphatic abnormality . the patient 's serum parathyroid hormone-related protein concentration was very high at a time when she was significantly hypercalcaemic , implying that the hypercalcaemia was mediated by this protein . 
cuban programme for prevention of sickle cell disease . the percentage of carriers of the sickle cell gene in cuba ranges from 3 to 7 % in different regions . in 1983 the national medical genetics centre initiated a programme for the control of sickle cell disease , which was started in havana and later extended nationwide . the programme is based on mass education , screening and supportive genetic counselling , care of affected individuals , and availability of prenatal diagnosis . 806,935 pregnant women had been screened by the end of 1989 : 29,913 ( 3.7 % ) were heterozygous , homozygous or doubly heterozygous for abnormal haemoglobin . 19,686 fathers ( 67 % ) were also tested : 1268 at-risk couples were detected . 531 elected to have prenatal diagnosis ; 404 results were obtained and 98 affected fetuses ( ss or sc ) found . in 72 cases the pregnancy was terminated . 
the electrodiagnostic findings in polyneuropathies associated with igm monoclonal gammopathies . electrodiagnostic studies were analyzed in patients with neuropathy associated with igm monoclonal proteins , 7 with anti-myelin associated glycoprotein reactivity ( mag ) and 7 nonreactive to mag . the findings were distinctly different in the two groups . the electrodiagnostic studies of all the mag-reactive patients had demyelinating features with slowing of conduction and prolonged distal latencies while only one of the mag-nonreactive patients had a demyelinating pattern . in fact , the mag-nonreactive patients were a heterogeneous group , both electrodiagnostically and clinically . this study supports the concept that mag-reactive polyneuropathy is demyelinating in type , and is caused by the activity of the igm m-protein directed at an antigen in the myelin sheath . 
evolution of a genetic disease in an ethnic isolate : beta-thalassemia in the jews of kurdistan . beta-thalassemia is a hereditary disease caused by any of 90 different point mutations in the beta-globin gene . specific populations generally carry a small number of mutations , the most common of which are those that are widely distributed regionally . the present study constitutes an extensive molecular characterization of this disease in a small , highly inbred ethnic group with a high incidence of beta-thalassemia -- the jews of kurdistan . an unusual mutational diversity was observed . in 42 sibships 13 different mutations were identified , of which 3 are newly discovered : a c ---- a transversion at -88 to the cap site , a frameshift in codon 36/37 , and an a ---- g transition in the polyadenylylation signal . four of the mutations are unique to kurdish jews and have not been discovered in any other population . a fifth was found outside kurdish jews only in an iranian from khuzistan , a region bordering kurdistan . two-thirds of the mutant chromosomes carry the mutations unique to kurdish jews . we traced the origin of the mutations to specific geographic regions within kurdistan . this information , supported by haplotype analysis , suggests that thalassemia in central kurdistan ( northern iraq ) has evolved primarily from multiple mutational events . in turkish kurdistan , the primary mechanism is genetic admixture with the local population . in iranian kurdistan , a founder effect appears to be partly responsible . we conclude that several evolutionary mechanisms contributed to the evolution of beta-thalassemia in this small ethnic isolate . 
antibiotic-associated hypoprothrombinemia : a review of prospective studies , 1966-1988 . many antimicrobial agents have been associated with hypoprothrombinemia . the precise mechanisms are unknown , but alteration in vitamin k status or utilization is involved . the two postulated mechanisms implicate either direct inhibition of biosynthesis of the vitamin k-dependent clotting factors by the n-methylthiotetrazole ( nmtt ) moiety found in certain antimicrobial agents or eradication of vitamin k-producing intestinal microflora in patients with reduced oral intake of vitamin k. an english-language review of all prospective studies reported between 1966 and 1988 in which serial prothrombin times were monitored in adult patients revealed that the incidence of hypoprothrombinemia varied from 3.7 % to 64 % with nmtt-containing regimens and from 0 % to 24 % with non-nmtt-containing regimens . detailed evaluation of these and other studies suggests that certain risk factors , including malnutrition , hepatic and renal dysfunction , older age , and severity of illness , may be the major determinants of hypoprothrombinemia . the hypothesis that the nmtt side chain is primarily responsible for hypoprothrombinemia may not be justified . we conclude that patients at high risk for coagulopathy should be carefully monitored and that serious consideration should be given to the use of prophylactic vitamin k in such cases . 
nosocomial infections due to xanthomonas maltophilia ( pseudomonas maltophilia ) in patients with cancer . from december 1985 to may 1986 , xanthomonas maltophilia ( formerly known as pseudomonas maltophilia ) was isolated at an increased rate at our institution ; 52 isolates of x. maltophilia were obtained in cultures of clinical specimens from 38 patients during that time . the records of 35 of these patients form the basis of this study . twelve ( 71 % ) of the 17 infected and nine ( 50 % ) of the 18 colonized patients had received or were receiving antimicrobial therapy . eleven of 17 patients ( three of seven with septicemia , three of five with pneumonia , three with urinary tract infection , and two with wound infection ) responded to antimicrobial therapy . microbiologic studies of the potential environmental sources revealed growth of x. maltophilia in two water faucets and in one water sample from the medical intensive care unit . x. maltophilia is emerging as an important nosocomial pathogen in immunocompromised patients , especially those receiving broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy . 
physiologic observations of pregnant women undergoing prophylactic erythrocytapheresis for sickle cell disease . five women in the second or early third trimester of pregnancy underwent prophylactic partial red cell exchange by automated erythrocytapheresis for sickle cell disease . the purpose of this pilot study was to characterize the hematologic , hemodynamic , and metabolic changes associated with this procedure . pretransfusion hematocrit increased 49 percent by 3 to 5 days after the transfusion . paired observations indicate a 14-percent drop in maternal oxygen consumption . there was a slight tendency for reduced posttransfusion cardiac output that resulted primarily from changes in maternal heart rate and not from changes in stroke volume . left ventricular contractility also tended to decrease after transfusion . neither fetal bradycardia nor alteration in the umbilical circulation by doppler ultrasound was observed during the transfusion procedures . despite substantial hematologic alterations , this procedure is associated with small or negligible changes in maternal hemodynamic and metabolic function for minimally symptomatic pregnant patients with sickle cell disease . 
bleeding ectatic vascular lesion involving the sigmoid colon , endoscopically indistinguishable from angiodysplasia , in an 8-yr-old boy . an 8-yr-old japanese boy was hospitalized , complaining of active hematochezia . he was shown to have a cherry-red , blood-oozing area of vascular dilation with mucosal prominence in the sigmoid colon by endoscopy , but had no other mucocutaneous vascular abnormalities . a family history was noncontributory . under the clinical diagnosis of angiodysplasia of the sigmoid colon , he underwent an elliptical resection of the part , based on the intraoperative endoscopic findings . however , histological examination of the surgical specimen revealed a totally different picture from that seen in angiodysplasia : the thin-walled , markedly ectatic , nontortuous veins with hemorrhage were seen only just below the muscularis mucosae , around which the normal ones were shown to coexist . he has had no rebleeding for the past 3 yr . this lesion is considered to be an isolated congenital visceral telangiectasia involving veins . 
clinical evaluation of plasma abnormal prothrombin ( des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin ) in hepatobiliary malignancies and other diseases . des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin ( dcp ) , a protein induced by vitamin k absence or antagonist-ii ( pivka-ii ) was measured in the plasma of patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma and those with various other hepatobiliary and pancreatic diseases . dcp levels were determined by enzyme immunoassay ( e-1023 ) , using an anti-dcp monoclonal antibody . forty-two of the 91 patients ( 46.2 % ) with hepatocellular carcinoma had abnormally elevated levels of dcp , whereas only one of the 24 patients with hepatic cirrhosis showed a slight increase . an increase was also observed in some patients with obstructive jaundice . there was no correlation between plasma levels of dcp and those of serum alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) . in most patients with hepatocellular carcinoma , plasma dcp levels normalized after curative surgical resection . plasma dcp levels were not related to the plasma concentration of vitamin k in the patients with hepatocellular carcinoma . plasma dcp determination may be useful in the diagnosis and postoperative monitoring of the response of hepatocellular carcinoma . 
eosinophilic ascites due to hyperinfection with strongyloides stercoralis . we report the case of a patient with cryptogenic cirrhosis , new onset ascites , and hyperinfection with strongyloides stercoralis who had significant eosinophilia of the peritoneal fluid . the eosinophilia resolved with treatment of the s. stercoralis infection , and did not recur during two subsequent episodes of ascites and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . eosinophilic ascites is rare in parasitic infection , but it has been described in a variety of disorders which are discussed . 
chylous ascites due to sarcoidosis . a 33-yr-old black female with systemic sarcoidosis developed chylous ascites . a ct scan showed extensive mesenteric lymphadenopathy . at laparotomy , the mesenteric and para-aortic lymph nodes were enlarged and diffusely matted . histologically , normal lymph node morphology was virtually replaced with noncaseating granulomas . corticosteroids and dietary manipulations were unsuccessful in managing the ascites , and repeated large-volume paracentesis was necessary to provide symptomatic treatment . this is the first reported case of chylous ascites caused by sarcoidosis . 
androgens potentiate the effects of erythropoietin in the treatment of anemia of end-stage renal disease since androgens may increase the sensitivity of the erythroid progenitors to erythropoietin , the present studies were designed to investigate the effect of administration of androgens on the actions of exogenous erythropoietin ( epo ) in hemodialysis patients . studies were performed in a group of 15 adult male hemodialysis patients . seven patients were treated with epo alone at a dose of 2,000 u intravenously ( iv ) three times a week . an additional group of eight patients was treated with 2,000 u of epo three times a week and also received 100 mg of nandrolone decanoate intramuscularly ( im ) each week . after 12 weeks of therapy , hematocrit values increased slightly in the group receiving epo alone , from 25.3 + / - 0.8 to 27.4 + / - 1.5 . in contrast , epo in combination with nandrolone decanoate resulted in a greater increase in hematocrit values , from 24.4 + / - 1.4 to 32.9 + / - 1.8 ( p less than 0.001 ) . the results show that the groups receiving low-dose epo alone had a poor erythropoietic response . in contrast , patients receiving androgen in addition to epo had a significantly greater increase in hematocrit values with treatment . transfusions were eliminated in both groups of patients . these data show that androgen therapy significantly augments the action of exogenous epo such that lower doses of epo are sufficient for an adequate hematopoietic response . 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome : a pathologically documented case report . we report a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) in whom the acute onset of neurologic disorders and renal failure could be attributed to thrombotic microangiopathy . clinical , biological , and pathological features were compatible with the diagnosis of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) . such cases have been previously described , but histologically documented case reports are uncommon . 
ascites revealing peritoneal and hepatic extramedullary hematopoiesis with peliosis in agnogenic myeloid metaplasia : case report and review of the literature . a 61-year-old man presented with ascites in the course of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia ( amm ) . ascitic fluid was exudative and contained mature and immature leukocytes , erythroid cells , and megakaryocytes as observed on a bone marrow smear . peritoneal biopsy showed myeloid metaplasia , and liver biopsy revealed intrasinusoidal myeloid metaplasia and peliosis . ascites cleared after abdominal radiotherapy but treatment resulted in transient aplasia . subsequently , portal hypertension was demonstrated by hepatic transjugular catheterization . complications of splenomegaly led to splenectomy and splenorenal shunt followed by fatal acute hepatitis and septic shock . a review of the literature and an analysis of mechanisms of ascites occurring in amm , especially peritoneal implants of myeloid tissue and occurrence of peliosis in myeloproliferative disorders , are presented . 
venous doppler ultrasonography in the fetus with nonimmune hydrops . eighteen pregnancies with nonimmune hydrops fetalis were referred for fetal echocardiography to rule out congenital heart disease . in 14 of these cases , pulsating blood velocities were recorded in the umbilical vein , which in a normal population had a nonpulsatile blood velocity pattern . the four cases without pulsations in the umbilical vein were found to have intrauterine viral infections . in the last 10 cases examined , the umbilical venous pulsations were found to reflect abnormal central venous pulsations during atrial systole suggesting increased fetal central venous pressure . right ventricular shortening fraction was significantly decreased in the group with umbilical venous pulsations compared with those without ( 0.18 versus 0.32 , p less than 0.05 ) . all the fetuses without venous pulsations survived , but only four of the 14 with pulsations survived ( p less than 0.05 ) . the results suggest that blood velocity recordings in the umbilical and central veins of the fetus can give valuable clinical information with regard to the presence of fetal congestive heart failure and differentiate between this physiologic state and other causes of nonimmune hydrops fetalis . this may have implications for fetal diagnostic work-up and prognosis . 
anemia and spontaneous preterm birth . the association between anemia during pregnancy and spontaneous preterm birth was studied with a two-stage case-control design in a large , multiethnic cohort . results of all hematologic measurements were abstracted from the prenatal and delivery records of 1706 of the 26,901 women in the cohort . among women delivered of infants at term , mean hematocrit value was low during the early phase of the second trimester , stable until near term , then reached a maximum at 40 weeks ' gestation . the mean hematocrit value of black women was consistently lower than that of asian , mexican , and white women . anemia ( hematocrit value less than the tenth percentile for ethnic group and duration of pregnancy ) at any time during the second trimester was positively associated with subsequent spontaneous preterm birth ( odds ratio , 1.9 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.3 to 2.8 ) . compared with white women , the odds ratios for preterm birth were 2.0 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.6 to 2.4 ) for black , 1.2 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.9 to 1.6 ) for asian , and 1.2 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.0 to 1.5 ) for mexican women . adjustment for second-trimester anemia had minimal influence on the odds ratios . we conclude that anemia during the second trimester was associated with preterm birth . however , it does not account for the large ethnic differences in preterm birth . 
quantitative and qualitative platelet abnormalities during pregnancy . in a 1-year period , 15 of 4048 pregnant women were found to have thrombocytopenia during their first prenatal visit . their qualitative and quantitative platelet abnormalities were followed up prospectively for 1 to 6 months post partum . platelet counts returned to normal in 14 of 15 patients 4 to 6 weeks post partum . von willebrand factor antigen and ristocetin cofactor activity were low in three of 15 patients 4 to 6 weeks post partum , but had been normal during the antepartum period . two of these three patients had prolonged bleeding times ante partum and post partum . all three patients subsequently were found to have mild type i von willebrand disease . six patients had detectable platelet antibodies . neonatal thrombocytopenia was found in one term infant of a patient with mild thrombocytopenia and negative platelet antibodies . this study suggests that mild , transient , isolated thrombocytopenia can occur in an otherwise normal pregnancy and its incidence may be lower than previously reported . extensive testing is not indicated unless there is an associated prolonged bleeding time . the possibility of von willebrand disease or a qualitative platelet disorder should be considered . 
sweet 's syndrome with lung involvement . severe dyspnea and pulmonary infiltrates were associated with recurrent episodes of sweet 's syndrome ( acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis ) in a 54-yr-old woman with myelodysplasia . lung and skin biopsies revealed a sterile infiltration of the interstitial tissues by mature neutrophils . corticosteroid therapy resulted in rapid clinical improvement ; however , recurrent episodes were increasingly resistant to therapy , and she ultimately died from respiratory failure . sweet 's syndrome involving the lung is rare , with only two previously reported cases documented by lung biopsy . prompt recognition of sweet 's syndrome with lung involvement is important because of the potential for severe respiratory compromise . 
partial splenic embolization . an effective alternative to splenectomy for hypersplenism . splenectomy for massive splenomegaly and hypersplenism carries a significant morbidity and mortality . we have used partial splenic embolization ( pse ) as an effective alternative to splenectomy . ten pse procedures were performed on nine patients without mortality and with minimal morbidity . the age of the patients ranged from 8 months to 32 years ( mean 14 years ) . the causes of splenomegaly and hypersplenism included cystic fibrosis with cirrhosis ( 2 ) , tyrosinemia and cirrhosis ( 1 ) ; thalassemia ( 1 ) , hemophilia with human immune deficiency virus infection ( 2 ) , chronic hepatitis with portal hypertension ( 1 ) , malignant histiocytosis ( 1 ) , and wiskott-aldrich syndrome ( 1 ) . all procedures were performed under local anesthesia with sedation . a percutaneous femoral artery approach to the splenic artery was used to deliver ivalon sponge particles ( 280-800 microns ) into the spleen . splenic infarction was assessed by postembolization angiograms . all of the patients except one demonstrated improvement of hematologic parameters . in one patient , however , cytopenia improved only after a second embolization . in the total series , there was an early mean rise of 8,600 / mm3 in the leukocyte count ( range 2,900-14 ,900 ) and 212,000 / mm3 in the platelet count ( range 30,000-718 ,000 ) . follow-up ranged from 4 months to 7 years . improvement of the blood picture has been persistent in seven of the eight patients who showed initial improvement . transient procedural complications included fever ( 5 ) , pleural effusion ( 2 ) , pneumonia ( 1 ) , and splenic abscess ( 1 ) . one patient had paralytic ileus lasting for 10 days and one patient developed a streptococcal peritonitis 3 weeks after embolization . no patient developed pancreatitis or vascular compromise of other abdominal viscera . 
combined use of fine-needle aspiration cytologic examination and tuberculin skin test in the diagnosis of cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis . a prospective study . a prospective study to evaluate the efficacy of combined use of fine-needle aspiration ( fna ) cytologic examination and mantoux test in the diagnosis of cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis was carried out . tuberculin reactions were determined in 59 control subjects . preoperative fna cytologic examinations and mantoux tests were performed on 74 patients with cervical lymphadenopathy . the lymph nodes were then excised and examined histologically and cultured for mycobacteria . forty-eight , 22 , and 4 patients had histologically confirmed tuberculous , non-specific , and malignant lymphadenopathy . fine-needle aspiration cytologic examination alone could detect cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis in 37 patients ( 77 % ) . the predictive value of a strong tuberculin reaction for mycobacterial infection was 100 % . the combined use of a mantoux test and fna cytologic examination was able to diagnose 43 ( 90 % ) of 48 cases of tuberculous lymphadenitis cervical preoperatively . combined use of fna cytologic examination and mantoux test was efficient in the diagnosis of tuberculous lymphadenitis . 
secondary effects of erythropoietin treatment on metabolism and dialysis efficiency in stable hemodialysis patients . to test the possible effect of erythropoietin ( epo ) induced higher hematocrit on dialysis efficacy and metabolism , 14 metabolically stable hemodialysis patients were evaluated with various kinetic methods , including total dialysate collection . tests were performed twice before epo treatment and twice when hemoglobin had stabilized in the targeted range . samples were frozen and batch analyzed for each patient after completion of the study . during this period , dialysis regimens were fixed . epo treatment caused several significant changes . hematocrit increased from 21.5 % to 34.3 % . pre - and postdialysis serum potassium increased 0.3-0 .4 mmol/l , and 56 % more potassium binder was given . serum phosphate concentrations were unchanged , but the aluminum hydroxide dose had been raised 44 % . dialyzer clearance decreased for urea ( 4.8 % ) , creatinine ( 14.7 % ) , phosphate ( 16.5 % ) and potassium ( 8.6 % ) . the ratio of postdialysis/predialysis measurements changed for calcium , creatinine and uric acid . five patients experienced enhanced appetite , but average dry weight did not change , nor could changes be demonstrated for protein catabolism , generation rate of urea and creatinine , or their distribution volumes . estimated sodium intake remained unchanged . the findings indicate that epo treatment reduces dialysis efficiency slightly for a number of substances , but in the metabolically stable patient there are no impressive dietary changes . problems can be overcome by appropriate changes of dialysis regimen and medication . 
erythropoietin response to anemia as a function of age . the erythropoietin ( epo ) response to anemia was assessed for 244 subjects aged 1-64 years ( mean 45.2 years ) and 121 subjects aged 65-94 years ( mean 68.3 years ) . subjects included non-anemic individuals as well as those with anemia of various etiologies , excluding renal disease and pregnancy . significant inverse correlations between serum immunoreactive epo and hematocrit were noted for both groups . regression lines failed to show a significantly lower slope or y-intercept for older compared to younger subjects . epo levels were not significantly lower for older compared to younger subjects when controlled for hematocrit level . these results suggest that the epo response to anemia in older subjects is similar to that of younger subjects . 
elevated expression of the genes for transforming growth factor-beta 1 and type vi collagen in diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . full-thickness skin biopsies obtained from four patients with rapidly progressive diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) were examined for the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 ( tgf-beta 1 ) , type vi collagen , and fibronectin genes employing immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridizations . the immunohistochemical studies demonstrated increased deposition of tgf-beta , type vi collagen , and fibronectin epitopes in the extracellular matrix of the fascia in comparison to the adjacent dermis in the same specimens . increased levels of type vi collagen mrna , as evidenced by positive in situ hybridization signals with an alpha 2 ( vi ) collagen cdna , were also found in the fascia in comparison with the dermis . in situ hybridizations of affected fascia with a human sequence-specific tgf-beta 1 cdna demonstrated numerous fibroblasts displaying positive hybridization signals indicative of high levels of transcripts for this cytokine . in contrast , no hybridization signal for tgf-beta 1 was detected in fibroblasts in the adjacent dermis . these findings suggest that tgf-beta 1 may play an important role in the development of the connective tissue alterations present in ems-associated diffuse fasciitis . 
morphology of sickle cells produced in solutions of varying osmolarities . the effect of varying osmolarities ( 0.6 % to 1.5 % nacl solutions , 213 to 492 mosm/kg h2o ) on the morphology of deoxygenated sickle cells was studied quantitatively with a computer-assisted image analysis system . discocyte-rich , less dense fractions of sickle cells ( density less than or equal to 1.11 ) were suspended in buffered nacl solutions ( ph 7.4 ) of various osmolarities , deoxygenated at room temperature for up to 5 hours , and stained by wright 's solution . microscopic images were analyzed by circular shape factor ( csf = 4 pi x [ area ] / [ perimeter ] 2 ) and elliptical shape factor ( esf = [ short axis ] / [ long axis ] ) . since these two parameters yield different values for elongated cells and for cells of other shapes , such as maple-leaf - or star-shaped cells , the morphologic changes of sickle cells can be analyzed numerically . we found that both the rate and the degree of deformation depended highly on the osmotic pressure of the media in which the cells were suspended . in hypertonic solution , most sickle cells assumed a maple-leaf shape . the deformation occurred quickly , but the degree of deformation ( circular shape factor and elliptical shape factor ) was lower than that found in isotonic and slightly hypotonic solutions . although elongated cells were formed in hypotonic and isotonic solutions , deformation was slower in these solutions than in hypertonic solutions . these results indicate that the shape and the degree of deformation of deoxygenated sickle cells are highly dependent on the osmolarity of the suspending medium and that the rate of deformation is inversely related to osmolarity . the relationship between morphology of deoxygenated sickle cells and osmotic pressure of the suspending media is discussed . 
fibrinolysis , thrombocytopenia , and coagulation abnormalities complicating high-dose interleukin-2 immunotherapy . high-dose interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) immunotherapy can cause hypotension , respiratory distress , interstitial edema , and thrombocytopenia , similar to endotoxic shock . we have observed that il-2 has no direct effect on coagulation factors in vitro , but it has been observed to alter the coagulant properties of vascular endothelium . accordingly , we investigated the possibility that il-2 infusions initiate plasma fibrinolysis and disseminated intravascular coagulation ( dic ) . we studied the clinical course , platelet count , and coagulation profile in response to il-2 infusion in seven patients , two with metastatic melanoma and five with metastatic renal cell carcinoma . every patient experienced hemodynamic instability and thrombocytopenia , and one patient suffered an unusual complication , mesenteric thrombosis . no patient had appreciable changes in the prothrombin time or the partial thromboplastin time , nor did factors v or viii decline in the two patients observed . in four patients examined , we found decreased titers of hageman factor ( factor xii ) , high molecular weight kininogen , prekallikrein , and plasma thromboplastin antecedent , as if these had been consumed by reactions of the intrinsic pathway of thrombin formation . circulating d-dimer fragments were found in the plasma of every patient at some point during each infusion cycle , and we observed decreased titers of plasminogen in the four patients just mentioned , suggesting that il-2 infusions initiated fibrinolysis . taken together , the clotting factor derangements and related toxicity phenomena can not be ascribed firmly to dic . activation of the intrinsic ( contact ) system of coagulation , however , may provide one link between the vascular endothelial surface alterations caused by il-2 infusions and the development of the systemic toxicity that resembles septic shock . 
characterization of " peak e , " a novel amino acid associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . epidemiologic studies strongly associate eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) with ingestion of tryptophan containing a contaminant ( " peak e " ) . prior reports have suggested that peak e is the di-tryptophan n alpha-animal of acetaldehyde . spectral and chemical studies now demonstrate that peak e is 1,1 ' - ethylidenebis [ tryptophan ] . this novel amino acid may be the etiological agent responsible for ems , or it may be a marker of a still unidentified causal agent . 
middle cerebral artery blood velocity and cerebral blood flow in sickle cell disease . to understand better the relationship between blood velocity measured by transcranial doppler and cerebral blood flow measured by the 133xe inhalation method , we examined 23 patients undergoing evaluation in the comprehensive sickle cell center at columbia university . blood velocity in the middle cerebral artery was directly related to cerebral flow ( r = 0.77 ; p less than 0.05 ) . a multivariate analysis in this sample made it possible to improve this correlation to account for more than 90 % of the variability in cerebral blood flow by the use of transcranial doppler measures of velocity and pulsatility along with the patient 's age and hematocrit ( r = 0.95 ; p less than 0.001 ) . it is likely that the combination of doppler and clinical or demographic variables in other diseases will similarly improve the quantitative estimation of cerebral blood flow . 
cerebral infarction in patients with nephrotic syndrome . we describe two adult patients who presented with acute cerebral infarction and were found to have a hypercoagulable state due to nephrotic syndrome . one patient had a deficiency of free protein-s . the other patient had a pulmonary embolus 4 months after the stroke . our cases demonstrate that the hypercoagulable state associated with nephrotic syndrome can be associated with cerebral arterial thrombosis and infarction in adults . examination of the urine remains an important part of the evaluation of patients with recent stroke . the presence of severe proteinuria and a low serum albumin content should prompt consideration of a hypercoagulable state . our experience suggests that anticoagulant drugs may be required to reduce the risk of new thrombotic events . 
htlv-i associated myelopathy ( ham ) after blood transfusion in a patient with cd2 + hairy cell leukemia . hairy cell leukemia complicating hemolytic anemia developed in a 46-year-old woman . morphologically and cytochemically typical hairy cells were found to express both cd20 and cd2 antigens . expression of surface igg of kappa-chain type and the rearrangement of ig but not t-cell receptor beta genes confirmed a b-cell origin of the leukemia . blood transfusion was followed by disappearance of the hemolysis and a marked improvement of the leukemia . however , the patient developed progressive spastic spinal paraplegia about seven months after transfusion and was diagnosed as having htlv-i associated myelopathy ( ham ) by the demonstration of htlv-i antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid . htlv-i infection via the transfusion may have been involved in the hematologic improvement seen in this patient . autopsy showed demyelination , vacuolar degeneration , gliosis , and perivascular cuffing in the white matter of spinal cord without evidence of leukemic infiltration . 
platelet aggregation in platelet-rich plasma and whole blood in 120 patients with myeloproliferative disorders . in vitro platelet aggregation in platelet-rich plasma ( prp ) and in whole blood ( wb ) was assessed in 31 patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis , 32 with essential thrombocytosis , 23 with polycythemia vera , and 34 with chronic myelogenous leukemia . in prp most subjects showed normal or reduced platelet aggregation , whereas in wb the majority of patients showed increased platelet function . spontaneous platelet aggregation ( spa ) was observed frequently in wb , whereas it was seldom observed in prp . spa in wb was inhibited by in vitro addition of aspirin and apyrase , and spa was only partially dependent on high platelet count because it also occurred in samples with normal platelet content ( at variance with 13 subjects with reactive thrombocytosis , in which spa was observed only in samples with high platelet concentration ) . platelets from patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis had the highest tendency to undergo spa . 
bone marrow necrosis in leukemic-phase follicular lymphoma . bone marrow necrosis has been regarded as a rare entity in specimens obtained from living patients and has been associated with a poor prognosis . it is most commonly found in patients with neoplastic disorders , severe infections , and sickle cell anemia . we present an unusual case of a small-cleaved type follicular lymphoma associated with bone marrow necrosis and a leukemic phase occurring in a 55-year-old woman . specimens were studied by morphologic , immunohistochemical , cytogenetic , and dna hybridization techniques . 
diagnosis , classification , and course of myelodysplastic syndromes . the myelodysplastic syndromes are bone marrow stem cell disorders that result in disorderly and ineffective hematopoiesis . they are prognostically heterogenous . approximately one third of cases evolve to acute myeloid leukemia . many additional cases terminate in severe bone marrow failure . the french-american-british working group classification of the myelodysplastic syndromes defines morphologic and prognostic groups . cytogenetic and in vitro cell culture characteristics are important prognostic indicators . 
chromosomal abnormalities in myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia . clonal chromosome abnormalities are found in more than half the patients with hematologic malignancies . karyotype is an independent prognostic factor in these patients . cytogenetic findings correlate significantly with morphologic , immunologic , and clinical features as well as response to treatment , remission duration , and survival . the number of different cytogenetic abnormalities is enormous ; however , many cytogenetic findings frequently occur in a given disease ( e.g. , abnormalities of 5 or 7 in 75 % to 90 % of patients with therapy-related aml ) . some abnormalities are found only in myeloid malignancies , for example , the t ( 8 ; 21 ) ( q22 ; q22 ) and rearrangements of chromosome 16q22 , both of which have a good prognosis . other abnormalities usually are found in both myeloid and lymphoid malignancies , for example , the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) and t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( q34 ; q11 ) , both of which have a poor prognosis . the human gene mapping conferences have compiled much cytogenetic data and produced several interesting correlations in myeloid malignancies : rearrangements of 3q21-26 with myeloid proliferations associated with environmental exposure ( similar to abnormalities of 5q , 7q , 12p , and 17q ) , aberrations of 12p , 11q13 and 11q23 with both myeloid and lymphoid disorders , and the lack of myeloid involvement and abnormalities of chromosomes 14 and 18 . in conclusion , cytogenetic analysis of neoplastic cells at diagnosis for patients with mds , aml , and saml is required for appropriate diagnosis and treatment . the use of chromosome abnormalities to separate patients into high - and low-risk groups eventually may allow us to be more effective in selecting curative therapy . 
the role of ras gene mutations in myeloproliferative disorders . mutations in the ras genes frequently are found in myeloproliferative disorders . these abnormalities have prognostic significance in the myelodysplastic syndromes , but their clinical importance in other hematopathic states remains unclear . the study of this gene in leukemic conditions is providing insights into the genetic pathways leading to leukemic progression . 
systems used to study the nature of the leukemic cell and predict treatment outcome in patients with myeloproliferative disorders . cell culture techniques have been used to study normal and leukemic hematopoiesis . investigations provided data on the nature of the clonogenic leukemic cell , its patterns of in vitro growth , role of stimulating factors , and effects of chemotherapeutic agents . assay systems developed to study leukemic progenitor cells or self-renewal capacity have been useful clinically as predictive indicators of success of remission-induction therapy and have allowed testing of drug sensitivity in vitro . alternative approaches using short - and long-term suspension cultures have provided systems to evaluate leukemic cells , including nonclonogenic , biochemical , and kinetic events . in vitro systems have been introduced to measure cell cycle events accurately and to identify metabolic mechanisms of drug resistance . the information provided by all of these systems has allowed a more comprehensive and multifocal characterization of the nature of the leukemic process and has better directed our approach to treatment . 
myeloproliferative disorders . classification and diagnostic features with special emphasis on chronic myelogenous leukemia and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia . leukocytosis , mild anemia , thrombocytosis , and panhyperplasia in the marrow characterize the early stages of most of the cmpd , whereas extramedullary hematopoiesis ( such as in the spleen or liver ) , peripheral cytopenias ( anemia , leukopenia , or thrombocytopenia ) , and myelofibrosis , with or without osteosclerosis , reflect the changes seen in the later stages . transitions among the different cmpd and termination in acute leukemia or marrow failure also are common . cml often is characterized by leukocytosis and the presence of the entire spectrum of granulocytes ( mature and immature ) in the blood and marrow , reduced lap , hypercellularity with prominent granulocytic hyperplasia in the marrow , ph chromosome , and bcr-abl gene rearrangement . typical features of amm include leukoerythroblastosis , teardrop poikilocytosis , anemia , increased or normal lap , prominent megakaryocytic hyperplasia in the marrow , dyshematopoiesis , and hyperplastic or fibrotic/sclerotic marrow . 
polycythemia vera and other polycythemic states . the diagnosis of polycythemia requires an accurate and independent assessment of both plasma volume and red blood cell mass . patients with an increased red cell mass ( absolute polycythemia ) may be hypoxic or have an erythropoietin-secreting tumor or space-occupying lesion compressing the kidney . those with a reduced plasma volume ( relative polycythemia ) most often are tobacco smokers , are taking diuretic or cardiac medications , or ingest increased quantities of caffeine-containing beverages . on the other hand , polycythemia vera is a systemic disease with multiple complications , which is best diagnosed through a complex of findings as outlined by the polycythemia vera study group . 
platelet abnormalities in myeloproliferative disorders . a large number of various platelet abnormalities are described in patients with mpd . these abnormalities serve diagnostic purposes only . they appear to have little or no predictive value regarding the clinical manifestations of the patients or the progress of the disease . those platelet characteristics most consistently reported to be defective include a decrease in the platelet content of serotonin and adenine nucleotides , decreased platelet density , an abnormal ultrastructure characterized by paucity of granules and hypertrophy of the surface connecting canicular system , an altered membrane glycoprotein profile that includes reduced levels of gpib , and reduced lipoxygenase activity and aggregation response with epinephrine . these abnormalities may originate at the megakaryocyte level . furthermore , the released abnormal platelets may undergo modification of their functional and biochemical characteristics as a result of episodes of intravascular thrombosis or aging in circulation or as a result of the progression and treatment of the disease , thus creating the paradoxic and often conflicting relationship between the thrombotic and hemorrhagic events and the results of platelet functional tests as observed in this disorder . 
prevalence of helicobacter pylori in specific forms of gastritis . further evidence supporting a pathogenic role for h. pylori in chronic nonspecific gastritis . helicobacter pylori colonization of the gastric mucosa is strongly associated with chronic nonspecific gastritis ; moreover , there is evidence to suggest that h. pylori may cause this form of gastritis . however , there is little or no information on the prevalence of h. pylori in specific forms of gastritis . our hypothesis was that if h. pylori was pathogenic in chronic nonspecific gastritis , organisms would be found frequently in this type of gastritis but infrequently in specific forms of gastritis . prevalence rates of h. pylori were determined independently in patients with eosinophilic and crohn 's gastritis , menetrier 's disease , and chronic nonspecific gastritis . the prevalence of h. pylori in patients with chronic nonspecific gastritis was 71 % , whereas the organism was not identified in patients with any form of specific gastritis . this finding further supports the accumulating evidence that h. pylori is a primary pathogenic factor in chronic nonspecific gastritis . 
cutaneous manifestations of the l-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome : a spectrum of sclerodermatous skin disease . the natural history of the clinical and pathologic features of skin disease was reviewed prospectively in 30 patients with the l-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . overall , cutaneous manifestations developed in 26 patients ( 87 % ) . early lesions were nonspecific and characterized predominantly by an erythematous macular eruption on the trunk and extremities . the most characteristic abnormality noted was the spectrum of sclerodermatous disease in 15 patients ( 50 % ) often after a subacute stage of peripheral or truncal edema . clinical and/or biopsy evidence of eosinophilic fasciitis was seen in nine patients ( 30 % ) . findings consistent with diffuse , limited , or localized scleroderma were subsequently observed in nine patients ( 33 % ) . small mucinous papules , similar to those seen in scleromyxedema , were found in five patients ( 17 % ) . alopecia , frequently a late sequela , developed in 11 ( 37 % ) . common histologic features included papillary dermal fibrosis , dermal and fascial infiltrates consisting of mononuclear cells and eosinophils , deposition of glycosaminoglycans in the dermis , and , in some patients , numerous mast cells . 
the evolution of lymphadenopathy and hypergammaglobulinemia are evidence for early and sustained polyclonal b lymphocyte activation during human immunodeficiency virus infection . to examine whether polyclonal activation of b lymphocytes as measured by hypergammaglobulinemia contributes to lymphadenopathy in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , correlates of adenopathy were examined in 240 homosexual men . lymph node size was measured in 12 sites semiannually over 4 years . both adenopathy and hyperglobulinemia developed within 1 year after seroconversion and persisted at high levels . adenopathy declined near diagnosis of aids whereas serum igg decreased 8-16 months after diagnosis . adenopathy attributable to hiv occurred in all palpable node groups . by logistic regression , hiv-positive men were best discriminated from hiv-negative men by size of posterior cervical nodes and the number of sites with enlarged nodes . in a repeated measures model of covariance , adenopathy in hiv-positive men was associated with more cd4 + cells ( p less than .002 ) , elevated serum globulins ( p less than .01 ) , and lower platelet counts ( p less than .05 ) . adenopathy declined over time ( p less than .001 ) and with diagnosis of aids or aids-related complex ( p less than .03 ) . thus , adenopathy and hypergammaglobulinemia are correlated and follow a similar course through various stages of hiv infection , suggesting that both are caused by polyclonal b cell activation . 
sarcoidosis of the cauda equina : a report of three cases . three cases of sarcoidosis of the cauda equina are presented . in two there was no previous history suggestive of sarcoidosis and the presentation was one of a painful flaccid paralysis ; in these the diagnosis was made after myelography and laminectomy with subsequent histology . the third patient had a previous diagnosis of lupus pernio and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) was used to aid diagnosis . only two previous cases have been reported of sarcoidosis presenting in the cauda equina with no other systemic manifestations . this is the first report of the use of mri in sarcoidosis of the lower meninges . 
pentostatin induces durable remissions in hairy cell leukemia . fifty patients with hairy cell leukemia were treated with pentostatin ( 2 ' - deoxycoformycin ; dcf ) for a median of 3 months ; 32 ( 64 % ) patients achieved complete remission ( cr ) , and 10 ( 20 % ) patients achieved partial remission ( pr ) , for an overall response rate of 84 % . after reaching maximal response , no maintenance therapy was administered . the median duration of follow-up is now 39 months , and only four of 32 patients in cr and two of 10 patients in pr have relapsed . dcf therapy produces durable long-term , disease-free survival in patients with hairy cell leukemia . 
a comparison of induction and maintenance therapy for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in childhood : results of a pediatric oncology group study . two hundred fifty-six children with previously untreated acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( anll ) were evaluated on a pediatric oncology group ( pog ) phase iii randomized trial of both induction and continuation chemotherapies . induction therapy compared vincristine , cytarabine , and dexamethasone ( vadx ) with daunorubicin , cytarabine , and thioguanine ( dat ) . the complete remission ( cr ) rate using dat was superior ( 82 % v 61 % , p = .02 ) . postremission therapy consisted of either " standard " two-cycle therapy or a more intensive four-cycle regimen given for 2 years . overall , there was no difference in outcome for patients randomized to either continuation regimen . the overall complete continuous remission rate ( ccr ) for the " best " induction/continuation therapy combination at 2 years was .50 ( se = .06 ) , at 3 years was .35 ( .04 ) , and at 4 years was .34 ( .05 ) . analysis of selected clinical and laboratory parameters demonstrated differences in induction responses favoring dat induction but did not impact eventual disease-free survival . there were two subgroups of patients who responded better to four-cycle continuation therapy . these were patients with french-american-british ( fab ) m1/m2 ( 2-year ccr was .20 v .44 , p = .01 ) and patients older than 10 years at diagnosis ( .32 v .62 , p = .004 ) . 
hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome -- a complication of dactinomycin therapy for wilms ' tumor : a report from the united kingdom childrens cancer study group . we have observed hepatopathy , associated with thrombocytopenia , in children receiving chemotherapy for wilms ' tumor . we have studied this hepatopathy-thrombocytopenia syndrome ( hts ) in patients enrolled in the united kingdom childrens ' cancer study group ( ukccsg ) wilms ' tumor trials ( ukw1 and ukw2 ) . at the time of this study , 501 patients had completed therapy . treatment flow sheets were examined for evidence of hepatopathy ( hepatomegaly with abnormal liver function tests ) and severe thrombocytopenia ( platelet count less than 25 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . no child who developed the syndrome had received irradiation . hts was seen in five of 355 ( 1.4 % ) of patients treated with combination chemotherapy but in none of the 146 patients treated with vincristine alone . in each instance , the onset was less than 10 weeks after diagnosis . in two children , hepatopathy was severe with jaundice , ascites , transaminases greater than 1,000 iu/l , and prolongation of prothrombin time . on average , hts lasted 12 days , and resolved with supportive treatment . after recovery , the children tolerated chemotherapy , mostly at reduced dosage , without recurrence . there was no evident long-term morbidity . dactinomycin is the probable cause of this syndrome . we conclude that the hts is a rare but important complication of dactinomycin-containing combination chemotherapy for wilms ' tumor . children developing " isolated " thrombocytopenia following dactinomycin are " at risk " of developing the full-blown syndrome and should have their treatment modified accordingly . 
a prospective randomized trial comparing epirubicin monochemotherapy to two fluorouracil , cyclophosphamide , and epirubicin regimens differing in epirubicin dose in advanced breast cancer patients . the french epirubicin study group the french epirubicin study group carried out a randomized trial comparing epirubicin alone 75 mg/m2 with fluorouracil ( 5fu ) 500 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 , and epirubicin 50 mg/m2 ( fec 50 ) and 5fu 500 mg/m2 , cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 , and epirubicin 75 mg/m2 ( fec 75 ) as first treatment for advanced breast cancer patients . patients were stratified according to whether or not there were bone metastases only . four hundred twelve patients entered this trial ; 378 were assessable for tolerability and 365 for efficacy . the overall response rates were comparable between fec 50 ( 44.6 % ) and fec 75 ( 44.7 % ) , but both were better than the epirubicin alone ( 30.6 % ) ( p = .04 and p = .0006 , respectively ) . the complete response rate was better in fec 75 ( 15.5 % ) than in fec 50 ( 7 % ) ( p = .025 ) or epirubicin ( 4 % ) ( p = .002 ) . similar results were obtained in the group of patients without bone-only metastases . no difference in the three treatments was observed in the patients with bone metastases only . mean durations of response were similar in the three groups , being 412 days , 440 days , and 350 days for fec 50 , fec 75 , and epirubicin , respectively . patients without previous adjuvant chemotherapy fared better than those with previous treatment ( without anthracyclines ) . tolerability was fair in the three groups . overall , the epirubicin-alone group showed better tolerance than the two other groups , which did not differ significantly . time to progression and survival were not different among the three groups , but more early relapses occurred in the epirubicin and fec 50 groups ; survival seemed to be better during the first 8 months in the fec 75 group , and the survival difference between the epirubicin group and the fec 75 group was of borderline significance . no difference in survival was observed between epirubicin - and fec 50-group patients , even though the response rate was significantly worse in the monochemotherapy group . 
microvascular right-to-left pulmonary shunt demonstrated by a radionuclide method . a 37-yr-old man with angiolymphoid hyperplasia ( kimura 's syndrome ) , who had been treated unsuccessfully for suspected asthma , was investigated due to a decrease in arterial oxygen saturation ( 86 % ) . right heart catheterization and angiography of the pulmonary artery failed to demonstrate any right-to-left shunts . however , simultaneous scintigraphy over the lungs , kidneys , and head after injection of 150 mbq technetium-99m-labeled macroaggregated albumin i.v. and inhalation of 150 mbq krypton-81m demonstrated a right-to-left shunt in the lungs probably caused by precapillary pulmonary arteriovenous shunts . 
mixed connective tissue disease with arterial thrombosis , antiphospholipid antibodies and heparin induced thrombocytopenia . we report a patient with mixed connective tissue disease ( mctd ) who presented with thrombosis of the right femoral artery in association with antiphospholipid antibodies ( apl ) . when treated surgically and with heparin prophylaxis , she developed heparin induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis which necessitated amputation of a lower limb . thus our patient developed 2 separate groups of autoantibodies associated with thrombotic events . our case highlights an association between thrombosis , apl and mctd . furthermore , it emphasizes a need for intensive monitoring when hypercoaguable individuals with connective tissue disorders are treated with heparin . 
l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . we describe the spectrum of clinical and histologic abnormalities of 11 women with l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the illness is characterized by musculoskeletal symptoms including myalgias , arthralgias and paresthesias . the physical findings consist of muscle tenderness , neuropathies , rash , peripheral and periorbital edema . electroneurography performed in 10 patients demonstrated a neuropathy in 5 and myopathic changes in 3 . skin and muscle biopsies showed fascial edema , inflammation and perivascular infiltrates in the skin , whereas perineural infiltrates and venulitis were identified in muscle . seven patients were treated with prednisone ; eosinophilia disappeared promptly although myalgias and neuropathy persisted . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with l-tryptophan use . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the use of oral preparations of the amino acid l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989 . we describe the clinical and laboratory manifestations , pathological findings and early clinical course of 20 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . prominent clinical findings included severe myalgias limiting function , fatigue , rashes , edema and weight gain , weight loss , muscle weakness and shortness of breath . laboratory findings included eosinophilia ( often marked ) , normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and elevated aldolase with normal or low creatine kinase values . on biopsy fascial inflammation was always seen consisting of lymphocytes , histiocytes and eosinophils in a perivascular distribution . invasion of the vascular wall by lymphocytes was seen in 20 % . capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening was found in most cases on electron microscopy and endothelial cell necrosis or mural invasion by lymphocytes was seen in 25 % of cases . two patients improved with no therapy . ten patients responded to therapy with prednisone alone . three patients have had progressive disease and one of these died . the relationship of this syndrome to previously described disease entities associated with eosinophilia is discussed . 
microangiopathy in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989 . we describe our pathologic study of skin , fascial , and muscle biopsies from 21 patients evaluated by light microscopy , histochemistry , and electron microscopy . a perivascular , lymphocytic infiltrate with eosinophils was present in the dermis , fascia , and skeletal muscle . lymphocytic infiltration of arteries and arterioles was seen . ultrastructurally , capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening and necrosis was present . this microangiopathy suggests that ischemia may be a contributing factor to the findings in this syndrome . 
an eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with an l-tryptophan containing product . a syndrome of eosinophilia and myalgias associated with the usage of l-tryptophan containing products has been recently described by the centers for disease control . we report a case of this new clinical entity , highlighted by severe myositis , and compare this illness with similar reported syndromes . 
eosinophilic myositis an expression of l-tryptophan toxicity ? eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome possibly due to l-tryptophan is a new clinical entity that has been recently reported . we describe the clinical presentation of eosinophilia , eosinophilic pustular folliculitis , myalgia , and eosinophilic myositis , that led to respiratory failure in a young man taking an l-tryptophan containing compound . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome in association with l-tryptophan ingestion . the association between the recently described eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and l-tryptophan is now well established . we describe a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who developed incapacitating myalgias and peripheral eosinophilia responsive only to high dose corticosteroids . when massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage developed while receiving corticosteroid therapy , surgery was complicated by striking abdominal wall rigidness . a discussion of this case and of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is presented . 
l-tryptophan associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . environmental chemicals are increasingly incriminated in the pathogenesis of several disease states . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a recently described entity attributed to the ingestion of the normal dietary amino acid l-tryptophan . we describe a patient who fulfills criteria for the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and who was ingesting supplemental l-tryptophan . exhaustive investigations failed to reveal other causes for her eosinophilia or her myalgic/neuropathic complaints , and she improved dramatically when she discontinued the l-tryptophan supplements . the mechanisms whereby this chemical may induce this syndrome are discussed . 
hemoglobin columbia missouri or alpha 2 [ 88 ( f9 ) ala ---- val ] beta 2 : a new high-oxygen-affinity hemoglobin that causes erythrocytosis . a previously undescribed hemoglobin variant , hemoglobin columbia missouri , alpha 88 ( f9 ) ala ---- val , was detected in a 22-year-old white man who was undergoing assessment for erythrocytosis . this new hemoglobin variant does not separate from hemoglobin a by electrophoresis in conventional media , by isoelectric focusing , or by electrophoresis of purified globin chains in 8 m urea . it exhibits a high oxygen affinity , with a p50 ( oxygen tension at 50 % saturation ) of 19.3 torr for the patient 's whole blood . the substitution of hemoglobin columbia missouri is an internal residue near the end of the f helix of the alpha chain . hemoglobin okazaki has an arginyl residue substitution for a cysteinyl residue at f9 ( beta 93 ) in the beta chain . in comparison with hemoglobin okazaki , the substitution in hemoglobin columbia missouri has a more pronounced effect on oxygen affinity . consequently , hemoglobin columbia missouri is associated with erythrocytosis , whereas hemoglobin okazaki is not . 
transfusion requirements and effects in patients with thalassaemia major . cooleycare programme . analysis of data available in 1985 on 3468 italian and greek patients registered in cooleycare , an international cooperative programme of quality assessment of treatment delivery in thalassaemia , gave the following picture of treatment requirements and effects . the proportion of patients undergoing splenectomy has progressively decreased , and age at splenectomy has increased with time over the past 20 years . age at first transfusion exceeds 4 years in a small but important group of patients , which indicates that a milder form of thalassaemia exists in this group . children receiving modern treatment remain of near-normal stature until age 11 but later tend to be stunted . the mean blood requirement is 35 % higher in non-splenectomised than in splenectomised patients . differences in transfusion interval of 2 to 4 weeks have no measurable effect on blood requirement . mean blood requirement rises gradually with mean haemoglobin concentration , possibly in a non-linear fashion . the prevalence of red cell alloimmunisation rises with delay in start on transfusion . transfusion reactions were reported in 1 % of transfusions ( 90 % of which were leucocyte-depleted ) , from 17 % of patients . 
predictors of morbidity and mortality in neonates with herpes simplex virus infections . the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases collaborative antiviral study group . background . in a controlled trial comparing acyclovir with vidarabine in the treatment of neonatal herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) infection , we found no significant difference between the treatments in adjusted mortality and morbidity . hence , we sought to define for the entire cohort ( n = 202 ) the clinical characteristics that best predicted the eventual outcome in these neonates . methods . data were gathered prospectively at 27 centers between 1981 and 1988 in infants less than one month of age who had virologically confirmed hsv infection . we examined the outcomes by multivariate analyses of 24 variables . disease was classified in one of three categories based on the extent of the involvement at entry into the trial : infection confined to skin , eyes , or mouth ; encephalitis ; or disseminated infection . results and conclusions . there were no deaths among the 85 infants with localized hsv infection . the mortality rate was significantly higher in the 46 neonates with disseminated infection ( 57 percent ) than in the 71 with encephalitis ( 15 percent ) . in addition , the risk of death was increased in neonates who were in or near coma at entry ( relative risk , 5.2 ) , had disseminated intravascular coagulopathy ( relative risk , 3.8 ) , or were premature ( relative risk , 3.7 ) . in babies with disseminated disease , hsv pneumonitis was also associated with greater mortality ( relative risk , 3.6 ) . in the survivors , morbidity was most frequent in infants with encephalitis ( relative risk , 4.4 ) , disseminated infection ( relative risk , 2.1 ) , seizures ( relative risk , 3.0 ) , or infection with hsv type 2 ( relative risk , 4.9 ) . with hsv infection limited to the skin , eyes , or mouth , the presence of three or more recurrences of vesicles was associated with an increased risk of neurologic impairment as compared with two or fewer recurrences . 
simple technique for long term central venous access in the patient with thrombocytopenic carcinoma . a technique for the insertion of a central venous access device in the patient with thrombocytopenia is described . using the seldinger technique , a wire is placed into the internal jugular vein . a catheter tunneled from the anterior part of the chest is inserted through a peel-away sheath into the central venous system . the incision is then closed . 
essential fatty acid sufficiency does not preclude fat-soluble-vitamin deficiency in short-bowel syndrome . patients with extensive small-bowel resection may experience malabsorption and nutrient deficiencies . we evaluated the ability to absorb fat and fat-soluble vitamins in a short-gut patient . for 18 wk after stopping intravenous lipid , while consuming a low-lactose , low-fat diet , he exhibited no clinical manifestations of essential fatty acid deficiency ( efad ) . serum 20:4 n-6 ( 20:4 omega-6 ) and 18:2 n-6 fatty acid concentrations were normal , whereas the concentration of 20:3 n-9 remained less than or equal to 0.1 % of total serum fatty acids . although serum vitamin a was normal , beta-carotene was undetectable despite oral supplementation . prothrombin time was elevated until parenteral vitamin k was given . this patient has fat absorption adequate to prevent efad but inadequate absorption of fat-soluble vitamins . in patients with short bowel , the requirements for parenteral lipids and fat-soluble vitamins should be determined independently . 
percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in sickle cell anemia : a case report . percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty was performed on a 19-year-old female who had moderate pulmonary valve stenosis with sickle cell anemia . the patient developed sickle cell crisis resulting in occipital infarction , but she made a good recovery . we describe this case and the methods of reducing the risk of sickle cell crisis . 
long-term therapy with deflazacort in chronic sarcoidosis . purpose : to evaluate the long-term action of deflazacort ( df ) , a new calcium-sparing and bone-saving corticosteroid , in chronic sarcoidosis patients needing prolonged therapy . patients and methods : 40 patients with chronic histologically proved sarcoidosis requiring long-term corticosteroid therapy were treated with df and followed for a mean period of 958 + / - 515 days ( range 382-2 , 068 ) . the indication for giving corticosteroid therapy was pulmonary impairment in most ( 36 ) , but also other events including hypercalcemia ( 2 ) , kidney stones ( 5 , 2 with recurrent colic ) , uveitis ( 2 ) , lupus pernio ( 3 ) , suspected heart impairment ( 5 ) , hypersplenism ( 1 ) , and other causes . follow-up examination included serial ace , chest x-ray , 67ga lung scan , pulmonary function data , serum and urinary calcium levels . eleven patients ( ut group ) were not receiving glucocorticoids when first seen at our clinic ; 29 patients ( pt group ) were on therapy with glucocorticoids ( 27 wity prednisone , 2 with df ) for 870 + / - 1,128 days ( range 27-4 ,310 ) results : in the pt group , df maintained the good results previously obtained with prednisone ; in this group , chest x-ray film showed improvement in 16 patients , 67ga lung scan was better in 13 , while worsening chest x-ray film findings in 1 and 67ga lung scan in 2 was seen coincident with df tapering . respiratory function data showed a mild nonsignificant improvement . sace decreased significantly from 114.6 + / - 38.7 to 91.5 + / - 37.9 nm/ml/min ( p less than .05 ) . in the ut group the results were better , as expected in a population where the action of corticosteroids did not influence the first observation . fvc increased significantly from 76.3 + / - 13.0 to 89.9 + / - 19.5 percent predicted ( p less than .01 ) ; the 67ga lung scan and chest x-ray film findings improved in all but 1 patient , and ace dropped significantly ( p less than .01 ) from 131.8 + / - 46.3 to 83.7 + / - 25.0 . in both groups the side effects were mild , and only 2 patients discontinued the treatment , 1 for gastric ulcer , and the other for amenorrhea plus a 14 kg weight gain . current status : one patient died of cancer , 9 discontinued treatment ( 5 because therapy was no longer necessary , 2 for the above described side effects , 2 for non-drug-related reasons ) , 4 dropped out and were last seen when taking df 22.5 , 18 , 12 and 6 mg daily respectively . twenty-six are continuing the drug on a long-term basis at the current mean daily dose of 12.1 + / - 7.3 mg ( range 3-30 ) . in a number of these , an attempt to discontinue df resulted in a sarcoid relapse , and df was restarted . conclusion : df is a good and safe approach to the long-term corticosteroid therapy of sarcoidosis . 
soluble interleukin-2 receptor in sera of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis interleukin-2 receptor , the complex of il-2r-alpha and/or il-2r-beta , is expressed mainly on t-lymphocytes , and the soluble form of il-2r-alpha ( sil-2r-alpha ) has been reported to be detected in the serum of patients with lymphoproliferative disorders or disease characterized by the cellular immune reaction . we measured serum sil-2r-alpha levels among patients with pulmonary diseases and found that sil-2r-alpha levels were significantly elevated in patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis ( 1,327 + / - 209 u/ml ) and sarcoidosis ( 1,037 + / - 115 u/ml ) when compared with healthy volunteers ( 468 + / - 49 u/ml , p less than 0.01 ) . among patients with pulmonary tuberculosis , the sil-2r-alpha levels were high in sera from patients with extensive parenchymal lesions on the roentgenogram ( 2,745 + / - 705 u/ml ) and patients with tuberculous pleurisy ( 2,111 + / - 679 u/ml ) . in contrast , the sil-2r-alpha levels in tuberculous patients with minimal lesion ( 455 + / - 92 u/ml ) or moderate lesion ( 1,082 + / - 189 u/ml ) were not significantly elevated when compared with healthy volunteers . after the treatment with antituberculosis agents , serum sil-2r-alpha levels decreased in accordance with improvement of roentgenographic findings and laboratory data . these results suggest that serum sil-2r-alpha level may be useful as a monitor for the disease activity in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis . 
pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . we describe the cases of three women with pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the illness was characterized by elevated peripheral blood eosinophil counts , myalgias , fatigue , and dyspnea . two of three patients had bilateral infiltrates on chest roentgenograms . all three had markedly decreased carbon monoxide diffusing capacities and pulmonary hypertension . high-dose prednisone therapy provided only partial resolution of the pulmonary symptoms . open lung biopsy specimens showed chronic interstitial and perivascular infiltrates in two of the patients and moderate fibrointimal hyperplasia of pulmonary vasculature in the third . high-dose prednisone therapy prior to the biopsies may have modified the original histologic features . 
progressive hemolytic anemia due to delayed recognition of a beall mitral valve prosthesis . in addition to a working knowledge of general complications such as thromboembolism and infective endocarditis , optimal care of the patient with a prosthetic valve requires specific knowledge concerning the characteristics of a given patient 's prosthesis . this may need to include the ability to identify the valve roentgenographically when history and records are unavailable . a 53-year-old woman with mitral stenosis secondary to rheumatic heart disease and status post a reported bjork-shiley mitral valve ( mv ) replacement 17 years prior to hospital admission was referred for evaluation of severe hemolytic anemia . previous cinefluoroscopy in 1986 at the time of a cerebrovascular accident revealed a normally functioning caged disc prosthesis and not the tilting disc of a bjork-shiley prosthetic valve . the valve was not further characterized and she continued receiving warfarin therapy until may 1989 when she presented with laboratory findings showing a marked hemolytic anemia with a hemoglobin of 6.5 mg/dl and lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) value of 2100 iu . echocardiography revealed normal valvular function without evidence of perivalvular leak . the patient was referred for further evaluation with chest roentgenogram at the time of hospital admission revealing a valve configuration characteristic of the beall model 103/104 series that has been found to manifest progressive disc variance with a high degree of hemolytic anemia ( despite normal noninvasive evaluation of mv function ) , disc tilting with intermittent regurgitation , and catastrophic disc embolization in extreme cases . the precise identification of valvular prosthesis in patients after valve replacement is crucial for optimal management . as in our case , the mere identification of a particular valve may necessitate certain management and therapy based on the natural history of that valve . in the absence of reliable history and/or records , the roentgenographic examination should lead to the precise identification . 
a multicentre follow-up study of 1152 patients with myasthenia gravis in italy . a multicentre retrospective study was carried out on the characteristics and course of myasthenia gravis ( mg ) in italy . data from 1152 patients , fairly representative of the myasthenic population seeking medical advice , were analysed for diagnostic criteria , clinical aspects and therapeutic approaches . mean follow-up was 4.9 years . the disease was correctly diagnosed within 2 years of the onset in 80 % of cases . onset of symptoms peaked in the second and third decade in females and fell between 20 and 59 years in males . at first observation 87 % of the patients had generalized mg . maximal worsening was observed within 3 years in 77 % of patients . at the last follow-up , 35 % of cases were symptom-free ( pharmacological remission 24 % , remission without treatment 11 % ) . the more severe the disease at the first observation and at the maximal worsening of symptoms , the lower was the proportion of remissions . steroids were given in 54 % and immunosuppressants in 18 % . thymectomy was performed in 72 % , mostly in women , younger than age 40 , and with generalized mg . thymectomy seemed to improve the course of the disease , mostly in patients operated on shortly after diagnosis and those with generalized mild-to-moderate disease and with a normally involuted thymus . mg was lethal in 4 % of patients , principally men , older than 40 , in grade 3 or worse at first observation , with a short history of disease , and with thymona . 
outbreak of bacillus calmette-guerin-associated lymphadenitis and abscesses in jamaican children . an outbreak of axillary lymphadenitis and abscesses after bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) vaccination ( pasteur paris , batch n5122 ) occurred in 139 jamaican children between january and july , 1988 . the overall rate of this complication was 0.95 % . the attack rate was 1.92 % among the 0 - to 6-week age group and 0.6 % in the 7 - to 52-week age group . of 139 patients there were 77 males and 62 females and the mean age at presentation was 4 months . the mean size of the bcg scar , duration of healing and mantoux reaction size differed significantly in patients compared with those of control infants ( p less than 0.01 ) . mycobacterium bovis was isolated from 11 patients . immunologically index patients and controls differed significantly only with respect to t lymphocyte subpopulation percentages and concanavalin a stimulation indices . evaluation of the bcg vaccine did not reveal either increased potency or microbial contamination . we conclude that increased susceptibility to the pasteur strain of bcg might have contributed to the increased incidence of complications in these jamaican children and hence caution should be exercised in switching one vaccine for another as is often done in the developing countries . 
a three-point approach to anemia . anemia is a sign of underlying disease that is causing blood loss , sequestration of red blood cells ( rbcs ) , impaired rbc production , or primary marrow dysfunction . the most efficient clinical approach to a patient with anemia is to ask the following three questions : is the anemia microcytic , macrocytic , or normocytic ? is pancytopenia present ? is the marrow response appropriate for the anemia as determined by the reticulocyte count ? answers to these questions focus laboratory evaluation on a logical progression and avoid a costly shotgun approach . 
adenotonsillectomy in children with sickle cell disease . the pediatric patient with sickle cell disease risks having a vasoocclusive episode during adenotonsillectomy under general anesthesia . with proper patient selection and appropriate perioperative management , adenotonsillectomy can be accomplished safely in children with sickle cell disease . we review the management of 10 children with sickle hemoglobinopathies who had adenotonsillectomy . indications for surgery were recurrent streptococcal infections in four and obstructive sleep apnea in six of these children . no complications resulted from any of these procedures , and the mean length of postoperative hospitalization was 2.4 days . the principal feature of preoperative management was the transfusion of red blood cells to suppress the patient 's endogenous erythropoiesis and to reduce the concentration of sickle cell hemoglobin to less than 30 % . though a prospective , multi-institutional clinical trial will ultimately be required to settle the issue of the safest preoperative management of children with sickle cell disease , balancing the risks of transfusion-related complications against anesthesia-related complications , our experience supports the operative safety of hypertransfusion therapy in children with sickle cell disease . 
contemporary use of the disease concept : iii . a pedantic failure to change behavior regarding the problem of anemia . the frequency with which house staff noticed their patients to be anemic , the frequency with which they tried to find out why the patients were anemic , and the diagnostic accuracy of such endeavors were measured . next , an intervention was conducted in which the teams were lectured on the subject of anemia , given reading materials on the subject , and given social encouragement to solve the problem . at follow-up no improvement was found in any of the outcome variables . 
high mortality among patients with the leukemoid reaction and alcoholic hepatitis . we describe a patient with severe alcoholic hepatitis , markedly elevated white blood cell count , and high fever . after review of the english literature , we discovered reports of other cases similar to our case . the striking feature in all of these cases was a high short-term mortality rate , despite predictions of a favorable outcome . we therefore believe these patients represent a subgroup of patients with alcoholic hepatitis and that the leukemoid reaction is a poor prognostic sign in this disease . 
embolism of cerebral tissue : a cause of coagulopathy and cerebral infarction ? report of a case . we report a case of potentially survivable closed head injury , which was complicated by disseminated intravascular coagulation and bilateral cerebral infarction . autopsy disclosed pulmonary emboli composed of cerebral tissue . we suggest that the entry of brain tissue into the systemic blood circulation caused severe disseminated intravascular coagulation , with consequent thrombosis of cerebral veins and spreading infarction . 
x-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia : linkage to phosphoglycerate kinase at xq13 . molecular linkage analysis was performed on a kindred with x-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia . two-point analysis with a dna probe for phosphoglycerate kinase ( pgk1 ) , which maps to xq13 , suggested linkage to the disorder by a lod score of at least 2.60 at a recombination fraction of zero . the disease in this kindred appears to be clinically and genetically distinct from that in previously reported families with x-linked hereditary ataxia or spastic paraparesis . no mapping data are available for inherited x-linked sideroblastic anemia without neurologic abnormalities . however , structural alterations of band xq13 may be involved in the development of idiopathic acquired sideroblastic anemia . no alterations in the restriction patterns of two x-linked genes involved in erythrocyte formation-i.e. , a dna-binding protein ( gf-1 ) and 5-aminolevulinate synthase ( alas ) - were detected in dna from affected males , arguing against a large deletion in either of these candidate genes . 
protection against malaria morbidity : near-fixation of the alpha-thalassemia gene in a nepalese population . we have previously reported that the tharu people of the terai region in southern nepal have an incidence of malaria about sevenfold lower than that of synpatric non-tharu people . in order to find out whether this marked resistance against malaria has a genetic basis , we have now determined in these populations the prevalence of candidate protective genes and have performed in-vitro cultures of plasmodium falciparum in both tharu and non-tharu red cells . we have found significant but relatively low and variable frequencies of beta-thal , beta s , g6pd ( - ) , and duffy ( a-b - ) in different parts of the terai region . the average in-vitro rate of invasion and of parasite multiplication did not differ significantly in red cells from tharus versus those from non-tharu controls . by contrast , the frequency of alpha-thalassemia is uniformly high in tharus , with the majority of them having the homozygous alpha - / alpha-genotype and an overall alpha-thal gene ( alpha - ) frequency of .8 . we suggest that holoendemic malaria has caused preferential survival of subjects with alpha-thal and that this genetic factor has enabled the tharus as a population to survive for centuries in a malaria-holoendemic area . from our data we estimate that the alpha-thal homozygous state decreases morbidity from malaria by about 10-fold . this is an example of selection evolution toward fixation of an otherwise abnormal gene . 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia : a case report . the authors report a case of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia , in whom massive pulmonary embolism occurred in spite of heparin anticoagulation . successful pulmonary thrombectomy was carried out under cardiopulmonary bypass , with limitation of platelet clumping during bypass by aggregation inhibitors . this report is a comprehensive contribution to a better understanding of this rare immunoallergic complication of heparin administration , with a high incidence of serious thromboembolic events . the optimal management for cases of unavoidable reexposure to heparin is discussed . 
ventilation and gas exchange during exercise in sickle cell anemia . adults with sickle cell anemia ( sca ) have restrictive lung impairment , increased alveolar dead space , and hypoxemia . these factors , together with increased anaerobic metabolism , are thought to cause exercise hyperventilation . to assess the role of each of these in children , 34 patients with sca and 16 control subjects performed pulmonary function and exercise tests . twenty-eight patients with sca had spirometric values and lung volumes , and all but two patients with sca had arterial saturation greater than 91 % during exercise . despite a low vo2max ( 30.07 + / - 6.55 ml/min/kg ) , the ventilatory anaerobic threshold ( vat ) in the patients occurred at a similar % vo2max as in the control subjects ( 69 + / - 9 % versus 63 + / - 12 % ) . the slope of the delta ve/delta vco2 relationship for sub-vat work was steeper in the patients ( 29.4 + / - 6.5 versus 24.7 + / - 5.2 , p = 0.01 ) , and the ventilatory equivalent for co2 ( ve/vco2 ) in steady-state exercise was greater in the patients than in the control subjects ( 33.2 + / - 3.5 versus 30.8 + / - 3.5 , p = 0.03 ) . end-tidal pco2 did not differ ( 38.3 + / - 3.0 versus 39.2 + / - 3.1 ) , indicating equivalent alveolar ventilation . the patients had a higher dead space : tidal volume ratio ( vd/vt ) than did the control subjects ( 0.204 + / - 0.033 versus 0.173 + / - 0.024 , p = 0.0005 ) . the paco2 was significantly lower in those with lower hb , but there was no difference in ph. in conclusion , children with sca have an increased exercise ventilatory response caused in part by increased physiologic dead space , and in part by their low hb . the greater dead space may be the result of sickle cells impairing capillary perfusion to ventilated alveoli . 
cardiac output and oxygen delivery during exercise in sickle cell anemia . desaturation in patients with sickle cell anemia ( sca ) can lead to intravascular sickling and vascular occlusion . the increased metabolic demands of exercise tend to increase oxygen extraction , giving rise to a fall in saturation in the capillary bed that may predispose to sickling . this could be minimized with an increase in cardiac output . the aims of this study were to assess the role of increased stroke volume ( sv ) in augmenting cardiac output ( q ) and to estimate the role of enlarged arteriovenous o2 content difference in maintaining o2 transport in children with sca . a group of 30 children with sca ( hb 65 to 133 g/l ) and 16 healthy controls of the same racial group and of similar height and weight performed incremental and steady-state exercise at 50 % wmax . cardiac output ( q ) was measured by the indirect ( co2 ) fick method during steady state . the slope of delta hr/delta vo2 during incremental exercise was higher in sca subjects compared with controls ( 4.01 + / - 1.73 versus 2.80 + / - 0.61 bpm per ml/min/kg vo2 , p = 0.001 ) . q for vo2 was abnormally high in patients , particularly older ones with lower hb levels . hr ( % predicted ) was higher in patients than in controls ( 106 + / - 11 versus 92 + / - 8 % predicted , p less than 0.0001 ) , as was sv ( 113 + / - 16 versus 98 + / - 14 % predicted , p = 0.002 ) . multiple linear regression of q % predicted and sv % predicted on hb and age showed a positive correlation with age and a negative correlation with hb ( r = 0.84 for q and r = 0.76 for sv ) . 
increased levels of oxidized methionine residues in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid proteins from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis . phagocytic cells are believed to play a crucial role in the development of inflammatory lung diseases . we assumed that the oxidation of methionine ( met ) to methionine sulfoxide [ met ( o ) ] by oxygen-derived free radicals released from phagocytes is one parameter to identify the oxidative mechanisms of lung injury . to test this hypothesis we determined the molar ratio of met ( o ) / met in the soluble protein fraction of bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluids from healthy nonsmokers and from nonsmoking patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) or sarcoidosis . the met ( o ) / met ratio of the healthy nonsmoker group ( n = 11 ) was 0.046 + / - 0.008 ( mean + / - sem ) . in contrast , the met ( o ) / met ratio of the nonsmoking ipf group ( n = 11 ) was significantly increased to 0.223 + / - 0.053 ( p less than 0.0002 ) . the bal fluids of this group showed strongly increased numbers of neutrophils but normal numbers of alveolar macrophages ( am ) . in the sarcoidosis group ( n = 10 ) the met ( o ) / met ratio ( 0.048 + / - 0.010 ) was not significantly different from control values . a close relationship was found between the met ( o ) / met ratios and the relative as well as the absolute neutrophil counts ( r = 0.86 ; p less than 0.0002 ; n = 22 ) . in contrast , no significant correlation was found between the met ( o ) / met ratios and the absolute am counts ( r = 0.22 ; p = 0.32 ; n = 22 ) . we conclude that mechanisms of oxidative lung injury in ipf can be characterized by oxidation of met and that this oxidation may be mediated by neutrophils . 
aggressive cavitary pulmonary sarcoidosis . pulmonary sarcoidosis in a young patient is usually a relatively benign disease that either resolves spontaneously or remains quiescent for many years . very rarely it pursues a more aggressive course leading to progressive lung destruction . we report a young patient who presented with stage iii sarcoidosis and over a period of 4 yr progressed to severe cavitary disease with frequent superinfections leading to bronchiectasis and chronic suppuration of the lung , eventually requiring a pneumonectomy . 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis versus invasive pulmonary aspergillosis : two cases with unusual pathologic findings and review of the literature . two brothers simultaneously exposed to moldy hay , who developed differing forms of aspergillus-related lung disease , are presented . patient 1 developed a true case of hypersensitivity lung disease , whereas his brother developed invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage eosinophilia and unusual pathologic features including tissue eosinophilia . the possible overlap between hypersensitivity pneumonitis and invasive aspergillosis in the immunocompetent host is discussed . 
human immunodeficiency virus-associated eosinophilic folliculitis . a unique dermatosis associated with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection . we studied 13 patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and a chronic pruritic folliculitis that was unresponsive to systemic treatment with bactericidal anti-staphylococcal antibiotics . the skin eruption was characterized by multiple urticarial follicular papules scattered on the trunk ( 100 % ) , the head and neck ( 85 % ) , and the proximal aspect of the extremities ( 62 % ) . absolute peripheral eosinophil counts were increased in six of 13 patients ; a relative peripheral eosinophilia was present in 10 of 13 patients . serum ige levels were elevated in all seven patients tested ( range , 88 to 9050 iu ) . histopathologic features included a folliculitis with eosinophils . pathogenic bacteria were not consistently found by routine bacterial skin cultures , cultures of skin biopsy specimens , or histopathologic evaluation . cd4 counts were decreased in all of the 12 patients tested ( less than 300 cells per cubic millimeter ) and were below 250 cells per cubic millimeter in 10 patients . a clinical response was noted to astemizole , to ultraviolet light in the b range , and to topical clobetasol propionate . these observations demonstrate that hiv-associated eosinophilic folliculitis is a unique hiv-related cutaneous disorder that is characterized by a culture-negative , chronic , pruritic folliculitis and a characteristic histopathologic picture . of special importance , because it is associated with cd4 counts of less than 250 to 300 cells per cubic millimeter , eosinophilic folliculitis appears to be an important clinical marker of hiv infection and , particularly , of patients at increased risk of developing opportunistic infections . we suggest that the term eosinophilic pustular folliculitis ( ofuji 's disease ) , previously used to describe this dermatosis in hiv-infected patients , should be discarded . 
eosinophilic fasciitis associated with tryptophan ingestion . a manifestation of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . recently , the ingestion of tryptophan has been associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome , which is characterized by eosinophilia , myalgias , and several less consistently reported findings . we treated 13 patients who exhibited clinical features of eosinophilic fasciitis who were taking high-dose tryptophan before the onset of clinical symptoms . twelve patients exhibited eosinophilia , with eosinophil counts ranging from 0.13 to 0.88 . the remaining patient was taking oral corticosteroids when her eosinophil count was determined . eight patients complained of myalgias . other symptoms included arthralgias , pruritus , cutaneous burning , weakness , fever , rashes , malaise , edema , muscle spasms , and alopecia . 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels were elevated in four of the eight urine specimens that were tested . our findings suggest that previously diagnosed cases of eosinophilic fasciitis may represent variants of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . derangements in the metabolism of tryptophan may play a role in sclerotic diseases . 
video viewing as an alternative to sedation for young subjects who have cardiac ultrasound examinations . sedation is often required for extended or quantitative echocardiographic examination of young patients . to test the hypothesis that patient viewing of entertaining videotapes during echocardiographic examinations would reduce the need for sedation and that doppler pressure gradients so obtained would correspond satisfactorily with subsequent catheterization pressure gradients , 38 patients ( age , 5 to 64 months ; mean age , 18.6 months ) with a variety of cardiac defects were studied . because of excessive activity , resistance , fear , or crying , all of these patients would have normally been sedated . instead , an age-appropriate videotape was used for patient viewing . in 35 of 38 patients , complete examinations were obtained with video viewing with no sedation . twelve study patients later underwent catheterization while receiving sedation . the doppler pressure gradients obtained while patients were viewing videotapes corresponded well with catheterization ( r = 0.94 ) . however , those pressure gradients were higher than those obtained with catheterization ( mean , 8.3 mm hg ) , but there was only one significant discrepancy of 22 mm hg . in this series , complete examinations were obtained without sedation in 92 % of subjects who would have normally required sedation ( p less than 0.001 ) , with minimal reduction in the accuracy of prediction of subsequent sedated catheterization pressure gradients . this suggests that near baseline conditions existed while patients were viewing television . video viewing during echocardiographic examinations appears to be advantageous . 
prenatal detection of foramen ovale obstruction without hydrops fetalis . a case of prenatal echocardiographic diagnosis of obstruction of the foramen ovale is described . presentation was the ultrasound detection of unexplained marked right atrial and right ventricular dilation without fetal hydrops . it is speculated that fetal outcome depends on the severity and time of onset of foramen ovale obstruction in utero . 
abnormal megakaryocytopoiesis in the belgrade laboratory rat . the belgrade laboratory ( b/b ) rat has a hereditary hypochromic microcytic anemia because of defective transmembrane iron transport into erythroblasts . the present study was prompted by our previous work in which we showed that the b/b rat has hypomegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia associated with increased megakaryocyte size . to define the basic mechanism underlying this abnormality in the b/b rat we have studied both megakaryocytopoiesis and granulopoiesis in anemic b/b rats , chronically transfused b/b rats , iron-treated b/b rats , and controls . we have found decreased concentrations of megakaryocyte and granulocyte progenitors in the marrow of b/b rats . full correction of the severe anemia by chronic transfusion resulted in normalization of megakaryocyte progenitors , small acetylcholinesterase positive cells , megakaryocyte size , and platelet counts , along with granulocyte progenitors . in contrast , the partial correction of anemia obtained by iron treatment resulted in improvement , but not normalization , of these parameters . these findings indicate that abnormal megakaryocytopoiesis in the b/b rat can be best interpreted as a consequence of hypoxia because of the severe anemia . because we have recently shown that the number of erythroid progenitors in b/b rats is also low , we propose that abnormal megakaryocytopoiesis in this animal is a reflection of an acquired stem cell disorder induced by the prolonged hypoxia resulting from the severe anemia . 
fine-needle aspiration evaluation of lymphoproliferative lesions in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients . a multiparameter approach . forty-six fine-needle aspirates of lymphoproliferative lesions from 31 human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - positive patients were reviewed using cytomorphologic , immunocytochemical , flow cytometric ( fcm ) , cytogenetic , and molecular studies . there were 29 lymphomas ( 15 small non-cleaved cell [ sncl ] , 11 large cell [ lcl ] , one small lymphocytic , and two hodgkin 's ) , 14 reactive hyperplasias , and three " atypical lymphoid proliferations . " the reactive hyperplasias were characteristically polymorphic and polyclonal lymphoid populations ; six of seven were diploid on fcm , the seventh was hypodiploid . higher proliferative indices ( mean , 11.6 % ) and higher rna indices ( mean , 1.2 ) characterized this subgroup compared with published reactive lymphoid hyperplasias from patients without hiv positivity . aspirates of sncl showed monotonous populations of intermediate-sized cells except in one patient where a giant cell syncytial variant occurred . nine of 13 sncl aspirates showed light chain restriction . jh rearrangement revealed b-cell lineage in one aspirate in which immunocytochemical study was negative for kappa , lambda , b1 , and leu-4 . nine of 12 sncl were diploid ; the mean proliferative index was 25.6 % and the mean rna index 2.3 . chromosomal translocations involving the c-myc locus were demonstrated in five of seven sncl aspirates karyotyped . five of eight lcl showed light chain restriction the remaining three showed null cell phenotype . large cell lymphomas were diploid on tetraploid with the mean proliferative index of 22.0 % and mean rna index of 2.2 . one of two lcl aspirates karyotyped demonstrated c-myc translocation . despite the multiparameter approach , a definitive diagnosis could not be reached in three aspirates . 
thymic carcinoma . a clinicopathologic study of 60 cases . the clinicopathologic features of 60 patients with thymic carcinoma were studied . patients ranged in age from 10 to 76 years ( mean , 46 ) , of whom 24 were females and 36 were males . overall survival at 1 , 3 , and 5 years was 56.6 % , 40 % , and 33.3 % , respectively . the following morphologic features were correlated with survival : type of tumor margins ; presence or absence of a lobular growth pattern ; nuclear atypia ; necrosis ; mitotic activity ; and histologic tumor type and grade . eighty eight percent of patients with poorly circumscribed/infiltrating neoplasms died of their tumors as compared with 16.6 % of patients with well-circumscribed neoplasms ( p less than 0.0000 ) . of patients whose tumors had mitotic counts exceeding 10/10 high-power fields ( hpf ) , 84.3 % died , as compared with 21.4 % of patients with lower mitotic counts ( p less than 0.0000 ) . of patients whose tumors showed lack of lobular growth pattern , 91.6 % died , as compared with 29 % of those whose tumors had a lobular growth pattern ( p less than 0.0000 ) . finally , 84.6 % of patients whose tumors displayed a high-grade histology ( lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma , small cell/neuroendocrine carcinoma , clear cell carcinoma , sarcomatid carcinoma , and anaplastic/undifferentiated carcinoma ) died of tumor , as compared with 0 % of patients whose tumors were of low-grade histology ( well-differentiated squamous carcinoma , mucoepidermoid carcinoma , and basaloid carcinoma ) ( p less than 0.0000 ) . evaluation of the various treatment modalities used to treat these patients did not yield any statistically significant correlations with survival . two clinically distinct groups of patients were identified : one after a relatively favorable clinical course with long survival , and one after a rapidly fatal outcome . the morphologic features of the tumors in these patients correlated well with their clinical behavior ; histologic type ( and the grade to which it was assigned ) constituted the most reliable and important predictor of prognosis . 
idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome terminating as disseminated t-cell lymphoma . the authors describe a case of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome ( hes ) terminated as a t-cell lymphoma in a 3-year-old girl . the clinical course was chronic and characterized by chronic eczema , persistent peripheral blood eosinophilia , organomegaly , interstitial lung change , and pericarditis . postmortem examination demonstrated a disseminated t-cell lymphoma involving the inguinal lymph node , liver , lung , and kidney . the findings of the current case suggest a possibility that certain abnormalities in this case of idiopathic hes per se may have triggered the development of malignant lymphoma , and it may represent a transition of idiopathic hes into a t-cell lymphoma . other possible sequences are discussed . the development of t-cell malignancy in idiopathic hes in a girl is quite an unusual presentation . 
multimodality cisplatin treatment in nonresectable alpha-fetoprotein-positive hepatoma . twenty-eight patients with alpha-fetoprotein-positive ( afp + ) nonresectable hepatoma have been enrolled in a new multimodality phase i , ii program . induction therapy consisted of 50 mg/m2 intravenous cisplatin followed by 2100 cgy irradiation to the tumor volume in seven fractions over 10 days . hepatic arterial infusion of 50 mg/m2 cisplatin ( ia-cddp ) was then administered at monthly intervals . twenty-one patients have completed induction and at least two cycles of ia-cddp . twelve-month cumulative survival was 52 % for all 28 patients and 69 % for the 21 patients completing induction and ia-cddp . median survival has not yet been reached . response rate ( complete and partial ) was 36 % overall and 48 % among the 21 patients who completed treatment . the improved survival of the present series of patients as well as the minimal hematologic toxicity suggests possible further integration of new modalities for therapy . 
treatment of advanced neuroblastoma with i-131 meta-iodobenzylguanidine . from february 1986 to december 1988 , 31 children with advanced pretreated neuroblastoma were treated with 131-i meta-iodobenzylguanidine ( 131-mibg ) . thirteen children had been resistant to first-line therapy , three had suffered a local relapse , and fourteen had suffered a disseminated relapse without over bone marrow infiltration . one child was treated initially because of resistance to first-line therapy , and subsequently for a local relapse . a total of 72 courses of 131-mibg was administered , with doses ranging from 2.8 to 6.0 gbq ( median , 3.7 gbq ) . one child received five courses , two four courses , 13 three courses , four two courses , and 12 one course of 131-mibg . the most common toxic effect was thrombocytopenia , with a platelet level of less than 50,000 / cmm occurring after 19 of 60 evaluable courses . a leukocyte count less than 1000/cmm was seen only once . there were six major responses ( two complete ) lasting 4 to 9 months , and two minor responses lasting longer than 38 and 44 months . responses were seen more commonly in children whose only lesion was a residual primary tumor and in children who had not been pretreated who experienced disseminated relapse . further studies of the role of 131-i meta-iodobenzylguanidine in treatment of neuroblastoma are needed . 
the lewis x antigen . a new paraffin section marker for reed-sternberg cells . using a monoclonal antibody specific to the lewis x antigen ( anti-lex ) , the authors studied 103 cases of hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) in comparison with 57 cases of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) ; three cases of granulocytic sarcoma ( gs ) ; two cases of malignant histiocytosis ( mh ) ; one case of monoblastic leukemia ( ml ) ; one case of interdigitating reticulum cell sarcoma ( ircs ) ; six cases of histiocytosis x ( hx ) ; one case of reticulohistiocytoma ( rh ) ; 44 various reactive conditions of the lymph node ( ln ) . reed-sternberg and related ( r-s ) cells stained selectively in 80 of 92 cases of hd ( 87.0 % ) , excluding 11 cases of lymphocyte predominance type . the stain was better in b-5-fixed specimens than in formalin-fixed specimens , showing a dense deposit of reaction products at a paranuclear site and on the cell surface . the staining results were compared with those of leu-m1 and found to be superior both qualitatively and quantitatively ( detection rate of r-s cells : 87.0 % versus 68.5 % of leu-m1 ) . granulocytes , rare epithelioid histiocytes , and some endothelial and/or erythrocytes also stained with anti-lex . the stain had positive results in three cases of gs showing a diffuse cytoplasmic staining pattern . of nhl , two of 29 peripheral t-cell lymphomas stained to show rare paranuclear deposits without cell surface staining . the stain had negative results in mh , ml , ircs , hx , and rh . of 45 reactive ln , minute subcapsular collections of lewis x + , altered-appearing langerhans ' - like cells , were observed in all ten ln from human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - associated persistent generalized lymphadenopathy ( pgl ) . the stain had negative results in all other various reactive conditions of ln . in conclusion , lewis x staining is useful as a marker for r-s cells in paraffin sections with staining results superior to those of leu-m1 . lewis x staining also detects subcapsular clustering of altered-appearing langerhans ' - like cells in pgl , which has not been described previously and warrants additional study . 
clinical significance of hematologic parameters in non-hodgkin 's lymphoma at diagnosis . three hundred seventeen patients with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) ( 54 low grade , 180 intermediate grade , 76 high grade , and seven unclassified ) treated with chemotherapy were evaluated for the presence of hematologic abnormalities at diagnostic staging . anemia was present in 42 % , leukopenia in 6 % , thrombocytopenia in 13 % , leukocytosis in 26 % , and thrombocytosis in 14 % at presentation . the presence of bone marrow involvement by lymphoma was more likely to be associated with leukopenia and thrombocytopenia than the absence of bone marrow involvement . although anemia was slightly more common in patients with bone marrow lymphoma than in those without marrow lymphoma , the difference was not statistically significant . hematologic parameters were similar for patients with b-cell or t-cell lymphoma . evidence of bone marrow failure with multiple cytopenias was present in 26 patients ( 8 % ) . leukoerythroblastosis was present in 2 % . circulating lymphoma was present in 9.5 % . anemic patients had a shorter survival time than nonanemic patients , whether bone marrow was involved by lymphoma or not . survival was not affected by the presence of leukopenia or mild leukocytosis , but , in patients without marrow lymphoma , leukocytosis with a leukocyte count greater than 20 x 10 ( 9 ) / l was associated with short survival length . thrombocytopenia was associated with short survival time only in patients with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma . patients with multiple cytopenias or leukoerythroblastosis had short survival times , but the presence of circulating lymphoma did not alter survival when compared with other patients with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma . these data suggest that hematologic evaluation at the time of diagnostic staging of nhl provides useful prognostic information that may have therapeutic implications . 
nephrotoxicity of allopurinol is enhanced in experimental hypertension . hyperuricemia is present in 20-40 % of pediatric and adult patients with essential hypertension . this metabolic abnormality may represent an additional risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease . therefore , we performed the following studies to determine 1 ) whether hyperuricemia is more prevalent in the spontaneously hypertensive rat ( shr ) and 2 ) whether allopurinol treatment has a beneficial effect on the development of hypertension in this strain , based on its capacity to lower the serum uric acid concentration and to act as an antioxidant agent . shr and control wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rats were assigned to two groups , one given tap water to drink and the other provided water containing allopurinol ( 400 mg/l ) to furnish an approximate daily dose equal to 100 mg/kg body wt . this treatment was maintained for 15 weeks . the serum uric acid levels were similar in untreated shr and wky rats ( 1.85 + / - 0.10 versus 1.66 + / - 0.14 mg/dl ; p = 0.28 ) . in the control wky rat strain , allopurinol therapy did not adversely affect weight gain or hematocrit and did not cause an increase in mortality . it resulted in a moderate decrement in kidney function ( creatinine clearance : allopurinol-treated group 0.32 + / - 0.09 versus control group 0.46 + / - 0.04 ml/min/100 g body wt , in conjunction with mild-to-moderate tubulointerstitial inflammation ( allopurinol-treated group 0.9 + / - 0.4 versus control group 0 ) . 
polycythemia vera blood burst-forming units-erythroid are hypersensitive to interleukin-3 . because polycythemia vera ( pv ) is a clonal hematopoietic stem cell disease with a trilineage hyperplasia , and interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) stimulates trilineage hematopoiesis , we have studied the response of highly purified pv blood burst-forming units-erythroid ( bfu-e ) to recombinant human il-3 ( ril-3 ) . whereas the growth of normal blood bfu-e in vitro rapidly declined by 40 and 60 % after 24 and 48 h of incubation without 50 u/ml of ril-3 , the growth of pv bfu-e declined by only 10 and 30 % under the same conditions , demonstrating a reduced dependence on ril-3 . a reduced dependence of pv bfu-e on recombinant human erythropoietin ( rep ) was also present . dose-response experiments showed a 117-fold increase in pv bfu-e sensitivity to ril-3 , and a 6.5-fold increase in sensitivity to rep , compared to normal bfu-e , whereas blood bfu-e from patients with secondary polycythemia responded like normal bfu-e . endogenous erythroid colony ( eec ) formation , which is independent of the addition of rep , was reduced by 50 % after erythroid colony-forming cells were generated from pv bfu-e in vitro without ril-3 for 3 d , whereas rep-stimulated erythroid colonies were unaffected . these studies demonstrate a striking hypersensitivity of pv blood bfu-e to ril-3 , which may be the major factor in the pathogenesis of increased erythropoiesis without increased ep concentrations . 
enhanced activity of the free radical producing enzyme xanthine oxidase in hypoxic rat liver . regulation and pathophysiologic significance . it has been widely proposed that conversion of xanthine dehydrogenase ( xdh ) to its free radical-producing form , xanthine oxidase ( xod ) , underlies ischemic/reperfusion injury , although the relationship of this conversion to hypoxia and its physiologic control have not been defined . this study details the time course and control of this enzymatic interconversion . in a functionally intact , isolated perfused rat liver model , mean % xod activity increased as a function of both the duration ( 25 to 45 % in 3 h ) and degree ( r = 0.97 ) of hypoxia . this process was markedly accelerated in ischemic liver by an overnight fast ( 45 vs. 30 % at 2 h ) , and by imposing a short period of in vivo ischemia ( cardiopulmonary arrest 72 % ) . moreover , only under these conditions was there a significant rise in the xod activity due to the conformationally altered xdh molecule ( xodc , 18 % ) , as well as concomitant morphologic injury . neither circulating white blood cells nor thrombosis appeared to contribute to the effects of in vivo ischemia on enzyme conversion . thus , it is apparent that conversion to the free radical-producing state , with high levels of xod activity and concurrent cellular injury , can be achieved during a relatively short period of hypoxia under certain well-defined physiologic conditions , in a time course consistent with its purported role in modulating reperfusion injury . these data also suggest that the premorbid condition of organ donors ( e.g. , nutritional status and relative state of hypoxia ) is important in achieving optimal organ preservation . 
chronic neutropenia . a new canine model induced by human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor . normal dogs were treated with recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( rhg-csf ) at 10 micrograms/kg/day for 30 d , which caused an initial neutrophilia , followed by a prolonged period of chronic neutropenia . a control dog treated with recombinant canine g-csf ( rcg-csf ) showed persistent neutrophilia over 3 mo . serum from dogs during neutropenia contained an antibody to rhg-csf , which neutralized the stimulatory effects of both rhg-csf and rcg-csf on dog marrow neutrophilic progenitor cell growth and on nfs-60 cell proliferation . 4 mo after discontinuation of rhg-csf , the dogs ' neutrophil counts returned to the normal range . rechallenge with the rhg-csf re-induced severe neutropenia in 1 wk . neutropenia was transferred by plasma infusion from a neutropenic dog to a previously normal dog . these data suggest that human rhg-csf immunizes normal dogs and thereby induces neutralization of endogenous canine g-csf and neutropenia . this model system should allow more precise definition of the in vivo role of g-csf . 
ureaplasma urealyticum chronic osteomyelitis in a patient with hypogammaglobulinemia . mycoplasma species are recognized as important pathogens in patients with hypogammaglobulinemia . in this article we describe , for the first time , a patient with hypogammaglobulinemia who developed osteomyelitis of the hip caused by ureaplasma urealyticum . this article emphasizes the need for considering infection with mycoplasma species in patients with antibody deficiency . 
angiolymphoid hyperplasia with eosinophilia . angiolymphoid hyperplasia with eosinophilia is a rare condition and is poorly recognized in the otolaryngological literature . the condition is characterized by the appearance of cutaneous nodules within the head and neck region especially around the external ear . variable lymphadenopathy and peripheral eosinophilia can occur and the condition can mimic neoplasia . it is important to be aware of this disease entity in order to avoid overtreatment . surgical removal is the treatment of choice ; however , this often multilobulated and poorly delineated lesion often precludes initial wide excision and local recurrence is common . we present three cases of this unusual condition and a brief resume of the literature . 
acetazolamide-associated aplastic anaemia . eleven cases of acetazolamide-associated aplastic anaemia were reported in sweden during a 17-year period . there were six women and five men with a median age of 71 years ( range 63-85 years ) . the median dose of acetazolamide was 500 mg , and the median duration of treatment was 3 months ( range 2-71 months ) . ten of the eleven patients died , all within 8 weeks after detection of their aplastic anaemia . the relative risk of developing aplastic anaemia when taking acetazolamide was 13.3 ( 95 % confidence limits ( cl ) ; 6.8-25 .3 ) . the estimated incidence of reported acetazolamide-associated aplastic anaemia is approximately one in 18,000 patient years . the results strongly indicate that acetazolamide treatment is associated with a substantial increase in the risk of developing aplastic anaemia . 
long-term follow-up after heterotopic splenic autotransplantation for traumatic splenic rupture the trapping function of the heterotopic splenic autotransplants ( hsa ) in 13 polytraumatized patients , aged 5-38 yr , was evaluated using heat damaged technetium-99m-labeled autologous red blood cells in early ( 1-7 mo ) and late ( 3-4 .5 yr ) period after heterotopic autotransplantation to the omentum . the intensity of tracer accumulation was graded in comparison to the liver uptake . the splenic tissue surface was calculated on anterior projection each time . the shapes of the transplants were compared and new uptake foci suggesting spontaneous splenosis were looked for on both scans . the average surface of hsa was 28.2 ( + / - 14.7 ) cm2 on early and 44.1 ( + / - 14.3 ) cm2 on late examination ( p less than 0.003 ) and the increase in intensity of tracer accumulation on both occasions was significant as well ( p less than 0.0001 ) . in three patients , some additional splenotic foci were found on follow-up scans . howell-jolly bodies in peripheral blood were detected in six of eight patients in early and remained detectable in lower number in three of eight patients on follow-up . no serious infection was noticed in our group of patients . our work confirmed the excellent survival rates of hsa with improving trapping function and no important spread from original implantation site on long-term follow-up . 
isolated muscular sarcoidosis causing fever of unknown origin : the value of gallium-67 imaging . an unusual case of a patient with a long-standing fever of unknown origin ( fuo ) is presented whose gallium-67 ( 67ga ) images revealed increased activity only in the calf muscles bilaterally . other imaging modalities also failed to show chest or other abnormal findings . subsequent biopsy of the right gastrocnemius muscle revealed noncaseating granulomas consistent with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis . when using 67ga to evaluate a patient with a fuo , imaging of the extremities should always be included . also , when abnormal ga-67 uptake is present in the extremities , sarcoidosis should be included in the differential diagnosis . 
surgical resection of a solitary liver metastasis in a 46-year-old patient with a malignant thymoma . clinical history , surgical treatment , and pathologic findings of a solitary liver metastasis of a malignant thymoma in a 46-year-old female are reported . an extensive literature review has revealed no record of surgical resection of liver metastasis in a patient with invasive thymoma . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan : muscle biopsy findings in 4 patients . muscle biopsies of 4 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan showed lymphocytic infiltrates with occasional eosinophils largely restricted to interstitial fibrous tissue and perivascular areas . there was inflammation and fibrosis of muscle spindle capsules in 3 patients . in the 2 sickest patients , there was profound muscle atrophy , affecting both muscle fiber types . 
chylothorax secondary to obstruction of the superior vena cava : a complication of the leveen shunt . a case of thrombosis of the superior vena cava was complicated by bilateral chylothoraces and a widened mediastinum . removal of a clotted leveen shunt led to prompt resolution of the obstruction and chylothoraces . 
hemolytic anemia associated with the use of omeprazole . omeprazole is the first drug designed to block the final step in the acid secretory process within the parietal cell . it has been shown to be extremely effective in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease , reflux esophagitis , and the zollinger-ellison syndrome . although clinical experience with omeprazole is still limited , many controlled studies have established the short-term safety of this drug . we report the first case of a serious short-term adverse reaction with the use of omeprazole : hemolytic anemia . the patient developed weakness , lethargy , and shortness of breath 2 days after starting therapy with omeprazole . two weeks after the initiation of therapy , her hematocrit had decreased from 44.1 % to 20.4 % , and she had a positive direct coombs antiglobulin test and an elevated indirect bilirubin . after she discontinued the omeprazole , her hemoglobin and hematocrit gradually returned to normal . the mechanism by which omeprazole caused the patient 's hemolytic anemia is uncertain , but physicians should be alerted to this possible adverse effect . 
kawasaki-like syndrome after treatment with mesalazine . we report a patient who developed a severe hypersensitivity reaction , including rash , lymph node enlargement , fever , hepatitis , and eosinophilia , after sulphasalazine therapy . five years later , he developed a similar reaction after exposure to mesalazine , the salicylic compound of sulphasalazine . we conclude that patients with known severe systemic reaction to sulphasalazine therapy are also at risk for such a reaction when treated with a 5-asa preparation . 
enalapril-associated anemia in renal transplant recipients treated for hypertension . we encountered a renal transplant recipient who developed an unexplained 0.09 decrease in hematocrit value while taking enalapril for hypertension , which reversed when the drug was stopped . this experience , and a previous similar case report , prompted a review of all our 27 transplant patients treated with enalapril . of these , 10 patients ( 37 % ) had developed an otherwise unaccounted for anemia : the pre-enalapril hematocrit value was 0.42 + / - 0.01 and it decreased to the nadir value of 0.33 + / - 0.01 ( p less than 0.001 ) within 12.3 + / - 0.9 weeks after initiation of 9 + / - 2.4 mg of enalapril daily ; enalapril was stopped in seven patients and their anemia resolved within 9.1 + / - 0.7 weeks to a final hematocrit value of 0.40 + / - 0.01 . the remaining three patients were maintained on enalapril at their physicians ' discretion , without further decrease in hematocrit values . no appreciable changes in drug regimens , clinical course , or other laboratory parameters were noted during this period . a causal relationship between enalapril and anemia was suggested by the effect of drug withdrawal and rechallenge on hematocrit in one of the patients . there were no statistically significant differences in baseline clinical and laboratory characteristics between those patients who did ( group i ) and those who did not ( group ii ) develop enalapril-associated anemia , with the exception of a normal hematocrit value of 0.42 + / - 0.01 in group i versus a lower hematocrit value of 0.36 + / - 0.02 in group ii ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that enalapril should be considered in the differential diagnosis of anemia following renal transplantation . susceptibility to this effect might emanate from the immunosuppressed state . 
mechanisms of hemolysis and anemia associated with acute antepartum pyelonephritis . anemia develops in about a fourth of women whose pregnancy is complicated by pyelonephritis , although its exact mechanism has not been defined clearly . in this study of 18 women with antepartum pyelonephritis , although only a third had anemia ( hematocrit less than 30 vol/dl ) , there was evidence for hemolysis in all 18 . specifically there was a mean decrease in hematocrit of 5 vol/dl from admission to discharge . with scanning electron microscopy , we compared erythrocyte morphologic aberrations that were found in women with renal infection with those of normally pregnant women , and the former had significantly increased proportions of echinocytes in particular , but schistocytes and spherocytes were increased also ( total 10.3 % vs 1.4 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . these changes , especially echinocytosis , have been induced in vitro by lipopolysaccharide , and they are known to lead to premature red blood cell destruction in vivo . we conclude that hemolysis with subsequent anemia in pregnant women with pyelonephritis is caused by lipopolysaccharide-induced red blood cell membrane damage . 
vascular and nonvascular expression of incam-110 . a target for mononuclear leukocyte adhesion in normal and inflamed human tissues . inducible cell adhesion molecule 110 ( incam-110 ) , is a 110-kd adhesion receptor for lymphocytes and monocytes identified on cytokine-activated endothelium . using immunoperoxidase techniques , little or no incam-110 was detected on endothelium in normal human tissues . in contrast , incam-110 was expressed in postcapillary venules in a variety of active inflammatory processes . in acute appendicitis , incam-110 was found coincident with strong expression of endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 ( elam-1 ) , a cytokine-inducible molecule that functions in neutrophil adhesion . however , in certain chronic inflammatory processes ( eg , sarcoidosis ) , incam-110 was observed without simultaneous elam-1 expression . anti-incam-110 antibody e1/6 also marked several extravascular cell types , including lymphoid dendritic cells , some tissue macrophages , synovial lining cells , and reactive mesothelial cells . these data suggest a role for endothelial incam-110 in the pathophysiology of both acute and chronic inflammatory reactions . furthermore incam-110 may function as an adhesion molecule for mononuclear leukocytes in a variety of extravascular sites . 
coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis in association with osler-weber-rendu disease -- a case report . a fifty-three-year-old woman presented with coronary artery aneurysm in association with osler-weber-rendu disease ( hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ) manifested also by large pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas . the arterial dye dilution curves were unusually distorted owing to the right-to-left shunts . the coronary artery aneurysm was located in multiple sites but was not accompanied by stenotic lesions . coronary artery aneurysm without stenosis is a rare pathologic state and has not been previously reported in association with hereditary telangiectasia . 
the acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome [ published erratum appears in ann intern med 1991 jun 1 ; 114 ( 11 ) :993 ] objective : to characterize an unusual mode of presentation of systemic lupus erythematosus : acute and severe pancytopenia related to reactive hemophagocytosis . design : retrospective case series . setting : two general community hospitals in hong kong . patients : six patients presenting with a reactive hemophagocytic syndrome , identified over a 3.5 year period , diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus according to the criteria of the american rheumatism association . results : in addition to severe pancytopenia and marrow hemophagocytosis , other characteristic features were fever , hypocomplementemia , high antinuclear antibody titer , and cutaneous and visceral vasculitis . there was no evidence of an underlying infection . the pancytopenia responded dramatically to treatment with steroids . conclusion : recognition of the acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome and distinction from an infection-associated hemophagocytic syndrome is important because it responds well to steroid therapy . the evaluation of patients presenting with a hemophagocytic syndrome should include serologic tests for systemic lupus erythematosus . 
recombinant human erythropoietin and renal anemia : molecular biology , clinical efficacy , and nervous system effects anemia ( hematocrit less than 25 % ) predictably accompanies chronic renal failure and is present in over 90 % of patients on chronic dialysis . relative erythropoietin deficiency is the proximate cause . recombinant human erythropoietin recently became available for research and clinical use . erythropoietin production is regulated by a single copy gene located on chromosome 7 ; its expression has been shown in the kidney , liver , and macrophages . it is glycosylated protein of 166 amino acids with a molecular weight of 34,000 d. when given to patients with the anemia of renal failure , erythropoietin causes a dose-dependent rise in hematocrit to the normal range within 8 to 14 weeks . complications of this response are minimal except for a significant incidence of hypertension . when the anemia is corrected , the patient 's quality of life , cognitive function , and brain electrophysiology improve dramatically . recombinant human erythropoietin represents a major breakthrough in the treatment of patients with chronic renal failure . current reimbursement constraints limit its full application . 
adult overwhelming meningococcal purpura . a study of 35 cases , 1977-1989 . the study objective was to describe the clinical , biologic , and hemodynamic features of adult overwhelming meningococcal purpura and to examine the prognostic factors by multivariate analysis at the time of admission to the intensive care unit . thirty-five patients ( greater than or equal to 13 years of age ) with meningococcal infection , circulatory shock , and generalized purpuric lesions of abrupt onset were recorded in eight intensive care units from 1977 to 1989 . the patients were young ( mean age , 26.6 years ; range , 13 to 68 years ) and had been previously healthy . the female-to-male ratio was 3:1 . mortality was 54.3 % , with most deaths occurring within the first 48 hours , usually secondary to irreversible shock with multiple organ failure . ischemic complications ( eight cases ) , prolonged heart failure ( seven cases ) , and secondary septicemia ( five cases ) were the chief complications among survivors . initial hemodynamic study after volume loading showed low stroke volume index ( mean + / - sd , 29.4 + / - 13 ml/m2 ) and tachycardia ( mean + / - sd , 138 + / - 16 beats per minute ) , a profile suggesting a greater myocardial depression than usually observed in gram-negative bacillary septic shock . univariate prognostic analysis showed that four variables at the time of admission were associated with fatal outcome : a plasma fibrinogen level of 1.5 g/l or less , a factor v concentration of 0.20 or less , a platelet count lower than 80 x 10 ( 9 ) / l , and a cerebrospinal fluid leukocyte count of 20 x 10 ( 6 ) / l or less . stepwise regression analysis showed that low fibrinogen level ( less than or equal to 1.5 g/l ) was the sole adverse prognostic variable ( odds ratio = 2 , 95 % confidence interval , 1.5 to 2.7 ) . adult overwhelming meningococcal purpura is still associated with high mortality and morbidity . low fibrinogen level at time of admission may permit early recognition of the most severely ill patients . 
cold-induced granulocyte agglutination . a cause of pseudoleukopenia . transient cold agglutination of her granulocytes developed in a 60-year-old woman with a left upper lobe pneumonia during the acute phase of her illness . this phenomenon was manifested by pseudogranulocytopenia , multiple clumps of granulocytes on her peripheral blood smear , and abnormal distribution of granulocytes and monocytes on the white blood cell histogram when measured on an automated hematology analyzer ( coulter s-plus iv , coulter electronics inc , hialeah , fla ) . the cause is postulated to be an igm autoantibody directed against components of the granulocyte membranes . spurious leukopenia is encountered infrequently with automated hematology analyzers . cold-induced granulocyte agglutination should be recognized as a potential cause of pseudogranulocytopenia so that white blood cell counts can be accurately reported and unnecessary evaluation of patients for leukopenia can be avoided . 
large-cell anaplastic ( ki-1-positive ) lymphoma complicated by disseminated intravascular coagulation . large-cell anaplastic lymphoma ( ki-1-positive lymphoma ) was first described as a type of large-cell lymphoma that has morphologic , enzymatic , and immunologic similarities to malignant histiocytosis . to date , an association between ki-1-positive lymphoma and disseminated intravascular coagulation has not been described , but cases of malignant histiocytosis with disseminated intravascular coagulation have been reported . we report a case of anaplastic , ki-1-positive , large-cell lymphoma complicated by clinical and laboratory evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation with histologic evidence of vascular invasion and fibrin thrombi . 
cyclosporine therapy for advanced langerhans cell histiocytosis . prompted by evidence that langerhans cell histiocytosis ( lch ) is a nonmalignant disorder of immune regulation , we used cyclosporine ( 12 mg/kg/d orally ) to treat three young children with advanced multisystem lch . all three patients had partial responses to cyclosporine within 2 months of therapy , as evidenced by complete resolution of organ dysfunction and regression of the majority of lesions . complete responses were attained by adding relatively nontoxic chemotherapy ( ie , prednisone and vinblastine ) . toxicity from cyclosporine comprised mild and reversible elevations of the serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen . these results indicate that further evaluation of cyclosporine for the treatment of patients with advanced lch is warranted . 
transmembrane mobility of phospholipids in sickle erythrocytes : effect of deoxygenation on diffusion and asymmetry . we studied the effect of sickling on the transmembrane reorientation and distribution of phospholipids in the red blood cells of patients homozygous for sickle cell anemia ( ss ) . to this purpose , we followed the redistribution kinetics of trace amounts of spin-labeled analogues of natural phospholipids first introduced in the membrane outer leaflet of normal or sickle erythrocytes exposed to air or nitrogen . deoxygenation had no effect on the lipid redistribution kinetics in normal ( aa ) cell membranes . at atmospheric po2 , unfractionated ss cells were not different from normal cells . however , on deoxygenation inducing sickling , phosphatidylcholine passive diffusion was accelerated and the rate of the adenosine triphosphate-dependent transport of aminophospholipids was reduced , especially for phosphatidylserine . the stationary distribution of the aminophospholipids between the two leaflets was slightly less asymmetric , a phenomenon more pronounced with phosphatidylethanolamine . these changes were rapidly reversible on reoxygenation . when ss cells were separated by density , both dense and light cells exhibited the properties cited above . however , dense cells exposed to air possessed a lower aminophospholipid transport rate . these data favor the relationship between aminophospholipid translocase activity and phospholipid transmembrane asymmetry . sickle cell disease is the first case of aminophospholipid translocase pathology . 
interaction of two different disorders in the beta-globin gene cluster associated with an increased hemoglobin f production : a novel deletion type of g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thalassemia and a delta zero-hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin determinant . we report two different disorders of the beta-globin gene cluster segregating in a belgian family : a novel deletion that results in g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thalassemia ( thal ) and a heterocellular hereditary persistence of foetal hemoglobin of the swiss type linked to a delta degree-thal gene ( delta degree-hpfh ) . heterozygosity for the heterocellular hpfh brings about a moderate ( 3.4 % to 8.24 % ) increase of hemoglobin ( hb ) f having a g gamma/a gamma ratio of 4:1 , whereas carriers of the g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thal deletion show in their peripheral blood a considerably higher ( 15 % ) percentage of hb f. both defects interact in the compound heterozygotes for g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thal and delta zero-hpfh producing a further increase ( up to 24 % ) of fetal hb consisting entirely of g gamma chains . molecular characterization of the g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thal by means of southern analysis showed that the deletion spans about 50 kb , removing the 3 ' end of the a gamma-gene , the psi beta - , delta - , and beta-genes . a number of possible mechanisms leading to the overproduction of hb f in hpfh and g gamma + ( a gamma delta beta ) zero-thal will be discussed . 
circulating erythropoietin levels after bone marrow transplantation : inappropriate response to anemia in allogeneic transplants . we studied 24 recipients of autologous bone marrow transplantation ( abmt ) or allogeneic bmt ( bmt ) to determine whether impaired erythropoietin ( epo ) response to anemia could delay full erythropoietic recovery . observed epo levels were compared with predicted levels based on the relationship between epo and hematocrit in 125 control subjects . circulating epo levels were normal during conditioning and the early posttransplant period . between days 21 and 180 , epo levels remained normal in abmt patients but were inappropriately low for the degree of anemia in bmt patients . median time to full erythropoietic engraftment was longer in bmt than in abmt recipients . circulating epo returned to appropriate levels after day 180 , except in patients with active cytomegalovirus infection . we conclude that impaired epo response to anemia can contribute to delayed erythropoietic recovery after allogenic bmt . renal toxicity of ciclosporin , interaction between host and donor marrow , and cytomegalovirus infection might play a role . this study could support the use of recombinant human epo to accelerate erythropoietic engraftment after bmt . 
iron deficiency anemia in the elderly : the diagnostic process . objective : to determine the effectiveness of physician probability estimates calculated on the basis of findings from history-taking and physical examination in the diagnosis of iron deficiency anemia in elderly patients . design : prospective study . setting : two community hospitals offering secondary and tertiary care . patients : a total of 259 patients over 65 years of age found to have previously undiagnosed anemia . measures : physician estimates of the likelihood of iron deficiency before ( pretest probability ) and after ( post-test probability ) the laboratory test results were available . the hemogram was available to the physicians when they made their pretest probability estimates . because the serum ferritin level proved to be the most powerful of the laboratory test results studied , the likelihood ratios associated with the post-test estimates were compared with the ratios associated with the serum ferritin level . main results : the post-test probability estimates were influenced by the serum ferritin level and the pretest estimates . the post-test estimates derived from the findings obtained through history-taking and physical examination and the laboratory test results ( including the serum ferritin level ) were slightly less accurate in predicting iron deficiency than the serum ferritin level alone . nevertheless , a model in which the pretest estimates were used in addition to the serum ferritin level to predict iron deficiency proved to be more powerful than the serum ferritin level alone ( p = 0.006 ) . this indicated that the limitations of the post-test estimates were due to a misinterpretation of the serum ferritin level and that the findings from history-taking and physical examination added important diagnostic information . conclusions : physicians must be aware of test properties to provide optimal care to their patients . if test results are properly interpreted , pretest probabilities derived from findings obtained through history-taking and physical examination can add useful information that will lead to more accurate diagnoses . 
blood eosinophil number and activity in relation to lung function in patients with asthma and with eosinophilia . blood eosinophil count , serum concentrations of eosinophil cationic protein ( ecp ) , eosinophil protein x ( epx ) , myeloperoxidase ( mpo ) , and peak expiratory flow ( pef ) rate were studied in 23 patients with severe labile asthma characterized by eosinophilia at the start and end of a treatment period of 5 weeks . the mean blood eosinophil count was 808 x 10 ( 6 ) / l at the start of the treatment period . serum ecp and epx were significantly raised compared with that of the references , whereas the mean serum mpo level was normal . the mean pef was significantly and negatively correlated to both blood eosinophil count and serum ecp and epx , but the predominant correlation was that between blood eosinophil count and pef . at the end of the treatment period , pef had increased and the blood eosinophil count and serum ecp and epx were reduced when these values were compared with the values at the start of the treatment period . there was a significant and negative correlation of mean pef to serum ecp but not to the blood eosinophil count . in individual subjects , the decreases in the blood eosinophil counts and serum epx were significantly correlated to the individual increases of mean pef . in conclusion , the present investigation indicates that in patients with asthma and pronounced eosinophilia , the lung function of the patients was principally related to the number of circulating eosinophils , whereas , when their eosinophilia was reduced to moderate levels , the patient 's lung function was closer related to the activity of the eosinophils . 
contracturing granulomatous myositis : a separate entity . granulomatous muscle disease is most commonly seen in sarcoidosis , but may be seen in association with a wide variety of other disorders or in isolation . patients with granulomatous myositis usually present with slowly progressive muscle pain and weakness affecting mainly proximal muscles . there are , however , a few reports of granulomatous muscle disease presenting with flexion contractures of the limbs . two further patients with granulomatous muscle disease and flexion contractures of the limbs , but with no evidence of systemic granulomatous disease , is presented . it is suggested that such patients represent a separate clinical entity that is distinct from idiopathic granulomatous myositis presenting with muscle pain and weakness . the association of contracturing granulomatous myositis with a long-standing vasculitis in one patient suggests that the two conditions may be related . 
clinical and biologic effects of granulocyte colony stimulating factor in the treatment of myelokathexis . successful treatment of a patient with myelokathexis , a rare form of chronic neutropenia associated with recurrent infections , is described . rapid mobilization of bone marrow neutrophils and improved myeloid morphologic features were observed after treatment with human granulocyte colony stimulating factor . transient thrombocytopenia and bone pain were observed during treatment . although neutrophil chemotaxis , superoxide production , and fcriii surface expression were reduced , the patient improved clinically after restoration of a normal neutrophil count . 
interferon for vulvar vestibulitis . eight women with human papillomavirus-associated vestibular adenitis were treated with locally administered alpha interferon , 1 million units , three times weekly for four consecutive weeks . five patients had a complete remission , and one had a slight , transient improvement , with a relapse after the therapy ceased . 
essential thrombocythemia in young adults . essential thrombocythemia is typically a disorder of adults in the sixth or seventh decade of life and is characterized by frequent thrombohemorrhagic complications . in young patients , the optimal management of complications is controversial . we studied 56 young adults ( 33 female and 23 male patients ) with a diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia . the mean duration of follow-up was 4.68 years . the mean platelet count at diagnosis was 1,328,000 / mm3 . platelet aggregation studies in 21 patients demonstrated hypoaggregation to epinephrine ; spontaneous platelet aggregation was present in 4 . at diagnosis , 39 patients were asymptomatic , and thrombocytosis was discovered incidentally . throughout follow-up ( up to 20 years ) , 24 patients remained asymptomatic . thrombotic complications developed in 24 patients ; they were life-threatening in only 3 . the most common vaso-occlusive symptoms were migraine headache ( in 12 patients ) and erythromelalgia ( in 3 ) . minor hemorrhagic complications occurred in six patients , and none was life-threatening . serious complications ( one cerebral and two myocardial infarctions ) occurred in three patients , all of whom recovered . two deaths occurred , neither of which was attributable to essential thrombocythemia . the treatment regimens used were chemotherapy in 9 patients , antiaggregating agents in 7 , radioactive phosphorus in 1 , the newer platelet-lowering agent anagrelide in 10 , and only observation in 29 . no treatment-related acute leukemias developed . this series of young patients with essential thrombocythemia , the largest to date , demonstrates a low incidence of life-threatening complications and a favorable long-term prognosis . therapeutic recommendations should remain conservative , and potential leukemogens should be avoided unless serious complications develop . anagrelide may be useful in young patients with thrombocythemia who are symptomatic . 
immunohistochemical study of erythropoietin in cerebellar hemangioblastomas associated with secondary polycythemia . although cerebellar hemangioblastomas are known to be associated with secondary polycythemia , the cellular derivation of erythropoietin ( epo ) in hemangioblastomas still remains obscure . specimens from 18 patients with cerebellar hemangioblastomas were immunohistochemically studied using anti-epo monoclonal antibody . eight cases of brain tumors , including 2 meningiomas , 2 medulloblastomas , 2 glioblastomas , and 2 metastatic brain tumors were studied as controls . in 9 of 18 cases , epo-positive cells were scattered around the capillaries and were ultrastructurally shown to be mast cells . these cases were not , however , associated with secondary polycythemia . in contrast , the stromal cells were positive for epo in 3 cases . among them , one was associated with secondary polycythemia . furthermore , one-half of the control cases of brain tumor contained epo-positive mast cells . accordingly , it was suggested that mast cells ( or small granulocytes ) have little relationship to the release of epo ; however , some stromal cells might release epo with a resultant polycythemia . 
application of instat hemostat in the control of gingival hemorrhage in the patient with thrombocytopenia . a case report . gingival bleeding in the patient with thrombocytopenia can be a difficult management problem . primary therapy with platelet transfusions may not be sufficient to control the hemorrhage and adjunctive local therapy may be required . currently , few local management techniques can effectively control this problem . instat collagen absorbable hemostat can be used as a local adjunct with platelet transfusions and has certain application advantages over topical thrombin and microfibrillar collagen . two successful techniques of instat application to control gingival hemorrhage in a patient with severe thrombocytopenia in leukemic relapse are described . 
gingival swelling as a manifestation of aplastic anemia . gingivitis in the preschool child is uncommon and is usually associated with underlying systemic disease such as leukemias , neutropenias , and other immunologic defects . this report describes gingival hyperplasia in a preschool child with aplastic anemia and highlights the need to exclude systemic disease in children with periodontal disease . 
heparin as the cause of coagulopathy which may complicate grafting of the liver . disposal of heparin is accomplished rapidly by the normal liver , but the effects of ischemia , flushing and hypothermia during hepatic transplantation have not been investigated before . the results of the present study showed that neither laparotomy , hypothermia nor insertion of the portosystemic bypass seemed markedly to affect the coagulation profile , but autograft associated with 30 to 45 minutes of warm ischemia resulted in a twofold prolongation of the t1/2 heparin as calculated from sequential measurements of the activated clotting time . unexpectedly , the storage of livers for four hours in eurocollins solutions seemed to result in more rapid disappearance of heparin than in animals after laparotomy . after hepatectomy , the clearance of heparin was delayed for two hours but , thereafter , the slope of the disappearance resembled that in sham operated animals . autograft and allograft of livers in normal pigs that did not receive transfusion were also associated with changes in fibrinolysis and declining levels of fibrinogen together with severe intraoperative bleeding problems and rapid death on the operating table in 30 per cent of the pigs . while administration of heparin alone did not appear to precipitate these changes , use of the drug after dissection , mobilization and storage of the liver may release other tissue factors that activate fibrinolysis . 
chronic neutropenia during childhood . a 13-year experience in a single institution . to evaluate the clinical course and characteristics of children with chronic neutropenia , we reviewed the charts of all such patients seen at our center during a 13-year period . a total of 50 patients with chronic neutropenia were identified . three patients had documented congenital neutropenia , and two siblings had cyclic neutropenia . the remaining 45 children had chronic neutropenia of unknown origin . all children except two had a remarkably benign course despite markedly reduced granulocyte counts . of six girls in this group who had abscess or cellulitis of the labia majora , it was a presenting manifestation in three . resolution of neutropenia was documented in 23 ( 62 % ) of 37 patients for whom follow-up information was available , with a median duration of neutropenia of 19 months . no differences were evident between patients with positive antineutrophil antibody test results and those in whom the test yielded negative results or was not performed . chronic neutropenia in childhood is a relatively uncommon entity , characterized by a benign course and eventual resolution in the majority of patients . 
the clinical spectrum of thrombocytosis and thrombocythemia . platelet production is the result of a highly ordered maturation of a developmental hierarchy of megakaryocytic progenitor cells regulated by a variety of cytokines . gm-csf , ii-3 and ii-6 have a stimulatory effect and several cytokines ( tgf-beta , platelet released glycoprotein , platelet factor 4 and interferons ) have inhibitory effects down regulating platelet production perhaps as part of an autocrine control loop . excess platelet production can be clinically characterized as pseudothrombocytosis , thrombocytosis or thrombocythemia ; the clinical features and criteria for each are defined . the term thrombocytosis infers its reactive nature and , in the absence of arterial disease or prolonged immobility , it poses little risk regardless of platelet numbers . by contrast , in thrombocythemia , whether primary or associated with other myeloproliferative lesions , significant thrombohemorrhagic events occur . the natural history , rationale , and approach to platelet reduction and control of clinical sequela are reviewed . clinical therapeutic options include a new agent , anagrelide . 
application of a modified bioassay for monitoring serum teicoplanin and vancomycin in febrile neutropenic patients . teicoplanin is a glycopeptide antibiotic with a mode of action and spectrum of activity similar to those of vancomycin . its efficacy and tolerability as empiric therapy and its pharmacokinetic properties in neutropenic patients are being studied in a double-blinded , randomized trial in comparison with those of vancomycin . we report here a modified agar diffusion bioassay which is suitable for monitoring levels of either teicoplanin or vancomycin in serum during combination therapy with beta-lactams , aminoglycosides , and amphotericin b. serum samples spiked with either teicoplanin or vancomycin gave reproducible results ( mean coefficient of variation , 8.8 % ) regardless of the presence of tobramycin , amikacin , piperacillin , ceftazidime , amphotericin b , or their combinations . among 25 patients who received teicoplanin at a dosing schedule of 6 mg/kg every 24 h intravenously , steady state was reached after 14.2 + / - 4.0 days , and 1-h peak and trough concentrations of teicoplanin in serum at steady state were 40.8 + / - 15.0 and 12.5 + / - 3.2 mg/liter , respectively . in contrast , among 25 patients who received vancomycin at a dosing schedule of 15 mg/kg every 12 h intravenously , steady state was reached by 24 h , and the 1-h peak and trough concentrations in serum were 37.5 + / - 15.6 and 8.3 + / - 3.8 mg/liter , respectively . the elimination half-lives for teicoplanin estimated by two separate approaches agreed closely with each other : 80.5 + / - 21.5 h by an accumulation model ( m. gilbaldi and d. perrier , pharmacokinetics , 2nd ed. , p. 121 , 1982 ) and 87.3 + / - 19.3 h as predicted from the degree of renal function ( m. rowland , clin . pharmacokinetic 18:184 -209 , 1990 ) . these values were 14 - to 15-fold higher than that for vancomycin ( 5.6 + / - 1.8 h ) . 
methaemoglobinaemia after ingestion of amyl nitrite . we report a case of methaemoglobinaemia in a 2 year old girl after ingestion of an ' aphrodisiac ' containing nitrite . the availability of these products , their poor labelling , and their intended presence in domestic bedrooms all serve to increase the hazard they pose to young children . 
high hemoglobin a2 beta 0-thalassemia due to a 532-basepair deletion of the 5 ' beta-globin gene region . we identify and characterize a novel beta 0-thalassemia mutation that is associated with an unusually high level of hemoglobin ( hb ) a2 in the heterozygote . this newly discovered mutation is caused by a 532-basepair deletion that extends from positions -454 to + 78 relative to the mrna cap site of the beta-globin gene . the propositi are 9-month-old fraternal twins . one of the twins is a compound heterozygote for the deletion and hb s , the other is a compound heterozygote for the deletion and hb c. 
treatment of aplastic anemia in children with recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor . twenty children ( aged 1 to 17 years ) with severe or moderate aplastic anemia were treated with recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( rhg-csf ) at a dose of 400 micrograms/m2 per day administered as a 30-minute intravenous ( iv ) infusion daily for 2 weeks . this treatment increased the neutrophil counts ( 2.7 - to 28.0-fold ) in 12 of the 20 patients . increasing doses ( 800 or 1,200 micrograms/m2 per day ) were administered to five patients who had not responded to the initial dose , and three showed an increase in neutrophil count . differential counts of bone marrow ( bm ) aspirates showed an increase in the myeloid/erythroid ratio . the response was transient , however , and the neutrophil count returned to baseline within 2 to 10 days of discontinuing treatment . no severe toxicity attributable to rhg-csf was observed . the results suggest that this agent is effective in stimulating granulopoiesis in children with aplastic anemia . our study also indicates that rhg-csf will be particularly useful in managing patients with aplastic anemia complicated by bacterial or fungal infection . 
expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( cd54 ) on hematopoietic progenitors . the distribution of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) , a ligand for lymphocyte function antigen-1 , on hematopoietic tissue was determined using the anti-icam-1 monoclonal antibody cl203 .4 with flow cytometry and short-term semi-solid hematopoietic progenitor cultures . after timed incubation in media with fetal bovine serum , 29 % of erythroid burst-forming units ( bfu-e ) , 24 % of erythroid colony-forming units ( cfu-e ) , and 52 % of granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units ( cfu-gm ) bone marrow progenitors expressed icam-1 . this finding , which is consistent with the detection of icam-1 on acute non-lymphoblastic leukemic blasts , is at variance with recent reports . icam-1 was also detected on bone marrow blasts , proerythroblasts , promyelocytes , and cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage , but was not detected on erythroblasts , normoblasts , neutrophilic myelocytes , metamyelocytes , bands , or on most lymphocytes . these results indicate that maturation of cells of the erythroid and myeloid lineage is associated with loss of icam-1 . the distribution of icam-1 on bone marrow progenitors , early precursor cells , and accessory cells in conjunction with the function of this molecule in cell-cell interactions suggests that icam-1 may play a role in the cell-cell and cell-stromal interactions that regulate hematopoiesis . 
prenatal diagnosis of hemoglobinopathies . hemoglobinopathies are frequently occurring disorders for which prenatal diagnosis is possible . couples in which one parent has microcytic hypochromic red blood cells ; is of southeast asian , mediterranean , middle eastern , indian , or african origin ; or had one previous child with a known hemoglobinopathy or a previous hydropic stillbirth should be investigated . the hemoglobinopathies have been the paradigm of prenatal diagnosis , and the lessons learned from their study are now being applied to a range of other genetic disorders for which the responsible genes have been identified . 
acid phosphatase ( ec 3.1.3.2 ) activity in alveolar macrophages from patients with active sarcoidosis . five main acid phosphatase ( acp ) zones have been recognized and studied by polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis . band 5 represents the only tartrate-resistant form and is present in bone osteoclasts and in human alveolar macrophages ( ams ) . this study was carried out to quantify the presence of total and tartrate-resistant acp ( tracp ) in ams from bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) of 11 patients with first stage sarcoidosis and in 13 nonsmokers and 16 smokers serving as control healthy subjects . the ams from smokers showed an increase in total acp activity ( 115.9 + / - 77.8 mu/10 ( 6 ) ) ; on the contrary , macrophages of patients with sarcoidosis revealed a consistent decrease in total acp ( 27.8 + / - 7.0 mu/10 ( 6 ) ) and particularly the tracp subtype ( 14.8 + / - 3.7 mu/10 ( 6 ) ) in comparison with control nonsmokers ( acp = 42.2 + / - 18.9 mu/10 ( 6 ) [ p = ns ] ; tracp = 35.1 + / - 15.1 mu/10 ( 6 ) [ p less than 0.005 ] ) . the decrease in tracp activity was inversely correlated with the lymphocyte number ( r = -0.75 ; p less than 0.01 ) , lymphocyte percentage ( r = -0.62 ; p less than 0.05 ) , and cd4/cd8 ratio ( r = -0.61 ; p less than 0.05 ) . after six months of follow-up , the cytologic bal picture returned completely to normal in five patients with full spontaneous regression of sarcoidosis ; and also at the same time , normal values of tracp activity were restored . since tracp activity can be easily detected , its possible use , along with the lymphocyte count and cd4/cd8 ratio , as a prognostic indicator of the clinical course of sarcoidosis deserves further investigation . 
lung mechanics and gas exchange during exercise in pulmonary sarcoidosis . to clarify how lung function at exercise is affected in sarcoidosis , and to analyze how exercise studies compare to testing measurements , 63 patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis were examined with lung mechanics and arterial blood gases during exercise . these findings were compared with simultaneously obtained , but previously reported results of the static lung pressure/volume curve and the lung resistance/static lung pressure curve . while mechanical variables at maximal exercise were as sensitive as those determined by measuring the pstl/v and rl/pstl curves , mechanics during spontaneous breathing at rest was less sensitive . the derangement of mechanics was more evident than that of arterial blood gases . no measurement at rest was a good predictor of working capacity or of arterial pao2 . a comprehensive exercise examination may be an alternative to resting investigations , which are either more elaborate or less sensitive . 
il-1 and il-1 inhibitory activity in the culture supernatants of alveolar macrophages from patients with interstitial lung diseases . under normal conditions , the release of interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) and il-1 inhibitors play a role in tissue homeostasis . we have already reported an increase in il-1 activity and a decrease in il-1 inhibitory activity ( iha ) in the supernatants of alveolar macrophages from healthy long-term smokers as compared with healthy nonsmokers . in this study , we report an alteration in the release of il-1 and il-1 iha from alveolar macrophages in patients with interstitial lung diseases ( sarcoidosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis [ ipf ] ) . il-1 activity released from alveolar macrophages stimulated by lipopolysaccharide was increased in patients with active sarcoidosis ( mean + / - sd , 2.52 + / - 1.33 u/ml [ n = 6 ] vs 1.38 + / - 0.62 u/ml [ n = 15 ] for healthy non-current smokers [ hns ] ; p less than 0.05 ) . il-1 iha released from alveolar macrophages was significantly different among the groups examined : a decrease of il-1 iha occurred in patients with active sarcoidosis ( 61.4 + / - 19.2 [ n = 6 ] vs 85.9 + / - 13.9 percent : hns ; p less than 0.05 ) and ipf ( 64.7 + / - 18.5 [ n = 9 ] ; p less than 0.05 ) . prednisolone in the culture medium at physiologic concentrations suppressed the release of il-1 and enhanced the release of il-1 iha . il-1 iha inhibited not only mouse thymocyte proliferation but also human fibroblast proliferation in the presence of il-1 . 
hypercapnic respiratory failure due to l-tryptophan-induced eosinophilic polymyositis . a 24-year-old man presenting with fever , rash , and myalgias subsequently developed hypercapnic respiratory failure and severe limb muscle weakness . muscle biopsy revealed eosinophilic myositis , due to the ingestion of large quantities of l-tryptophan as a dietary supplement . complete recovery occurred with corticosteroid administration . significant involvement of the respiratory muscles can be a predominant feature of this newly described disease entity . 
prolonged cd4 + lymphocytopenia and thrombocytopenia in a chimpanzee persistently infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . the immunologic and virologic status of a chimpanzee inoculated with multiple isolates of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) were assessed over 57 months to determine whether prolonged thrombocytopenia and cd4 + lymphocytopenia observed in the animal might be associated with long-term hiv infection . although the chimpanzee showed no signs of disease , it lost both cd4 + ( as low as 134 cells/microliter ) and cd8 + lymphocytes approximately 30 months after initial infection , followed by thrombocytopenia that has persisted for greater than 2 years . lymphopenia and thrombocytopenia were preceded by or coincided with the appearance of antibodies cross-reactive with histone h2b and decreased levels of complement component c4 ; an eightfold decrease in hiv-specific antibody titers ; the inability of cd8 + lymphocytes to suppress virus replication ; impaired proliferative responses to t cell mitogens ; and the isolation of cell-free hiv from plasma . these data suggest that , given sufficient time , hiv-infected chimpanzees may develop disease . 
recombinant murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor augments neutrophil recovery and enhances resistance to infections in myelosuppressed mice . the ability of recombinant murine granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( rmgm-csf ) to protect myelosuppressed mice against lethal infections was evaluated . in mice myelosuppressed by cyclophosphamide , subcutaneously administered rmgm-csf was a potent stimulus of granulopoiesis by increasing the number of gm-csf-responsive precursor cells in bone marrow followed by a profound neutrophilia . neutrophil recovery was augmented by rmgm-csf in a dose-dependent manner at daily doses of 0.6-5 .0 micrograms/mouse . in addition , rmgm-csf increased the functional activity of circulating neutrophils at similar doses . when rmgm-csf was administered to neutropenic mice before experimentally induced pseudomonas aeruginosa , staphylococcus aureus , or candida albicans infections , it protected against these lethal infections , resulting in increased numbers of survivors . these data suggest that rmgm-csf protects neutropenic mice from lethal infections , probably by augmenting neutrophil recovery after myelosuppression and activation of mature cells . 
hypogammaglobulinemia associated with cytomegalovirus pneumonia . transient but profound hypogammaglobulinemia occurred during cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) pneumonia in a patient who developed striking declines in number of t lymphocytes . a 66-year-old , female , human immunodeficiency virus-negative patient requiring long-term hemodialysis had normal serum immunoglobulin concentrations before the onset of cmv pneumonia ( igg , 1070-1470 mg/dl ; iga , 94-102 mg/dl ; igm , 30-48 mg/dl ) . during the pneumonia episode , serum immunoglobulin concentrations were profoundly reduced ( igg , 440 mg/dl ; iga , 40 mg/dl ; igm , 25 mg/dl ) . total lymphocytes declined from 3048/mm3 to 212/mm3 with reductions in cd4 + cd45 - lymphocytes ( inducers of b cells ) to 9 % ( nl , 24 % -32 % ) and cd4 + cd45 + lymphocytes ( inducers of suppressor t cells ) to 4 % ( nl , 14 % -22 % ) . cd8 lymphocytes were reduced to 5 % ( nl , 19 % -31 % ) . as the pneumonia resolved , serum immunoglobulin concentrations returned to normal . this is one of the few reported instances of cmv infection apparently causing hypogammaglobulinemia . 
serum erythropoietin levels in the anaemia of chronic disorders . serum erythropoietin ( s-epo ) levels were measured in 50 patients with anaemia of chronic disorders ( acd ) , classified into three groups according to their aetiology : inflammatory ( n = 20 ) , infectious ( n = 15 ) and neoplastic ( n = 15 ) . the inflammatory group showed a higher mean s-epo level ( mean value + / - sem , 69 + / - 11 mu ml-1 ) than the neoplastic ( 43 + / - 5 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.05 ) and infectious groups ( 27 + / - 4 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.01 ) . the s-epo level in the inflammatory group also differed from that of 32 healthy controls ( 36 + / - 3 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.05 ) . fourteen patients with added iron deficiency ( 12 subjects from the inflammatory group ) showed the highest s-epo concentration ( 72 + / - 17 mu ml-1 ) . conversely , s-epo levels were lower in febrile subjects ( 12 patients with infection and five with malignancy ) than in non-febrile patients ( 28 + / - 4 mu ml-1 vs. 55 + / - 7 mu ml-1 ; p less than 0.01 ) . in the infectious group , the logarithm of s-epo correlated directly with the haemoglobin and haematocrit values . we conclude that differences in s-epo concentration in acd may be further related to the patient 's iron stores and temperature . a decrease in epo production may contribute to the pathogenesis of acd secondary to infection . 
prophylactic effect of self-administered pump-driven subcutaneous igg infusion in patients with antibody deficiency : a triple-blind cross-over study comparing p-igg levels of 3 g l-1 versus 6 g l-1 . eight adult patients with hypoimmunoglobulinaemia were randomly allocated to initiation of low - or high-level igg-substitution . igg was administered subcutaneously , at 50 or 150 mg ml-1 , 20 ml per infusion , by means of a pocket-portable electric infusion pump . infusions were given 2 to 4 times weekly for 24 months , with a change of dose regimen after 12 months . the desired plasma igg levels were reached after a mean lag phase of 3 months ( range 1-5 months ) . the median ( and ranges ) of the individual mean plasma igg levels during the ensuing 9-month periods were as follows : high-level period , 6.5 g l-1 ( range 6.2-7 .8 g l-1 ) ; low-level period , 3.2 g l-1 ( range 3.0-4 .0 g l-1 ) . during the high-level period , compared to the low-level period , there was a significant decrease in the following parameters : ' days in bed at home ' , ' days missed work ' and ' days with fever ' . no serious side-effects were observed . it is concluded that a plasma igg concentration of 6 g l-1 can readily be achieved by subcutaneous igg substitution , and the prophylactic effect is superior to that obtained with a plasma igg concentration of 3 g l-1 . 
lack of increased bleeding after paracentesis and thoracentesis in patients with mild coagulation abnormalities . to determine whether untreated mild coagulopathy in patients with no evidence of clinical bleeding is associated with an increased risk of hemorrhage after paracentesis or thoracentesis , retrospective examination was conducted of 608 consecutive procedures for which prothrombin time ( pt ) , partial thromboplastin time ( ptt ) , platelet ( plt ) counts , and preprocedure and postprocedure hemoglobin concentrations were available . there was no increased bleeding in patients with mild to moderate coagulopathy ( defined as pt or ptt up to twice the midpoint normal range or pit count of 50 to 99 x 10 ( 3 ) per microl [ 50-99 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ] ) . however , patients with markedly elevated serum creatinine levels ( 6.0 to 14.0 mg/dl [ 530-1240 mumol/l ] ) had a significantly greater average hemoglobin loss ( -0.82 + / - 1.3 g/dl [ -8 + / - 13 g/l ] , n = 11 ) than patients with normal serum creatinine levels ( -0.12 + / - 0.88 g/dl [ -1 + / - 9 g/l ] , n = 450 ) ( p = 0.011 ) . overall , the frequency of bleeding complications requiring red cell transfusions was very low : 0.2 percent of events . the most common diagnosis for patients who had paracentesis was alcoholic liver disease ( 72 % ) ; for those having thoracentesis , it was infection ( 37 % ) . it can be concluded that , for these patients , prophylactic plasma or platelet transfusions are not necessary . patients with markedly elevated serum creatinine deserve close postprocedure observation . 
a fatal case of ceftriaxone ( rocephin ) - induced hemolytic anemia associated with intravascular immune hemolysis . fatal hemolytic anemia developed in a 52-year-old woman who was treated with a cephalosporin , ceftriaxone . the patient 's red cells ( rbcs ) were coated with c3 , but no rbc-bound igg , iga , or igm was detected . her serum contained an antibody that did not react with cephalosporin-coated rbcs but reacted strongly with rbcs in vitro when her serum was added to drug and rbcs . this is the first case of immune hemolytic anemia associated with ceftriaxone , the first case of fatal cephalosporin-induced hemolytic anemia , and the second case in which a cephalosporin antibody showed in vitro and in vivo characteristics usually thought to be associated with the so-called immune complex mechanism . 
bone marrow findings after treatment with recombinant human interleukin-3 . in a phase i/ii study , bone marrow biopsy specimens and aspirates of 20 patients with malignant tumors but normal bone marrow ( n = 6 ) , bone marrow failure resulting from chemotherapy ( n = 4 ) , myelodysplastic syndrome ( n = 5 ) , and aplastic anemia ( n = 5 ) were evaluated before and after patients were treated with recombinant human interleukin-3 ( rhil-3 ) . this cytokine proved to be an effective hematopoietic growth factor with only mild side effects . the rhil-3 treatment led to increased overall bone marrow cellularity with trilinear stimulation of hematopoietic cells , except in most patients with aplastic anemia . in all patients , significant eosinophilia and , in some instances , bone marrow fibrosis developed . in addition to the increase in the number of circulating neutrophilic granulocytes , platelets , and reticulocytes , an increase of peripheral blood monocytes and lymphocytes was observed . the histologic and cytologic findings support the concept that rhil-3 stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of pluripotent hematopoietic progenitor cells . it appears to be a safe and efficient therapeutic modality in patients with bone marrow failure . additional clinical studies are needed to determine which patients will profit most from rhil-3 treatment . 
flow cytometric analysis of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase . terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase ( tdt ) is a useful marker for lymphoid precursor cells . in this study , the authors used flow cytometry ( fcm ) to analyze tdt expression in human hematopoietic malignancies . cells were fixed in 0.5 % formaldehyde , briefly exposed to nonionic detergent , and subsequently labeled with mouse monoclonal anti-tdt antibodies followed by fluorescein-conjugated antimouse igg and propidium iodide ( pi ) , which was used for the simultaneous analysis of dna content . cells from 20 of 22 acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( all ) , 4 of 7 mixed lineage leukemias , 2 of 21 acute myeloid and myelomonocytic leukemias , 1 of 2 chronic myeloid leukemias in blast crisis , 1 lymphoblastic lymphoma , and 1 thymoma were tdt positive . cells from 13 nonlymphoblastic lymphomas , 3 myelodysplastic bone marrows , and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 29 normal individuals were negative . an excellent correlation was seen between this assay , the conventional slide immunofluorescence technique , and an enzyme immunoassay method . the fcm assay detected as few as 2 % blasts in mixing experiments of tdt-containing leukemic cells with normal peripheral lymphocytes . furthermore , the combined analysis of tdt and dna allowed the recognition of aneuploid tdt positive cells in four cases of all . the high sensitivity , the quantitative information obtained , and the capability of simultaneously analyzing dna content make this method of tdt analysis more valuable than conventional techniques . 
ceftazidime-induced hemolysis in a patient with drug-dependent antibodies reactive by immune complex and drug adsorption mechanisms . a 35-year-old woman developed acute intravascular hemolysis within five days of beginning a course of ceftazidime . the direct antiglobulin test became strongly positive with both anti-igg and anticomplement . the serum contained an antibody that , in the presence of ceftazidime , sensitized unmodified reagent cells with igg and complement ( immune-complex type ) . the serum also agglutinated ceftazidime-pretreated cells at room temperature and 37 degrees c ( drug-adsorption type ) . retrospective testing disclosed that the drug adsorption antibody , which had been present before the current course of antibiotics , was not demonstrable during the hemolysis . the reactivity of the immune complex antibody , which developed by the second day of ceftazidime , paralleled the degree of hemolysis and the strength of the direct antiglobulin test . the authors believe that this patient had two separate ceftazidime-dependent antibodies and that the antibody reactive by immune complex mechanism mediated an episode of acute intravascular hemolysis . 
hemodynamic effects of partial correction of chronic anemia by recombinant human erythropoietin in patients on dialysis . eighteen patients on chronic hemodialysis with renal anemia were treated with recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) . hemodynamic parameters in the resting state were determined before and after successful treatment . posttreatment cardiac index was decreased ( 3.3 v 2.8 l/min/m2 ) , whereas diastolic blood pressure ( 72 v 79 mm hg ) and calculated peripheral resistance ( 2,230 v 2,860 dyne.cm.s-5 ) were increased significantly when compared with the pretreatment period . we conclude from our study that the increase of blood pressure as seen in patients on dialysis , who are effectively treated with r-huepo , is due to an increase in peripheral resistance . this increase overrules the decrease of cardiac index and might well be a result of peripheral vasoconstriction due to improved oxygen availability . 
results of bronchoscopically obtained lower airway cultures from adult sickle cell disease patients with the acute chest syndrome . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the frequency of bacterial pneumonia as a cause of the acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease based on bronchoscopically obtained lower airway cultures and to describe the clinical , laboratory , and roentgenographic features of the acute chest syndrome in a series composed entirely of adult patients with sickle cell disease . patients and methods : we reviewed the hospital records from 19 episodes ( 18 patients ) of acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease ( greater than or equal to 19 years of age ) who had undergone flexible bronchoscopy to obtain lower airway cultures between january 1979 and july 1987 . we also recorded patients ' clinical , laboratory , and roentgenographic characteristics . results : pneumonia was diagnosed in four of 19 episodes ( 21 % ) of acute chest syndrome based on quantitative cultures obtained at bronchoscopy . the pneumonia was caused by streptococcus pneumoniae in two patients and mixed aerobic and anaerobic organisms in the other two patients . forty-four of 45 blood cultures were negative , and one grew staphylococcus epidermidis , which was considered a contaminant . chest roentgenograms revealed lower lobe involvement in 17 episodes ( 90 % ) and bilateral infiltrates in six ( 32 % ) . pleural effusions occurred in seven episodes ( 37 % ) , and pleural fluid samples obtained from five of these revealed sterile exudates . conclusion : the results of this retrospective study suggest that bacterial pneumonia is an uncommon cause of acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease . these results are consistent with previous retrospective studies using noninvasive techniques to diagnose pneumonia . nevertheless , there appeared to be no reliable noninvasive variables that could accurately differentiate between patients with and without pneumonia and , consequently , we recommend empiric antibiotic therapy in addition to usual supportive care of these patients . 
idiopathic neutropenia : antineutrophil antibodies and clinical correlations . purpose : the present study was done to evaluate the clinical characteristics of a large series of adult patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia , and correlate the presence of antineutrophil antibodies , their class ( igg or igm ) , and their ability to fix complement with clinical parameters , including other hemocytopenias , splenomegaly , and infections . patients and methods : one hundred twenty-one adult patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia were studied . serum neutrophil-binding antibodies were measured using paraformaldehyde-fixed granulocytes ( pfgs ) from normal volunteers as target cells . 125i-labeled staphylococcal protein a was used to detect igg antibodies while igm antibodies were detected by using 125i-labeled mouse monoclonal anti-igm antibody . sera containing antineutrophil antibodies were tested for their ability to fix complement on donor pfgs by using 125i-labeled monoclonal antibody to the third component of complement . results : of the 121 patients with chronic idiopathic neutropenia , 71 patients had isolated neutropenia , while 50 had neutropenia combined with either anemia and/or thrombocytopenia . among the 71 patients with isolated neutropenia , there were 51 females ( 72 % ) , compared with 28 females ( 56 % ) among the 50 patients with combined hemocytopenias ( p = 0.083 ) . patients with multiple hemocytopenias were significantly older ( p less than 0.01 ) , were more likely to demonstrate splenomegaly ( p = 0.001 ) , and may have had more infectious complications . from all the patients , 36 % of sera were shown to have antineutrophil antibodies , with a non-significant trend for these to be found more frequently in patients with multiple hemocytopenias . sera with mixed igg-igm antineutrophil antibodies were significantly more likely to fix complement than those with isolated igg or igm antibodies , and among the patients with antineutrophil antibodies , complement-fixing antibodies were significantly associated with multiple hemocytopenias . splenomegaly was significantly associated both with antineutrophil antibodies ( p = 0.008 ) and with infections ( p = 0.007 ) . antineutrophil antibodies were not associated with infections . conclusions : approximately one third of adult patients with idiopathic neutropenia have igg and/or igm antineutrophil antibodies demonstrable in their serum . there is a subset of patients with idiopathic neutropenia with multiple hemocytopenias who tend to be older , less likely to show female predominance , more likely to have splenomegaly and infections , and more likely to have antineutrophil antibodies , especially mixed igg-igm and complement-fixing antibodies . 
efficacy of fludarabine , a new adenine nucleoside analogue , in patients with prolymphocytic leukemia and the prolymphocytoid variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia . purpose : to describe the results of fludarabine therapy in patients with prolymphocytic leukemia ( pll ) and the prolymphocytoid variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll-pro ) . patients and methods : seventeen patients with a diagnosis of pll or cll-pro received fludarabine 30 mg/m2 over 30 minutes daily for 5 days every 4 weeks alone ( 12 patients ) , or with prednisone ( five patients ) . previously defined criteria for response were used . differences in response rates according to various characteristics were evaluated by chi-square test . results : three patients ( 18 % ) achieved complete remission , and three ( 18 % ) had a partial remission , for an overall response rate of 35 % . responses were durable and occurred in all involved organ sites . lower response rates were observed in patients with anemia , thrombocytopenia , advanced rai stages , and primary resistance to prior therapy . toxicities were minimal except for febrile episodes associated with therapy . conclusion : fludarabine has shown encouraging results in these patients and deserves further investigation in combination with other active agents , and in the setting of front-line therapy . 
a comparison of the performance of 20 pulse oximeters under conditions of poor perfusion the performance of 20 pulse oximeters with finger probes was evaluated by comparison of their readings with directly measured arterial blood oxygen saturations . the samples were taken from patients who had undergone cardiac surgery under hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass and had poor peripheral perfusion . the mean difference ( bias , accuracy ) , standard deviation ( precision ) and drop-out rate for each pulse oximeter was determined . an overall ranking of performance of each pulse oximeter was calculated using five criteria ( accuracy , precision , number of readings within 3 % of standard , percentage of readings given within 3 % of standard , expected overread limit in 95 % of cases ) . two pulse oximeters achieved a combination of accuracy and precision such that 95 % of measurements would be expected to be within 4 % of the co-oximeter value ; these two also had the lowest drop-out rate . 
acquired methemoglobinemia . the relationship of cause to course of illness [ published erratum appears in am j dis child 1991 feb ; 145 ( 2 ) :158 ] to better characterize methemoglobinemia in children , we reviewed the charts of 17 patients who were admitted to a children 's hospital over the last 10 years . two distinct groups were identified : ( 1 ) the endogenous group ( n = 9 ) included patients with methemoglobinemia associated with an intercurrent illness . ( 2 ) the exogenous group ( n = 8 ) included patients with methemoglobinemia secondary to drug exposure . despite similar initial methemoglobin levels in the endogenous ( mean , 29 % ) and exogenous ( mean , 28 % ) groups , children in the endogenous group had more acidosis ( serum bicarbonate levels of 5.9 vs 19.1 mmol/l and arterial ph of 7.01 vs 7.35 ) . all the children in the exogenous group with methemoglobinemia secondary to an accidental ingestion stayed only 1 day in the hospital , while children in the endogenous group were admitted for an average of 19 days . children with methemoglobinemia secondary to a drug exposure have a more benign illness with a shorter duration than children with methemoglobinemia associated with an intercurrent illness . it appears that the absolute level of methemoglobin is not as important as the underlying cause in determining both the course and severity of illness . 
serum non-organ specific autoantibodies in human immunodeficiency virus 1 infection . serum samples from 66 seropositive subjects ( 56 with a history of intravenous drug abuse ) , including asymptomatic carriers and patients with persistent generalised lymphadenopathy ( pgl ) , aids related complex ( arc ) , and aids , were tested by indirect immunofluorescence on rat tissue sections and hep-2 cells for the presence of antibodies to nuclei , smooth muscle , intermediate filaments ( anti-imf ) and microfilaments ( anti-mf ) . counterimmunoelectrophoresis was also used to detect antibodies to extractable nuclear antigens . smooth muscle antibodies with the v pattern or antinuclear antibodies , mainly of the speckled type , or anti-imf , occurred in 35 cases , being widely distributed in all groups . such an autoantibody response resembles the " viral " autoimmunity described in various infectious diseases and in particular that of non-a , non-b post-transfusion hepatitis . autoantibodies may be of some prognostic relevance , as the prevalence of smooth muscle antibodies v increased as the disease progressed ( asymptomatic carriers 20 % , those with pgl 29 % , those with arc 47 % , and those with aids 63 % . in the pgl group autoantibody positivity correlated with the presence of skin anergy . the fact that autoantibodies were more frequently detected in patients with circulating immune complexes suggests that these can contain autoantibodies and the corresponding autoantigens . 
gastric lymphoma causing granulocytopenia and cold intolerance , with recovery after treatment . a 34-year-old man was found to have granulocytopenia with a white blood count of 2.3 x 10 ( 9 ) l-1 , consisting of 10 % segmented neutrophils , 50 % monocytes and 40 % lymphocytes . a bone marrow aspirate showed 20 % promyelocytes and 10 % blasts with monoblastic features , and a smouldering myelomonocytic leukaemia was considered to be a possible diagnosis . in cold weather the patient experienced cold intolerance with acrocyanosis and small ulcerations on the ears . the test for heparin-precipitable protein ( ' cryofibrinogen ' ) was strongly positive . during the following year , these signs and symptoms persisted , and the patient also developed constant moderate pain in the epigastric region . gastroscopy revealed a large lymphoma of the stomach , which was a high-grade malignant centroblastic type of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . after successful removal of the tumour , and six courses of potent cytostatic combinations , the patient recovered completely , and the granulocytopenia and cold intolerance disappeared . 
neuropathy caused by spontaneous intraneural hemorrhage : case report . a case of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow produced by spontaneous intraneural hemorrhage in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and thrombocytopenia is reported . intraneural hemorrhage in patients with bleeding disorders occurs infrequently . it consists of acute intrafascicular bleeding , presumably producing very high elevations of endoneurial fluid pressure . the clinical features and treatment of this condition are considered , the pertinent literature is reviewed , and the involved pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed . 
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the lung . congenital nonvascular anomalies of the lung can be subdivided into those affecting the bronchial tree and those affecting parenchymal abnormalities . embryologic development of the lung is briefly reviewed to facilitate an understanding of developmental pulmonary anomalies . clinical , radiographic , and therapeutic aspects of these anomalies are discussed . 
prenatal screening for hemoglobinopathies . i . a prospective regional trial . prenatal hemoglobinopathy screening was chosen as a model system for the study of patient receptivity to unsolicited genetic information . providers of prenatal care in rochester , ny , were offered free testing of all their prenatal patients and genetic counseling of women found positive . the 18,907 prenatal samples tested in a 5-year period represented 35.1 % of the pregnancies in the rochester metropolitan region . a hemoglobinopathy was found in 810 pregnancies ( 4.3 % ) . of the 21 different types of hemoglobinopathies detected , the most common were sickle cell trait ( 59 % ) , hemoglobin c trait ( 19 % ) , beta-thalassemia trait ( 11 % ) , and hemoglobin e trait ( 5 % ) . at the time of phlebotomy , 75 % of the pregnancies were of less than 18 wk duration . sixty-six percent of the pregnancies occurred in patients unaware of their diagnosis , and 80 % occurred in patients unaware that they might be at risk for a child with a serious blood disorder . of the 810 positive pregnancies , 551 ( 68 % ) occurred in patients who came for counseling . of 453 women counseled during their first screened pregnancy , 390 ( 86 % ) said they wanted their partners tested and 254 ( 55 % ) had their partner tested . in the 77 pregnancies thus found to be at risk , the couple was too late for prenatal diagnosis in 12 cases , and the condition for which the fetus was at risk was too mild in 12 cases . prenatal diagnosis was offered in the remaining 53 pregnancies and was accepted by 25 couples ( 47 % ) . these results indicate that unselected patients in the primary care setting in this region , even though pregnant , are receptive to and utilize genetic information . 
prenatal screening for hemoglobinopathies . ii . evaluation of counseling learning during genetic counseling is often below expectations , especially in the context of genetic screening . in this report we describe learning as a result of genetic counseling of 298 pregnant women identified as hemoglobinopathy carriers , 234 with sickle cell trait and 64 with beta-thalassemia trait . counseling was designed to provide the information needed in a simple , clear , and nondirective manner . a special videotape produced for this purpose provided dramatization and a role model illustrating an appropriate response . after viewing the videotape the counselee had an opportunity to question the counselor and to have any misconceptions corrected . questionnaires revealed significantly increased knowledge as a result of counseling in each of the three hemoglobinopathy subject areas tested-namely , clinical manifestations , genetics , and prenatal diagnosis . five factors correlated with higher knowledge scores after counseling-namely , a younger patient age , more years of education , knowledge of having trait before this identification , knowledge of the baby 's father having trait before counseling , and having no prior children . 
prenatal screening for hemoglobinopathies . iii . applicability of the health belief model . a comprehensive prenatal hemoglobinopathy screening program in rochester , ny , has been described in a preceding paper in this issue of the journal . a woman identified as a carrier may face three decisions . the first is whether to accept the offer of counseling . the second is whether to have her partner tested . if her partner also tests positive , then the third decision is whether to accept the offer of prenatal diagnosis . this report analyzes factors affecting her decision , with special attention being given to factors invoked by the health belief model . factors predicting that a patient who we identified as a carrier would come for counseling included the following : patient had no prior knowledge that she is a carrier ( p less than .001 ) , a gestational age less than 18 wk ( p less than .01 ) , and caucasian race ( p less than .05 ) . for sickle cell trait counselees and beta-thalassamia trait counselees , factors found to predict patient 's intent to have partner tested were the following : a greater postcounseling knowledge of the disease ( p less than .009 ) , a lesser perceived burden of intervention ( p less than .011 ) , and belief that the partner is also a carrier ( p less than .008 ) . also for sickle cell trait counselees and beta-thalassemia trait counselees , factors predicting that the partner actually will be tested were the following : living with the partner ( p less than .001 ) , gestational age at identification less than or equal to 18 wk ( p less than .001 ) , a lesser perceived burden of intervention ( p less than .002 ) , and a greater perceived seriousness of the disease ( p less than .05 ) . 
mapping of the locus for x-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria ( barth syndrome ) to xq28 . x-linked cardioskeletal myopathy with neutropenia and abnormal mitochondria is clinically characterized by congenital dilated cardiomyopathy , skeletal myopathy , recurrent bacterial infections , and growth retardation . we analyzed linkage between the disease locus and x-chromosomal markers in a family with seven carriers , four patients , and eight unaffected sons of carriers . highest lod scores obtained by two-point linkage analysis were 2.70 for st14 .1 ( dxs52 , taqi ) at a recombination fraction of zero and 2.53 for cpx67 ( dxs134 ) at a recombination fraction of zero . multipoint linkage analysis resulted in a maximum lod score of 5.24 at the position of st35 .691 ( dxs305 ) . the most distal recombination detected in this family was located between the markers ii-10 ( dxs466 ) and dx13 ( dxs15 ) . these data indicate the location of the mutated gene at xq28 . 
hemolysis due to branch pulmonary stenosis after the arterial switch procedure . an infant with d-transposition of the great arteries underwent arterial switch operation using the modified jatene technique . severe bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and mechanical hemolysis subsequently developed . the hemolysis resolved after surgical repair of the stenotic arteries . probable causes are discussed . 
anemia after traumatic spinal cord injury . the incidence and natural history of anemia in patients with spinal cord injuries ( sci ) were investigated in a prospective study of 68 patients consecutively admitted to a regional acute sci unit . fifty had sci and 18 had spine injuries ( si ) without neurologic deficit . thirty-six of 41 males ( 88 % ) and six of nine females ( 67 % ) with sci were anemic on at least one occasion . in the first two weeks after injury , in females and in males , there was no significant difference in mean hemoglobin level between si and sci patients . at six weeks , no male with si was anemic , and males with sci had significantly lower mean hemoglobin levels than those with si ( 121.6 g/l vs 145.4 g/l , p less than .001 ) . identified early causes of anemia were blood loss due to bony soft tissue or visceral injury , gastrointestinal bleeding , and surgery . in the postacute phase ( more than six weeks after injury ) , anemia occurred in 25 of 41 male and three of nine female sci patients , and its occurrence was associated with the presence of an identified chronic disease , especially urinary tract infection . 
coagulation studies in the syndrome of haemolysis , elevated liver enzymes and low platelets . the presence of disseminated intravascular coagulation ( dic ) in the syndrome of haemolysis , elevated liver enzymes and low platelets ( hellp ) is debated . we assessed the occurrence of decompensated and compensated dic ( using predefined criteria ) in 15 consecutive nulliparous pregnant patients with gestational hypertension combined with the hellp syndrome and in 12 consecutive nulliparous controls with pregnancy induced hypertension ( pih ) but without the hellp syndrome . a combination of routine coagulation assays revealed the absence of decompensated dic in all studied patients . however , using more specific and sensitive coagulation assays , compensated dic was observed in all hellp patients and in three patients in the control group . the mean values of antithrombin iii , thrombin-antithrombin iii complexes and protein c in the hellp and the control group were 66 vs 87 % ( p = 0.0004 ) , 21 vs 8 ng/ml ( p = 0.0008 ) and 57 vs 90 % ( p = 0.0018 ) respectively . we conclude that hellp patients show evidence of compensated dic which may have pathophysiological significance for the observed organ damage . 
giant cell versus lymphocytic myocarditis . a comparison of their clinical features and long-term outcomes background . giant cell myocarditis has rarely been diagnosed premortem , and little is known about its natural history . in addition , no comparative studies with lymphocytic myocarditis exist . methods and results . the clinical features , serial change in left ventricular fraction ( lvef ) , and outcomes of all patients with histologically verified myocarditis were retrospectively evaluated . ten patients ( 22 % ) were found to have giant cell myocarditis ( group 1 ) , whereas the remaining 36 ( 78 % ) had lymphocytic myocarditis ( group 2 ) . age at presentation , gender distribution , duration of symptoms , initial lvef , and resting hemodynamics did not differ between groups . ventricular tachycardia was detected in 90 % of group 1 patients compared with only 25 % of group 2 ( p = 0.0007 ) . atrioventricular block that required pacemaker insertion was also more common in group 1 ( 60 % ) than in group 2 ( 8.3 % ) ( p = 0.001 ) . left ventricular systolic function declined during follow-up in group 1 patients ( lvef , 0.43 + / - 0.07-0 .26 + / - 0.05 , p = 0.11 ) but increased in group 2 patients ( lvef , 0.33 + / - 0.03-0 .41 + / - 0.03 , p = 0.02 ) . when the net change between initial and final lvef was assessed , a significant difference was evident ( giant cell group , -0.17 + / - 0.06 ; lymphocytic group , +0.07 + / - 0.03 ; p = 0.0008 ) . although a greater proportion of patients in group 1 died or required transplantation ( seven of 10 versus 11 of 36 , p = 0.03 ) , actuarial survival over 4 years was not different for the giant cell group ( 50 % ) than for the lymphocytic group ( 62 % ) . conclusion . giant cell myocarditis was more prevalent than previously recognized and highly associated with both ventricular tachycardia and pacemaker requirement . the likelihood of an adverse event , either cardiovascular mortality or cardiac transplantation , was significantly greater for patients with giant cell myocarditis than for those with lymphocytic myocarditis , perhaps because of the progressive decline in left ventricular systolic function that was observed in those with giant cell myocarditis . 
decreased content and surface expression of alpha-granule membrane protein gmp-140 in one of two types of platelet alpha delta storage pool deficiency . to determine whether alpha-granule membranes are present in platelets of patients with storage pool deficiencies of both alpha and dense granules ( alpha delta-spd ) , we examined the content and surface expression of the alpha-granule membrane protein gmp-140 in one patient ( j.c. ) with a severe alpha-granule deficiency and in three members of a family ( family c ) with milder alpha-granule deficiencies . surface expression of gmp-140 in stimulated platelets , assessed by flow cytometric measurements of the binding of two anti-gmp-140 monoclonal antibodies , was 24-38 % of normal values in platelets from patient j.c. , vs. 60-95 % of normal values in family c. total platelet content of gmp-140 , determined in platelet lysates by antigen-capture elisa , was 49 % of normal in patient j.c. , but normal in the members of family c. platelets of patient j.c. were found to be heterogeneous with respect to gmp-140 content and surface expression by both flow cytometry and immunogold electron microscopy . approximately 80 % of her platelets expressed little or no gmp-140 after stimulation , whereas the remaining 20 % expressed normal amounts of gmp-140 and showed extensive immunogold labeling of typical alpha-granules and clear vacuoles . no such heterogeneity was found in platelets from family c. these findings in the severe alpha delta-spd patient are in clear contrast to the observations of normal gmp-140 content in the three other alpha delta-spd patients , and in patients with the gray platelet syndrome , reported previously by others . these results illustrate the phenotypic heterogeneity of alpha-granule deficiencies in human platelets , and suggest that a defect in granule formation in the megakaryocytes may account for the alpha-granule defect in at least one form of alpha delta-spd . 
evidence that tumor necrosis factor plays a pathogenetic role in the paraneoplastic syndromes of cachexia , hypercalcemia , and leukocytosis in a human tumor in nude mice . recently , we have established a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla ( called mh-85 ) associated with hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia in culture . mh-85 tumor cells caused the same paraneoplastic syndromes in tumor-bearing nude mice . we found that there was a sixfold increase in splenic size in mh-85 tumor-bearing mice . this increase paralleled tumor growth and was reversed by surgical removal of the tumor . splenectomy in nude mice 1 wk before or 6 wk after tumor inoculation resulted in a decrease in tumor growth , and impairment of hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia . in mh-85 tumor-bearing animals that had been pretreated by splenectomy , intravenous injection of fresh normal spleen cells caused an immediate reversal of leukocytosis , hypercalcemia , and cachexia . since the presence of cachexia in both the patient and the mice carrying the tumor suggested tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) may be overproduced , we injected polyclonal neutralizing antibodies raised against murine tnf into tumor-bearing mice . there was a rapid and reproducible decrease in blood ionized calcium , accompanied by suppression of osteoclast activity . no changes in blood ionized calcium were seen in mice injected with normal immune sera . in addition , there was an increase in body weight and decrease in white cell count . plasma immunoreactive tnf was increased almost fourfold in tumor-bearing nude mice compared with control nude mice . although tnf activity was undetectable in mh-85 culture supernatants , cells of the macrophage lineage , including spleen cells , released increased amounts of tnf when cultured with mh-85 tumor-conditioned media . these results suggest that splenic cytokines such as tnf may influence the development of the paraneoplastic syndromes of hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia in these animals , as well as tumor growth . they also show that paraneoplastic syndromes may be due to factors produced by normal host cells stimulated by the presence of the tumor . 
infantile acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin : study of ten cases . infantile acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin is not included as a separate entity in the current english-language literature as it is in continental europe . therefore we have attempted to clarify the nosologic position of acute hemorrhagic edema among cutaneous vasculitides in children , on the basis of our experience in 10 cases . our study confirms that acute hemorrhagic edema affects infants between 4 and 24 months of age . the two main features are an ecchymotic purpura , often in a cockade pattern , and an inflammatory edema of the limbs and face . visceral involvement is uncommon . spontaneous and complete resolution occurs within 1 to 3 weeks ; one to four attacks may occur . histopathologic examination demonstrates a leukocytoclastic vasculitis . perivascular iga deposits can occasionally be found . besides typical acute hemorrhagic edema , some cases in 2 - to 4-year-old children appear to overlap with schonlein-henoch purpura . we suggest that typical acute hemorrhagic edema should be regarded as a separate clinical entity . this allows an appropriate prognosis to be made for this generally benign disease of infants . 
langerhans cell histiocytosis in monozygotic twins . langerhans cells histiocytosis , one of a group of histiocytosis syndromes characterized by langerhans cell infiltration , has many clinical manifestations . in the past 30 years , numerous cases of presumed letterer-siwe disease , the acute multiorgan variant , have been reported in twins and siblings . only recently has the histiocyte society established a criterion for a " definitive diagnosis " of langerhans cell histiocytosis -- the presence of birbeck granules within the cells of the histiocytic infiltrate . we report the fatal outcome of langerhans cell histiocytosis in monozygotic twin infants . there is no satisfactory explanation why langerhans cell histiocytosis occurs concurrently in twins . we suggest that cytokines may provide an endogenous signal that triggers the pathologic proliferation of langerhans cells . 
cutaneous manifestations in patients with essential thrombocythemia . in a retrospective study of 268 patients with essential thrombocythemia , related cutaneous manifestations were found in 58 ( 22 % ) . in 27 cases ( 10 % ) the related skin lesions were present at the time of the primary diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia . hematomas , ecchymoses , petechiae , or purpura occurred in 24 ( 41 % ) of the 58 patients . fifteen patients ( 26 % ) had erythromelalgia , in 11 of whom it was the initial complaint . livedo reticularis , recurrent superficial thrombophlebitis , ischemic complications with gangrene , leg ulcers , or ulcers on the toes were other manifestations . urticaria occurred in two patients , and raynaud 's phenomenon and necrotizing vasculitis were each observed in one patient . platelet function may be abnormal , and this was found in 13 of 19 patients studied , 9 of whom had spontaneous platelet aggregation . knowledge of the cutaneous manifestations in essential thrombocythemia may lead to its earlier detection . prompt diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia is important because treatment may prevent severe hemorrhagic or thrombotic events . 
pyoderma gangrenosum followed by subcorneal pustular dermatosis in a patient with iga paraproteinemia . six months after the occurrence of pyoderma gangrenosum , subcorneal pustular dermatosis developed in a 60-year-old woman . the patient 's serum was found to contain an iga-lambda paraprotein . although similar cases have been reported , this case is unique in that a distinct episode of pyoderma gangrenosum was followed by subcorneal pustular dermatosis . 
rhodococcus infection of the skin with lymphadenitis in a nonimmunocompromised girl . a 7-year-old girl had a 4 x 3 x 3 cm nodule on the left wrist with axillary lymphadenopathy . acid-fast bacilli were seen on a smear from a biopsy specimen of this granulomatous skin lesion . a rhodococcus species grew on culture . skin infections caused by rhodococcus may be more common than the few prior case reports suggest . 
thrombotic vasculopathy associated with cryofibrinogenemia . cryofibrinogenemia refers to the presence of cold-precipitable plasma proteins associated with a variety of disorders , including malignancies , inflammatory processes , and thrombohemorrhagic phenomena . few cases of essential or primary cryofibrinogenemia are reported . we report a case in a 48-year-old man of essential cryofibrinogenemia and hemorrhagic necrosis of the ears and of the upper and lower extremities . histopathologic studies demonstrated extensive eosinophilic thrombi in the dermal vasculature , with minimal inflammation and no vasculitis . cryofibrinogenemia should be considered in the investigation of patients with otherwise unexplained cold intolerance and dermal thrombosis associated with minimal or no inflammation . 
a syndrome characterized by nodular eosinophilic infiltration of the skin and immunoglobulin isotype imbalance . a 9-year-old boy had recurrent acute , plaquelike , nodular infiltrations with overlying vesicles and bullae of the face and right hand . histologically , the lesions consisted of a perivascular and periadnexal lymphohistiocytic infiltrate with many eosinophils . the lesions responded to dapsone therapy . laboratory studies revealed blood eosinophilia , hyperimmunoglobulinemias e and g4 , and hypoimmunoglobulinemias m and g1-3 , which normalized after treatment . the patient 's immune deviation is consistent with a transient imbalance of lymphokine production in helper t cells . 
trichothiodystrophy with chronic neutropenia and mild mental retardation . trichothiodystrophy is a feature of several diseases that consist of characteristic hair shaft abnormalities and a wide spectrum of other developmental defects . detection of sulfur-deficient hairs identifies this disorder and separates it from other similar ectodermal dysplasias with normal sulfur content . detection of low sulfur hair syndrome is also important for genetic counseling , because the disease appears to be an autosomal recessive trait . we report a patient with chronic neutropenia , mild mental retardation , and low sulfur content in hair . our case expands the spectrum of disorders associated with trichothiodystrophy . 
group a streptococcal cellulitis-adenitis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a rapidly enlarging left inguinal adenitis , with positive groove sign , and fever , chills , malaise , hypotension , headache , scarlatiniform rash , choleroid diarrhea , and proteinuria developed in an homosexual man who was positive for human immunodeficiency virus . the needle aspiration of the inguinal mass showed group a beta-hemolytic streptococci and the blood cultures were negative , suggesting group a streptococcal cellulitis-adenitis with toxic strep syndrome . treatment with penicillin and surgical drainage was successful . bacterial infections associated with defective humoral immunity appear to be common in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , and some of these infections have a remarkable extensive and lethal evolution . therefore streptococcal adenitis should be considered in any patient with aids or aids-related syndrome in whom rapidly enlarging inguinal nodes develop . 
phase ii trial of piritrexim in metastatic melanoma using intermittent , low-dose administration . a phase ii trial of piritrexim ( 2,4-diamino-6 [ 2,5-dimethoxybenzyl ] -5 - methyl pyrido - [ 2,3 d ] pyrimidine , 301u74 ; ptx ) was conducted for patients with metastatic malignant melanoma using an intermittent , low-dose oral administration schedule . ptx was administered at a starting dose of 25 mg orally three times per day for 5 days weekly for 3 weeks followed by 1 week of rest . thirty-one patients were entered onto the study . among 31 patients assessable for response , there were two complete responses ( crs ) and five partial responses ( prs ) for a response rate ( cr plus pr ) of 23 % ( 95 % confidence limit , 10 % to 42 % ) . five responses occurred in soft tissue lesions , and two responses occurred in lung lesions . the initial dose schedule was well tolerated . the dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression . ptx administered in this schedule appears to be active against malignant melanoma . further clinical trials to confirm these results are underway . 
occurrence of hypercalcemia and leukocytosis with cachexia in a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla in athymic nude mice : a novel experimental model of three concomitant paraneoplastic syndromes . hypercalcemia and leukocytosis may occur in conjunction as paraneoplastic syndromes associated with malignant disease . here we describe a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla that was associated with hypercalcemia and leukocytosis , and also cachexia . the primary tumor was surgically removed and established in permanent cell culture . when either primary tumors or cultured tumor cells were inoculated into nude mice , the nude mice developed the same paraneoplastic syndromes as those which occurred in the patient from whom the tumor was originally derived . the plasma calcium was increased two and one-half-fold and the wbc count 30-fold , and the body weight was decreased by 45 % in tumor-bearing animals . each of these paraneoplastic syndromes was alleviated by surgical excision of the tumor , indicating that the paraneoplastic syndromes were due to a factor or factors produced by the primary tumor . the development of each of these paraneoplastic syndromes in nude mice correlated positively with the other two syndromes . we examined the organs of tumor-bearing mice and found striking histopathologic abnormalities in the bones , spleen , and liver , but no infiltration with tumor cells . the bones showed marked evidence of osteoclastic bone resorption . this model of a human tumor associated with the hypercalcemia-leukocytosis paraneoplastic syndrome , together with cachexia , should make it possible to determine the mechanisms responsible for these paraneoplastic syndromes and their relationship to each other . 
high risk of recurrent stroke after discontinuance of five to twelve years of transfusion therapy in patients with sickle cell disease . although long-term transfusion therapy is at least 90 % effective in preventing recurrent strokes after an initial cerebrovascular accident in patients with sickle cell disease , it is unknown how long transfusion therapy should be continued . to address this question , we prospectively discontinued transfusions in 10 patients with sickle cell disease whose median duration of transfusion therapy after an initial stroke was 9 1/2 years ( range 5 to 12 years ) . before the transfusions were discontinued , patients were examined by cerebral angiography , magnetic resonance imaging of the head , neuropsychologic testing , electroencephalography , and a complete neurologic examination . within 12 months after transfusion therapy was stopped , 5 of 10 patients had had an ischemic event . three events caused relatively mild deficits in the same areas as those originally affected . two were associated with massive intracranial hemorrhage , including one on the contralateral side of original involvement . an additional patient died suddenly of unknown causes . of the four remaining patients , three declined to resume transfusion and are relatively well at greater than or equal to 18 months after therapy was stopped . the studies performed before transfusions were stopped were not predictive of recurrent stroke . the risk of recurrent cerebrovascular accident in this group was significantly greater than the estimated risk of 10 % in patients who are receiving long-term transfusion therapy ( p = 0.002 ) . this adverse outcome suggests that patients with sickle cell disease who have had a stroke must receive long-term transfusion indefinitely or a suitable therapeutic alternative must be devised . 
decreased protein binding of salicylates in kawasaki disease . because patients with kawasaki disease have low serum concentrations of salicylates despite high doses , and because the free ( unbound ) drug is responsible for the pharmacologic effects of salicylates , we assessed salicylate protein binding in patients with kawasaki disease . during the acute phase of the disease , protein binding of salicylate in 36 children with kawasaki disease was 73 + / - 12 % , significantly lower than during the subacute phase ( 90.4 + / - 8.7 % ; p less than 0.0005 ) . mean serum albumin concentration was 29.2 + / - 6.4 gm/l during the acute phase and 36.7 + / - 7.8 gm/l during the subsequent subacute phase ( p less than 0.005 ) . salicylate protein binding was affected independently by both serum albumin and total salicylate levels . during the acute phase of kawasaki disease , children had an average twofold increase in free salicylate compared with normoalbuminemic control subjects . a nomogram has been devised to derive free salicylate levels from the known total salicylate and serum albumin concentrations . 
successful treatment of cat-scratch disease with ciprofloxacin . cat-scratch disease is usually a benign , self-limited disease . infection may be asymptomatic but is commonly associated with painful regional lymphadenitis . occasionally , disease may result in systemic symptoms and dissemination . five adult patients , aged 24 to 57 years , were diagnosed as having cat-scratch disease , based on a positive history of cat scratches followed by typical symptoms including painful regional lymphadenitis , malaise , and positive cat-scratch skin tests . diagnostic evaluations revealed no other cause for the lymphadenitis . three patients had not received prior treatment with antibiotics , and two patients had failed to improve on other antibiotics . all five were treated with oral ciprofloxacin , 500 mg by mouth , twice daily . all patients had dramatic improvement in symptoms within a few days and none has relapsed during follow-up . this is the first report of successful treatment of cat-scratch disease with ciprofloxacin , which appears to be an effective therapy for cat-scratch disease in adults . 
use of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements to show clonal lymphoproliferation in hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly in africa , hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly ( hms ) , which is also known as tropical splenomegaly syndrome , can be associated with a prominent lymphocytosis in blood and bone marrow that is difficult to distinguish clinically from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia ( cll ) . the observation that some patients with hms become resistant to treatment with anti-malarial drugs has led to the suggestion that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder . to test this hypothesis , 22 ghanaian patients with hms and/or lymphocytosis were categorised by degree of response to proguanil according to standard clinical criteria , and dna was extracted from peripheral blood cells and screened for rearrangements of the jh region of the immunoglobulin gene with a dna probe . clonal rearrangements of the jh region were found in all 3 patients with no response , in none of 13 patients with sustained response , and in 2 of 6 patients with moderate response or relapse on proguanil therapy . the detection of such rearrangements , and hence clonal lymphoproliferation in individuals with clinical features intermediate between hms and cll , supports the hypothesis that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder . 
cerebral falciparum malaria mimicking thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . we have described a patient with cerebral falciparum malaria who had rapidly progressive cns deterioration , renal failure , hemolytic anemia associated with striking and varied erythrocyte morphologic changes , and thrombocytopenia . the initial diagnosis was thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) of unknown origin . reexamination of the peripheral smear of this comatose patient led to correct diagnosis and effective treatment in this case of cerebral falciparum malaria -- another of medicine 's great mimickers . 
collateral circulation in kawasaki disease with coronary occlusion or severe stenosis . forty patients with kawasaki disease with severe coronary sequelae were investigated . all had at least a 90 % reduction in the diameter of the major coronary artery . collateral vessels were seen in 32 of 33 ( 97 % ) patients with total occlusion . all patients with severe stenosis but not total occlusion had no or poorly developed collateral vessels . analysis according to the presence or absence of collateral vessels showed no significant differences in the results of treadmill stress testing and myocardial imaging between these two groups . in patients treated surgically , the abnormalities recognized by these tests were normalized or improved when the bypass was patent . these data indicate that collateral circulation in patients with kawasaki disease can not be seen angiographically unless there is total occlusion and the presence of collateral circulation can not provide protection against stress-induced myocardial ischemia . 
aplastic anemia associated with antithyroid drugs . prognosis in aplastic anemia is usually linked to the degree of hypoplasia in the bone marrow and pancytopenia in the blood . the authors were , therefore , intrigued when a patient with methimazole-associated aplastic anemia who satisfied criteria for severe disease recovered rapidly and completely once her drug was withdrawn . review of the english language literature revealed ten fully documented cases of aplastic anemia associated with use of the antithyroid drugs methimazole , carbimazole , and propylthiouracil . analysis of the ten and of an eleventh case presented here indicated that the disorder is typically characterized by severe pancytopenia and profound marrow hypoplasia , yet surprisingly good prognosis , ie , minimum survival of more than 70 % with partial or complete recovery from symptoms and cytopenias in survivors within 2-5 weeks . the only deaths , both in the 1950s , were from brain hemorrhage in patients who were not transfused with platelets . the discrepancy between the clinical and laboratory severity of antithyroid drug-associated aplasia , on the one hand , and its relatively good prognosis and short term course , on the other , should be kept in mind when considering these patients for bone marrow transplantation or for therapy with antithymocyte globulin . 
