periventricular hyperintensity detected by magnetic resonance imaging in infancy . twenty-one infants younger than 12 months of age were diagnosed as having periventricular hyperintensity ( pvh ) on t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging . ten infants had experienced neonatal asphyxia , 6 intracranial hemorrhage , 2 bacterial meningitis , and 3 apnea . pvh was classified according to its extent . round foci of pvh surrounding the frontal and occipital horns of the lateral ventricles were observed in 4 infants ( pvh pattern i ) . continuous pvh was observed in 17 infants ( pvh patterns ii and iii ) . fourteen infants with continuous pvh had spastic diplegia or quadriplegia . developmental delay was demonstrated in 15 infants with continuous pvh . no pvh pattern i infants had cerebral palsy ; only 1 such infant had mild developmental delay . our study suggests that the extent of pvh reflects the severity of brain damage in neonates with cerebral injuries . 
echocardiographic diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of valsalva : operation without catheterisation in seven patients . a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of valsalva was diagnosed by doppler , colour , and cross sectional echocardiography in a consecutive series of seven patients . the diagnoses were confirmed at operation without cardiac catheterisation . examination by pulsed and continuous doppler echocardiography showed continuous turbulence in six patients with aneurysms rupturing into the right ventricular outflow tract and in the patient with rupture of an aneurysm of the non-coronary sinus into the right atrium . colour doppler echocardiography showed turbulent flow across the defects in all seven patients . a ventricular septal defect with aortic regurgitation was detected in one patient and an associated ventricular septal defect in another . doppler , colour , and cross sectional echocardiography were useful non-invasive techniques for diagnosing a ruptured aneurysm of the sinus of valsalva without the need for cardiac catheterisation . 
aberrant origin of the right coronary artery as a potential cause of sudden death : successful anatomical correction . a man with an aberrant right coronary artery and haemodynamically important prolapse of the mitral valve was successfully resuscitated . the aberrant right coronary artery was thought to be a possible cause of the cardiopulmonary arrest in this patient . both lesions were corrected at a single operation . 
elastic fibre damage induced by low-dose d-penicillamine . we have studied 23 patients receiving penicillamine for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis to determine the prevalence of penicillamine-induced elastosis . one female patient had pseudoxanthoma elasticum-like skin changes and bramble-bush elastosis without calcification in the involved skin . penicillamine elastosis was present in the joint capsule in 62 % of eight patients or 64 % of ii joints examined and was detected in joint capsules after as little as i year of treatment . 
biology and clinical significance of cytogenetic abnormalities in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia . virtually all cases of childhood all have chromosomal abnormalities and half contain translocations , which are nearly equally divided between random and nonrandom rearrangements . nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities have been correlated with leukemic cell lineage , the degree of cell differentiation , and the specific gene involved at the molecular level . many cytogenetic findings have prognostic significance ; however , the adverse influence of certain changes , including most chromosomal translocations , may in fact be offset by the greater cytoreductive effects of intensified therapy . table 4 summarizes the relation of selected karyotypic findings to treatment outcome in patients treated on contemporary protocols . among all of the chromosomal abnormalities identified in childhood all , hyperdiploidy greater than 50 has been associated with the most favorable prognosis . at the opposite end of the spectrum , the treatment outcome for patients with classical ph + or hypodiploid all is very poor even in programs of intensive chemotherapy ; alternative treatment such as bone marrow transplantation should be considered for such patients . cases with the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) also have a very poor clinical outcome , but the adverse prognosis may be limited to the infant or adolescent age groups . the prognostic significance of other nonrandom translocations , such as t ( 1 ; 19 ) ( q23 ; p13 ) and several other abnormalities , needs to be further assessed in larger numbers of patients . finally , as more is learned about the molecular pathology underlying these rearrangements , it may be possible to develop new therapeutic agents that are specifically targeted to interfere with the aberrant gene products expressed by human leukemic cells . 
klinefelter 's syndrome with anomalous origin of left main coronary artery klinefelter 's syndrome is a rare entity . even rarer is an anomalous origin of the left main coronary artery . for both conditions to occur in the same patient is hence exceedingly rare . reported here is a never previously reported case of a coronary congenital anomaly in a patient with klinefelter 's syndrome together with the proper angiographic approach . 
coronary artery anomalies in 126,595 patients undergoing coronary arteriography . coronary artery anomalies were found in 1,686 patients ( 1.3 % incidence ) undergoing coronary arteriography at the cleveland clinic foundation from 1960 to 1988 . of the 1,686 patients , 1,461 ( 87 % ) had anomalies of origin and distribution , and 225 ( 13 % ) had coronary artery fistulae . most coronary anomalies did not result in signs , symptoms , or complications , and usually were discovered as incidental findings at the time of catheterization . eighty-one percent were " benign " anomalies : 1 ) separate origin of the left anterior descending and circumflex from the left sinus of valsalva ; 2 ) ectopic origin of the circumflex from the right sinus of valsalva ; 3 ) ectopic coronary origin from the posterior sinus of valsalva ; 4 ) anomalous coronary origin from the ascending aorta ; 5 ) absent circumflex ; 6 ) intercoronary communications ; and 7 ) small coronary artery fistulae . other anomalies may be associated with potentially serious sequelae such as angina pectoris , myocardial infarction , syncope , cardiac arrhythmias , congestive heart failure , or sudden death . potentially serious anomalies include : 1 ) ectopic coronary origin from the pulmonary artery ; 2 ) ectopic coronary origin from the opposite aortic sinus ; 3 ) single coronary artery ; and 4 ) large coronary fistulae . coronary artery anomalies require accurate recognition , and at times , surgical correction . 
acquired lutembacher syndrome or mitral stenosis and acquired atrial septal defect after transseptal mitral valvuloplasty . critical mitral stenosis in selected patients may be treated successfully with percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty . complications of this procedure , particularly an atrial septal defect following transseptal approach , are generally of minor clinical significance . we describe a woman who initially underwent a successful percutaneous double-balloon mitral valvuloplasty via the transseptal approach . three months later she presented with right-sided heart failure . color doppler echocardiography and cardiac catheterization demonstrated an atrial septal defect ( asd ) as well as restenosis of the mitral valve . we conclude that significant asds may occur following transseptal mitral valvuloplasty with appearance of right ventricular failure and that color doppler imaging aids in the diagnosis of this new variant of the classical lutembacher syndrome . 
epidural anaesthesia for labour and caesarean section in a parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries . we describe a case of a 29-year-old parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries who had lumbar epidural analgesia/anaesthesia with a local anaesthetic for labour , emergency caesarean section and postoperative pain . her outcome and that of her baby was successful . the anaesthetic techniques used in other parturients with similar congenital cardiac anomalies are reviewed . 
intrapericardial extralobar pulmonary sequestration in a neonate . a huge pericardial effusion was diagnosed during fetal ultrasound examination performed in the 42nd week of pregnancy on a healthy 25-year-old woman . immediately after the birth , a two-dimensional echocardiogram confirmed this finding in the infant , and an intrapericardial kidney-shaped solid mass measuring 45 x 56 x 15 mm , completely surrounded by pericardial effusion , was visualized to the left part of the heart . the heart was normal . no signs of cardiac tamponade were seen . at the age of two days , the mass was surgically resected and the pericardial fluid evacuated . microscopic examination revealed that the mass was formed totally of normal lung tissue surrounded by normal pleura . to the best of our knowledge , this is the first case of intrapericardial extralobar sequestration consisting of an accessory lung with completely normal lung tissue . 
barrett 's esophagus in children and young adults . frequent association with mental retardation . since few data are available on epidemiologic features of barrett 's esophagus in young persons , we reviewed the case records of patients undergoing esophageal biopsies at children 's hospital , boston , from 1982 through 1986 . there were 1423 esophageal biopsies obtained from 1173 patients , and histological evidence of esophagitis was present in 397 cases ; barrett 's epithelium was diagnosed in 10 patients ( 0.9 % of total and 2.5 % of esophagitis cases ) . specialized columnar epithelium was present in seven of these 10 patients . the mean age of those with barrett 's epithelium was 19.0 + / - 7.9 years ( range 3.7-27 years ) compared to 8.7 + / - 6.7 years ( range 4 days to 31 years ) for all patients biopsied ( p less than 0.0001 ) ; 80 % ( 8/10 ) of the barrett 's cases were male compared to 54 % of all cases . the relative importance of the possible risk factors was assessed by comparing the 10 patients with barrett 's with the 541 patients that had esophageal biopsies in calendar years 1984-1985 . mental retardation , a risk factor not previously described for young persons with barrett 's esophagitis , was present in 70 % ( 7/10 ) of the barrett 's patients but in only 15 % of all patients biopsied ( p less than 0.0002 ) . the frequency of mental retardation was also higher , but not significantly so ( p greater than 0.07 ) , in patients with biopsies that were positive for esophagitis ( 19 % ) than in those with normal biopsies ( 14 % ) . no significant differences were found between the barrett 's group and all patients biopsied in regards to racial origin , prior stricture , or fundoplication . 
fertility after contraception or abortion . there is a very small correlation , if any , between the prior use of ocs and congenital malformations , including down 's syndrome . there are few , if any , recent reports on masculinization of a female fetus born to a mother who took an oc containing 1 mg of a progestogen during early pregnancy . however , patients suspected of being pregnant and who are desirous of continuing that pregnancy should not continue to take ocs , nor should progestogen withdrawal pregnancy tests be used . concern still exists regarding the occurrence of congenital abnormalities in babies born to such women . the incidence of postoperative infection after first trimester therapeutic abortion in this country is low . however , increasing numbers of women are undergoing repeated pregnancy terminations , and their risk for subsequent pelvic infections may be multiplied with each succeeding abortion . the incidence of prematurity due to cervical incompetence or surgical infertility after first trimester pregnancy terminations is not increased significantly . asherman 's syndrome may occur after septic therapeutic abortion . the pregnancy rate after treatment of this syndrome is low . the return of menses and the achievement of a pregnancy may be slightly delayed after ocs are discontinued , but the fertility rate is within the normal range by 1 year . the incidence of postpill amenorrhea of greater than 6 months ' duration is probably less than 1 % . the occurrence of the syndrome does not seem to be related to length of use or type of pill . patients with prior normal menses as well as those with menstrual abnormalities before use of ocs may develop this syndrome . patients with normal estrogen and gonadotropin levels usually respond with return of menses and ovulation when treated with clomiphene . the rate for achievement of pregnancy is much lower than that for patients with spontaneous return of menses . the criteria for defining pid or for categorizing its severity are diverse . the incidence of pid is higher among iud users than among patients taking ocs or using a barrier method . the excess risk of pid among iud users , with the exception of the first few months after insertion , is related to sexually transmitted diseases and not the iud . women with no risk factors for sexually transmitted diseases have little increased risk of pid or infertility associated with iud use . there appears to be no increased risk of congenital anomalies , altered sex ratio , or early pregnancy loss among spermicide users . all present methods of contraception entail some risk to the patient . the risk of imparied future fertility with the use of any method appears to be low . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
characteristics of cholinergic neuroeffector transmission of ganglionic and aganglionic colon in hirschsprung 's disease . differences in the release and content of acetylcholine and the alpha 2 adrenoceptor mediated interaction between noradrenergic and cholinergic neurons were investigated by neurochemical and pharmacological methods in aganglionic and ganglionic segments of isolated human colon taken from children suffering from hirschsprung 's disease . both at rest and during transmural stimulation the release of acetylcholine was significantly higher in the spastic ( aganglionic ) segment than in the proximal dilated bowel . significant differences were found in the tissue concentration of acetylcholine between ganglionic and aganglionic specimens . the pattern of response to transmural stimulation was also different in the spastic and dilated bowel . transmural stimulation induced relaxation and contraction in ganglionic specimens but only contractions in aganglionic specimens . the sensitivity of the smooth muscle in the aganglionic portion to exogenous acetylcholine and to field stimulation was found to be higher than in the ganglionic portion . while noradrenaline added to the organ bath reduced the stimulation-evoked release of acetylcholine from spastic segments , via an alpha 2 adrenoceptor mediated process , yohimbine did not enhance the release . it is suggested that in hirschsprung 's disease the increased acetylcholine release , the enhanced sensitivity of smooth muscle cells to acetylcholine , and the lack of alpha 2 adrenoceptor mediated noradrenergic modulation of acetylcholine release from cholinergic interneurons might be responsible for the spasm of aganglionic segments . 
evaluation of the magnitude of gastro-oesophageal reflux in barrett 's oesophagus . a manometric study to determine the role of gastro-oesophageal reflux in barrett 's oesophagus was performed on 20 patients with barrett 's oesophagus and 53 patients with reflux oesophagitis without barrett 's oesophagus ( 25 with mild oesophagitis and 28 with severe oesophagitis ) . for the same reason , the 20 patients with barrett 's oesophagus also underwent 24 hour continuous oesophageal ph monitoring , and the results obtained were compared with those of 20 oesophagitis patients without barrett 's oesophagus ( 10 with mild oesophagitis and 10 with severe oesophagitis ) . the manometric results show that the motor changes found in the barrett 's group are specific but similar to the motor dysfunction associated with reflux oesophagitis . motor anomalies are probably related more to the inflammatory process in the oesophageal wall than to the metaplastic changes themselves . the ph monitoring results show that while reflux in the barrett 's oesophagus patients was greater overall than in the oesophagitis group without barrett 's oesophagus , the changes are similar when the results are compared with the severe oesophagitis group . in conclusion there are other factors besides gastro-oesophageal reflux involved in the pathogenesis of barrett 's oesophagus . 
skin pigmentation from clofazimine therapy in leprosy patients : a reappraisal . skin biopsy specimens from two lepromatous leprosy patients with dark brown pigmentation who were receiving long-term clofazimine therapy were studied . ceroid-lipofuscin pigment was demonstrated inside macrophages that contained numerous phagolysosomes . these contained lipids and clofazimine that appeared as electron-lucent vacuoles and a lipofuscin pigment that was electron dense , granular , and lamellated . although the presence of the drug in tissues contributed to the skin pigmentation , the main cause was a drug-induced , reversible ceroid lipofuscinosis . 
absence of estrogen receptors in dysplastic nevi and malignant melanoma . benign nevi , dysplastic nevi , and primary and metastatic malignant melanomas were evaluated for the presence of sex hormone binding and estrogen receptor protein . we have confirmed the observation of ellis et al . that some pigmented lesions possess sex hormone-binding proteins . we could not demonstrate a true estrogen receptor in any benign nevi , dysplastic nevi , primary melanomas , or metastatic melanomas . thus the ability to bind estrogen or progesterone does not correlate with the presence of a true estrogen receptor . lack of nuclear estrogen receptors suggests that the influence of estrogen on the pathophysiology of melanoma or of benign melanocytic nevi may not be significant . 
the many faces and phases of borreliosis ii . borrelia burgdorferi , the etiologic agent of lyme disease , has also been associated with other cutaneous conditions . acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans and lymphadenosis benigna cutis are also caused by b. burgdorferi . recent evidence links some cases of progressive facial hemiatrophy of parry-romberg , benign lymphocytic infiltrate of the skin ( jessner-kanof ) , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , morphea , and shulman syndrome with borreliae . this article reviews the manifestations of the diseases definitely linked to borreliosis and the evidence linking borreliae to progressive facial hemiatrophy , benign lymphocytic infiltrate , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , morphea , and shulman syndrome . 
the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in young patients . an international survey identified 40 patients less than 20 years old who underwent surgical implantation of an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator ( aicd ) . there was a history of aborted sudden cardiac death or sustained ventricular tachycardia in 92.5 % of these patients . twenty-two patients ( 55 % ) had structural heart disease ; dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were the most common diagnoses . eighteen patients ( 45 % ) had primary electrical abnormalities including seven with the congenital long qt syndrome . there were no perioperative deaths associated with device implantation . concomitant drug therapy was administered to 75 % of the patients . defibrillator discharge occurred in 70 % of the patients , with 17 patients ( 42.5 % ) receiving at least one appropriate shock . there were two sudden and two nonsudden deaths at 28.2 months ' median follow-up . sudden death-free survival rates by life table analysis at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.88 , respectively . total survival rates at 12 and 33 months were 0.94 and 0.82 , respectively . the aicd represents an effective treatment approach for young patients with life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias . 
accuracy of prospective two-dimensional/doppler echocardiography in the assessment of reparative surgery . between january 1987 and january 1989 , all 129 patients ( aged 11 days to 25 years , median 39 months ) undergoing both an echocardiographic examination and cardiac catheterization after reparative surgery were prospectively included in a study to assess the accuracy of combined two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging . the patient diagnoses were transposition of the great arteries ( n = 20 ) , tetralogy of fallot ( n = 38 ) , coarctation of the aorta ( n = 24 ) , complete atrioventricular ( av ) canal ( n = 15 ) , atrial septal defect ( n = 8 ) , ventricular septal defects ( n = 3 ) , pulmonary stenosis ( n = 4 ) , aortic stenosis ( n = 8 ) and subaortic stenosis ( n = 9 ) . in arterial tract stenosis , there was high correlation between doppler estimates and catheterization-derived measurements of residual right ventricular outflow tract obstruction in patients after the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries ( r = 0.95 ) as well as in patients after corrective repair of tetralogy of fallot ( r = 0.84 ) . in semilunar/av valve regurgitation , graded as none , mild , moderate or severe , echocardiographic estimates correlated exactly with angiographic grading in 84 % and differed by one angiographic grade in the other 16 % . in residual left to right shunting , no hemodynamically significant shunt was missed by echocardiography . for residual shunts at the ventricular level ( n = 32 ) , addition of doppler color flow imaging improved the sensitivity ( from 63 % to 94 % ) and the negative predictive value ( from 88 % to 98 % ) . in elevated right ventricular pressure , doppler-derived right ventricular-right atrial pressure estimates in 24 patients correlated well with catheterization measurements ( r = 0.93 ) . combined two-dimensional and doppler color flow echocardiography was highly accurate in the prospective evaluation of these four types of postoperative residual . 
comparative roles of intraoperative epicardial and early postoperative transthoracic echocardiography in the assessment of surgical repair of congenital heart defects in 94 consecutive patients undergoing surgical repair of congenital heart defects the results of intraoperative ( after cardiopulmonary bypass ) epicardial two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging were compared with those of sequential transthoracic echocardiography performed within 24 h of surgery and again before hospital discharge to define the precise role of intraoperative imaging . in 6 of 7 patients with a residual defect requiring immediate surgical revision , intraoperative imaging correctly identified the defect ; spectral doppler imaging underestimated or did not identify a residual outflow tract gradient in 17 patients . left atrioventricular ( av ) valve regurgitation after repair of complete av septal defect was underestimated in three patients . although intraoperative documentation of good ventricular function was usually associated with a good outcome , in three patients poor systemic ventricular function after cardiopulmonary bypass was not associated with early mortality . a minor degree of shunting around the patch was a common finding on epicardial and early postoperative imaging and persisted at the time of hospital discharge in 17 of 46 patients who had undergone patch closure of a ventricular septal defect as part of the surgical procedure . additional trabecular septal defects were missed on color flow imaging after cardiopulmonary bypass in three patients , one of whom required subsequent reoperation . although intraoperative two-dimensional and color flow imaging permitted the recognition of the majority of residual defects requiring immediate revision , residual outflow obstruction or av valve regurgitation was usually underestimated . 
intrauterine growth retardation : diagnosis based on multiple parameters -- a prospective study . a scoring system has previously been developed to diagnose intrauterine growth retardation ( iugr ) based on three parameters : estimated fetal weight , amniotic fluid volume , and maternal blood pressure status . to test the iugr score prospectively , the authors computed the score in 356 third-trimester fetuses , 39 growth retarded and 317 normal , scanned within 2 weeks prior to delivery . the iugr score identified three groups , each with a distinct probability of iugr : a score below 50 virtually excludes iugr ( 3 % probability ) , a score above 60 allows confident diagnosis ( 74 % probability ) , and score of 50-60 is indeterminate ( 13 % probability ) . the iugr score performed best in patients with accurate dating by early ultrasound ( us ) , but even among patients lacking accurate dating , the performance of the iugr score was superior to that previously reported for any single sonographic parameter . the iugr score can be used in any us facility to diagnose or exclude third-trimester iugr . 
chromosomal region of the cystic fibrosis gene in yeast artificial chromosomes : a model for human genome mapping . a general strategy for cloning and mapping large regions of human dna with yeast artificial chromosomes ( yac 's ) is described . it relies on the use of the polymerase chain reaction to detect dna landmarks called sequence-tagged sites ( sts 's ) within yac clones . the method was applied to the region of human chromosome 7 containing the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene . thirty yac clones from this region were analyzed , and a contig map that spans more than 1,500,000 base pairs was assembled . individual yac 's as large as 790 kilobase pairs and containing the entire cf gene were constructed in vivo by meiotic recombination in yeast between pairs of overlapping yac 's . 
sex reversal syndrome ( xx male ) . men who appear normal and live a normal life , may have a 46 , xx karyotype and present with the typical features of infertility and end organ ( testicular ) failure . they are azoospermic and their small testicles show specific patterns on light and electron microscopy . recent advances in genetics ( 1 ) favor the " x-y interchange " theory to explain this phenomenon ; ( 2 ) hypothesize about the roles of the h-y antigen and testis determining factor ( tdf ) in determining " maleness " ; and ( 3 ) allow mapping of the relative positions of h-y and tdf loci on the y chromosome . 
therapeutic cardiac catheterization in children cardiac catheterization , once the mainstay of diagnosis in children with congenital heart disease , has become a therapeutic modality for many conditions . balloon dilatation can now open stenotic valves and vessels , coils and umbrellas can now close unwanted communications , and emboli can be withdrawn without surgical intervention . 
analysis of programmed stimulation methods in the evaluation of ventricular arrhythmias in patients 20 years old and younger . the purpose of this study was to systematically evaluate programmed ventricular stimulation in patients less than 21 years of age undergoing electrophysiologic testing . a standardized protocol was applied in 55 consecutive patients ( mean age 14 years ) with the following clinical presentations : sustained ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) ( n = 17 ) ; ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) ( n = 7 ) ; syncope with heart disease ( n = 10 ) ; nonsustained vt ( n = 6 ) ; and syncope with an ostensibly normal heart ( n = 15 ) . the stimulation protocol consisted of 1 and 2 ventricular extrastimuli during sinus rhythm , followed by 1 to 4 ( s2 , s3 , s4 , s5 ) extrastimuli during pacing at 2 ventricular sites . of the 17 patients with sustained vt , 12 had induction of the arrhythmia ( sensitivity = 71 % ) . overall , 18 of 55 patients had inducible sustained vt , with this response significantly enhanced by use of s4 or s5 protocols ( p = 0.02 ) . although no syncope patients with an ostensibly normal heart had inducible sustained vt , 7 had polymorphic nonsustained vt in response to ventricular stimulation . the mean number of extra-stimuli preceding the induction of nonsustained or sustained vt or vf did not differ . the induction of vf in 5 cases during this study was preceded in each case by extrastimuli intervals less than or equal to 190 ms. thus , data indicate that aggressive stimulation protocols appear to be required for induction of sustained vt in most young patients , nonsustained polymorphic vt as a response to aggressive programmed stimulation is of uncertain significance , and that coupling intervals less than or equal to 190 ms may correlate with the induction of vf . 
cystic fibrosis mutations in north american populations of french ancestry : analysis of quebec french-canadian and louisiana acadian families . a 3-bp deletion ( delta f508 ) in the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene is the mutation on the majority of cf chromosomes . we studied 112 cf families from north american populations of french ancestry : french-canadian families referred from hospitals in three cities in quebec and from the saguenay-lac st. jean region of northeastern quebec and acadian families living in louisiana . delta f508 was present on 71 % , 55 % , and 70 % of the cf chromosomes from the major-urban quebec , saguenay-lac st. jean , and louisiana acadian families , respectively . a weighted estimate of the proportion of delta f508 in the french-canadian patient population of quebec was 70 % . we found that 95 % of the cf chromosomes with delta f508 had d7s23 haplotype b , the most frequent haplotype on cf chromosomes . in the saguenay-lac st. jean families , 86 % of the cf chromosomes without delta f508 had the b haplotype , compared with 31 % for the major-urban quebec and louisiana acadian families . the incidence of cf in the saguenay-lac st. jean population was 1/895 live-born infants . 
benign missense variations in the cystic fibrosis gene . the common mutation causing cystic fibrosis is a deletion of phenylalanine 508 ( delta f508 ) , which occurs in a putative nucleotide-binding fold of the gene product . we report two additional mutations , substitution of cysteine for phenylalanine 508 ( f508c ) and substitution of valine for isoleucine 506 ( i506v ) . three compound heterozygous persons , two delta f508/f508c and one delta f508/i506v , had normal clinical and epithelial physiological studies indicating that the f508c and i506v mutations are benign . this opportunity to study the in vivo function of these mutations suggests that amino acid substitutions are more benign than changes in the length of this portion of the putative nucleotide-binding fold . these mutations must be taken into account when performing molecular diagnosis and carrier detection for cystic fibrosis . 
linkage relationship of x-linked juvenile retinoschisis with xp22.1-p22 .3 probes . linkage analysis was performed to evaluate the relationship between the locus for x-linked juvenile retinoschisis ( rs ) and five x-chromosomal markers-rc8 ( dxs9 ) , se3 .2 l ( dxs16 ) , 99-6 ( dxs41 ) , d2 ( dxs43 ) , and 782 ( dxs85 ) - all mapped to the interval xp22.1-p22 .3 . seven u.s. families with 56 affected males were studied . no recombinants were found between rs and dxs9 with a maximum lod score ( z ) of 4.93 at a recombination fraction of zero . obligate recombinants were found for rs with dxs16 , dxs41 , dxs43 , and dxs85 . multipoint linkage analysis and consideration of recombination events within pedigrees suggest that dxs41 and dxs43 , and also dxs41 and dxs16 , flank rs and that dxs85 lies outside the interval dxs41-dxs43 . our pedigrees provide no evidence for genetic heterogeneity of rs , with five of our families individually showing evidence of linkage . ( z greater than 2.0 ) to the least one of these probes from xp22.1-p22 .3 . 
deletions in patients with classical choroideremia vary in size from 45 kb to several megabases . making use of the p1bd5 probe ( dxs165 ) , we have isolated several markers from the choroideremia locus by chromosomal jumping , preparative field-inversion gel electrophoresis , and cloning of a deletion junction fragment . with these clones we were able to identify and characterize eight deletions in 69 choroideremia patients investigated . the deletions are heterogeneous , in both size and location . the smallest deletion ( patient lgl1134 ) comprises approximately 45 kb of dna , whereas the largest ones ( patients 25.6 and lgl2905 ) span a dna segment of at least 5 megabases , which is comparable in size to the smallest deletion detected in a tcd patient ( patient xl45 ) showing a complex phenotype . the tcd deletions encompass variable parts of 150-200-kb dna segment that is flanked by p1bd5 ( dxs165 ) at the centromeric side and by pz 11 at the telomeric side . the deletions in patients 33.1 , lgl1101 , and lgl1134 do not span a translocation breakpoint which was previously mapped on the x chromosome of a female with tcd . the clones isolated from the tcd locus are valuable diagnostic markers for deletion analysis of patients or carrier females . in addition , they should be useful for the isolation of expressed sequences that are part of the tcd gene . 
definitive localization of x-linked kallman syndrome ( hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia ) to xp22 .3 : close linkage to the hypervariable repeat sequence cri-s232 [ published erratum appears in am j hum genet 1990 nov ; 47 ( 5 ) :883 ] kallmann syndrome is a genetically heterogeneous disease characterized by hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia . six families in which the disorder followed an x-linked inheritance were investigated by linkage analysis . diagnostic criteria were uniformly applied and included tests for hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia . close linkage was found by using the hypervariable repeated sequence cri-s232 ( dxs278 ) previously mapped to xp22 .3 . at a maximum lod score of 6.5 , the recombination fraction was calculated as .03 . of 30 fully informative meioses , one recombination between the disease locus and the loci recognized by probe cri-s232 was observed . when an independent approach is used , these results confirm the x-linked kallmann syndrome assignment previously made by deletion mapping , and allow definitive localization of the syndrome assignment previously made by deletion mapping , and allow definitive localization of the syndrome to the xp22 .3 region . this opens the way to carrier detection and to the identification of a gene responsible for this disorder . 
splicing defect at the ornithine aminotransferase ( oat ) locus in gyrate atrophy . gyrate atrophy ( ga ) , a recessive eye disease involving progressive vision loss due to chorioretinal degeneration , is associated with the deficiency of the mitochondrial enzyme ornithine aminotransferase ( oat ) , with consequent hyperornithinemia . we and others have reported a number of missense mutations at the oat locus which result in ga . here we report a ga patient of danish/swedish ancestry in whom one oat allele produces an mrna that is missing a single 96-bp exon relative to the normal mrna . polymerase-chain-reaction amplification and sequencing revealed a 9-bp deletion covering the splice acceptor region of exon 5 , resulting in the absence of exon 5 sequences from the mrna with no disruption to the reading frame . this mutation , which was not present in 15 other independent ga patients , adds to the array of allelic heterogeneity observed in ga and represents the first example of a splicing mutation associated with this disorder . 
the association of intrapartum asphyxia in the mature fetus with newborn behavior . a matched cohort study of mature newborns with biochemically determined intrapartum fetal asphyxia and mature newborns with normal blood gas and acid-base assessments at delivery were studied to demonstrate the effect of fetal asphyxia on newborn behavior as expressed by the brazelton newborn behavioral assessment scale . the newborn behavioral assessment scale was administered 3 days after delivery and again 2 weeks after delivery . the lester newborn behavioral assessment scale summary scores for the group with asphyxia were of the same order as those in the control group . this was also true of the group of newborns with asphyxia with the more severe metabolic acidosis and those with low apgar scores . these findings support the contention that many newborns who have undergone an intrapartum asphyxial insult will not have evidence of central nervous system injury and that the threshold of central nervous system injury is at the severe end of the spectrum of asphyxia as expressed by a metabolic acidosis . 
ultrasonographic detection of the second-trimester fetus with trisomy 18 and trisomy 21 . biparietal diameter/femur length ratio and nuchal thickness were found to be sensitive indicators for the prenatal detection of trisomy 18 and trisomy 21 . a biparietal diameter/femur length ratio greater than 1.5 sd above the control mean correctly identified 5 of 11 ( 46 % ) fetuses with trisomy 21 and 3 of 4 ( 75 % ) fetuses with trisomy 18 . nuchal thickening ( 6 mm or more ) correctly identified 5 of 12 ( 41 % ) fetuses with trisomy 21 and 2 of 4 ( 50 % ) fetuses with trisomy 18 . the sensitivity and specificity of the biparietal diameter/femur length ratio in detecting either aneuploidy was 53 % and 93 % , respectively , whereas a thickened nuchal fold had a sensitivity of 44 % and a specificity of 100 % . the combined use of the two ultrasonographic measurements had an overall sensitivity of 81 % and a specificity of 93 % . prospective ascertainment of these two trisomies appears warranted in low-risk populations . 
placental histology in fetuses between 18 and 23 weeks ' gestation with abnormal karyotype . placentas from karyotypically abnormal fetuses ( 18 to 23 weeks ' gestation ) were analyzed prospectively at the light microscopic level . group i consisted of 14 control placentas . group ii consisted of 14 placentas from fetuses with an abnormal karyotype . secondary and tertiary stem villi counts , small muscular artery counts , and total vessel counts were determined per 100 x field . there were no differences in secondary and tertiary stem villi counts between groups . a significant decrease in small muscular artery counts ( p less than 0.01 ) and total vessel counts ( p less than 0.01 ) was noted in group ii . placental and fetal weights were comparable between groups . this undervascularization may represent placental immaturity as a result of arrested or delayed angiopoiesis . it appears that this abnormality is established before the third trimester and may be enhanced by late vascular obliteration as reported by others . these data substantiate the concept that the structure and function of the placenta is determined to a great degree by fetal karyotype and may help explain the morbidity and mortality seen in these fetuses . 
hypoxic acidemia , hyperviscosity , and maternal hypertension do not affect the umbilical arterial velocity waveform in fetal sheep . the effect of hypoxic acidemia , hyperviscosity , and maternal hypertension on the umbilical arterial velocity waveform was studied in 23 chronically catheterized fetal sheep . fetal hypoxic acidemia induced by lowering the maternal inspired oxygen concentration ( n = 7 ) caused no change in the ratio of systolic/diastolic blood velocity even when fetal arterial ph was as low as 6.8 . fetal blood hyperviscosity ( n = 7 ) induced by exchange transfusion with packed maternal blood cells increased placental vascular resistance by greater than or equal to 50 % but had no significant effect on the systolic/diastolic ratio . similarly , maternal hypertension induced by intravenous infusion of angiotensin ii to the ewe ( n = 9 ) did not affect the systolic/diastolic ratio despite a 50 % increase in maternal arterial blood pressure . we conclude that umbilical arterial velocity waveform abnormalities observed in growth-restricted human fetuses are probably not a direct result of fetal hypoxemia or hyperviscosity or maternal hypertension . 
anterior fontanel pressure and visual evoked potentials in neonates and infants undergoing profound hypothermic circulatory arrest . to determine the effects of cardiopulmonary bypass with profound hypothermic circulatory arrest ( phca ) on anterior fontanel pressure ( afp ) and visual evoked potentials ( veps ) , 21 neonates and infants undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) with phca for surgical correction of congenital heart defects were studied . mean ( + / - sd ) minimum nasopharyngeal , esophageal , and rectal temperatures of 16.4 + / - 2.2 , 11.2 + / - 2.7 , and 17.7 + / - 1.9 degrees c , respectively , were achieved for a mean duration of phca of 51.6 + / - 18.7 min . afp increased significantly above pre-cpb values for the first 21.7 + / - 8.1 min of rewarming . the duration of this increase in afp was related logarithmically and directly to the product of the nasopharyngeal temperature ( npt ) at the end of phca and the duration of phca ( r2 = 0.82 , p less than 0.0001 ) . nineteen of these patients had simultaneous monitoring of veps . the latency of both the n70 and p100 components of the veps increased as temperature decreased . the cerebral perfusion pressure was linearly and inversely related to the afp ( r2 = 0.72 , p less than 0.01 ) . the veps disappeared as a nasopharyngeal temperature ( npt ) of 18.9 + / - 2.8 degrees c and reappeared after 21.9 + / - 8.8 min post-phca at an npt of 32.8 + / - 1.4 degrees c. there was no significant difference between duration of increased afp ( 20.9 + / - 8.1 min ) and the duration of absence of veps during the post-phca period . the duration of increased afp correlated linearly and directly with the duration of absence of veps ( r2 = 0.84 , p less than 0.005 ) . these data demonstrate that transient neurophysiologic dysfunction occurs after phca . this dysfunction is related to the duration of elevation of the afp and can not be explained solely by a temperature effect . 
hormonal-metabolic stress responses in neonates undergoing cardiac surgery . hormonal and metabolic responses were measured in 15 neonates who underwent repair of complex congenital heart defects during a standardized anesthetic protocol . four of the 15 neonates died postoperatively in the intensive care unit . analysis of arterial plasma samples obtained before , during , and 24 h after surgery showed that plasma epinephrine , norepinephrine , cortisol , glucagon , and beta endorphin increased in all patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . insulin levels increased only at the end of surgery but remained elevated for 24 h postoperatively ( p less than 0.02 ) . intraoperative metabolic changes were characterized by hyperglycemia and lactic acidemia that persisted postoperatively . this pattern of neonatal stress responses is distinct from and more extreme than that seen in adult cardiac surgical patients . the four neonates who died postoperatively tended to have higher stress responses intra - and postoperatively despite having been indistinguishable from survivors by the usual clinical and hemodynamic criteria . these preliminary results suggest that neonatal hormonal and metabolic responses to cardiac surgical operations in neonates are extreme and are associated with a high hospital mortality rate . 
a forme fruste of marfan 's syndrome : case history . a thirty nine year old woman presented with multiple aneurysms and dissections of the arterial system secondary to cystic medial necrosis is presented . after assessment of the family history a diagnosis of a forme fruste of marfan 's syndrome was made . preoperative consideration of this rare diagnosis is important for treatment and surgical management . 
a five-year u.s. army experience with 36,250 abdominal hernia repairs . thirty-six thousand two hundred fifty abdominal hernia repairs were performed in u.s. army medical treatment facilities during a five-year period . this study presents data about the type of hernia , incidence of complications by obstruction or strangulation , age , sex , and mortality . hernias occurring with intestinal obstruction or gangrene ( strangulation ) are referred to as complicated hernias . inguinal hernias in children less than two years of age , femoral hernias , and unusual ( such as internal or obturator ) hernias were found to have an increased incidence of complications . surgical repair of ventral , umbilical , and femoral hernias was done with a low surgical risk and the presence of complications did not significantly increase this risk . an increased risk of mortality is associated with the repair of complicated unusual hernias and complicated inguinal hernias in patients more than 60 years of age . 
natural and modified history of complete atrioventricular septal defect -- a 17 year study . we reviewed 103 cases of isolated complete atrioventricular septal defect . these cases represented 4.4 % of the cases of congenital heart disease diagnosed in our hospital by catheterisation and angiography during 1971-88 . most children ( n = 76 ) had down 's syndrome . banding of the pulmonary artery was performed in seven cases and complete repair in 67 cases . in the period 1971-82 the complete correction was performed at a mean age of 23 months with a surgical mortality of 88.8 % . in the period 1983-8 the mean age at complete correction was 13 months , the mortality 43.2 % , and the five year actuarial survival was 46.8 % . the 22 patients that survived after complete correction were in functional classes i and ii of the new york heart association classification . after a mean follow up of 10 years only eight ( 36 % ) of the 22 who were followed up and treated medically survived ; all had developed pulmonary vascular obstructive disease and were in functional classes iii or iv . our findings stress the importance of early complete surgical repair . 
surgical therapy in barrett 's esophagus . seventy-six patients with barrett 's esophagus were cared for during a 10-year period . fifty-six patients ( 74 % ) presented with complications of the disease . there were 20 strictures , 7 giant ulcers , 11 cases of dysplasia , and 29 patients with carcinoma . in patients with benign disease , 93 % had mechanically defective sphincters and 83 % had peristaltic failure of the lower esophageal body . esophageal ph monitoring showed excessive esophageal exposure to ph less than 4 in 93 % and excessive exposure to ph more than 7 in 34 % of the patients tested . ninety-three per cent of patients with excessive alkaline exposure had complications , compared to only 44 % with normal alkaline exposure ( p less than 0.01 ) . gastric ph monitoring , serum gastrin levels , and gastric acid analysis supported a duodenal source for the alkaline exposure . antireflux surgery was performed using nissen fundoplication in 30 , belsey partial fundoplication in 3 , and collis-belsey gastroplasty in 2 . six required resection with colon interposition . good symptomatic control was achieved in 77 % after antireflux surgery . four patients had symptoms and signs of duodenogastric reflux ; three required a bile diversion procedure . fifteen patients had an en bloc curative resection with colon interposition . one patient with high-grade dysplasia on biopsy was found to have intramucosal carcinoma after simple esophagectomy . five tumors were intramucosal , seven were intramural , and four were transmural . lymph node involvement occurred only in the latter two . actuarial survival 5 years after curative resection was 53 % . median survival time for patients after palliative resection or no resection was 12 months . study of en bloc specimens indicated that extent of resection should be adapted to extent of disease : esophagectomy for intramucosal disease , en bloc esophagectomy with splenic preservation for intramural and transmural disease . serum cea was useful in detecting recurrent disease after surgery when the primary tumor stained positively for cea . 
cor triatriatum : clinical presentation and surgical results in 12 patients . twelve patients with cor triatriatum have been seen at our institution since 1979 . the clinical presentation , diagnostic evaluation , and surgical results are outlined in this retrospective review . operation is the treatment of choice for this rare congenital cardiac defect . one patient died 1 day before scheduled operation , and 2 patients died postoperatively , yielding a surgical mortality rate of 17 % and an overall mortality rate of 25 % . resection of the obstructing atrial membrane was performed using hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass in all cases . left atriotomy was performed in 6 patients , and right atriotomy was performed in 7 . the two postoperative deaths occurred in patients who had serious associated cardiac defects . associated anomalies include atrial septal defect , persistent left superior vena cava , and partial anomalous pulmonary venous return . the postoperative course has been excellent in all 9 surviving patients ; all remain asymptomatic . cor triatriatum is amenable to surgical repair with excellent results when diagnosed early and when not complicated by other severe cardiac anomalies . 
value of transesophageal echocardiography during repair of congenital heart defects . two-dimensional transesophageal color doppler echocardiography was employed intraoperatively in 30 children undergoing repair of a variety of simple and complex cardiac malformations . there were 16 female and 14 male patients , with a mean age of 9 + / - 3 years ( range , 4 to 13 years ) and a mean weight of 31 + / - 9 kg ( range , 16 to 50 kg ) , 16 children weighing less than 30 kg . a standard , commercially available transesophageal echocardiography probe ( 5 mhz , 64 elements ) was used in all patients without complications . transesophageal echocardiography proved helpful in selecting the surgical approach , in assessing the adequacy of surgical repair , in detecting residual intracardiac shunts , and in allowing uninterrupted monitoring of ventricular performance throughout the procedure . our initial experience suggests that transesophageal echocardiography is a valuable tool to be used in children with congenital cardiac malformations , particularly in those requiring complex intracardiac procedures . the amount of information obtained by the surgeon should favor the routine use of transesophageal echocardiography during open heart procedures and stimulate the development of probes to be safely used even in infants and newborns . 
congenital myopathy and cardiomyopathy with identical ultrastructural changes . a 7-day-old girl with congenital hypotonia and unexplained episodes of bradycardia had a broad spectrum of similar skeletal muscle and myocardial degenerative ultrastructural abnormalities . ultrastructural studies showed obliteration of cross striations , myofilament disorganization , streaming , smearing , clumping , and zigzag z-band deformities . a decrease in glycogen , mitochondria , and t-tubular system occurred in the regions showing z-band abnormalities of both skeletal muscle and myocardium . concurrent structural cardiomyopathy should be considered in patients with congenital myopathies , particularly with unexplained cardiac conduction abnormalities or contractile insufficiency . ultrastructural evaluation of skeletal and cardiac muscle may be necessary to define such disorders . 
doppler echocardiographic evaluation of pulmonary artery flow after modified fontan operation : importance of atrial contraction . doppler echocardiography was used to evaluate blood flow in the pulmonary artery in 14 patients 2 to 42 months ( mean ( sd ) 17 ( 12 ) months ) after a modified fontan operation incorporating a direct atriopulmonary anastomosis . preoperatively six patients had tricuspid atresia , six had a double inlet left ventricle , and two had pulmonary atresia with an intact ventricular septum . the postoperative rhythm was sinus in 11 patients , junctional in one , ventricular pacing in one , and atrioventricular sequential pacing in one . in one patient the doppler trace was unsatisfactory for analysis . in all patients forward flow in the pulmonary artery had biphasic peaks related to both atrial and ventricular contraction . the mean ( sd ) peak flow velocity that was synchronous with atrial contraction was 80 ( 30 ) cm/s and that synchronous with ventricular contraction was 74 ( 23 ) cm/s . the atrial contribution to total pulmonary artery flow , assessed by velocity-time integrals , varied between 22 % and 73 % ( mean ( sd ) 45 ( 14 ) % ) . in patients with tricuspid atresia the mean ( sd ) peak flow velocity with atrial contraction was 90 ( 27 ) cm/s and that with ventricular contraction was mean ( sd ) 68 ( 24 ) cm/s . in patients with double inlet left ventricle the mean ( sd ) peak flow velocity was 67 ( 36 ) cm/s with atrial contraction and 80 ( 25 ) cm/s with ventricular contraction . the atrial contribution to total pulmonary blood flow in patients with tricuspid atresia was significantly higher ( 53 ( 11 ) % ) than in those with double inlet left ventricle ( 37 ( 14 ) % ) . pulmonary artery flow after modified fontan operation was biphasic and was related to both atrial and ventricular contraction . 
randomized comparison of routine vs highly selective use of doppler ultrasound and biophysical scoring to investigate high risk pregnancies objective -- to compare routine versus highly selective use of doppler ultrasound and biophysical scoring in higher risk pregnancy . design -- a pragmatic randomized trial . setting -- st james 's university hospital , leeds . subjects -- 500 pregnant women at high risk of intrauterine growth retardation or still birth . interventions -- regular monitoring with biophysical profile assessment and doppler velocity waveform recording in umbilical and uteroplacental arteries . results immediately available to clinicians . main outcome measures -- gestational age at delivery , obstetric intervention rates and short-term neonatal morbidity . results -- risk factors were distributed very evenly between the 250 patients in the study and control groups respectively . a total of 902 biophysical profile and doppler assessments were done in the 250 study group patients and only in 12 patients in the control group . in the study group , absent end-diastolic flow was found in only 2.7 % of all 902 measurements . a persistently abnormal biophysical score was always associated with absence of end-diastolic flow . the mean gestational age at induction of labour was statistically and clinically similar in the two groups and there was no overall statistically significant difference in intervention rates between the two groups . there was a statistically significant lower frequency of depressed 5-min apgar scores in the study group . serious neonatal morbidity was also statistically significantly more common in the control group than in the study group . conclusions -- the use of doppler ultrasound in higher risk pregnancies does not lead to an increase in iatrogenic preterm delivery . the total rate of positive tests on doppler ultrasound is very low and persistently abnormal biophysical scores are unlikely to be found in patients where umbilical end-diastolic blood flow is present . surrogate measures for fetal damage seem to be improved when clinicians have access to doppler ultrasound assessments . 
possible involvement of the retinoblastoma gene in undifferentiated sinonasal carcinoma . retinoblastoma tumor formation is initiated by the loss of function of both alleles of the rb-1 gene on chromosome 13 . patients with the hereditary form of retinoblastoma carry a germ line mutation at one of the two homologous gene loci in all cells and have an increased risk for nonocular tumors ( mainly osteosarcoma and other mesenchymal tumors ) in later life . the authors studied a 38-year-old patient with sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma ( snuc ) who had been treated for bilateral retinoblastoma by enucleation ( left eye ) and irradiation ( right eye ) , respectively . using molecular probes for the rb-1 gene and other loci on chromosome 13 , the authors detected a deletion at the rb-1 locus in metastatic snuc cells that was not present in normal tissue . these findings indicate that somatic mutations at rb-1 locus may be involved in the formation or progression of ectodermal tumors . 
coronary angioplasty of anomalous coronary arteries : notes on technical aspects . five patients with significant atherosclerotic lesions of anomalous coronary arteries underwent coronary angioplasty of the anomalous vessel . four patients had anomalous circumflex artery and 1 had an anomalous right coronary artery . angiographic and clinical success was achieved in all 5 patients . to ensure adequate equipment selection special consideration should be given to angiographic characteristics of these vessels , such as the orifice configuration , exit angulation , the route the artery traverses and the location of the stenotic lesions . major determinants for successful angioplasty in these patients are guiding catheter selection and advancement of the balloon catheter to the very proximal portion of the anomalous vessel to subsequently facilitate guide wire advancement . this data indicates that balloon angioplasty can be successfully utilized in patients with significant atherosclerotic disease of anomalous coronary arteries . 
baffle fenestration with subsequent transcatheter closure . modification of the fontan operation for patients at increased risk ventricular dysfunction , elevated pulmonary vascular resistance , and residual distal pulmonary artery distortion contribute to early mortality after a fontan operation ; they may be transient or reversible . a baffle fenestration , allowing right-to-left shunting , maintains cardiac output and limits right atrial pressure . a baffle fenestration was surgically created at the time of a modified fontan repair in 20 consecutive patients . risk factors included pulmonary artery pressure of 18 mm hg or more , end-diastolic pressure of 12 mm hg or more , valvar regurgitation , pulmonary artery distortion , pulmonary vascular resistance of 2 woods ' units or more , ventricular outflow obstruction , and complex anatomy . nineteen of 20 patients survived . after the operation , mean arterial oxygen saturation was 86 % , mean right atrial pressure was 15 mm hg , and mean duration of pleural effusions was 6 days . twelve of 19 survivors tolerated early test occlusion and had permanent transcatheter umbrella closure . four patients failed early test occlusion , with a significant decrease in venous o2 saturation and a rise in central venous pressure , due to ventricular dysfunction , pulmonary artery distortion , or aortopulmonary collaterals . three of four had successful late closure of the fenestration after correction of these abnormalities . 
late potentials and inducible ventricular tachycardia in surgically repaired congenital heart disease . we compared signal-averaged electrocardiography with invasive electrophysiological study in patients after surgical repair of congenital heart disease to determine if potentially useful correlations exist between the two methods for assessment of risk for ventricular tachycardia . thirty-one patients ( age , 1-49 years ; mean , 10.6 years ) with congenital heart disease repaired with right ventriculotomy or postrepair right bundle branch block ( 77 % postoperative tetralogy of fallot ) who had electrophysiological study were studied with signal-averaged electrocardiography . patients were classified by electrophysiological study results as having no inducible ventricular tachycardia , nonsustained ventricular tachycardia , or sustained ventricular tachycardia . signal-averaged electrocardiograms were examined for the duration of low-amplitude ( less than or equal to 40 microv ) qrs signal , duration of total qrs , and root-mean-square voltage of the terminal 40 msec of the qrs . low-amplitude terminal root-mean-square voltage of 100 microv or less had 91 % sensitivity and 70 % specificity for ventricular tachycardia inducible by electrophysiological study . similar sensitivity but less specificity were seen using the criterion of 20 msec or more total low-amplitude qrs signal ( initial plus terminal ) or using total qrs duration of 128 msec or more . there was a weaker association between terminal low-amplitude qrs signal of 15 msec or more and inducible ventricular tachycardia . 
william glenn lecture . the cavopulmonary shunt . evolution of a concept . a bold and imaginative development , the cavopulmonary anastomosis , appeared to originate in several centers almost simultaneously . after extensive research on right heart bypass , glenn was the first in north america to perform a successful experimental cavopulmonary shunt , and it became known by his name . in properly selected patients , palliation success was excellent , and mortality rates were low . from 1961 through 1988 , we used a cavopulmonary anastomosis for palliation in 139 infants and children . there were eight hospital deaths , and most occurred early in the series . palliation generally lasted 6-8 years-until the child outgrew the blood supply to the contralateral lung . palliation could be restored by increased flow to that lung with another shunt . six otherwise inoperable patients received benefit from the addition of an axillary arteriovenous fistula . late pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas were identified in 11 % of our patients by angiography , but with more sensitive testing , the incidence rate may be as high as 21 % . the occurrence of pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas caused general concern and less frequent use of the shunt . recent application of an end-to-side anastomosis , creating a bidirectional shunt , has restored interest . a major legacy of the cavopulmonary anastomosis was demonstration of the feasibility of partial right heart bypass , which paved the way for the fontan operation , and it is frequently constructed as part of that operation . currently , the glenn shunt is most often used as a temporary or permanent alternative to a fontan repair if there appears to be significant risk . the risk factors usually encountered include small pulmonary arteries , young age , poor ventricular function , atrioventricular valve incompetence , and myocardial hypertrophy-sometimes alone but often in combination . 
coronary artery pattern and outcome of arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries . a successful outcome of an arterial switch operation ( aso ) for dextro-transposition of the great arteries ( d-tga ) depends in large part on the transfer of the coronary arteries to the neoaorta without distortion or narrowing . however , the origins and distribution of the coronary arteries are quite variable in d-tga ; therefore , the entire experience with aso at the children 's hospital in boston was reviewed . from 1983 through november 1989 , 314 patients underwent surgery for d-tga with the intent to perform an aso . an aso was actually performed in 290 patients , and 20 patients died , with 12 deaths ( 4.2 % ) clearly related to problems with the coronary arteries ( ca deaths ) . the aso was aborted to a senning operation in 24 patients ( 7.6 % ) , primarily due to coronary anatomy . eight coronary patterns were identified and related to the outcome of the aso . in 182 patients with the " usual " coronary pattern for d-tga ( i.e. , anterior descending and circumflex arteries from the left sinus and right coronary artery from the right sinus ) , five ca deaths occurred , and two patients had senning operations . sixty-seven patients had right coronary and circumflex arteries from the right sinus and anterior descending arteries from the left sinus . three ca deaths occurred , and one patient had a senning operation . single right coronary artery was found in 14 ; 12 had asos with three ca deaths ( 25 % ) ; and two had senning operations . one late death was due to diffuse narrowing of the single right coronary artery . single left coronary artery occurred in 11 patients , and seven had aso with no early but one late " sudden " death , whereas four had senning operations . 
longitudinal results after first-stage palliation for hypoplastic left heart syndrome . to evaluate the results of palliative surgery for hypoplastic left heart syndrome , we reviewed the records of 57 infants who underwent first-stage reconstruction at our institution between july 1983 and april 1989 . of the 57 infants , 12 ( 21 % ) are long-term survivors and 45 ( 79 % ) have died . thirty-one infants died within the first 30 days after surgery . twenty-six of the 31 early deaths occurred within the first 24 hours after surgery . causes of early mortality were low cardiac output ( 23 ) , sepsis ( two ) , sudden death ( two ) , pulmonary vein atresia ( three ) , and cardiac transplant ( one ) . late death occurred in 14 infants due to sepsis ( three ) , sudden death ( four ) , and death at reoperation ( seven - three after fontan procedure , three after shunt replacement , and one after transplant ) . of the 31 patients who survived more than 24 hours , the complications noted by echocardiography and confirmed by catheterization when reoperation was indicated were significant arch obstruction ( 13 % ) , branch pulmonary artery stenosis ( 23 % ) , small atrial septal defect ( 16 % ) , inadequate shunt ( 26 % ) , neoaortic regurgitation ( 13 % ) , tricuspid regurgitation ( 13 % ) , ventricular dysfunction ( 29 % ) , thrombus ( 6 % ) , and superior vena cava obstruction ( 3 % ) . of the 31 patients who survived more than 24 hours , 16 additional palliative surgical procedures were performed in eight patients . these procedures included arch reconstruction ( four ) , additional shunt ( four ) , glenn shunt ( three ) , atrial septectomy ( two ) , coarctation balloon angioplasty ( two ) , and pulmonary artery reconstruction and reshunting ( one ) . of the 12 long-term survivors , four have had a successful fontan procedure , one has had a transplant , and seven are awaiting a second-stage procedure . thus , 69 % of all deaths occurred within the first 30 days of surgery , and 58 % of all deaths occurred within the first 24 hours due to cardiovascular collapse . 
right ventricular growth after transventricular pulmonary valvotomy and central aortopulmonary shunt for pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum . we performed transventricular pulmonary valvotomy as initial surgery in 22 consecutive patients with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum who had a patent infundibulum . nineteen patients also had placement of a central aortopulmonary shunt . all patients survived surgery , and 16 patients have had preoperative and later postoperative catheterizations . the purpose of this study was to determine the response of the right ventricle to transventricular pulmonary valvotomy with regard to relief of right ventricular hypertension and growth of the entire right ventricle , including tricuspid valve , right ventricular volume , and right ventricular outflow tract . right ventricular systolic pressure decreased from 111.3 + / - 31.7 mm hg before initial surgery to 65.6 + / - 26.2 mm hg . right ventricular end-diastolic volume increased from 59.1 + / - 39.3 % of predicted normal before initial surgery to 114.6 + / - 63.2 % at late follow-up catheterization . tricuspid valve anulus circumference also increased in size from 73.2 + / - 21.3 % of predicted normal before initial surgery to 90.4 + / - 22.8 % at late follow-up catheterization . only one patient ( 6 % ) required a transanular right ventricular outflow tract patch at the time of biventricular repair . twenty of 22 patients ( 91 % ) either have had or are awaiting biventricular repair . we conclude that transventricular pulmonary valvotomy and central aortopulmonary shunt can be performed safely in newborn infants with pulmonary atresia and intact ventricular septum who have a patent infundibulum . effective valvotomy relieves right ventricular hypertension , allows for excellent right ventricular and tricuspid valve growth , and optimizes potential for biventricular repair . 
fontan operation in 176 patients with tricuspid atresia . results and a proposed new index for patient selection . between 1973 and march 1989 , 176 patients with tricuspid atresia had the fontan procedure performed at the mayo clinic . age range at the time of surgery was 7 months to 42 years , with 43 patients ( 24 % ) 16 years old or older . hospital mortality rates were 17 % ( nine of 54 ) from 1973 through 1980 and 8 % ( 10 of 122 ) from 1981 through 1989 . there have been 10 late cardiovascular deaths . postoperative follow-up of 139 survivors ( range , 6 months to 14 years ; mean , 5.5 years ) revealed 91 % to be in excellent or good condition and 9 % to be in fair or poor condition . patients in fair or poor condition had poor stamina and/or fluid retention with intermittent pleural effusion , ascites , and so on . two factors that clearly influence operative and late results are preoperative pulmonary arteriolar resistance ( rpa ) and left ventricular diastolic function . a preoperative catheterization index devised by adding rpa to left ventricular end-diastolic pressure divided by qpi plus qsi may be helpful in selecting candidates most likely to survive and benefit from the fontan operation . in our experience , if this index is less than 4.0 , then the postoperative right atrial mean pressure will be 20 mm hg or less , a circumstance associated with 95 % early and 89 % overall survival rates . 
bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis as interim palliation for high-risk fontan candidates . early results . thirty-eight patients considered to be at increased risk for a fontan repair underwent bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis . twenty-one of the 38 had concurrent pulmonary artery reconstruction . fontan risk factors included pulmonary artery distortion , elevated pulmonary artery resistance ( greater than 2 woods units ) and/or pulmonary artery pressure ( mean , greater than 18 mm hg ) , atrioventricular valve regurgitation , systemic ventricular dysfunction , complex venous anatomy , and subaortic obstruction . there were no deaths , either early or late . median arterial oxygen saturation increased from 79 % to 84 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . median hospital stay was 8 days . no patient had pleural effusions after 7 days . three patients had significant surgical complications . five patients had inadequate relief of cyanosis ; three of these had venous collaterals and two had severe ventricular dysfunction ; the latter two patients subsequently had strokes . one of the patients with persistent cyanosis required a systemic-to-pulmonary artery shunt . we conclude that a bidirectional cavopulmonary shunt , with pulmonary artery reconstruction when indicated , provides adequate relief of cyanosis in most patients with single-ventricle lesions who are considered to be at increased risk for a fontan repair . relief of ventricular volume overload and pulmonary artery distortion may improve fontan candidacy . also , patients with persistent cyanosis after bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis should be catheterized for location and occlusion of venous collaterals . further follow-up is necessary to determine the place of bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis in the management of patients at increased risk for a fontan repair . 
morphological findings contributing to a failed fontan procedure . twelve-year experience . a group of 37 patients ( age range , 3 months to 29 years ) who died after the modified fontan procedure ( within 2 months ) , representing 15 % of the 245 patients undergoing this procedure from 1976 through 1988 , was reviewed to determine the causes of death . the three morphological groups were 1 ) univentricular atrioventricular connection ( n = 19 ) , 2 ) tricuspid atresia ( n = 9 ) , and 3 ) other complex malformations ( n = 9 ) . subaortic stenosis was present in 15 patients ( 40 % ) in this group compared with 31 of 208 early survivors ( 15 % ) ( p = 0.008 ) . pulmonary artery banding , identified as a risk factor in our previous experience , was performed in 14 patients , nine of whom had subaortic stenosis . nine palliative procedures for subaortic stenosis were performed in eight patients -- before the fontan procedure in three patients and concurrently with the fontan procedure in five patients . myocardial hypertrophy and signs of acute ischemic injury were common findings at autopsy ( n = 25 ) and were particularly prominent in all patients with univentricular heart of left ventricular morphology associated with subaortic stenosis and previous pulmonary artery banding ( n = 7 ) . we conclude that the present majority of deaths occurring after the modified fontan procedure are myocardial in nature and attributable to advanced myocardial hypertrophy that is potentiated by previous pulmonary artery banding and subaortic stenosis . 
atrial cardiomyoplasty after fontan-type procedures . the purpose of right atrial cardiomyoplasty is to increase atrial-pulmonary flow in patients undergoing fontan-type procedures . we developed two surgical techniques to bypass the right ventricle , followed by right atrial cardiomyoplasty with a stimulated latissimus dorsi muscle flap ( ldmf ) . in 10 goats , the left ldmf was transferred into the chest by removal of the second rib . after sternotomy , the right atrial appendages of five goats ( group 1 ) were connected to the distal main pulmonary artery with polytetrafluoroethylene tubing and the proximal pulmonary trunks were ligated . in the other five goats ( group 2 ) , under cardiopulmonary bypass , bioprosthetic valves were implanted into the inferior venae cavae . the tricuspid orifice was closed , and the atriopulmonary connection was performed . the left ldmf was sutured over the right atrium and stimulated using synchronous 30-hz bursts of impulses delivered by a medtronic cardiomyostimulator . hemodynamic studies were performed in the acute phase . right atrial , pulmonary arterial , and aortic pressures were assessed . cardiac output was measured using ultrasonic flow studies . ldmf stimulation restored pulsatile pressure patterns in the pulmonary artery and increased the cardiac output . these observations were more evident in the model with caval valvular implant . this functional " ventricularization " of the right atrium could improve long-term results after fontan-type procedures and extend operative indications . chronic experimental studies are necessary to evaluate the diastolic and systolic functions of the neo-right ventricle . 
perioperative arrhythmias after fontan repair . arrhythmias are well-recognized sequelae of the fontan repair . a prospective analysis of perioperative arrhythmias after fontan repair was performed . thirty-three patients had 24-hour ambulatory monitoring on the day before surgery and for 24 hours immediately after surgery ; the 27 surviving patients had an additional 24-hour study on the seventh postoperative day . the most common preoperative rhythm was normal sinus , which was present in 79 % . hemodynamically significant preoperative arrhythmias were present in only two patients-atrial flutter ( n = 1 ) and complete heart block ( n = 1 ) . other asymptomatic preoperative arrhythmias included ectopic atrial rhythm ( n = 2 ) , supraventricular tachycardia ( n = 1 ) , accelerated junctional rhythm ( n = 1 ) , and frequent ventricular premature beats ( n = 1 ) . on the first postoperative day , the most common rhythm was accelerated junctional rhythm , which was present in 48 % . hemodynamically significant arrhythmias were present in nine patients ( 27 % ) - rapid accelerated junctional rhythm ( rate , greater than 190 beats/min ) ( n = 3 ) , complete heart block ( n = 2 ) , atrial flutter ( n = 2 ) , supraventricular tachycardia ( n = 1 ) , and ventricular tachycardia ( n = 1 ) . three of six deaths occurring between postoperative days 2 and 7 were in patients with rapid accelerated junctional rhythm and associated low cardiac output . on the seventh postoperative day , the most common rhythm was normal sinus , which was present in 41 % . nine of the 27 surviving patients had complete resolution of their arrhythmias between postoperative days 2 and 7 . on postoperative day 7 , hemodynamically significant arrhythmias were present in four patients-atrial flutter ( n = 2 ) and complete heart block ( n = 2 ) . 
partial anomalous pulmonary venous return . anomalous pulmonary venous return from the left lung is an extremely rare condition that is reported sporadically and in general in case reports . from 1964 through 1988 , we identified 13 patients with this condition , all of whom underwent surgical correction . this represents the single largest reported institutional experience with this anomaly . the patients ranged in age from 15 months to 40 years . seven were asymptomatic , and six had symptoms ranging from recurrent pulmonary infection to moderate congestive heart failure . six had anomalous venous return from the entire left lung , and seven had anomalous return from the upper lobe only . eight of the patients had associated cardiovascular anomalies . four of the patients underwent surgical correction via a sternotomy approach with cardiopulmonary bypass to allow correction of coexisting intracardiac anomalies . the remaining patients underwent surgical repair through a left thoracotomy . the technique included high ligation and division of a persistent left superior vena cava with anastomosis to the left atrium at the site of partial excision of the atrial appendage . there were no deaths and only one complication in our series . 
hypoplastic left heart syndrome . outcome after initial reconstruction and before modified fontan procedure . the outcome and clinical course before modified fontan procedure were reviewed for 200 patients with hypoplastic left heart syndrome who underwent initial reconstructive surgery between august 1985 and march 1989 . the median age at the time of initial reconstruction was 6 days ( range , 1 day to 7.2 months ) . in 28 patients , a right modified blalock-taussig shunt was used ; in 172 patients , a central shunt was placed . additional procedures ( n = 41 ) performed in 38 patients ( median age , 5 months ; range , 6 days to 17.5 months ) were revision of systemic-to-pulmonary shunt ( n = 15 ) , arch reconstruction ( n = 8 ) , balloon angioplasty of arch obstruction ( n = 7 ) , atrial septectomy ( n = 4 ) , pulmonary artery angioplasty ( n = 2 ) , tricuspid valve annuloplasty or replacement ( n = 4 ) , and modified glenn shunt ( n = 1 ) . there was no significant difference in the frequency of additional procedures performed more than 30 postoperative days in the survivors compared with the nonsurvivors . actuarial survival rates were 0.66 ( 1 month ) , 0.48 ( 12 months ) , and 0.44 ( 18 months ) . seventy percent of all deaths occurred during the initial admission , with 32 % resulting from acute cardiovascular collapse during the first postoperative day . there was no statistical difference in actuarial survival when assessed by the type of shunt used or by anatomical subtype or when the influence of additional interventions was considered . substantial improvement in outcome may be possible if immediate perioperative mortality can be reduced . we speculate that some of the intermediate mortality ( 30 days to 1 year ) may be related to the effects of chronic exposure of the right ventricle to volume overload at systemic pressure . 
clinical approach to prenatal detection of human structural defects . tremendous advances in prenatal diagnosis have allowed clinicians to recognize a variety of structural defects in the developing fetus . guidelines for fetal ultrasonography and an approach to fetal evaluation are outlined . the developmental morphologic approach is emphasized as a way of categorizing congenital anomalies whether they are detected during prenatal or postnatal life . the use of this approach for diagnosing and managing fetal malformation syndromes is illustrated . 
teratogenically induced fetal anomalies . a variety of infectious and physical agents , maternal diseases and altered metabolic states , and drugs and chemicals have been shown to cause postnatal structural or functional disabilities when embryonic or fetal exposure occurs during human pregnancy . these disabilities are potentially preventable through public education and awareness . health-care providers must be equipped to collect relevant data regarding exposures of concern from their pregnant patients , locate and evaluate pertinent current teratology information resources , and sensitively counsel these women regarding the associated potential teratogenic risks . comprehensive care of the patient exposed to a human teratogen may also include discussion of prenatal diagnostic procedures and other pregnancy management options . 
aberrant morphogenesis of the central nervous system . this overview of congenital defects of the cns has emphasized pathogenesis . as developmental pathways continue to be elucidated , this approach remains to an extent hypothetical . when , however , an understanding of the features of morphogenesis and dysmorphogenesis helps to indicate time of onset or to elucidate causal factors , important steps toward the prevention of birth defects are taken . 
congenital heart defects in malformation syndromes . this article presents a comprehensive review of the type and frequency of congenital heart defects found in malformation syndromes which have been categorized by etiology . certain cardiac phenotypes can be as helpful in identifying certain syndromes as can be seen with the more familiar facial , body , and behavioral phenotypes . an awareness of syndromes with a higher risk of congenital heart defect , and knowledge concerning heart defects which are distinctive for certain syndromes , focuses prenatal diagnosis efforts and fetal echocardiography . by using a mechanistic classification in which congenital heart defects are regarded as families of related defects rather than individual lesions , patterns can be recognized among different syndromes . 
fetal abdominal abnormalities associated with genetic syndromes . sonographic technology has given the prenatal diagnostician the ability to accurately visualize fetal malformations . this article demonstrates the currently available capability of applying sonographically derived information concerning fetal dysmorphology to our knowledge of genetic disorders and syndromes . as a result , there can be a significant improvement in the management and counseling of these patients . after an initial discussion of normal embryology , principles of abdominal ultrasonography are discussed and applied to the following anomalies : omphalocele , gastroschisis , diaphragmatic hernia , duodenal atresia , other intestinal atresias and stenoses , renal anomalies , and obstructive uropathies . 
use of a palatal stabilizing device in prevention of palatal grooves in premature infants . a prospective , randomized study using an acrylic palatal stabilizing device ( psd ) was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of this device in preventing disruptions in palatal architecture . a total of 26 premature infants with birth weights of 540 to 1740 g , and intubated orally for a period varying from 7 to 109 days were randomized to control and experimental groups . all neonates in the control group developed palatal grooving ranging from 2 to 5 mm in depth , whereas those in the experimental group ( with a psd ) showed no evidence of palatal grooving . we conclude that a psd is an effective preventive device in premature orally intubated infants . 
quality of well-being before and after antibiotic treatment of pulmonary exacerbation in patients with cystic fibrosis . general quality of life has only recently been measured with an objective tool in patients with cystic fibrosis ( cf ) , and there have been no reported attempts to document changes in patients ' overall well-being over time , as patients deteriorate or respond to intervention . we applied the quality of well-being scale ( qwb ) in 28 patients with cf before and after a two-week course of oral ciprofloxacin used to treat pulmonary exacerbations . there were significant correlations between changes in qwb and various pulmonary function test results ; qwb vs fev1 : r = 0.4 , p less than 0.03 ; qwb vs fvc : r = 0.5 , p less than 0.01 ; and qwb vs sao2 : r = 0.4 , p less than 0.05 . thus , the qwb can track changes in general well-being in cf patients over a brief time and detect changes associated with pulmonary exacerbation and its treatment . 
diagnosis of tracheal injury in mechanically ventilated premature infants by flexible bronchoscopy . a pilot study . flexible bronchoscopy ( fb ) is uniquely suited for the study of large airway lesions in the ventilated premature infant . however , no standardized clinical scoring system of distal tracheal injury exists and the adverse consequences of fb in ventilated premature infants are not well described . using a prototype olympus fiberoptic ultrathin bronchoscope with a directable tip and an outer diameter of 2.2 mm , we serially scored distal tracheal injury in conventionally ventilated premature infants on the basis of mucosal and obstructive changes observed at bronchoscopy . in addition , we prospectively evaluated the incidence of adverse cardiovascular and pulmonary effects during , immediately after , and within 1 h of fb . we performed 21 fbs in eight conventionally ventilated premature infants with birth weight of 1,239 + / - 438 g and gestational age of 30 + / - 3 weeks . the carina and mainstem bronchi were easily visualized in all infants using the prototype bronchoscope . during the first several days of life , moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury occurred frequently , while moderate-to-severe obstructive injury occurred infrequently . distal mucosal injury appeared to improve during the fourth week of life . mild distal obstructive injury began to appear during the second week of life . adverse consequences of fb observed in our patient population included transient hypoxemia and bradycardia during fb , changes in systolic blood pressure immediately and within 1 h after fb , and emesis immediately after fb . serious adverse cardiovascular or pulmonary effects were not observed . we conclude that fb can be performed safely with appropriate monitoring and is a useful tool in the clinical assessment and serial evaluation of distal tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants . we speculate that moderate-to-severe distal tracheal mucosal injury may be associated with the development of later obstructive injury . on the basis of this preliminary study , further prospective investigations of tracheal injury in ventilated premature infants appear to be warranted . 
gene mapping and other tools for discovery . genetic mapping provides a means of understanding the molecular basis of inherited diseases whose biochemistry is unknown . adequate pedigrees , informative genetic markers , and accurate identification of the disease phenotype are necessary . for dominant inheritance , mapping studies can be done in a single large pedigree ; the larger the number of affected individuals sampled the better the estimate of recombination between the gene causing the disease and one or more nearby genetic markers . for recessive inheritance , nuclear families with more than one affected sibling provide the best information . the development of many polymorphic dna markers on the human genome has contributed to the success of mapping unknown genes because , as the genome is now densely covered with markers , the probability is good that at least one marker will be linked to the disease locus in a family that is segregating a disease allele . most genetic markers now in use depend upon restriction fragment length polymorphisms ( rflps ) , which are either the result of single-base-pair substitution or the presence of a variable number of tandemly repeated oligonucleotide units at a locus ( vntrs ) . rflps can be recognized by digesting dna with restriction enzymes and separating the fragments by size on an electrophoretic gel . vntrs can vary widely among individuals , and they provide more linkage information than single-site polymorphic markers because family members are more likely to be heterozygous . genetic maps of each chromosome , constructed from linkage data relating marker loci to one another in normal reference families , permit rational choices of markers for disease-mapping studies . 
deletion of chromosome 4 : 46 , xy , del ( 4 ) ( q31 .3 ) after gamete intrafallopian transfer and in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer . it seems that assisted reproduction technology does not increase the rate of chromosome abnormalities , and up to now , a few cases have been reported . the case we describe here is the first one of monosomy 4q31 in a full-term liveborn after a combined gift-ivf procedure . once more , this case raises the question of whether pregnancies resulting from ivf should be monitored for chromosome abnormalities or not . 
ptychotropism as a cutaneous feature of the child syndrome . the hallmark of the child syndrome is a unilateral ichthyosiform nevus that displays a pronounced affinity for the body folds . for this phenomenon the term ptychotropism is proposed . the expression is composed from the greek words ptyche ( fold ) and trope ( a turning ) . it is concluded that the cutaneous lesions of the child nevus are determined by two factors , lyonization and ptychotropism . the phenomenon of ptychotropism constitutes an additional argument to distinguish the child nevus from the inflammatory linear verrucous epidermal nevus because the latter is not ptychotropic . 
comparative value of transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography in the assessment of congenital abnormalities of the atrioventricular junction . information obtained from transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography ( two-dimensional echocardiography with spectral doppler and color flow imaging ) was compared in 17 patients with major congenital abnormalities of the atrioventricular ( av ) junction ( 10 discordant av connections , 1 criss-cross connection , 5 absent right connections and 1 absent left connection ) . the findings by either technique were correlated with findings at cardiac catheterization ( 12 patients ) and at surgery ( 5 patients ) . in two of six patients with an absent av connection as defined by transthoracic echocardiography , transesophageal imaging demonstrated an imperforate av valve . in 11 of 11 patients with a discordant or criss-cross connection , assessment of av valve and ventricular morphology ( by defining the chordal attachments of both av valves ) was possible with transesophageal echocardiography ( 3 of 11 patients by transthoracic echocardiography ) ; chordal straddling was detected in 1 patient and excluded in 3 others with an associated inlet ventricular septal defect . anomalous pulmonary venous connection ( one patient ) , atrial septal defect ( three patients ) and subpulmonary stenosis ( five patients ) were better assessed by transesophageal imaging , and atrial appendage morphology could be demonstrated in all . the transesophageal technique was less useful in demonstrating the anterior subaortic infundibulum or aortopulmonary shunt ( two patients ) . although systemic ventricular function could be assessed by either method with use of short-axis m-mode scans , transesophageal pulsed doppler interrogation of av valve and pulmonary venous flow patterns provided clues to diastolic dysfunction of the systemic ventricle . 
supraventricular tachycardia due to wolff-parkinson-white syndrome in children : early disappearance and late recurrence the clinical course of 140 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome who had their initial episode of supraventricular tachycardia before 18 years of age was reviewed . among those whose tachycardia began at age 0 to 2 months , it disappeared in 93 % and persisted in 7 % . in 31 % , it disappeared and reappeared at an average age of 8 years . among patients whose tachycardia was present after age 5 years , it was persistent in 78 % at a mean follow-up period of 7 years . accessory connection location was mapped by electrophysiologic study in 87 patients and estimated by electrocardiography in 53 patients . there were no differences in tachycardia onset or recurrence based on accessory connection location . congenital heart defects were present in 37 % of all patients , 23 % of whom had ebstein 's anomaly . among all patients who underwent cardiac catheterization , 63 % of those with a congenital heart defect had a rightsided accessory connection , whereas 61 % of patients with a normal heart had a left-sided connection ( p less than 0.01 ) . multiple accessory connections were found in 12 % of patients with a congenital heart defect compared with 6 % of those without such a defect . in conclusion : 1 ) supraventricular tachycardia due to wolff-parkinson-white syndrome that begins in infancy may disappear , but it frequently recurs in later childhood ; 2 ) if tachycardia is present after age 5 years , it persists in greater than 75 % of patients ; and 3 ) the location of the accessory connection does not affect the clinical course of tachycardia in children with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome . 
ventricular arrhythmias after correction of ventricular septal defects : importance of surgical approach . to compare the prevalence of conduction disturbances and ventricular arrhythmias in cases of postoperative ventricular septal defect , 100 patients ( 50 with repair by right atriotomy , group 1 ; and 50 with repair by right ventriculotomy , group 2 ) underwent complete evaluation including an electrocardiogram ( ecg ) and 24 h ambulatory ecg monitoring . the two groups were comparable except for a shorter follow-up duration ( 7 + / - 3 versus 12.4 + / - 7 years ) and a younger age at evaluation ( 12.4 + / - 5 versus 16.9 + / - 7 years ) in group 1 . complete right bundle branch block was less frequent in group 1 than in group 2 ( 20 % versus 50 % , p less than 0.05 ) but three of the four patients with complete atrioventricular ( av ) block detected on ambulatory monitoring were in group 1 . six patients had significant supraventricular arrhythmias , all well tolerated . ambulatory monitoring revealed significant ventricular arrhythmias ( modified lown grade 2 or higher ) in 39 patients , with a lower prevalence in group 1 ( 30 % versus 48 % , p = 0.05 ) . no correlation was found between prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias and right ventricular systolic pressure , cardiopulmonary bypass duration , presence of a synthetic patch , previous pulmonary artery banding , presence of complete right bundle branch block and cardiomegaly on chest x-ray film . prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias increased with follow-up duration , age at evaluation and age at surgery . these were always well tolerated and did not warrant treatment . thus , right atriotomy reduces the prevalence of right bundle branch block but does not prevent late av block . ventricular arrhythmias are frequent after surgical closure of ventricular septal defect whatever the surgical approach and their prevalence is not statistically different from that in postoperative tetralogy of fallot . 
cardiac teratogenesis of trichloroethylene and dichloroethylene in a mammalian model . recent epidemiologic studies have demonstrated a greater than expected number of pediatric patients with congenital heart disease in areas where drinking water was contaminated by halogenated aliphatic hydrocarbons . trichloroethylene , trichloroethane and dichlorethylene were the principal contaminants in the groundwater . a previous study of chick embryos demonstrated that when injected into the air sacs of fertilized eggs trichloroethylene produced more than three times the number of cardiac defects that are found in control embryos . this mammalian study demonstrates similar effects of trichloroethylene and dichloroethylene when applied under provocative circumstances ( that is , solutions delivered through a catheter into the gravid uterus from an intraperitoneal osmotic pump ) to the developing rat fetus in utero during the period of organ differentiation and development . furthermore , the effect is dose dependent for both agents . although only a very small number of congenital heart anomalies ( 3 % ) were found in the control group , 9 % and 12.5 % were found in the lower dose trichloroethylene and dichloroethylene groups and 14 % and 21 % in the higher dose groups , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . a variety of cardiac defects were found . dichloroethylene appears to be at least as great a cardiac teratogen as trichloroethylene even though it was administered at a 10-fold lower concentration . these agents appear to be specific cardiac teratogens because only a single noncardiac anomaly was found . this study in a rat model demonstrates a dose-dependent relation between fetal exposure to trichloroethylene and dichloroethylene in utero during the period of organogenesis and the appearance of a variety of congenital cardiac defects . 
intracardiac shunting in children with ventricular septal defect : evaluation with doppler color flow mapping in children with a ventricular septal defect , transseptal blood flow has been demonstrated angiographically to be bidirectional in all but the smallest defects . to investigate this phenomenon noninvasively , two-dimensional doppler color flow echocardiography was used in 77 patients ( aged 1 day to 15.5 years , mean 24 months ) . during isovolumetric contraction , flow was seen from the left to the right ventricle in 82 ( 98 % ) of 84 studies . during isovolumetric relaxation , right to left flow was noted in 72 ( 96 % ) of 75 studies . during early diastole in patients with an isolated defect , flow was initially from the right to the left ventricle and subsequently reversed to become left to right in 29 ( 91 % ) of 32 studies . in patients with concomitant right ventricular volume overload , flow across the ventricular defect was from the right to the left ventricle throughout diastole in 30 ( 86 % ) of 35 studies . in each of four patients with d-transposition of the great vessels and each of two patients with 1-transposition of the great vessels , blood flow was from the morphologic left ventricle to the morphologic right ventricle during isovolumetric contraction and from the morphologic right ventricle to the morphologic left ventricle during isovolumetric relaxation . these results demonstrate 1 ) the complex nature of intracardiac shunting in children with ventricular septal defect as previously shown by angiography ; 2 ) an intrinsic functional difference in the contractile and relaxation properties of the morphologic left and right ventricles ; and 3 ) differences in diastolic blood flow patterns between children with an isolated defect and those with a ventricular septal defect and right ventricular volume overload ( p = 0.0001 ) . 
results of the arterial switch operation in patients with transposition of the great arteries and abnormalities of the mitral valve or left ventricular outflow tract . between january 1983 and october 1989 , 290 patients underwent an arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries ; 30 ( 10.3 % ) of the patients had abnormalities of the left ventricular outflow tract or mitral valve , or both . these abnormalities included isolated pulmonary valve stenosis ( n = 9 ) , septal ( dynamic ) subpulmonary stenosis ( n = 5 ) , anatomic ( fixed ) subpulmonary stenosis ( n = 7 ) , abnormal mitral chordae attachments ( n = 2 ) or a combination of abnormalities ( n = 7 ) . there were two early deaths , one of which was due to previously unrecognized mitral stenosis and a subpulmonary ( neo-aortic ) membrane and one late death due to presumed coronary obstruction . of the nine patients with pulmonary valve abnormalities due to either a bicommissural ( n = 5 ) or a thickened tricommissural ( n = 4 ) valve , only one underwent valvotomy . peak systolic ejection gradients in these nine patients measured preoperatively ranged from 0 to 50 mm hg . at follow-up study 5 to 30 months postoperatively , the neo-aortic valve gradient was less than or equal to 15 mm hg in all patients ; three patients had mild neo-aortic regurgitation . preoperative gradients may overestimate the degree of obstruction because of the increased pulmonary blood flow present in transposition . no patient with " dynamic " subpulmonary obstruction before the arterial switch operation had a surgical procedure performed on the left ventricular outflow tract ; none had evidence of subaortic obstruction after the arterial switch . 
is banding of the pulmonary trunk obsolete for infants with tricuspid atresia and double inlet ventricle with a discordant ventriculoarterial connection ? role of aortic arch obstruction and subaortic stenosis banding the pulmonary trunk may exacerbate or promote the development of subaortic stenosis in patients with double inlet ventricle or tricuspid atresia with a dominant left ventricle and discordant ventriculoarterial connection and , therefore , may be an inappropriate palliative procedure for such patients . to examine this possibility , 102 consecutive infants were studied who presented with this anatomy between 1972 and 1987 . obstruction of the aortic arch was present in 52 patients . in 28 patients ( 17 with aortic arch obstruction ) , subaortic stenosis was already apparent at presentation . of the remaining 74 patients , 19 received no palliative surgery and 55 underwent banding of the pulmonary trunk either with ( n = 22 ) or without ( n = 33 ) aortic arch repair . outcome was significantly worse in patients with associated aortic arch obstruction . all such patients either died or developed subaortic stenosis by 3 years of age ( survival free of subaortic stenosis 0 of 22 versus 22 of 33 for patients with isolated banding of the pulmonary trunk , p less than 0.001 ) . after isolated banding , there was a lower ratio of the ventricular septal defect to ascending aorta diameters at presentation in the patients who developed subaortic stenosis than in the patients who did not ( 0.60 + / - 0.08 versus 1.03 + / - 0.15 , p less than 0.001 ) . of the latter , 18 ( 95 % ) of 19 patients fulfilled criteria for a fontan procedure at recatheterization . thus , the presence of aortic arch obstruction is associated with rapid development of subaortic stenosis after banding of the pulmonary trunk . alternative initial surgery , even though high risk , may be indicated . in the absence of such obstruction , banding the pulmonary trunk can be performed at reasonable risk and , provided that the ventricular septal defect is of adequate size , satisfactorily prepares most patients for a later fontan procedure . 
lipid peroxidation and expression of copper-zinc and manganese superoxide dismutase in lungs of premature infants with hyaline membrane disease and bronchopulmonary dysplasia . the putative involvement of reactive oxygen species in the etiology of lung damage in infants receiving mechanical ventilation has been examined by comparing the levels of peroxidation and expression of the antioxidant enzymes , cuzn and mn superoxide dismutase , in lungs from control and affected infants as well as from fetuses and infants who died postnatally after term delivery . mean levels ( + / - sd ) of lung peroxidation , determined with a thiobarbituric acid method , were similar in affected and control premature neonates and in fetal subjects ( 1.87 + / - 1.26 , 1.92 + / - 2.07 , and 1.19 + / - 1.36 nmol/mg protein , respectively ) . expression of cuzn and mn superoxide dismutases was also similar in these subjects and in the patients who died postnatally . thus activity measurements and immunoblotting studies showed continuous expression of these enzymes throughout development with no apparent change in protein levels or size . immunohistochemical examination of lung tissue showed expression of cuzn and mn superoxide dismutases in epithelial , smooth muscle , endothelial , and some mesenchyme components . in patients with bronchopulmonary dysplasia , alveolar walls were thickened by an excess of fibrous tissue and terminal air spaces were lined mainly by type ii pneumatocytes . all structures , including abnormal fibrous components , were positive for both cuzn and mn superoxide dismutase . our data show that , unlike some experimental animals , expression of at least these antioxidant enzymes in human infants born prematurely is similar to that in adults , and indicate that such infants are better adapted for life in an oxygen-containing environment than previously suspected . 
serum immunoglobulins e and g anti-aspergillus fumigatus antibody in patients with cystic fibrosis who have allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis . patients with cystic fibrosis frequently have pulmonary colonization with aspergillus fumigatus ( af ) and develop anti-af immunoglobulin e ( ige ) and igg antibodies . the diagnosis of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis in subjects with cystic fibrosis is difficult because of the high incidence of af colonization , with development of humoral antibody responses . in this study , we sequentially measured serum anti-af ige ( af-e ) and igg ( af-g ) antibodies by elisa in subjects with cystic fibrosis . in subjects with cystic fibrosis who have allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis , af-e and af-g antibodies were significantly increased when compared with other groups of patients with cystic fibrosis who had positive skin tests or precipitins to af ( or both ) ( p less than 0.01 , p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . in addition , increased af-e and af-g levels were sometimes seen in other groups , especially subjects with cystic fibrosis who had positive af skin tests or precipitin tests , two of whom later developed criteria diagnostic of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis . thus , serum af-e and af-g levels were quantitatively increased in subjects with cystic fibrosis who had allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis and thus adjunctive data in diagnosis . however , it also suggested that subclinical pulmonary inflammation may also occur . 
cardiac pathology in 470 consecutive forensic autopsies . cardiovascular disease continues to be the single most common generic cause of sudden and unexpected deaths . atherosclerotic coronary heart disease and acute myocardial infarction are the most prevalent forms of fatal cardiac disease observed at autopsy . other cardiac lesions are frequently listed as causes of death , but the prevalence of such lesions as incidental findings in the general population is unknown . in this study , 470 consecutive forensic autopsies were evaluated for minor and major anomalies . the most frequently observed major congenital finding was floppy mitral valve ( 5 % ) . tunneled coronary arteries , considered minor congenital findings , were seen in 29 % . atherosclerotic coronary heart disease was the most common major acquired finding , observed in 16 % of cases . of the 470 hearts , only 8 % were considered normal . 
a distinctive triad of malformations of the central nervous system in the meckel-gruber syndrome . a distinct triad of central nervous system ( cns ) malformations ( prosencephalic dysgenesis , occipital exencephalocele and rhombic roof dysgenesis ) was present in seven cases of the meckel-gruber syndrome examined at autopsy . we compared our findings with those previously described . microcephaly , sloping forehead , posterior occipital exencephalocele , cerebellar hypoplasia , chiari malformation , hydrocephalus , polymicrogyria , arhinencephaly , holoprosencephaly and anencephaly constituted a broad spectrum of the reported cns anomalies . few reports contained a comprehensive description of the observed cns malformations . in those reports , and in our cases , features of prosencephalic dysgenesis included agenesis of olfactory bulbs and tracts ( arhinencephaly ) , hypoplasia of optic nerves and chiasm , agenesis of corpus callosum , fused thalami or complete holoprosencephaly . the occipital encephalocele has consisted of a displacement of rhombic roof elements , including caudal third ventricle , cerebellar vermis and fourth ventricle , extruded through an enlarged posterior fontanelle rather than through an occipital cranium bifidum and is thus more precisely labeled an exencephalocele . different degrees of dysgenesis of posterior fossa structures , described by some as a variant of dandy-walker cyst with features of a chiari malformation , were often associated with this occipital exencephalocele . this pattern of cns anomalies represents a triad of malformations probably associated with defective ventral induction of the developing cns by the prechordal mesoderm . 
current urinary mass screening for catecholamine metabolites at 6 months of age may be detecting only a small portion of high-risk neuroblastomas : a chromosome and n-myc amplification study . we studied 96 infants and children with untreated neuroblastomas . chromosomes of tumor cells were analyzed in 68 , and n-myc copy numbers were determined in 67 patients . patients found by a mass screening program for 6-month-old infants ( group a1 , 39 patients ) or those less than 12 months of age found clinically ( group a2 , 13 patients ) were rarely in the disseminated stage ( a1 , three of 39 ; a2 one of 13 ) ; their tumors usually had near-triploid ( 3n ) or hypertetraploid ( greater than 4n ) karyotypes ( a1 , 28 of 37 ; a2 , nine of 11 ) , and never had n-myc amplification ( a1 , zero of 34 ; a2 , zero of 11 ) . in contrast , children 12 months or over ( group b , 27 patients ) were usually in the disseminated stage ( 19 of 27 ) ( p less than .0001 ) ; their tumors usually had near-diploid ( 2n ) or near-tetraploid ( 4n ) karyotypes ( 16 of 20 ) ( p = .0027 ) , and often had n-myc amplification ( nine of 22 ) ( p less than .0001 ) . of the 40 clinically found patients ( a2 and b ) , six had undergone the screening with a negative result at the age of 6 months . two of the six patients had n-myc amplification in the tumors . most tumors found by the screening showed known characteristics predicting a good prognosis , and the majority of tumors showing characteristics predicting a poor prognosis were found in patients aged between 12 and 36 months . our chromosome and n-myc amplification studies suggest that a low-risk tumor does not usually evolve to a high-risk tumor . thus , the current mass screening program may be detecting only a small portion of highly malignant neuroblastomas at the earliest stage . infants should be screened twice , at 6 months as well as at 12 months of age , for the early detection of high-risk neuroblastomas . 
prenatal screening : when and for whom ? this report discusses the role of prenatal screening in preventing congenital abnormalities or , when prevention is not possible , in avoiding the conception or the birth of those who would have untreatable abnormalities . women who are found by screening not to be immune to rubella can be safely vaccinated prior to pregnancy ; those found to be at risk of having children with genetic disorders such as tay-sachs disease or thalassemia have the option of avoiding the conception of affected offspring . screening during pregnancy permits the primary prevention of rh disease and its sequelae when it results in the prophylactic administration of rh-immune globulin to unsensitized rh-negative women . maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein screening identifies pregnant women who are at increased risk of carrying fetuses with neural tube defects or down 's syndrome , giving them the option of avoiding the birth of affected fetuses through abortion . recombinant dna technology will permit screening for many more genetic disorders as the disease-related genes and mutations are identified . for many of these disorders , the ability to predict the risk of disease will antedate preventive and therapeutic interventions by many years . during this lag phase , issues concerning the validity of the tests , the severity of the conditions for which screening is offered , the safety of the interventions , and the autonomy of the pregnant women in deciding to be screened are important . 
speech , velopharyngeal function , and hearing before and after orthognathic surgery . articulation , voice , resonance , hearing sensitivity , and middle ear function were examined in 34 patients before and 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 months after orthognathic surgery . thirty of the 34 patients had articulation errors before surgery . errors on the sibilants / s / and / z / occurred most frequently , followed by those on / j , zh , ch / and / sh / . errors were predominantly distortions with both visual and acoustic components . after surgery , articulation improved spontaneously in the absence of intervention . most of the preoperative articulation errors were eliminated by 3 months postoperative , but , thereafter , a gradual decline was noted so that by 12 months , errors occurred on / s / and / z / . voice , resonance , velopharyngeal port area , and hearing sensitivity were not altered by surgery . this study suggests that severe skeletal malocclusions requiring surgical correction have deleterious effects on the patients ' articulation of consonants and that surgical alteration leads to the correction of most of these errors . 
clinicopathologic review of twelve children with nephropathy , wilms tumor , and genital abnormalities ( drash syndrome ) . the clinicopathologic and radiologic features of 12 children with complete and incomplete forms of drash syndrome are reported . their common denominator was a nephropathy . four had the full triad , consisting of nephropathy , wilms tumor , and genital abnormalities ; five had nephropathy and genital abnormalities , and three had nephropathy and wilms tumor . of the 11 children who had proteinuria , eight had the nephrotic syndrome . of the 10 whose condition progressed to end-stage renal failure , seven were less than 3 years of age . the histologic features of wilms tumor were favorable in all seven children , and the tumor was bilateral in three . of the nine patients who had genital abnormalities , eight had 46 , xy karyotype and either ambiguous genitalia ( six patients ) or normal female phenotype ( two ) . one other patient had a normal 46 , xx female karyotype and phenotype but had both mullerian and wolffian structures and a streak ovary . nine patients had a distinct pelvicaliceal abnormality not previously reported as a feature of this syndrome . other congenital abnormalities were aniridia , mental retardation , deafness , nystagmus , and cleft palate . this syndrome must be considered in any infant with unexplained nephropathy , particularly in young phenotypic female infants and in those children with ambiguous genitalia or wilms tumor with an early presentation . 
prolonged indomethacin therapy for the prevention of recurrences of patent ductus arteriosus . we tested the hypothesis that prolonged maintenance indomethacin therapy would allow more effective closure of patent ductus arteriosus ( pda ) and thereby decrease the recurrence rate . thirty-nine low birthweight neonates ( less than 1500 gm ) with confirmed pda were randomly assigned in a double-blind fashion to receive standard indomethacin therapy ( three doses ) , followed either by maintenance indomethacin therapy ( 0.2 mg/kg/day ) for 5 days or by an equivalent volume of placebo for 5 days . of the 20 infants who received maintenance indomethacin therapy , two ( 10 % ) required additional therapy and one of these required surgical ligation . of the 19 infants who received only the first three indomethacin doses , nine ( 47 % ) required additional therapy for pda ( p less than 0.05 ) and seven of these had a ligation ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that maintenance indomethacin therapy , in comparison with short-term indomethacin therapy , decreases the incidence of surgical pda ligations , eliminates most pda recurrences , and does not increase toxic effects of indomethacin in the low birth weight infant with pda . 
early ribavirin treatment of respiratory syncytial viral infection in high-risk children . a 3-year prospective , blinded , multicenter study was done to assess the efficacy of early ribavirin intervention in mild respiratory syncytial virus illness in children with bronchopulmonary dysplasia or with congenital heart disease . a cohort of 178 children younger than 36 months of age with bronchopulmonary dysplasia or congenital heart disease were followed . forty-seven infants whose respiratory syncytial virus infection resulted in mild symptoms of less than or equal to 72 hours ' duration received ribavirin ( n = 20 ) or water placebo aerosol ( n = 27 ) either in a hospital or at home . outcome measures included respiratory and analog score , room air oxygen , saturation , and oxygen flow needed to maintain saturation at greater than or equal to 91 % . no difference in age , gender , family size , passive smoking , baseline oxygen saturations in room air , or duration of symptoms before treatment was found between groups . after 3 days of therapy , ribavirin produced a greater rate of improvement of analog scores ( p = less than or equal to 0.001 ) , lower oxygen requirements ( p = 0.01 ) , and higher oxygen saturation ( p = 0.01 ) . respiratory scores and total hospital days did not differ significantly between the groups . treatment failure occurred in 2 of 20 children ( 10 % ) in the ribavirin group versus 5 of 27 children ( 18 % ) in the placebo group , a nonsignificant difference . no child required assisted ventilation or had an adverse reaction . we conclude that early ribavirin therapy may help to reduce morbidity from respiratory syncytial virus infection in high-risk young children . 
effects of cisapride in patients with cystic fibrosis and distal intestinal obstruction syndrome . in a double-blind , placebo-controlled , crossover trial , we investigated the effects of the prokinetic drug cisapride in patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic recurrent distal intestinal obstruction syndrome ( dios ) . after a baseline period , 17 patients ( 12.9 to 34.9 years ; 12 boys ) received , in random order , cisapride ( 7.5 to 10 mg ) and placebo three times daily by mouth , each for 6 months . gastrointestinal symptoms ( flatulence , abdominal pain , fullness , abdominal distension , nausea , anorexia , heartburn , diarrhea , vomiting and regurgitation ) were scored three times monthly and physical examinations assessed . at baseline and at each 6-month period , assessment included food intake for 7 days , 3-day stool collection , pulmonary function tests , and abdominal radiographs . during cisapride therapy compared with placebo , there were significant reductions in flatulence ( p less than 0.005 ) , fullness , and nausea ( p less than 0.05 ) . patients with the worst symptom scores benefited most from cisapride . with cisapride , 12 patients felt better and three worse ( p less than 0.05 ) ; physicians judged 11 patients improved and two worse ( p less than 0.05 ) . no side effects were noted . there were no significant differences between cisapride and placebo periods in nutritional status , x-ray scores , pulmonary function , food intake ( fat , protein , calories ) , stool size and consistency , and fecal losses of fat , bile acids , chymotrypsin , and calories . for acute episodes of dios , intestinal lavage was needed 6 times in 4 patients during treatment with cisapride , and 11 times in 6 patients receiving placebo . in comparison with unselected patients with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic insufficiency who were receiving enzyme supplements and who had no distal intestinal obstruction , fecal fat losses ( percentage of intake ) were almost twice as high in the study group with dios ( 31.2 + / - 20.6 % vs 16.2 + / - 17.6 % ; p less than 0.01 ) . we conclude that in the dosage used , long-term treatment with cisapride appears to improve chronic abdominal symptoms in patients with cystic fibrosis and dios , but fails to abolish the need for intestinal lavage . cisapride treatment had no effect on digestion and nutritional status of cystic fibrosis patients with pancreatic insufficiency . 
nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities in primary uveal melanoma . we report on 14 cases of clonal chromosomal anomalies in patients with primary uveal melanoma . an increased dosage of chromosome 8 or of parts of the long arm of chromosome 8 ( 8q ) were detected in eight patients ( 57 % ) . the smallest multiplied area of 8q appeared to be the region 8q2 .1 ---- qter . monosomy of chromosome 3 was seen in six patients ( 43 % ) , five of which were associated with anomalies of chromosome 8 . increased dosage of parts of chromosome 8q and loss of heterozygosity of chromosome 3 , or the combination of both , seemed to be nonrandom for uveal melanoma and may distinguish it genetically from cutaneous malignant melanoma . anomalies of chromosome 6 , mostly resulting in additional material of 6p or a deletion of 6q , were found in six patients ( 43 % ) . these anomalies , which seem to be common features of cutaneous malignant melanoma , were considered secondary rather than primary changes in uveal melanoma , since they were present only in subclones in most cases . loss of the y chromosome , restricted to tumor cells , was detected in four male patients , and loss of one x chromosome was detected in a female patient . 
enveloping the bladder with displacement of flap of the rectus abdominis muscle for the treatment of neurogenic bladder . neurogenic bladder is a frequent occurrence . a new surgical technique has been designed and was used successfully in 18 patients with ideal results . the key point of the operation is to turn over a flap of rectus abdominis muscle to envelop the bladder . contraction of the muscle flap and the abdominal muscles would enhance voiding ability . in the meantime , the bladder is displaced forward and the resultant change in the bladder-posterior urethral angle also favors voiding . since the bladder is near the anterior abdominal wall manual compression during voiding is made easier . all of these advantages greatly facilitate voiding . 
the value of leak pressure and bladder compliance in the urodynamic evaluation of meningomyelocele patients . a total of 61 patients with myelodysplasia underwent water cystometry and electromyography of the external sphincter . of these patients 27 underwent video fluorourodynamics as a part of preoperative evaluation or instead of a voiding cystometrogram . renal quantitative scintillation camera studies detected 7 patients with mild upper tract deterioration , even when other tests failed to do so . a total of 31 patients had upper tract deterioration as detected by excretory urography , ultrasound and/or renal scan studies , and were designated as group 1 , while 30 had normal upper tracts and were designated as group 2 . bladder compliance in group 1 was significantly lower than that in group 2 ( 4.5 versus 11.3 ml . / cm . water , p = 0.001 ) . leak pressure in group 1 was significantly higher than in group 2 ( 42.3 versus 26.1 cm . water , p = 0.019 ) . in summary , patients with evidence of upper tract deterioration had lower bladder compliance and higher leak pressure than patients with normal kidneys . 
adenocarcinoma arising in barrett 's esophagus . a review of nine adenocarcinomas of the esophagus arising in barrett 's epithelium was undertaken . we found the disease among white males disproportionately . risk factors and incidence rate remain to be clarified . only one patient was in a surveillance program and only he had carcinoma discovered " early . " he still survives while only one of the eight whose diagnosis followed investigation of symptoms remains alive . 
thirty-year follow-up of superior vena cava-pulmonary artery ( glenn ) shunts . the first superior vena cava-pulmonary artery shunt ( glenn shunt ) in our series was performed in february 1958 . from then through september 1988 , 91 patients have undergone this procedure for a wide variety of congenital defects . we here report follow-up data available on all patients . ages ranged from 2 days to 46 years ( mean 6.8 ) . diagnoses were as follows : tricuspid atresia , 27 ; single ventricle , 22 ; tetralogy of fallot , 14 ; d-transposition of the great arteries , ventricular septal defect , and pulmonary stenosis , 9 ; d-transposition , 5 ; ebstein 's anomaly , 4 ; pulmonary atresia + intact septum , 4 ; and others , 6 . the hospital mortality rate was 7.7 % ( one death in the last 53 patients , 1.9 % ) . five deaths occurred in patients less than 6 months old . there were 20 late deaths ( 22 % ) with actuarial survival rates of 84 % and 66 % at 10 and 20 years , respectively . pulmonary arteriovenous fistula formation was seen in 18 patients ( 19.7 % ) , six of whom have undergone therapeutic embolization with improvement in saturation . the prevalence of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula increases with time after shunt . no long-term shunt thrombosis or stricture formation was seen . fifty percent of shunts were still functioning at 20 years . palliation was limited because of decrease in blood flow to the contralateral pulmonary artery , collaterals between the inferior and superior venae cavae , and pulmonary arteriovenous fistula formation . improvement in saturation was obtained in eight otherwise inoperable patients by creation of a right axillary arteriovenous fistula up to 19 years after the glenn shunt . three patients had conversion of a blalock-taussig shunt to a glenn shunt with improvement in congestive heart failure . twenty-six patients have undergone a fontan procedure with two deaths . compared with the group having a fontan procedure without a prior glenn operation , there was no difference in early or late mortality . thirty years after a glenn shunt , the first patient in this series is working full time after having undergone a modified fontan procedure in 1981 . we conclude that the glenn connection , usually with supplemental procedures to enhance oxygenation , has provided excellent physiologic palliation with low mortality up to 30 years with no late thrombosis or stricture formation . the incidence of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula increases with time and can be effectively treated with embolization . physiologic repair after the glenn shunt carries a low mortality . although currently used infrequently , superior vena cava-pulmonary artery shunting remains a useful method of palliation in selected patients . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
options for surgical repair in hearts with univentricular atrioventricular connection and subaortic stenosis . thirteen patients have undergone surgical treatment because of subaortic obstruction in hearts with a univentricular atrioventricular connection . nine patients underwent surgical enlargement of the ventricular septal defect and four patients had construction of an aortopulmonary anastomosis and closure of the pulmonary trunk ( the damus-kaye-stansel procedure ) . two patients undergoing enlargement of the septal defect and two having the damus-kaye-stansel procedure also had a modified fontan procedure . one patient had complete atrioventricular dissociation after direct enlargement of the ventricular septal defect , which necessitated insertion of an epicardial pacemaker . one patient died within 30 days of the operation after enlargement of the defect and two patients after the damus-kaye-stansel procedure . there was one late death , occurring in a patient who underwent enlargement of the ventricular septal defect . ten patients have subsequently undergone conventional cardiac catheterization and angiography or transcutaneous doppler flow studies to assess the relief of the subaortic obstruction . the result has been satisfactory in all . because of this experience , we now recommend direct surgical enlargement of the restrictive ventricular septal defect for direct relief of subaortic stenosis occurring with a univentricular atrioventricular connection to a dominant left ventricle , inasmuch as it appears to be hemodynamically effective with a low operative mortality and morbidity . the damus-kaye-stansel procedure can also have a role in relieving subaortic stenosis when the atria are connected to a dominant right ventricle . 
person-to-person transmission of pseudomonas cepacia between patients with cystic fibrosis . ribotyping , a method of strain identification based on analysis of bacterial genomic restriction fragment length polymorphisms , was used to investigate the acquisition of pseudomonas cepacia by a patient with cystic fibrosis . analysis of isolates recovered from the index patient and his contacts showed person-to-person transmission of this opportunist organism . this documentation of the transmission of p cepacia from one cystic fibrosis patient to another suggests that measures to limit the acquisition of the pathogen by patients with cystic fibrosis may be worth while . 
child abuse of one of a pair of twins in japan . a nationwide survey in japan on child abuse and neglect revealed that 10 % of the victims were products of multiple births . none of the victims who were singletons had multiple-birth siblings , and only in a few cases were both twins abused . the findings indicated that one rather than both of a pair of twins was likely to be abused in japan . abuse of both twins was likely when there were serious parental or family problems , whereas abuse of one twin was associated with the child 's medical problems or non-home care . there was no instance of abuse of a pair of twins when both were handicapped . comparisons of the abused twin with the non-abused co-twin and examination of the abuser 's attitude to the victim suggested that the difference between twins in their development or in their response to parents increased the stress of child-rearing and encouraged favouritism , which resulted in abuse of only one twin . comparison by parents of children with their siblings may be a common factor in general child abuse because it is a natural thing for parents to do . 
concurrence of malignant hyperthermia and congenital abnormalities . two children about to undergo corrective surgery were required to be investigated for malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) . these investigations arose out of concern by the anesthetist who had obtained a history of unexplained pyrexial reactions to anaesthetic in other members of the family . because over the years we have encountered several children with multiple congenital abnormalities who have been found to be susceptible to mh , we stressed the advisability of biopsying not only the patient but also the patient 's parents . positive responses for mh were obtained in the patients and in one of the parents on each occasion . the hypothesis of intrauterine mh with its pharmacogenetic propensity for heat production is considered as a possible etiological factor which may cause abnormalities of a congenital nature . 
the relation between genotype and phenotype in cystic fibrosis -- analysis of the most common mutation ( delta f508 ) . background and methods . both the clinical manifestations of cystic fibrosis and the genotypes of patients are heterogeneous , but the associations between the two are not known . we therefore studied blood samples from 293 patients with cystic fibrosis for the presence of the most common disease-causing mutation ( delta f508 ) on chromosome 7 and compared the results with the clinical manifestations of the disease . results . the prevalence of the delta f508 allele in the cohort was 71 percent ; 52 percent of the patients were homozygous for the mutation , 40 percent were heterozygous , and 8 percent had other , undefined mutations . the patients who were homozygous for the mutation had received a diagnosis of cystic fibrosis at an earlier age and had a greater frequency of pancreatic insufficiency ; pancreatic insufficiency was present in 99 percent of the homozygous patients , but in 72 percent of the heterozygous patients and only 36 percent of the patients with other genotypes . the patients with pancreatic insufficiency in all three genotype groups had similar clinical characteristics , reflected by an early age at diagnosis , similar sweat chloride values at diagnosis , similar severity of pulmonary disease , and similar percentiles for weight . in contrast , the patients in the heterozygous-genotype and other-genotype groups who did not have pancreatic insufficiency were older and had milder disease . they had lower sweat chloride values at diagnosis , normal nutritional status , and better pulmonary function after adjustment for age . conclusions . the variable clinical course in patients with cystic fibrosis can be attributed at least in part to specific genotypes at the locus of the cystic fibrosis gene . 
analysis of a human dna excision repair gene involved in group a xeroderma pigmentosum and containing a zinc-finger domain xeroderma pigmentosum ( xp ) is an autosomal recessive disease , characterized by a high incidence of sunlight-induced skin cancer . cells from people with this condition are hypersensitive to ultraviolet because of a defect in dna repair . there are nine genetic complementation groups of xp , groups a-h and a variant . we have cloned the mouse dna repair gene that complements the defect of group a , the xpac gene . here we report molecular cloning of human and mouse xpac complementary dnas . expression of xpac cdna confers ultraviolet-resistance on several group a cell lines , but not on lines of other xp groups . almost all group a lines tested showed abnormality or absence of xpac messenger rnas . these results indicate that a defective xpac gene causes group a xp . the human and mouse xpac genes are located on chromosome 9q34 .1 and chromosome 4c2 , respectively . human xpac cdna encodes a protein of 273 amino acids with a zinc-finger motif . 
early amniocentesis : report of 407 cases with neonatal follow-up . amniocentesis was performed for prenatal diagnosis in 407 pregnancies between the gestational ages of 11-14 weeks . the safety and accuracy of the procedure were compared with data obtained from collaborative studies of amniocentesis performed later in the second trimester . there were no differences observed with respect to accuracy , pseudomosaicism , or maternal-cell contamination related to the timing of the procedure . the fetal loss rate within 4 weeks of the procedure was 2.3 % . fetal losses appeared to be related to maternal complications such as bleeding and leakage of fluid that occurred within a day of the procedure . no major maternal complications were noted . information regarding neonatal outcome , including pulmonary complications and congenital orthopedic postural deformities , was found to be similar to that in previous reports . 
calculated risk of chromosomal abnormalities in twin gestations . genetic counseling concerning the risks of chromosomal abnormalities in twin gestations can be difficult ; the risk of amniocentesis is weighed against that of chromosomal abnormalities in either one or both of the twins . because most twins are dizygotic ( each with a risk a priori of aneuploidy ) , the chance that one of the fetuses is affected is greater than would be expected for a singleton . only three possibilities would result in either one or both twin 's being affected : 1 ) dizygotic twins with one fetus affected , 2 ) dizygotic twins with both fetuses affected , and 3 ) monozygotic twins with both fetuses affected . using existing tables of estimated risks of chromosomal abnormalities in singleton gestations and mathematically derived formulas , we created tables defining the age-related risks of chromosomal abnormalities in twin gestations . according to these tables , a patient at 33 years of age with a twin gestation has a risk of down syndrome in at least one of her twins equivalent to that of a 35-year-old with a singleton . prenatal genetic testing should be considered for women with twins at a younger age than the traditional 35 . 
elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein and amniotic fluid alpha-fetoprotein after multifetal pregnancy reduction . forty patients underwent fetal reduction at approximately 12 weeks ' gestation for multiple pregnancy . twenty-two had maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein ( msafp ) determinations and all but one was elevated , with a mean value of 9.41 multiples of the median ( mom ) . a total of 53 amniotic fluid specimens were evaluated for afp ; 25 % were elevated above 2.0 mom and one sample was positive for acetylcholinesterase . none of these elevations were associated with a neural tube defect , although two neural tube defects were detected by other means . routine msafp is not recommended for patients with multifetal pregnancy reduction . 
effect of maternal smoking and age on congenital anomalies . the incidence of congenital anomalies was examined by the level of maternal and paternal smoking during pregnancy for 17,152 infants . a multiple regression analysis was used to control for the possible confounding effects of maternal age , formal education , ethnic origin , religion , marital status , parity , social class , and work outside the home . neither maternal nor paternal smoking habits were significantly associated with the occurrence of congenital malformations . maternal age was significantly ( p less than .005 ) related to the incidence of major anomalies . mothers aged 35 years and older who smoked were found to have a significantly ( p less than .002 ) higher risk for minor malformations and a nonsignificantly increased rate of major malformations . maternal cigarette smoking may be an important preventable risk factor for congenital anomalies among mothers aged 35 years or older . 
aggressive or expectant management for patients with severe preeclampsia between 28-34 weeks ' gestation : a randomized controlled trial . fifty-eight women with severe preeclampsia between 28-34 weeks ' gestation qualified for a randomized controlled trial to establish whether elective delivery 48 hours after administration of betamethasone ( aggressive-management group ) or delivery later as indicated by maternal or fetal condition ( expectant-management group ) was more beneficial to maternal and fetal outcome . twenty women who qualified were not randomized because they developed maternal or fetal indications necessitating delivery within 48 hours ; these newborns developed most of the complications . expectant management was not associated with an increase in maternal complications , but it significantly prolonged the gestational age ( mean 7.1 days ; p less than .05 ) , reduced the number of neonates requiring ventilation ( p less than .05 ) , and reduced the number of neonatal complications ( p less than .05 ) . 
the association between oligohydramnios and intrauterine growth retardation . among 147 cases of suspected intrauterine growth retardation ( iugr ) identified based upon ultrasonic abdominal circumference below the tenth percentile , 56 were confirmed iugr infants at birth and 91 were non-iugr infants . eight of 316 control fetuses with abdominal circumference above the tenth percentile turned out to be iugr infants at birth . the incidence of oligohydramnios was strikingly different among the three groups : 29 % for the iugr group , 9 % for the non-iugr group , and 0.6 % for the controls ( p less than .001 ) . when the criteria of abdominal circumference below the tenth percentile and presence of oligohydramnios were used together , the positive predictive value doubled ( from 38.1 to 66.7 % ; p less than .01 ) . oligohydramnios developed some time after the somatic evidence of fetal growth retardation in all cases in this study . finally , there were no significant differences between fetal growth retardation with or without oligohydramnios with respect to maternal risk factors or fetal outcome . we conclude that in fetal growth retardation , the occurrence of oligohydramnios during the third trimester of pregnancy is not associated with worse fetal outcome . 
macular dystrophy of the cornea . a systemic disorder of keratan sulfate metabolism . the serum of most patients with type 1 macular corneal dystrophy ( mcd ) , the most prevalent subtype , lacks detectable antigenic keratan sulfate ( ks ) , and it has been postulated that such individuals may lack antigenic ks in their cartilage as well . to test this hypothesis , we studied the cornea , serum , and nasal cartilage from an mcd patient using light and electron microscopy , immunohistochemistry , and a quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) which uses a monoclonal antibody against a sulfated epitope on the ks chain to measure ks content . histologically , corneal deposits seen were characteristic of mcd . no abnormal deposits were noted in the cartilage . the lack of immunoreactivity in corneal sections with antibodies against sulfated epitope on ks and the absence of this epitope in serum showed that the patient had type 1 mcd . the cartilage specimen showed no immunoreactivity in the chondrocytes or extracellular matrix . quantitative analysis by elisa demonstrated that the antigenic ks content of the cornea and cartilage was at least 800 times lower than that in normal controls . this provided direct evidence that the abnormality in the sulfation of keratan in type 1 mcd involves the cornea and cartilage . 
impact of intrauterine growth retardation and body proportionality on fetal and neonatal outcome . previous prognostic studies of infants with intrauterine growth retardation ( iugr ) have not adequately considered the heterogeneity of iugr in terms of cause , severity , and body proportionality and have been prone to misclassification of iugr because of errors in estimation of gestational age . based on a cohort of 8719 infants with early-ultrasound-validated gestational ages and indexes of body proportionality standardized for birth weight , the consequences of severity and cause-specific iugr and proportionality for fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality were assessed . with progressive severity of iugr , there were significant ( all p less than .001 ) linear trends for increasing risks of stillbirth , fetal distress ( abnormal electronic fetal heart tracings ) o during parturition , neonatal hypoglycemia ( minimum plasma glucose less than 40 mg/dl ) , hypocalcemia ( minimum ca less than 7 mg/dl ) , polycythemia ( maximum capillary hemoglobin greater than or equal to 21 g/dl ) , severe depression at birth ( manual ventilation greater than 3 minutes ) , 1-minute and 5-minute apgar scores less than or equal to 6 , 1-minute apgar score less than or equal to 3 , and in-hospital death . these trends persisted for the more common outcomes even after restriction to term ( 37 to 42 weeks ) births . there was no convincing evidence that outcome among infants with a given degree of growth retardation varied as a function of cause of that growth retardation . among infants with iugr , increased length-for-weight had significant crude associations with hypoglycemia and polycythemia , but these associations disappeared after adjustment for severity of growth retardation and gestational age . 
development and validation of an index for scoring baseline respiratory disease in the very low birth weight neonate . severity index development and validation panels and newborn lung project . an accurate description of the population at risk for neonatal chronic lung disease is clearly of prime importance for comparative studies and the planning of interventions . attempts to explain variations in chronic lung disease rates in such studies have been compromised by lack of a way of estimating the severity of the initial pulmonary disease as a risk factor . therefore , a severity index was developed for use in very low birth weight ( less than 1501 g ) neonates . special emphasis was placed on applicability of the index in the multicenter observational setting . development followed a clinician panel approach , with the resulting index designed to capture clinical judgment of severity . the index was validated prospectively on neonates in a neonatal intensive care unit , and retrospectively using charts from nine hospitals nationwide . correlations of the index with clinical judgment in the two samples were .95 and .93 , respectively . in an additional validation the index combined with birth weight correctly predicted oxygen dependence status at 30 days in 36 of 42 neonates consecutively admitted to five neonatal intensive care units ( p = .002 ) . birth weight and the severity index contributed about equally to the prediction , and therefore they seem to represent partly independent components of baseline propensity for prolonged oxygen dependence . 
surfactant replacement therapy with a single postventilatory dose of a reconstituted bovine surfactant in preterm neonates with respiratory distress syndrome : final analysis of a multicenter , double-blind , randomized trial and comparison with similar trials . the surfactant-ta study group . the effects of a single dose of surfactant ta were assessed in premature neonates ( birth weight 750 to 1749 g ) with respiratory distress syndrome ( rds ) in a multicenter , double-blind , randomized clinical trial . only neonates with surfactant deficiency and without ultrasonographic evidence of intracranial hemorrhage greater than or equal to grade ii were enrolled . fifty-four patients received surfactant ( 100 mg of phospholipid per kilogram of body weight ) and 46 patients received an air placebo within 8 hours of life . treatment with this surfactant resulted in a significant reduction in the severity of rds with a concomitant increase in the proportion of neonates with mild disease . the frequency of pulmonary interstitial emphysema and of pneumothorax was significantly lower in treated neonates compared with control neonates ( 2 % vs 26 % , p = .0008 , and 7 % vs 39 % , p = .0004 , respectively ) . the frequency of intracranial hemorrhage was significantly lower in the surfactant group compared with the control group ( 20 % vs 54 % , p = .0008 ) and was also reduced for the smallest neonates in the surfactant group ( 13 % vs 73 % , p = .00008 ) . when categorized according to severity of intracranial hemorrhage and severity of bronchopulmonary dysplasia , the surfactant group was at a significant advantage ( adjusted cochran-mantel-haenszel x2 = 10.72 , p less than .001 and x2 = 4.43 , p = .036 , respectively ) . the proportion of neonates surviving without intracranial hemorrhage and/or bronchopulmonary dysplasia was 63 % in the surfactant group vs 26 % in the control group ( p = .0004 ) ; as for the smallest neonates , it was 58 % in the surfactant group vs 4 % in the control group ( p = .0002 ) . there were no differences between the groups with respect to the frequency of patent ductus arteriosus ( 46 % vs 37 % ) , pulmonary hemorrhage ( 6 % vs 7 % ) , necrotizing enterocolitis ( 0 % vs 2 % ) , sepsis ( 4 % vs 2 % ) , retinopathy of prematurity ( 13 % vs 22 % ) , or death ( 15 % vs 22 % ) . it is concluded that treatment with the single-dose surfactant regimen used in this study reduces the severity of respiratory distress during the 48 hours after treatment and decreases the major pulmonary morbidity and intracranial hemorrhage in premature neonates with rds . further studies are needed to determine whether ( 1 ) treatment at birth or as soon as after rds is diagnosed and ( 2 ) the use of multiple dose of this surfactant would result in any additional benefits . 
identification of mutations in regions corresponding to the two putative nucleotide ( atp ) - binding folds of the cystic fibrosis gene . additional mutations in the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene were identified in the regions corresponding to the two putative nucleotide ( atp ) - binding folds ( nbfs ) of the predicted polypeptide . the patient cohort included 46 canadian cf families with well-characterized dna marker haplotypes spanning the disease locus and several other families from israel . eleven mutations were found in the first nbf , 2 were found in the second nbf , but none was found in the r-domain . seven of the mutations were of the missense type affecting some of the highly conserved amino acid residues in the first nbf ; 3 were nonsense mutations ; 2 would probably affect mrna splicing ; 2 corresponded to small deletions , including another 3-base-pair deletion different from the major mutation ( delta f508 ) , which could account for 70 % of the cf chromosomes in the population . nine of these mutations accounted for 12 of the 31 non-delta f508 cf chromosomes in the canadian families . the highly heterogeneous nature of the remaining cf mutations provides important insights into the structure and function of the protein , but it also suggests that dna-based genetic screening for cf carrier status will not be straightforward . 
streamlined approach to creating yeast artificial chromosome libraries from specialized cell sources . the study of tumor-specific chromosomal abnormalities has been severely impeded by an inability to link cytogenetic to molecular data . restriction fragment length polymorphism mapping of any particular chromosomal rearrangement to the resolution limit of genetic methodology generates sets of probes that frequently are still too widely spaced to render the rearrangement breakpoints accessible to molecular isolation . the stable propagation of genomic fragments of up to one million base pairs in size as yeast artificial chromosomes ( yacs ) represents an important development in this regard . however , existing yac libraries have been made from karyotypically normal sources making the localization and cloning of specific rearrangement breakpoints much more difficult . as a solution to this problem , we present an improved method for creating yac libraries that can utilize specialized tumor-derived materials and that can be executed effectively in a small laboratory setting . procedures that enabled more consistent dna insert size selection and enhanced yeast transformation frequency were employed to generate a human yac library from a neuroepithelioma cell line containing a characteristic t ( 11 ; 22 ) chromosomal translocation . approximately 40,000 colonies with an average insert size of 330 kilobase pairs were created . this library was screened with two single-copy probes that bracket the translocation breakpoint . yac clones ranging from 370 to 550 kilobase pairs that were specific for each single-copy probe were identified . specialized yac libraries will make many more tumor-specific chromosomal abnormalities accessible to molecular isolation . 
in vitro colony culture and chromosomal studies in hepatic and portal vein thrombosis -- possible evidence of an occult myeloproliferative state . we have studied the prevalence of an underlying myeloproliferative state in 20 patients with either hepatic or portal vein thrombosis . using conventional clinical and laboratory criteria , an underlying myeloproliferative state was identified as the cause of the thrombosis in five patients ( 25 % ) . a further 10 of the remaining 15 cases were found to have characteristic in vitro bone marrow culture studies and cytogenetic abnormalities suggestive of an underlying myeloproliferative disorder . although none of these 10 cases have developed overt clinical and laboratory features of such a myeloproliferative disorder after a median observation period of two years , the presence of clonal karyotypic abnormalities in three cases , increased megakaryocyte colony growth in three cases and endogenous erythropoietin independent colony growth of the marrow erythroid progenitors in seven cases , argues strongly in favour of a primary haematological disorder . this has important therapeutic implications , particularly in cases being considered for orthotopic liver transplantation . 
congenital craniofacial anomalies of ophthalmic importance . congenital craniofacial abnormalities frequently require ophthalmic evaluation and surgical management . called upon to perform as part of the craniofacial team managing the often severely deformed craniofacial patient , the ophthalmologist must bring a basic knowledge of craniofacial syndromes and developmental anatomy , as well as clinical acumen to help preserve or improve ocular and adnexal function . as an introduction to this area of ophthalmology , the clinical features , classification , appropriate facial embryology , assessment and surgical considerations of the various congenital craniofacial abnormalities are reviewed . the expanding availability of craniofacial surgeons and surgical teams along with improved surgical results will ultimately require an increasing involvement by many more ophthalmologists in the evaluation and management of these congenital abnormalities . 
balloon angioplasty of stenosed blalock-taussig anastomosis : role of balloon-on-a-wire in dilating occluded shunts . six children with cyanotic congenital heart defects , aged 6 to 60 months , underwent percutaneous balloon angioplasty of a narrowed blalock-taussig ( bt ) shunt to improve arterial oxygen saturation . the indication for angioplasty was a cyanotic heart defect not amenable to total surgical correction , either because of the age and size at presentation or because of anatomic complexity , but at the same time requiring palliation of pulmonary oligemia . following balloon angioplasty , there was an increase in arterial oxygen saturation from 71 + / - 8 % to 81 + / - 6 % ( p less than 0.05 ) . in one child with long segment narrowing , there was no significant improvement in oxygen saturation , and this child underwent an additional bt shunt on the contralateral side . on follow-up 3 to 12 months after balloon angioplasty , the oxygen saturations remained improved ( 78 + / - 10 % ) in the remaining five patients . in two children with either complete or almost complete blockage of the bt shunt , we were unable to advance any catheter across the shunt but we were able to advance a 2 or 3 mm balloon on a wire and dilate the shunt , followed by introduction of a catheter carrying a larger balloon for angioplasty . this has permitted us to obtain the pulmonary artery pressure directly ( this information was of obvious value in patient management ) and resulted in an improvement in the arterial oxygen saturation . it is concluded that ( 1 ) balloon angioplasty of narrowed bt shunts is feasible , effective , and safe and ( 2 ) even completely occluded shunts can be cannulated and the balloon dilated with the newly available balloon-on-wire devices . 
comparison of dna and karyotype aneuploidy in malignant lymphomas . tumors from 48 patients with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma were examined for flow cytometric dna ploidy and chromosome constitution to determine the degree of concordance of these two methods . histologically , there were 24 low-grade , 19 intermediate , and 5 high-grade lymphomas . flow cytometry revealed an aneuploid cell population in 19 % of the cases . the mean dna index of the aneuploid tumors was 1.58 + / - 0.71 . the frequency of dna aneuploidy was only slightly higher ( 23 % ) in intermediate than in low-grade lymphomas ( 17 % ) . none of the five high-grade lymphomas showed dna aneuploidy . the chromosome study was successful in 81 % of cases ( 39 of 48 ) , and clonal chromosome abnormalities were observed in 92 % of these ( 36 of 39 ) . in most of the chromosomally abnormal clones the chromosome number was in the diploid range . most tumors with pseudodiploid ( 46 chromosomes ) , hypodiploid ( 45-44 chromosomes ) , or hyperdiploid ( 47-49 chromosomes ) clones were dna diploid by flow cytometry . on the other hand , all specimens with a chromosome number exceeding 50 were dna aneuploid by flow cytometry . therefore , flow cytometric dna analysis appears to be a rather coarse method that will detect aneuploidy only when there is a major increase in chromosome material . 
adenocarcinoma arising in barrett 's esophagus after total gastrectomy a 64-yr-old japanese male who underwent a partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer at the age of 21 , a total resection of the remnant stomach for a stomal ulcer at age 25 , and in whom barrett 's esophagus was diagnosed at age 47 , was found to have a tumor at the distal esophagus and was operated on by thoracic esophagectomy . the tumor was a well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma invading down to the muscularis propria . the entire esophageal mucosa in the resected specimen was lined by columnar epithelium . this tumor was thought to derive from the barrett 's esophageal epithelium . 
maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein screening activities of state health agencies : a survey maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein ( msafp ) screening has been demonstrated to be cost-effective on a population basis and is becoming standard practice . the american society of human genetics has twice published policy statements to define the essential elements of a quality screening program . the present study reviewed the impact of these policy statements on state public-health agencies with respect to regulation or provision of msafp screening in their jurisdictions . with a few exceptions , states have not elected to play a major role in provision or regulation of this test . there is need to address issues of funding , standards , and data collection in a collaborative effort , if policy statements on genetic services are to be translated into effective state population screening . 
localization of the microsatellite probe dxs426 between dxs7 and dxs255 on xp and linkage to x-linked retinitis pigmentosa . the microsatellite marker dxs426 maps to the interval xp21.1-xp11 .21 , the chromosomal region which contains two loci for x-linked retinitis pigmentosa ( xlrp ; rp2 and rp3 ) . we have refined the localization of dxs426 both physically , by mapping it to a deletion which spans the interval xp21.3-xp11 .23 , and genetically , by studying multiply informative crossovers which indicate that dxs426 lies between dxs7 and dxs255 ( i.e. , xp11.4-xp11 .22 ) . as this is the region which contains the rp2 gene , rp2 families could be identified on the basis of linkage of xlrp to dxs426 . multiply informative crossovers in two rp2 families indicate that the most likely location of the rp2 gene is between dxs426 and dxs7 . dxs426 is therefore an important highly informative marker for the purposes of carrier detection and early diagnosis of rp2 and for the localization of the disease gene . 
autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa : absence of the rhodopsin proline ---- histidine substitution ( codon 23 ) in pedigrees from europe . in exon 1 at codon 23 of the rhodopsin gene , a mutation resulting in a proline-to-histidine substitution has previously been observed in approximately 12 % of american autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa ( adrp ) patients . the region around the site of this mutation in the rhodopsin gene has been amplified and analyzed in affected individuals from 91 european adrp pedigrees . the codon 23 mutation has been found to be absent in all cases , including a large irish pedigree in which the disease gene has previously been shown to be closely linked to the rhodopsin locus . this indicates the presence of either allelic or nonallelic heterogeneity in adrp . 
sudden death in young competitive athletes : clinicopathologic correlations in 22 cases . purpose : to investigate the pathologic substrates of sudden death in young competitive athletes . patients and methods : twenty-two cases of sudden death in young competitive athletes occurring in the veneto region ( northern italy ) in the period january 1979 to december 1989 were studied by postmortem examination . the athletes included 19 males and three females , ranging in age from 11 to 35 years ( mean , 23 years ) . results : in 18 cases , sudden death occurred during ( 16 cases ) or immediately after ( two cases ) a competitive sport activity . in 10 subjects , sudden death was apparently the first sign of disease . postmortem examination disclosed that this fatality was due to arrhythmic cardiac arrest in 17 cases ; among these , right ventricular cardiomyopathy , also known as " right ventricular dysplasia , " was the most frequently encountered cardiovascular disease ( six cases ) , followed by atherosclerotic coronary artery disease ( four cases ) , conduction system pathology ( three cases ) , anomalous origin of right coronary artery from the wrong aortic sinus ( two cases ) , and mitral valve prolapse ( two cases ) . in two athletes , the abrupt lethal complication was " mechanical " and consisted of pulmonary embolism and rupture of the aorta ; in three athletes , death was due to a cerebral cause . all athletes with right ventricular cardiomyopathy died during effort , and most had a history of palpitations and/or syncope . whenever available , electrocardiographic ( ecg ) tracings showed inverted t waves in precordial leads and/or left bundle branch block ventricular arrhythmias . conclusions : clinicopathologic correlations indicate that in the veneto region of italy , right ventricular cardiomyopathy is not so rare among the cardiovascular diseases associated with the risk of arrhythmic cardiac arrest , and seems to account for the majority of cases of sudden death in young athletes ; this disorder can be suspected during life on the basis of prodromal symptoms and ecg signs . 
direct analysis of uncultured cytotrophoblastic cells from second - and third-trimester placentas : an accurate and rapid method for detection of fetal chromosome abnormalities . transabdominal chorionic villus sampling can be readily used for detection of fetal chromosome abnormalities in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy . although culture of chorionic villi offers little advantage over cultured amniotic fluid cells with respect to time required to obtain results , cytogenetic analysis of chorionic villi by direct analysis of uncultured cytotrophoblastic cells offers clear advantages because of the very short time required to obtain results . to determine whether direct analysis of uncultured cytotrophoblastic cells from second - and third-trimester placentas can routinely provide rapid and accurate assessment of fetal status , we evaluated chorionic villus specimens obtained from 57 placentas ; 49 placentas were sampled in the second trimester whereas eight were sampled in the third trimester . direct preparations yielded karyotypes in 56 ( 98.2 % ) preparations ; all results of direct analyses were available within 72 hours and , when requested , within 12 hours . all results were confirmed by chromosome analysis of cultured mesenchymal core cells or cultured fetal tissue . we conclude that direct analysis of cytotrophoblastic cells from second - and third-trimester placentas is a very rapid and accurate method for determining fetal chromosome status that is comparable with , if not superior to , percutaneous umbilical blood sampling . 
the associated anomalies that determine prognosis in congenital omphaloceles . cogenital abdominal wall defects such as omphaloceles can be recognized by fetal ultrasonography . to determine whether associated anatomic features may be useful in determining fetal prognosis , a retrospective study was performed over a 5-year period . there were 28 cases of omphalocele ; 16 were larger than 5 cm and classified as giant , and the remainder were considered small . eleven of the 12 infants with small omphaloceles survived with minimal neonatal complications . ten of the 16 infants with giant omphaloceles died because of associated congenital anomalies . these were congenital heart disease , central nervous system malformations , and diaphragmatic hernias . this review suggests that the prognosis is good when a prenatal diagnosis of giant omphalocele is made and careful fetal ultrasonography , including echocardiography , does not identify heart , central nervous system , or diaphragmatic malformations , even when there is liver herniation into the omphalocele . 
ocular pathologic features of arteriohepatic dysplasia ( alagille 's syndrome ) . arteriohepatic dysplasia ( alagille 's syndrome ) , an autosomal dominant condition involving jaundice caused by a developmental scarcity of intrahepatic bile ducts , has characteristic cardiovascular , skeletal , facial , and ocular features that distinguish it from extrahepatic biliary atresia and an array of other neonatal intrahepatic cholestatic disorders . two children who died of this syndrome had prominent schwalbe 's rings with attached iris strands characteristic of axenfeld 's syndrome . additional histologic findings of iris atrophy and stromal nodules , however , made the designation axenfeld-reiger 's syndrome more appropriate . pigmentary retinopathy , degeneration of bruch 's membrane , and prominent lipofuscin deposition in the ciliary muscle noted in one of the patients were not regarded as primary changes of alagille 's syndrome , but were believed to be secondary to acquired deficiency of the fat-soluble vitamins a and e. early recognition of the ocular changes in arteriohepatic dysplasia is helpful in establishing the proper diagnosis to avoid unnecessary abdominal surgery and institute vitamin therapy . 
cholesterol localization in ultrathin frozen sections in schnyder 's corneal crystalline dystrophy . we examined a 57-year-old woman who had bilateral corneal crystalline deposits associated with xanthelasma . the patient 's son had bilateral stromal haze . plasma cholesterol and apolipoprotein a-i and b levels were normal . histopathologic examination disclosed lipid deposits , particularly in the superficial stroma and bowman 's layer . these deposits stained with oil red o and filipin , a fluorescent probe that specifically detects unesterified cholesterol . cryoultramicrotomy disclosed more specific ultrastructural localization of unesterified cholesterol with an array of crystals resembling multiple plates in extracellular corneal tissue . 
epidurography in premature infants . a caudal epidural catheter was inserted in 20 premature , high risk infants for abdominal or thoracic surgery under combined caudal epidural and general anaesthesia . epidurography was used to confirm the position of the catheter which was found to be misplaced in three patients . the catheter penetrated the dura in one case , in another the tip was located in an epidural vessel and in the third the catheter was seen to be curled up within the epidural space . it was concluded that epidurographic control is essential with this method of anaesthesia in very small infants , in whom it was found to provide considerable advantages despite serious risks . 
functional residual capacity in anesthetized children : normal values and values in children with cardiac anomalies . to assess the increase in functional residual capacity ( frc ) with growth , frc was measured after induction of anesthesia in two groups of children . one group consisted of 74 children , 0.1-11 .2 yr of age , without signs of cardiorespiratory disease ( referred to here as " normal " children ) , and the other of 21 children , 0.2-6 .9 yr of age , with cardiac malformations . anesthesia was maintained with halothane in the normal children and with fentanyl , droperidol , and nitrous oxide in the children with cardiac anomalies . all patients were paralyzed , their tracheas intubated , and their lungs mechanically ventilated . frc was measured with an automated tracer gas washout technique . in 70 patients the measurements were performed in duplicate with a mean coefficient of variation of 2.0 % . frc correlated significantly with height , weight , and age in both groups . multiple regression analysis for both groups considered together indicated no significant improvement when factors for the sex of the child or for the presence of cardiac anomalies were incorporated into the model . in normal children the simple linear and nonlinear regression equations for frc ( in milliliters ) versus height ( in centimeters ) were : frc = -529 + 9.48 x height , r = 0.96 ; and frc = 0.00175 x height2 .66 , r = 0.97 , respectively . the corresponding equations for frc ( in milliliters ) versus weight ( in kilograms ) were : frc = -92 + 29.9 x weight , r = 0.93 ; and frc = 9.51 x weight1 .31 , r = 0.95 . 
the role of mucous glycoproteins in the rheologic properties of cystic fibrosis sputum . cystic fibrosis ( cf ) is characterized by excessive amounts of thick and tenacious mucous secretions that obstruct organ ducts and passages . in the respiratory tract this is associated with chronic infection resulting in the hypersecretion of purulent sputum , which the patient finds difficult to clear . we have studied the rheologic properties of purulent sputum from six patients with cf and five patients with chronic bronchitis to assess whether cf is associated with increased sputum viscoelasticity . in addition , we have isolated the major rheologic determinants , mucous glycoproteins , from cf and chronic bronchitis sputa and , using a magnetic microrheometer , investigated the possibility that the altered properties of mucus in cf are associated with abnormalities in these glycoproteins . creep compliance analysis indicated that the cf sputa possessed raised levels of both elasticity ( p less than 0.01 ) and viscosity ( p less than 0.01 ) . these increases in both rheologic parameters were found to be associated with increases in the dna content ( p less than 0.01 ) and dry weight ( p less than 0.05 ) . mucous glycoproteins were isolated from cf and chronic bronchitis sputum samples by gel filtration on sepharose cl4b , followed by concentration to form 8 % wt/wt gels . in the absence of other sputum components , no abnormality in the rheologic properties of cf mucin gels could be detected . however , when dna was added , the cf gels responded with increases in both elasticity and viscosity of as much as 30 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , an effect not observed in the chronic bronchitis gels . these results suggest that a subtle abnormality may exist in cf mucous glycoproteins and that this could have a role in the altered physical properties of mucous secretions in cf. 
ischaemic brain lesions diagnosed at birth in preterm infants : clinical events and developmental outcome . in 232 newborn babies of less than 32 weeks ' gestational age ultrasound brain scans were carried out shortly after birth , daily for the first week of life , and at least twice weekly thereafter . periventricular echogenicity associated with or progressing to periventricular leukomalacia ( ischaemic brain lesions ) was present in nine babies within two hours of birth ( early onset ) ; 30 other babies subsequently developed similar lesions ( late onset ) . babies with early onset lesions were more likely to have a history of intrauterine growth retardation and to have recurrent apnoea in the first few hours after birth . by contrast , late onset lesions were associated with hyaline membrane disease . in later childhood four of six survivors with early onset periventricular leukomalacia , and seven of 14 survivors with late onset periventricular leukomalacia , had various disabilities including spastic diplegia , impaired vision , squints , sensorineural hearing loss , and developmental delay . in a third of the children with disabilities ischaemic brain lesions were noted within two hours of birth , raising the possibility that some of this damage had taken place before or during birth . 
prediction of acute renal failure after birth asphyxia . twenty-one babies of 34-41 weeks ' gestational age with birth asphyxia ( 5 minute apgar score less than or equal to 5 or umbilical artery ph less than or equal to 7.2 ) were studied during the first two days of life to find out whether the urinary excretion of tubular markers of renal function is of value in the early diagnosis of acute renal failure . urinary retinol binding protein , myoglobin , and n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase ( nag ) , expressed as a ratio with urinary creatinine , were measured and excretion profiles repeated at 3-6 days in 15 infants and at 7-14 days in 11 infants . plasma creatinine concentration , creatinine clearance , plasma myoglobin concentration , and fractional sodium excretion were measured where possible in asphyxiated infants . control data were obtained from 50 healthy infants : 28 gave urine samples alone , 17 urine and blood , and five blood alone . normal urinary values were derived from 17 , 25 , and three infants , respectively , for the three time periods . the number of control samples was limited for ethical reasons . four asphyxiated infants had acute renal failure ( group 1 ) , four had tubular dysfunction without glomerular disturbance ( group 2 ) and 13 had normal renal function ( group 3 ) . group 1 were clearly identified by greatly increased urinary retinol binding protein ( greater than 27,000 micrograms/mmol creatinine ) and myoglobin ( greater than 1500 micrograms/mmol creatinine ) excretion measured in the first two days of life . in control infants the range of excretion of retinol binding protein within the same time period was 3 to 967 micrograms/mmol creatinine and urinary myoglobin was undetectable . excretion of nag failed to discriminate between groups 1 and 2 . 
area of lateral ventricles measured on cranial ultrasonography in preterm infants : association with outcome . the association between measurements of lateral ventricle area ( determined by serial ultrasound scans ) and outcome was studied in 70 preterm neonates of 33 weeks ' gestation or less . the study group was subdivided into four groups according to cranial ultrasonographic findings at 2 weeks postnatal age : group a ( n = 15 ) had isolated periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage ; group b ( n = 20 ) had periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage and dilated ventricles ; group c ( n = 24 ) had periventricular/intraventricular haemorrhage and periventricular leukomalacia with or without dilated ventricles ; and group d ( n = 11 ) had isolated periventricular leukomalacia . eighty seven preterm infants with no evidence of intracranial disease and good neurodevelopmental outcomes at 2 years formed the control group . a poor outcome was observed in infants in group b , c , and d , particularly in those who had persistent dilated ventricles at 6 weeks postnatal age and extensive periventricular leukomalacia . there was no difference in outcome between group a and controls . during the first six weeks of life ventricular area growth velocities were significantly higher in groups b , c , d , compared with normal controls and group a. we suggest that persistent ventricular dilatation at this early stage carries a bad prognosis , which is the result of atrophy of the brain . 
spontaneous resolution of bone mineral depletion in preterm infants . fifteen preterm infants and 17 born at full term whose gestational ages ranged from 25 to 34 weeks and 38 to 42 weeks , respectively , were examined initially at postconceptional ages ranging from 38 to 44 weeks and subsequently at 46 to 71 weeks . each examination included measurement of bone mineral content of the mid-forearm by single photon absorptiometry . for the preterm group , the mean ( sd ) value of bone mineral content at the first examination was 109.0 ( 27.6 ) mg/cm and was significantly lower than the corresponding value of 194.4 ( 19.6 ) mg/cm for the whole full term group . the mean subsequent rate of mineral accretion in the preterm group was 8.70 ( 4.60 ) mg/cm/week , the mean individual duration of observation being 9.7 weeks . rate of mineral accretion for the full term group was independent of the duration of observation and averaged 1.60 ( 2.20 ) mg/cm/week . the difference between mean values of rate of mineral accretion in the preterm and full term groups was highly significant . our results show that there is a phase of rapid mineral accretion starting at 40 weeks ' postconception in preterm infants that substantially reduces the perinatal mineralisation deficit . 
peak inspiratory pressure requirements in infants born weighing less than 750 g. the possibility that peak inspiratory pressure requirements or the arterial : alveolar oxygen ratio can predict the clinical outcome in infants weighing less than 750 g at birth was explored in a consecutive series . nine of 10 infants ( 90 % ) with a peak inspiratory pressure requirement of more than 18 cm h2o at 48 hours or more than 16 cm h2o at 72 hours from age subsequently died later of respiratory causes ( defined as death after 72 hours of pulmonary interstitial emphysema , bronchopulmonary dysplasia , or cor pulmonale ) . twenty of 21 remaining infants ( 95 % ) survived until discharge . using these data a 95th centile for peak inspiratory pressure requirement during the first 72 hours of life was constructed . the potential value of this centile in predicting later death of respiratory causes was examined in a separate series . twelve of 15 infants ( 80 % ) whose peak inspiratory pressure requirements remained below the 95th centile , or were not ventilated ( n = 6 ) , survived . in contrast , 11 of 12 ( 92 % ) infants whose requirements crossed the 95th centile died later of respiratory causes . the infants who died had more radiological changes and higher mean arterial carbon dioxide pressure than survivors suggesting that the severity of the initial lung disease rather than the way that ventilation was managed determined prognosis . peak inspiratory pressure requirement was more useful than arterial : alveolar oxygen ratio in clearly distinguishing between survivors and infants who died later of respiratory causes . 
outcome after acute osteomyelitis in preterm infants . eight cases of skeletal infection in preterm infants were studied . all the infants were systemically unwell , with polymorpholeucocytosis . diagnosis was by blood culture , and any radiographic changes were apparent at the time of presentation . infection was often multifocal , with sites around the knee being most commonly affected . staphylococcus aureus was the pathogen isolated in six of the eight cases ; in these treatment with fusidic acid was effective and well tolerated , even at doses that were less than the recommended therapeutic minimum . even with prompt diagnosis and aggressive treatment orthopaedic sequelae are common . 
gut blood flow velocities in the newborn : effects of patent ductus arteriosus and parenteral indomethacin the effects on gut blood flow velocities of parenteral indomethacin ( 0.2 mg/kg ) given either quickly as a bolus or slowly as an infusion were compared in consecutive studies of two groups of infants with symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus . in the presence of patent ductus arteriosus the range of velocities in the superior mesenteric artery before indomethacin was given was characterised by pronounced abnormalities including absent -- or in some cases even retrograde -- diastolic flow . in eight subjects the first rapidly given bolus dose of indomethacin ( duration 20 seconds or less ) caused a pronounced and sustained fall in the velocity of the superior mesenteric artery blood flow ( mean peak systolic velocity ( cm/second ) : before 74 ; after 38 ; median time to maximum fall 7.4 minutes ; median time to recovery 50 minutes ) . a further 10 subjects received their first dose of indomethacin by slow infusion ( duration 30-35 min ) and the percentage fall in peak systolic velocity was both substantially less ( 22 % compared with 47 % ) and later ( median time to maximum fall 37.3 minutes ) than after rapid infusion . qualitatively similar but smaller changes were seen in the coeliac axis . return of antegrade end diastolic flow in the superior mesenteric artery within one hour of the first dose of indomethacin was a good predictor of subsequent closure of the ductus . these data suggest that there is a profound disturbance in mid gut perfusion in infants with patent ductus , which is exacerbated by indomethacin given rapidly by intravenous bolus . they may also provide a rational explanation for the well recognised association between necrotising enterocolitis and both patent ductus arteriosus and indomethacin administration . 
prognostic determinants in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure in newborns . extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) is becoming an accepted therapeutic modality for newborn respiratory failure , but there is little information available regarding the prognostic determinants with this technique . one hundred thirty-five newborns treated with ecmo over a 4-year period were critically analyzed with regard to the influence that birth weight , gestational age , age at initiation of ecmo , best blood gases before ecmo , number of hours on ecmo , renal failure , intracerebral hemorrhage , and long-distance air transport had on survival . infants with meconium aspiration and those undergoing long-distance transfer showed significant differences in blood gases before ecmo , with survivors having more normal ph and carbon dioxide tension values . intracerebral hemorrhage and renal failure that developed during ecmo were grave prognostic signs , with few survivors in either group . these data show that ability to ventilate patients before ecmo , giving normal carbon dioxide tension and ph values , is an important prognostic sign in infants with meconium aspiration and undergoing long-distance transfer for ecmo , whereas renal failure and intracerebral hemorrhage are usually lethal complications of ecmo . each center performing ecmo should continually reevaluate this invasive technique and its results and complications . 
correction of truncus arteriosus with truncal valvar stenosis or insufficiency using two homografts . surgical correction of truncus arteriosus requires the creation of right ventricular to pulmonary artery continuity and closure of the ventricular septal defect . a variety of conduits have been used including valved and nonvalved . despite a significant incidence of truncal valvar stenosis and insufficiency , this valve has seldom been replaced . we present 4 cases of truncus arteriosus with truncal valvar stenosis or insufficiency that were repaired using two valved homografts : one to create the pulmonary outflow tract and the other to replace the abnormal truncal valve . two of these patients are doing well after 4 months . another child survived the operation and did well for 2 months when she died suddenly . the last child died 14 hours postoperatively from low cardiac output syndrome secondary to diabetic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . when truncal valvar abnormalities are present , the primary repair of truncus arteriosus in an infant should include replacement of the truncal valve . total correction can be successfully achieved using two valved homografts , resulting in long-term palliation and freedom from thromboembolic events and the use of anticoagulants . 
unusual opening of coronary sinus in atrioventricular septal defects . the coronary sinus is an important landmark for the position of the atrial component of the atrioventricular conduction axis and , thus , assumes special relevance to the surgeon in the operating room . we describe here 2 patients with atrioventricular septal defect characterized by an unusual termination of the coronary sinus within the left atrium . we discuss the potential importance of this finding to the disposition and surgical avoidance of the conduction tissues . 
combined repair of transposed great arteries and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection . we report an unusual association of transposition of the great arteries and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection in the right atrium that was successfully repaired by a modified mustard procedure . 
norwood operation for univentricular heart with subaortic stenosis in the neonate . in the setting of a single ventricle , subaortic stenosis may be enhanced by pulmonary artery banding and may later contraindicate a fontan operation . the norwood operation may prove a preferable alternative in some infants as a preparatory procedure . we have successfully used this procedure as the initial operation to palliate a newborn with tricuspid atresia , transposition of the great arteries , coarctation , and severe arch hypoplasia secondary to a restrictive bulboventricular foramen . 
cardiac transplantation for hypoplastic left heart syndrome : a modified technique [ see comment ] a modified technique of infant orthotopic cardiac transplantation with arch reconstruction using bicaval cannulation is described , and the results in 4 infants with hypoplastic left heart syndrome are presented . this technique minimizes donor myocardial ischemic time and recipient circulatory arrest time . 
osmiophilic deposits in cytosomes in hallervorden-spatz syndrome . a young child with hallervorden-spatz syndrome is presented . she was well until 8 years of age when she lost interest in activities and her school performance declined . at age 11 years , she began having episodes of blepharospasm , accompanied by bilateral ptosis and occasional episodes of oculogyric crisis . by age 12 years , her motor coordination had declined and she began to exhibit evidence of dementia , dystonia , dysarthria , and tremor . motor incoordination , dystonia , and tremor progressed until the patient was wheel-chair-bound . multiple tests were performed , including metabolic studies , magnetic resonance imaging , bone marrow biopsy , and electron microscopy of the buffy coat . both bone marrow and buffy coat revealed inclusions in the cytosomes which were granular and osmiophilic . to our knowledge , this is the third case report of inclusion bodies found in patients with manifestations of hallervorden-spatz syndrome . these findings suggest that obtaining a buffy coat and bone marrow biopsy may aid in the diagnosis of hallervorden-spatz syndrome and ultimately provide information regarding etiology . 
maternal genomic neutrophil fcriii deficiency leading to neonatal isoimmune neutropenia . the healthy mother of a child with transient immune neutropenia was found to be " na-null . " the mother 's neutrophils did not react with anti-na1 and anti-na2 antibodies ( polyclonal human alloantibodies and mouse monoclonal antibodies ) . a healthy donor was discovered during routine neutrophil antigen typing whose neutrophils were also " na-null . " this na-phenotype was due to the absence of fcriii ( cd16 antigen ) on neutrophils as demonstrated with anti-fcriii monoclonal antibodies . the neutrophils of these two individuals were not able to bind dimeric immunoglobulin g. however , their cells had a normal expression of other phosphatidylinositol ( pi ) - linked membrane glycoprotein ( cd24 , cd67 , and clb gran/5 antigens ) , ruling out the existence of a pi-linkage defect , such as paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria . the mother ( propsitus ) had isoantibodies in her blood against neutrophil-fcriii without allospecificity , apparently produced during pregnancy and responsible for the neutropenia of her child . the expression of fcriii on natural killer lymphocytes of both individuals was normal . fcriii is encoded by two separate genes , one ( fcriii-1 ) for the neutrophil-pi-linked receptor , another ( fcriii-2 ) for the natural killer cell and macrophage-transmembrane receptor . by messenger rna and dna analysis ( with an fcriii-cdna probe and restriction endonucleases ) the neutrophil-fcriii deficiency appeared to be due to deletion of the fcriii-1 gene in both individuals , while the fcriii-2 gene was normally present . the parents of the propositus were found to be heterozygous for this defect . thus , fcriii-1 gene deficiency of the mother may be a cause of ( iso ) immune neutropenia of the newborn . whether this deficiency may have other clinical consequences has to be studied . 
atenolol in essential hypertension during pregnancy objective -- to determine the effect of atenolol on the outcome of pregnancy in women with essential hypertension . design -- prospective , randomised , double blind , placebo controlled study . setting -- hospital clinic . patients -- 33 women with mild essential hypertension ( systolic blood pressure 140-170 mm hg or diastolic pressure 90-110 mm hg on two occasions at least 24 hours apart ) consecutively referred to two obstetric medical clinics . four patients in the placebo group were withdrawn from the study : control of blood pressure was inadequate in two , one developed breathlessness , and one changed her mind about participating . the mean gestation in the 29 remaining women on entry to the study was 15.9 weeks . main outcome measures -- blood pressure and birth weight . intervention -- 14 women received placebo . 15 women received atenolol 50 mg daily initially , increasing until either the blood pressure was less than 140/90 mm hg or a dose of 200 micrograms daily was reached . results -- the mean blood pressure on entry was 148/86 mm hg in the group given atenolol and 144/86 mm hg in the group given placebo . during treatment the mean diastolic pressure was significantly reduced by atenolol compared with placebo ( to 74 v 81 mm hg ; difference in means ( 95 % confidence interval ) 7.0 ( 2.9 to 10.0 ) mm hg ) but the effect on systolic pressure was marginal ( 132 v 136 mm hg ; 4.0 ( -1.4 to 8.6 ) mm hg ) . babies in the atenolol group had a significantly lower birth weight than those in the placebo group ( 2620 g v 3530 g ; 910 ( 440 to 1380 ) g ) . conclusion -- atenolol given from the end of the first trimester in patients with mild hypertension is associated with intrauterine growth retardation . when taken in conjunction with the results of a previous study in which methyldopa was given these findings indicate that benefit is unlikely to result from treating mild essential hypertension in pregnancy . 
choroid plexus cysts and chromosomal defects during a 4-year period , 83 pregnant women with fetal choroid plexus cysts were investigated in our unit . abnormal karyotypes were found in 20 fetuses , including trisomy 18 ( n = 16 ) , trisomy 13 ( n = 1 ) , triploidy ( n = 1 ) and translocation down 's syndrome ( n = 2 ) . all fetuses with chromosomal defects had structural malformations in addition to the choroid plexus cysts . 
children with special needs in england and wales : the care of hearing impairment , myelomeningocele , and adolescent pregnancy . services for children with special needs in england and wales are described briefly , with attention to the services provided by the national health service , local authorities , the social security system , and voluntary organizations . for illustrative purposes , particular reference is made to children with hearing impairments and myelomeningoceles . a separate account is given of the provision for pregnant adolescents , again addressing services provided by all major sources of assistance . 
children with special needs in the netherlands : impaired hearing , adolescent pregnancy , and myelomeningocele . in the netherlands , treatment and management of children with special needs is characterized by the absence of financial barriers to care and the existence of a number of specialized services . for hearing-impaired children , there are special audiologic centers and special schools . adolescents at risk of unintended pregnancy are protected through education and a dedicated system of family planning clinics . children with multiple handicaps , such as those associated with myelomeningocele , face greater difficulties but still have an array of services available to them at little or no cost . families are sheltered from excessive expense through social insurance . 
calvarial sutural abnormalities : metopic synostosis and coronal deformation -- an anatomic , three-dimensional radiographic , and pathologic study . the purposes of this study were ( 1 ) to evaluate the histologic differences between synostotic versus deformational suture abnormalities and ( 2 ) to correlate these histologic findings with anatomic and three-dimensional computed tomographic ( ct ) scans . we examined three infants with premature metopic synostosis ; one infant also had microcephaly trisomy 13 and curious overriding of the coronal sutures . the three-dimensional ct scans demonstrated obliteration of the metopic suture inferiorly . histologic sections of this suture showed complete bony stenosis . the same pattern was found in all three infants , including the two infants with trigonocephaly who did not have trisomy 13 or microcephaly . in the trisomy 13 infant , the overlapped inferior coronal suture was obliterated on ct examination . however , histologic sections in this region showed a merging of bone ; there was no synostosis . in summary , three-dimensional ct re-formation correlated with metopic suture histology . " stenotic " fusion existed in all infants with trigonocephaly , those with normal and abnormal karyotypes , with and without microcephaly . however , three-dimensional ct re-formation of the trisomic infant showed opacification of the coronal suture in the areas of greatest overlap , whereas histology revealed a curious bone remodeling pattern , possibly a precursor to " deformational " craniosynostosis . 
persistent right umbilical vein : an ominous prenatal finding ? the persistence of a right umbilical vein is an uncommon finding , with only a dozen cases reported since 1826 . the persistent right umbilical vein may replace the normal left umbilical vein or be supernumerary . the anomaly is associated with numerous and occasionally lethal malformations . in this series , only three of six fetuses ( and another two in the literature ) had no associated anomalies . all the others had a variety of associated lesions ranging from minor to lethal . the appearance at ultrasound is easy to recognize : the intrahepatic portion of the umbilical vein is lateral to the gallbladder , and the portal vein curves toward the stomach , instead of parallel to it . since the recognition of the persistent right umbilical vein is simple and does not require additional scanning ( it is visible in the section used to measure the abdominal perimeter ) , the author suggests using it as an indicator for more in-depth scanning . 
parenchymal and vascular magnetic resonance imaging of the brain after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . three-dimensional ( volume ) magnetic resonance angiography is a new and noninvasive method for imaging the intracranial vasculature . the combination of magnetic resonance angiography and conventional magnetic resonance imaging was used to evaluate brain parenchyma and vessels in 30 survivors of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . magnetic resonance imaging findings were abnormal in 33 % of the patients , with no increased frequency of right hemispheric lesions . magnetic resonance angiography demonstrated good intracranial flow in all infants and demonstrable right internal carotid arterial flow in 35 % of those patients with permanent carotid ligation . an abnormal magnetic resonance imaging study was found more often in infants with abnormal predischarge neurologic examination results . these techniques have several advantages over other neuroimaging modalities , including better definition of deep structures , myelin formation , and intracranial vasculature , the absence of bone artifact , and the elimination of catheter or contrast use . 
ultrasonic forms of posterior staphyloma . the most frequent deformations of the globe encountered in pediatric ophthalmology are staphylomas and colobomas . in this paper we reviewed 16 ultrasonographically diagnosed staphylomas and classified the ultrasonographic patterns produced by staphyloma cases into four types : ( 1 ) staphylomas involving the posterior pole but not the optic nerve head , ( 2 ) staphylomas involving the posterior pole and the optic nerve head , ( 3 ) peripapillary staphylomas , and ( 4 ) giant peripapillary staphylomas . morphologic and ultrasonographic characteristics are described . 
intraoperative transesophageal versus epicardial ultrasound in surgery for congenital heart disease . twenty-eight patients ( age range , 0.7 to 65 years ; median age , 6.1 years ) who were undergoing correction for congenital heart disease were entered into a prospective study with both intraoperative transesophageal and epicardial ultrasound to determine the relative values of these techniques before and after bypass surgery . introduction of the transesophageal probe was successful in 26 patients ( 93 % ) ; children were studied with use of dedicated pediatric transducers . epicardial studies were performed in all 28 patients . epicardial studies allowed for higher resolution imaging and a more complete assessment before bypass surgery of the intracardiac morphological condition ( ventricular septum and right ventricular outflow tract ) than the assessment that was obtained by the transesophageal approach . in the period immediately after bypass surgery , the transesophageal technique allowed a more detailed insight into atrioventricular valve function ( valvar regurgitation [ five patients ] and ventricular inflow patterns ) and the continuous monitoring of left ventricular function and volume . residual interventricular shunting ( three patients ) or residual outflow tract obstruction ( four patients ) could not be reliably documented by transesophageal studies . it is concluded that intraoperative transesophageal and epicardial ultrasound in surgery for congenital heart disease are complementary rather than alternative techniques . 
surgical resection of cor triatriatum in a 74-year-old man . review of echocardiographic findings with emphasis on doppler and transesophageal echocardiography . a 74-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with congestive heart failure secondary to cor triatriatum . he also had sick sinus syndrome with complete heart block and syncope that had been treated with a permanent pacemaker 20 years earlier . the patient underwent successful surgical resection of the atrial membrane with closure of an atrial septal defect . m-mode , two-dimensional , doppler , and transesophageal echocardiographic findings are reviewed . a unique " spike and dome " pattern on continuous-wave doppler echocardiography is described that may suggest diagnosis of cor triatriatum . 
tetralogy of fallot with anomalous pulmonary venous connections : a rare but clinically important association . anomalous pulmonary venous connections were found in seven ( 0.6 % ) of 1183 patients with tetralogy of fallot . three patients had totally anomalous connections ( one supracardiac , one direct to coronary sinus , and one mixed supracardiac and infracardiac ) and four patients had partially anomalous pulmonary venous connections . all patients presented with the clinical features of tetralogy of fallot . anomalous pulmonary venous drainage was suspected clinically in only one patient in whom there was a scimitar sign on the chest radiograph . the exact diagnosis was established by cross sectional echocardiography ( one ) , preoperative or postoperative angiography ( five ) , or at necropsy ( one ) . surgery was performed in six patients . total correction without re-routing of the anomalously draining veins was successful in all those with partially anomalous connections , with no significant long term sequelae ( follow up median 17 years ) . of those with totally anomalous connections , the full diagnosis was made only at necropsy in one patient , successful one-stage correction was performed in one , and the other patient , who had partially obstructed mixed drainage , died shortly after one-stage correction . histological examination of the lung biopsy specimen in this patient showed grade 2 pulmonary vascular disease . tetralogy of fallot with anomalous pulmonary venous connections is a rare association . careful preoperative assessment is required in those with totally anomalous connections . 
aortic atresia : survival to adulthood without surgery . aortic atresia is a rare congenital cardiac defect . it usually leads to death in the neonatal period . a patient with aortic atresia has survived to the age of 24 years without any surgical procedure . in view of the uncertain results of reconstructive surgery this case may have therapeutic implications . 
hereditary cerebral haemorrhage with amyloidosis -- dutch type . magnetic resonance imaging findings in 7 cases . the clinical history and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) findings are presented of 7 patients with hereditary cerebral haemorrhage with amyloidosis -- dutch type ( hchwa-d ) . the diagnosis was based on clinical and genealogical data , was confirmed in 3 patients at autopsy and in 2 others by biopsy . focal neurological signs , and at least some degree of global cognitive deterioration , were observed in all patients , with unequivocal dementia in 4 . mri showed haemorrhages and areas of gliosis and , to a variable extent , hyperintensity of the white matter in t2-weighted images . neuropathological examination revealed a large recent haemorrhage together with residual lesions from previous haemorrhages or infarcts in all patients examined . the white matter lesions , present on mri , turned out to be areas of ' incomplete infarction ' with demyelination . it is concluded that ( hereditary ) amyloid angiopathy can lead to strokes , but also to subcortical ischaemic encephalopathy . amyloid angiopathy should therefore be considered in the differential diagnosis of white matter lesions , found on ct or mri , especially when patients present with a cerebral haemorrhage . the relationship between hchwa-d and alzheimer 's disease , another disease with cerebral amyloid deposition and diffuse white matter involvement , is discussed . 
acetabular dysplasia in the adolescent and young adult . hip dysplasia is a major cause of osteoarthrosis in adults . early aggressive osteotomy has the potential of preventing the development of arthritis , but carries with it significant risks . the problem is further complicated because the surgeon has no means of quantifying the dysplastic deformity or of predicting what a particular combination of osteotomies would do to correct the deformity . this study describes methods of quantifying hip-joint geometry in three dimensions based on computed tomography and magnetic resonance studies , and of simulating pelvic osteotomy to correct the deformities . the study analyzes 49 normal hip joints and 20 dysplastic hip joints . the results show that the normal acetabulum is nearly a full hemisphere , which is anteverted 20 degrees and abducted 53 degrees . the normal lateral center-edge angle is 37 degrees . the dysplastic acetabulum is not anterolaterally maldirected , as has been assumed , but is globally dysplastic . analysis of the individual dysplastic hip joints showed a wide variability . some patients were deficient globally , some anterolaterally , and some posterolaterally . methods of analyzing a patient 's hip joint , quantifying abnormalities , simulating surgery , and predicting results are demonstrated in a case example . 
magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of congenital dislocation of the hips . magnetic resonance ( mr ) images were obtained preoperatively and postoperatively for 12 pediatric patients with congenital dislocation of the hip ( cdh ) . the images were compared with arthrograms and computed tomography scans . the mr images were more accurate in defining soft-tissue anatomy , hip position , and obstructive factors to relocation . mr imaging is an efficient diagnostic tool in cdh . 
topographic comparative study of magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography in 34 children with tuberous sclerosis . a series of 34 children with confirmed tuberous sclerosis ( ts ) were studied prospectively by both eeg and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) at ages ranging from 5 months to 18 years . size and topography of the cortical tubers were analyzed on axial and coronal views , in t2 sequences , and the large tubers greater than 10 mm were studied . in addition , eeg follow-up data were reviewed retrospectively . twenty-six patients ( 76 % ) had both mri large cortical tubers and eeg foci , 3 had normal eeg , 2 had normal mri , and the remaining 3 had only small tubers . the number of large tubers was significantly related to eeg foci . a topographic mri/eeg correspondence was observed for at least one tuber in 25 of the 26 patients , and correspondence was complete in 10 patients . large cortical tubers without corresponding eeg foci were observed in 11 patients ; these tubers mainly involved the frontal regions and were found before the patients were 2 years old . eeg foci without corresponding tubers were observed in 4 patients . in addition , secondary bilateral synchrony was preferentially observed in patients with frontal lesions and after the age of 2 years . these data confirm that the cortical tubers are epileptogenic and that their expression may be influenced by regional cortical maturation . 
results of a 25-year screening programme for neonatal hip instability . from 1962 to 1986 , 117,256 neonates were screened for congenital dislocation of the hip ( cdh ) . when the primary physical examination was performed by the junior paediatric staff there was a persistent late diagnosis rate of 0.5 per 1000 live births . when the primary examination was undertaken by experienced orthopaedic personnel ( 1982 to 1984 ) the late diagnosis rate fell and fewer infants were splinted . 
improved outcome at 28 days of age for very low birth weight infants treated with a single dose of a synthetic surfactant two identical double-blind , controlled , randomized trials were initiated to determine whether the administration of a single 5 ml/kg dose of a synthetic surfactant ( exosurf neonatal ) , soon after the delivery of infants with birth weights 700 to 1350 gm , would improve rates of survival without bronchopulmonary dysplasia . both trials were terminated before enrolling their planned sample sizes because of the availability of exosurf under the provisions of a treatment investigational new drug program . we report the combined results of these trials . study infants were stratified according to birth weight and gender before random assignment to a treatment regimen . one hundred ninety-two infants received exosurf and 193 received an air placebo . the study groups were similar when a variety of demographic features describing the mothers , their pregnancies , the circumstances of the births , and the infants were compared . exosurf-treated infants required significantly less oxygen and respiratory support during the first 3 days of life in comparison with the air-treated infants . fewer infants in the exosurf group had pulmonary interstitial emphysema ( 26 vs 13 ; p = 0.028 ) . in the exosurf group , there was a significant reduction in the combined outcome , neonatal death or survival with bronchopulmonary dysplasia ( 57 vs 39 ; p = 0.042 ) , and there was a significant increase in rates of survival without this disease ( 128 vs 137 ; p = 0.042 ) . there were no differences between treatment groups in the incidences of a variety of complications of prematurity , including apnea , patent ductus arteriosus , intraventricular hemorrhage , and necrotizing enterocolitis . we conclude that improvements in respiratory physiology after a single prophylactic dose of exosurf result in an increased likelihood of neonatal survival without bronchopulmonary dysplasia . 
enhanced hepatic drug clearance in patients with cystic fibrosis . to examine whether hepatic drug metabolism is altered in patients with cystic fibrosis ( cf ) , we evaluated the pharmacokinetics of three model pharmacologic substrates ( antipyrine , a marker of hepatic oxidative metabolism ; lorazepam , a marker of hepatic glucuronosyltransferase activity ; and indocyanine green ( icg ) , a marker of hepatic blood flow and biliary secretion ) in 14 patients with cf ( 14.6 to 29.2 years of age ) and in 12 children and adolescents with cancer ( 7.2 to 19.4 years of age ) , which was treated with only surgery and radiation . each study subject received a single intravenous dose of the combined model substrates ( 0.03 mg/kg lorazepam , 10 mg/kg antipyrine , and 0.5 mg/kg icg ) for 5 minutes , followed by repeated blood sampling ( n = 10 ) during a 24-hour postinfusion period . patients with cf had a significantly greater plasma clearance of lorazepam ( 56.5 + / - 5.2 vs 25.9 + / - 1.9 ml/min/m2 ) and icg ( 892.5 + / - 176.4 vs 256.5 + / - 41.7 ml/min/m2 ) but not of antipyrine ( 27.2 + / - 3.8 vs 20.7 + / - 2.0 ml/min/m2 ) in comparison with control subjects . the apparent steady-state volume of distribution for lorazepam , icg , and antipyrine was significantly higher in the patients with cf ( 2.0 - , 3.1 - , and 1.4-fold , respectively ) than in control subjects . clearance of the model substrates did not correlate with standard biochemical markers of hepatic function . similarly , no significant relationships were observed between the clearance or steady-state volume of distribution of the compounds and the national institutes of health prognostic scores for the patients with cf. these data demonstrate that the plasma clearance of lorazepam and icg is increased in patients with cf and suggest that hepatic glucuronosyltransferase activity and biliary secretory capacity are enhanced in this disease . 
hypoplastic transverse arch and coarctation in neonates . surgical reconstruction of the aortic arch : a study of sixty-six patients . from jan . 1 , 1983 , to jan . 1 , 1988 , 66 consecutive neonates with coarctation and severe hypoplasia of the transverse arch underwent coarctation repair by resection of the coarctation and reconstruction of the aortic arch . mean age at operation was 14 + / - 8 days , ranging from 2 to 30 days ; 63 % of the newborn infants were less than 2 weeks of age . the coarctation was isolated in 23 % , associated with a ventricular septal defect in 39 % , and associated with complex anomalies in 38 % , including 16 cases of transposition of the great arteries or doublet-outlet right ventricle plus ventricular septal defect , two cases of simple transposition , two of corrected transposition plus ventricular septal defect , and five cases of " hypoplastic " left ventricle . the surgical technique comprises a wide resection of the coarctation extended to the contiguous ductal tissue followed by the reconstruction of the aortic arch in bringing the descending aorta into the concavity of the aortic arch . this technique is able to relieve the obstruction of the aortic arch provided that ( 1 ) the descending aorta is widely dissected to allow mobilization and ( 2 ) the incision of the transverse arch is extended proximal to the ostium of the left carotid artery . the operation was performed through a left thoracotomy in 62 patients and through a sternotomy in four additional neonates with transposition and ventricular septal defect who underwent a one-stage repair with aortic reconstruction , closure of the defect , and arterial switch . the overall early mortality rate ( less than 30 days ) was 14 % ( 9/66 ; 95 % confidence limits = 5 % to 22 % ) , including four deaths occurring within the first month , at a concomitant or subsequent repair of the associated anomaly . there were six late deaths , all related to the associated lesions . the overall mortality rate was 23 % ( 15/66 ; 95 % confidence limits = 13 % to 33 % ) . the mean follow-up was 21 + / - 10 months , ranging from 6 to 66 months . actuarial survival rates at 5 years are 72 % + / - 10 % for the overall group ; 87 % + / - 17 % for simple coarctation ; 88 % + / - 12 % for coarctation and ventricular septal defect ; and 52 % + / - 18 % for complex coarctation . the rate of recurrent coarctation was 12.5 % ( 95 % confidence limits = 2 % to 23 % ) , leading to five reoperations with no deaths . freedom from reoperation was 89.5 % + / - 9 % at 5 years . this technique of coarctation repair offers several advantages : low operative mortality , complete relief of the left ventricular obstruction , wide resection of the ductus tissue , absence of prosthetic material , and preservation of the left subclavian artery . 
internuclear ophthalmoplegia in the chiari type ii malformation . we describe 3 cases of chiari type ii malformation presenting with bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia ( ino ) . although prominent , the ino was not an isolated sign in any of the patients ; superimposed abduction paresis was present in 2 , and deficits in smooth pursuit , optokinetic nystagmus , and vestibulo-ocular responses were present in 3 . two had hydrocephalus : 1 was clinically unchanged without therapy after 5 years ; the other did not improve with shunting . findings in our 3 patients , along with the 4 previously reported , confirm that ino is 1 manifestation of widespread brainstem or cerebellar dysfunction . its origin is probably multifactorial , related to hydrocephalus , vascular compromise , direct neuronal distortion , or congenital neural malformation . 
respiratory muscle function in cystic fibrosis . maximal static expiratory and inspiratory mouth pressures ( pemax and pimax ) and quadriceps femoris muscle strength were measured in 25 patients aged 16-28 years with cystic fibrosis ( mean fev1 46 % predicted ) . mean ( sd ) pemax was 64 % ( 18 % ) predicted ( below 75 % predicted in 16 of the 25 patients ) , and pimax was 64 % ( 24 % ) predicted ( below 75 % predicted in 14 patients ) . quadriceps muscle strength was 68 % ( 20 % ) predicted ( below 75 % predicted in 17 patients ) . the relatively small reduction in respiratory muscle strength in these patients was unlikely to have contributed appreciably to their respiratory problems . 
tolerance and dependence in neonates sedated with fentanyl during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation . we undertook a retrospective chart review of 37 neonates who received fentanyl by continuous infusion while undergoing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) between may 1986 and october 1988 . we quantified the doses of all sedatives utilized , determined the incidence of neonatal abstinence syndrome ( nas ) , and identified risk factors associated with nas . we determined peak fentanyl infusion rate , mean fentanyl infusion rate , total fentanyl dose , and duration of ecmo therapy . nas was observed in 21 of 37 neonates ( 57 % ) . in both the nas and non-nas neonates , mean infusion rate increased steadily during ecmo therapy , from a mean of 11.6 + / - 6.9 ( sd ) micrograms.kg-1 . h-1 on day 1 to a mean of 52.5 + / - 19.4 ( sd ) micrograms.kg-1 . h-1 by day 8 . total fentanyl dose and duration of ecmo were significantly greater in neonates with nas . we found that neonates with a total dose greater than 1.6 mg/kg or an ecmo duration greater than 5 days had a significantly greater incidence of nas ( chi-squared test , p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.005 ; odds ratios = 7.0 and 13.9 , respectively ) . with multiple logistic regression , ecmo duration was found to be the most powerful predictor of the occurrence of nas . we also measured plasma fentanyl concentrations in a separate group of 5 neonates receiving fentanyl by continuous infusion for sedation . fentanyl concentrations increased steadily during the period of infusion , suggesting the development of tolerance to the sedating effects . we conclude that continuous administration of fentanyl for sedation is associated with the uniform development of tolerance and a significant incidence of dependence . alternative approaches to sedation should be investigated . 
capillary haemangioma presenting as a lung pseudocyst . a girl who developed a lung cyst at 24 hours of age during gentle ventilation for respiratory distress syndrome is reported . instead of resolving as expected of a pseudocyst it continued to expand . resection at 1 year of age showed a cyst entirely surrounded by capillary haemangioma . aspiration of this cyst would have been dangerous . 
benign intracranial hypertension after ciprofloxacin administration . many drugs , including antibiotics , have been implicated in the aetiology of benign intracranial hypertension . we report the development of benign intracranial hypertension after the use of ciprofloxacin in a teenager with cystic fibrosis . 
effects of newborn screening of cystic fibrosis on reported maternal behaviour . screening for cystic fibrosis is highly controversial . concerns have been expressed that newborn screening may cause mothers , who had considered their child to be healthy before diagnosis , to overprotect their child . some critics of screening also suggest that a period of delay from onset of symptoms to diagnosis may help a mother adjust to the reality of the child 's lethal condition . this study compared the strength of overprotective child rearing attitudes of 29 mothers whose children were screened ( 13 had symptomatic children and 16 asymptomatic children ) with the attitudes of 29 mothers whose children were diagnosed after the onset of symptoms . results indicate that newborn screening had not increased a mother 's tendency to overprotect her child with cystic fibrosis and in some cases the tendency had decreased . further , delay in diagnosis when screening was not conducted usually caused mothers considerable personal distress . 
air leaks and vasopressin release . eleven very low birthweight babies being ventilated for respiratory problems during the first week of life developed air leaks on 22 occasions . on 16 out of 19 occasions the infants showed increases in urinary excretion of vasopressin after these events and on 10 occasions out of 13 there was a rise in the plasma arginine vasopressin concentration . the peripheral signs of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone release were seen on only one occasion in response to the sometimes high vasopressin concentrations . 
can prepregnancy care of diabetic women reduce the risk of abnormal babies ? objective -- to see whether a prepregnancy clinic for diabetic women can achieve tight glycaemic control in early pregnancy and so reduce the high incidence of major congenital malformation that occurs in the infants of these women . design -- an analysis of diabetic control in early pregnancy including a record of severe hypoglycaemic episodes in relation to the occurrence of major congenital malformation among the infants . setting -- a diabetic clinic and a combined diabetic and antenatal clinic of a teaching hospital . patients -- 143 insulin dependent women attending a prepregnancy clinic and 96 insulin dependent women managed over the same period who had not received specific prepregnancy care . main outcome measure -- the incidence of major congenital malformation . results -- compared with the women who were not given specific prepregnancy care the group who attended the prepregnancy clinic had a lower haemoglobin ai concentration in the first trimester ( 8.4 % v 10.5 % ) , a higher incidence of hypoglycaemia in early pregnancy ( 38/143 women v 8/96 ) , and fewer infants with congenital abnormalities ( 2/143 v 10/96 ; relative risk among women not given specific prepregnancy care 7.4 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.7 to 33.2 ] . conclusion -- tight control of the maternal blood glucose concentration in the early weeks of pregnancy can be achieved by the prepregnancy clinic approach and is associated with a highly significant reduction in the risk of serious congenital abnormalities in the offspring . hypoglycaemic episodes do not seem to lead to fetal malformation even when they occur during the period of organogenesis . 
treatment of infants with neurogenic bladder dysfunction using anticholinergic drugs and intermittent catheterisation . the use of anticholinergic drugs in infants with neurogenic dysfunction has not been well documented . in this study , 35 neonates at risk of upper urinary tract damage from neurogenic dysfunction were treated from infancy with anticholinergics , in combination with clean intermittent catheterisation . none of the patients showed upper urinary tract deterioration with follow-up ranging from 6 to 72 months , although 2 required vesicostomy -- 1 due to difficulty with catheterisation and 1 due to possible anticholinergic side effects . only 2 ( 6 % ) have had clinical pyelonephritis . twenty-five ( 76 % ) are virtually dry between catheterisation . we conclude that anticholinergics are safe and effective , even in the neonatal period , when used in combination with clean intermittent catheterisation for the treatment of neonates with neurogenic bladder dysfunction . 
vasa aplasia and cystic fibrosis . bilateral vasa aplasia is considered an invariable finding in cystic fibrosis , but such patients are rarely seen in male infertility clinics . the improved survival beyond 20 years of age is likely to change this . in a clinical study of a group of male cystics the vasa were absent in 8 of 11 boys and epididymal abnormalities were palpable in the majority . the main cause of infertility appears to be mechanical obstruction . whether the absence is due to a primary failure of mesonephric duct development or secondary to luminal obstruction and subsequent atrophy is not known . 
true hermaphrodite with bilateral ovotestes , bilateral gonadoblastomas and dysgerminomas , 46 , xx/46 , xy karyotype , and a successful pregnancy . the first case ( to the authors ' knowledge ) is reported of a true hermaphrodite with bilateral ovotestes , bilateral gonadoblastomas and dysgerminomas , a 46 , xx/46 , xy karyotype , and a successful pregnancy . the true hermaphroditism was diagnosed during infancy . the patient was subsequently found to have a gonadoblastoma and a microscopic dysgerminoma in the gonad diagnosed as an ovotestis and excised during infancy . the successful pregnancy occurred when the patient was 29 years old . a year later a large gonadal tumor affecting the remaining gonad was excised . the gonad was found to be an ovotestis , and the tumor was a dysgerminoma arising from a gonadoblastoma . this case further emphasizes the malignant potential of the y chromosome in patients with abnormal gonads . 
childhood pulmonary function following hyaline membrane disease . hyaline membrane disease per se is not associated with abnormal lung function or increased nonspecific airway reactivity in childhood or adulthood . very-low-birth-weight infants who survive almost routinely in neonatal icus are at risk , however , for developing airflow obstruction and having airway hyperreactivity as children , and for having recurrent bouts of wheezing , cough , and respiratory infections . neonates who develop bpd have the greatest risk of abnormal pulmonary function as children . continued research into the prevention of premature birth and into the causes of neonatal lung injury , combined with improvements in the neonatal icu and follow-up treatment , will undoubtedly contribute to improvement in the clinical course of premature infants . 
igg subclasses in the serum and skin in subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus and neonatal lupus erythematosus . igg subclasses differ in their biologic and chemical properties , such as complement fixation , protein and cellular binding , and placental transfer . in this study , igg subclasses of anti-ro/ssa antibodies in subacute cutaneous lupus ( scle ) and neonatal lupus ( nle ) are examined in the serum and in the skin . igg subclasses in nle beginning in utero ( nle-heart disease ) are compared to subclasses in nle beginning after birth ( nle-skin disease ) . human skin was grafted onto athymic mice , mice were injected with one of eight anti-ro/ssa maternal nle sera ( four heart block , four skin disease ) or seven anti-ro/ssa scle sera , and grafts were examined for igg subclasses using monoclonal anti-human igg subclass reagents in an immunofluorescent technique . lesional skin was examined from four scle patients . igg1 was the only igg subclass detected in the grafts and skin lesions . igg1 was the predominant anti-ro/ssa igg subclass detected in scle and nle sera in an elisa using a synthetic ro/ssa polypeptide . these studies show that the maternal anti-ro/ssa autoantibodies in nle-heart disease sera are predominantly igg1 and are therefore likely to be present in the fetus at the time of gestation , when heart block usually develops . second , differences in the clinical presentations of nle ( in utero vs. postnatal disease ) can not be attributed to differences in anti-ro/ssa igg subclasses . finally , the subclass bound in the skin in scle is igg1 , a subclass capable of mediating tissue injury via complement or cellular effectors . 
pregnancy outcome after inadvertent ivermectin treatment during community-based distribution . ivermectin is the drug of choice for community-based treatment of onchocerciasis . since pregnancy testing during mass distribution campaigns is not feasible , the safety of ivermectin in pregnancy must be established . during a 3-year study , ivermectin was distributed to the population of a rubber plantation ( 14,000 people ) in liberia . only 31 % of women were aware of their pregnancy status during the first month ; it was calculated that about half of women in the first trimester of pregnancy are likely to be treated inadvertently . 203 children born to women inadvertently treated during pregnancy were identified . in this limited sample , there was no significant difference in birth defects between treated and untreated mothers in the same population or compared with a reference population . children of treated and untreated mothers showed no difference in developmental status or disease patterns . further surveillance is necessary ; however , since no major effects of ivermectin on pregnancy outcome were detected , there seems no need to change existing strategies of ivermectin distribution . 
diagnosis and management of infantile marfan syndrome . marfan syndrome is infrequently diagnosed early in infancy . the experience of the authors with 22 severely affected infants diagnosed as having marfan syndrome in the first 3 months of life is described and the literature on 32 additional infants with marfan syndrome is reviewed . it was found that serious cardiac pathology ( 82 % of the patients described in the article , 94 % of those described in the literature ) may be present at birth , and that congenital contractures ( 64 % of our cases , 47 % of literature cases ) are often an associated finding . other useful clinical findings included arachnodactyly , dolichocephaly , a characteristic facies , a high-arched palate , micrognathia , hyperextensible joints , pes planus , anterior chest deformity , iridodenesis , megalocornea , and dislocated lenses . echocardiography was useful as a noninvasive method for defining the extent of cardiovascular involvement and following its course . characteristic cardiac findings in early life included mitral valve prolapse , valvular regurgitation , and aortic root dilation . cardiac function ranged from normal to poor , with a tendency to worsen . of the 22 cases 3 infants died during the first year of life . morbidity and mortality may be high when marfan syndrome is diagnosed during infancy , and prompt recognition of this phenotype can facilitate management and counseling . most such severe cases appear to be due to a sporadic mutation in a single germ cell of one parent . many familial cases may have milder manifestations , be more difficult to detect during infancy , and have a better prognosis . 
neonatal ethics : development of a consultative group . experience of a neonatal ethics advisory group in a tertiary care setting was reviewed to identify which aspects of the experience have been most valuable in the development of a consultative group . consultations were requested for 31 patients seen from august 1984 through december 1988 . review of these patients indicated that 21 of 31 infants were born after full-term gestations , 11 of 31 infants were seen beyond the neonatal period , and some type of congenital anomaly was the principal diagnosis for 64.7 % of the patients . the reasons for seeking consultation primarily involved decisions regarding withdrawal or withholding of treatment . for 22 of the 31 patients , the consensus of the group supported the decision of the health care team . in the remaining consultations , the recommendation of the group was that more information and/or communication was needed . in the analysis of the neonatal ethics advisory group 's experience with consultations the characteristics of neonatal patients were identified and the value of having a forum for discussing the difficult ethical issues facing members of the health care team were validated . 
congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system : a new clinical classification . the numerous clinical presentations of congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system in children and the confusing terminology used to describe their pathologic diagnoses impede the physician 's understanding of the condition . the clinical classification based on the actual symptoms of the congenital problems we have presented here should help the physician identify the specific abnormality and a potential treatment . future research should concentrate on the specific causes and the treatment of these congenital abnormalities . 
recombinant human dnase i reduces the viscosity of cystic fibrosis sputum . respiratory distress and progressive lung destruction in cystic fibrosis can be attributed to bacterial persistence and the accumulation of viscous purulent secretions in the airways . more than 30 yr ago it was suggested that the large amounts of dna in purulent secretions contribute to its viscosity and that bovine pancreatic dnase i could reduce the viscosity . to evaluate the potential clinical utility of recombinant human dnase i ( rhdnase ) in the treatment of cystic fibrosis , we have cloned , sequenced , and expressed rhdnase . catalytic amounts of rhdnase greatly reduce the viscosity of purulent cystic fibrosis sputum , transforming it within minutes from a nonflowing viscous gel to a flowing liquid . the reduction in viscosity is associated with a decrease in size of dna in the sputum . inhalation of a rhdnase aerosol may be a simple direct approach that will help individuals with cystic fibrosis and other patients with pneumonia or bronchitis to clear their airways of purulent secretions . 
cardiovascular anomalies associated with prenatal exposure to theophylline . theophylline has been shown to be a potent cardiovascular teratogen in animals , but there has been no evidence linking theophylline with congenital anomalies in infants . the cardiovascular anomalies in our three patients were aortic anomalies , double-outlet right ventricle , transposition of the great arteries , total anomalous pulmonary venous connection , and hypoplasia of the left ventricle . some of these rare defects were also induced frequently in animal experiments with theophylline , which suggests that this drug can be a cardiovascular teratogen in a susceptible human fetus . 
coronary arteries in truncus arteriosus . the origin and distribution of the coronary arteries was described in 39 autopsy specimens of truncus arteriosus ( ta ) . the specimens were classified according to the number and the patterns of the truncal cusps . the position of the truncal cusps was defined in relation to intracardiac structures , namely , the atrioventricular orifices . bicuspid truncal valves were observed in 8 cases ( 21 % ) , tricuspid in 22 cases ( 56 % ) and quadricuspid in 9 cases ( 23 % ) . all tricuspid valves had 2 anterior and 1 posterior cusp . great variability in the origin of the coronary arteries was observed , with a tendency for the right coronary artery to arise from the anterior right quadrant and for the left coronary artery to arise from the anterior and left quadrant . such a tendency was observed in 50 % of the bicuspid , in 59 % of the tricuspid and in 66 % of the quadricuspid valves . the anatomic right ventricle was always observed to be vascularized by a right coronary artery , and the anatomic left ventricle by a left coronary artery , even in cases in which there was a single coronary trunk . the anterior surface of the right ventricle was crossed by a right coronary artery in 5 cases . a single coronary artery was observed in 7 cases ( 18 % ) . embryologic considerations are offered , especially regarding the relation between the observed variability in coronary artery patterns in ta and the absence of the truncal septation . 
intestinal metaplasia is age related in barrett 's esophagus . the correlation among cellular characteristics of barrett 's esophagus , patient age , and malignant neoplasm is not well documented . this study , which describes a population of 66 patients with barrett 's esophagus spanning 1 to 80 years of age , analyzes the cellular constituents of their lesional tissues by endoscopic biopsy and histochemical and morphometric studies . goblet cell metaplasia , identified in 50 % ( n = 14 ) of pediatric patients , increased significantly to involve 84 % ( n = 32 ) of biopsy specimens from adult patients with barrett 's esophagus . this increase was exponential by linear regression analysis ( r2 = .64 ) between the ages of 5 and 29 years . pediatric patients usually had 25 or less goblet cells per square millimeter of barrett mucosa with no identifiable epithelial dysplasia or cancer ; nissen fundoplication lessened esophageal inflammation , but the barrett mucosa persisted . goblet cell metaplasia maintained a plateau ( mean of 57 cells per square millimeter of barrett mucosa ) between the ages of 41 and 80 years . dysplasia , in situ carcinoma , or invasive carcinoma was found in patients with barrett 's esophagus who were aged 41 years or older . this study demonstrates persistence of barrett mucosa , increased incidence of goblet cell metaplasia , and predictable changes in goblet cell number with advancing patient age . the relationship between barrett mucosa and malignant neoplasm remains uncertain , but the goblet cell may serve as a marker of disease chronicity in which setting neoplasia evolves . 
development of a new transvenous patent ductus arteriosus occlusion technique using a shape memory polymer . a novel percutaneous patent ductus arteriosus ( pda ) occlusion technique , without the potential problems associated with conventional techniques , has been long awaited . the development of a novel transvenous pda occlusion technique using a temperature-shape changeable occluder device , and the verification of its in vitro performance , were demonstrated in this study . the principles of this technique are : 1 ) the bar form device was inserted into the pda transvenously by a guide wire and a pushing catheter , 2 ) the device was dashed with hot water through catheters , 3 ) the device was expanded by hot water in the pda , and the pda was occluded . the occluder device , made of a shape memory polymer ( polynorbornene ) , was designed to have the monobloc configuration of a thin disk with a hole for a guide wire in the center and a cone . the barlike device by hot press was fully expanded within 10 sec upon immersion into 45 degrees c water . the mock-circulation test with the " great arteries " and a specially designed " pda " showed 1 ) the introduction of hot water ( 45 degrees c ) through the catheters caused expansion of the device which stayed in the " pda " without any support , 2 ) the " aortic " pressure and the distal " aortic " flow increased rapidly , and the " pulmonary " flow reduced promptly . this resulted in a drastically reduced shunt ratio at the pda from 68 % to 30 % . thus , the novel pda occlusion technique developed here functioned well to occlude the pda in a great arteries model . 
a total artificial heart for neonates allowing bridging to transplantation . since the early 1980s , a rapid increase in successful pediatric heart transplantation has improved the chance of survival for many children suffering from otherwise fatal cardiomyopathies or congenital cardiac defects . during the last 5 years , heart transplantation in neonates and infants ( 0-28 days and 1-12 months , respectively ) has been the most rapidly growing area within the pediatric patient population . no adequate mechanical circulatory support system , designed to be used as a bridge to transplantation , is available for many of these pediatric patients . neonates are the smallest candidates to potentially benefit from heart transplantation , and their often acute need for either heart transplantation or temporary circulatory support indicates that any new development of a pediatric bridging device should focus on this youngest group . subsequently , such a device may be modified to any weight or age group . an innovative total artificial heart design was developed in an attempt to meet the anatomic and physiologic requirements of neonates and infants . this report discusses the rapidly growing pediatric heart transplantation patient population , as well as an innovative total artificial heart design . 
maximum blood flow rates for arterial cannulae used in neonatal ecmo . the arterial cannulae used in neonatal ecmo cause hemolysis and red blood cell damage at elevated blood flows . hemolysis in extracorporeal circuits has been found to occur with shear stress greater than 132 dynes/cm2 , turbulence as measured by reynold 's number greater than 1,000 , and velocity greater than 120 to 200 cm/sec . these parameters need to be considered when sizing the proper arterial cannula for a required flow rate . in-vitro measurements of the pressure drop across six arterial cannulae at varying flow rates were performed using human blood with a hematocrit of 43 % . shear stress , reynold 's number , velocity , and pressure drop were calculated for each catheter at flow rates from 50 to 1,000 cc/min . the maximum mean flow rate to maintain the shear stress , reynold 's number , velocity , and pressure drop within the accepted range , was determined for each cannula . recommended maximum blood flow rates for each of the six cannulae are given . internal diameter , length , and cannula geometry appear to be the factors most affecting the flow achievable without causing red blood cell damage and hemolysis . ten french biomedicus , 10 french cook , and 10 french elecath arterial cannulae appear best suited to deliver the range of blood flow rates used in neonatal ecmo . 
changes in circulating alphafetoprotein following administration of mifepristone in first trimester pregnancy . the occurrence of fetomaternal haemorrhage was investigated in 30 women by measuring maternal serum alphafetoprotein ( afp ) levels before and after the administration of mifepristone ( ru 486 ) for termination of first trimester pregnancy . a significant rise in afp levels was seen in 21 women ( 70 % ) , the increase ranging from 6 to 660 % of baseline levels . the apparent frequency of fetomaternal haemorrhage was similar to that reported previously for surgical termination of first trimester pregnancies . 
alpha 1-acid glycoprotein and the binding of lidocaine in children with congenital heart disease . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of congenital heart disease ( chd ) on the serum concentrations of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein ( alpha 1-agp ) and the serum binding of lidocaine . thirteen children with acyanotic chd and 12 children with cyanotic chd were studied and compared with 28 children without heart disease ( control ) . the mean ( + / - sd ) serum concentration of alpha 1-agp , as determined by radial immunodiffusion , did not differ significantly among the three groups . five minutes after administration of 1.5 mg.kg-1 intravenous lidocaine , the free fraction of lidocaine correlated inversely and linearly with the serum concentration of alpha 1-agp in children with acyanotic chd ( r2 = 0.74 ; p less than 0.001 ) cyanotic chd ( r2 = 0.57 ; p less than 0.005 ) , and control ( r2 = 0.63 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the slopes and intercepts of the linear regressions did not differ significantly among the three groups . we conclude that the serum concentration of alpha 1-agp in children with chd does not differ quantitatively or qualitatively from that in children without chd . 
esophageal adenocarcinoma in a patient with surgically treated achalasia . although squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus occurs with increased incidence in primary achalasia , esophageal adenocarcinoma has been considered rare in this condition . we report a patient with long-standing achalasia in whom adenocarcinoma of the esophagus occurred many years after heller esophagomyotomy , presumably related to barrett 's esophagus complicating gastro-esophageal reflux disease . 
osteoarthrosis and congenital dysplasia of the hip in family members of children who have congenital dysplasia of the hip [ published erratum appears in j bone joint surg [ am ] 1991 feb ; 73 ( 2 ) :293 ] four hundred and eight siblings , parents , and grandparents of seventy-eight children from the new england area who had congenital dysplasia of the hip were evaluated , by clinical examination and by measurements of the acetabulum on pelvic radiographs , for the signs and sequelae of congenital dysplasia of the hip . six siblings and four mothers ( representing seven of seventy-eight families ) had been diagnosed with congenital dysplasia of the hip during childhood . the other ninety-one siblings were asymptomatic and had no radiographic evidence of dysplasia of the hip . in the adults in these families , acetabular coverage ( as measured by the center-edge angle of wiberg ) was no different from that in the control subjects . there was no difference between the study group and the control subjects in the prevalence of osteoarthrosis of the hip or of osteoarthrosis that could be considered secondary to congenital dysplasia of the hip . the results indicate that children born to families that have a history of congenital dysplasia of the hip have a greater prevalence of this problem compared with the general population , but also that examinations of the hip in newborns are effective in detecting congenital dysplasia of the hip in such families . the greater prevalence of congenital disease of the hip among the siblings and mothers in these families is consistent with a multifactorial inheritance . the fact that acetabular development in the family members who did not have congenital dysplasia of the hip was no different from that in the control subjects suggests that acetabular dysplasia , rather than being an inherited abnormality , is secondary to subluxation or dislocation . 
failure of acetabular autogenous grafts in total hip arthroplasty . increasing incidence : a follow-up note . we reported previously on the application of an autogenous femoral-head graft to the acetabulum during total hip arthroplasty for compensation of marked osseous deficiency in patients who had arthritis secondary to severe congenital dysplasia or dislocation of the hip . an average of seven years postoperatively , the graft seemed to have been a successful adjunct to the arthroplasty . five years later , to assess our long-term results , we reviewed the findings in the same forty-six hips ( thirty-seven patients ) that we had studied previously . an average of 11.8 years after the total replacement and use of the autogenous femoral-head graft , nine hips ( 20 per cent ) needed a second operation because the acetabular fixation had failed . two had had a resection arthroplasty and seven , a complex revision . in one additional hip , a resection arthroplasty was done for infection that had developed after operative reattachment of the greater trochanter . in twelve of the remaining thirty-six hips , there was definite radiographic evidence of acetabular loosening . thus , the total incidence of loosening of the acetabular component was 46 per cent ( twenty-one hips ) . the average time from the index operation to the first definite radiographic evidence that the fixation had failed was 6.4 years ( range , 2.9 to 12.7 years ) . while we recognize that application of a bulk autogenous graft to the acetabulum is useful when the acetabular bone stock is extremely deficient , we no longer recommend the use of bulk corticocancellous autogenous grafts in other situations . 
the core polypeptide of cystic fibrosis tracheal mucin contains a tandem repeat structure . evidence for a common mucin in airway and gastrointestinal tissue . a cystic fibrosis trachea cdna library was constructed and probed with a synthetic oligonucleotide containing a consensus sequence recently identified in human intestinal mucin . one of the isolated clones , amn-22 , has been characterized extensively . the cdna sequence of this 884-bp fragment was determined , and revealed a tandem repeat structure rich in threonine and proline residues . the repeating sequence of amn-22 was similar but not identical to that determined for gut mucin . when examined by northern analysis , the mrna hybridizing to amn-22 is extremely polydisperse in cystic fibrosis ( cf ) trachea , with apparent message length varying from approximately 2 kb to greater than 10 kb . a similar pattern was observed , with less abundant message , in cf bronchiectatic lung parenchyma . the lung cdna hybridized to a similarly polydisperse message in ulcerative colitis colon rna , but did not hybridize to control rna from u937 lymphoma cells or stomach rna . pedigree analysis of restriction digests of genomic dna revealed a pattern indicating a single polymorphic locus for the mucin gene expressed in the lung and the intestine . southern analyses of human : mouse somatic cell hybrid cell lines allow a chromosomal localization for the mucin gene to human chromosome ii , within the region 11p13-11pter . taken together , these data demonstrate that a polymorphic gene encodes a mucin core polypeptide expressed in both lung and intestine . 
ocular melanoma in families with dysplastic nevus syndrome . five families with the dysplastic nevus syndrome , in each of which one member had ocular melanoma , are reported . these five families were examined within a 3-year period in one medical center . to date only five other families with such a combination have been reported . we suggest a causal relation between ocular melanoma and the familial dysplastic nevus syndrome . 
assessment of ventricular septal defect closure by intraoperative epicardial ultrasound . intraoperative epicardial two-dimensional echocardiographic imaging , color flow mapping and contrast echocardiography were used in 31 patients after patch closure of a ventricular septal defect to determine their respective values in the assessment of residual shunting after cardiopulmonary bypass and for the prediction of long-term results . epicardial imaging showed no incidence of patch dehiscence . residual shunting detected by color flow mapping or contrast echocardiography was graded into one of four categories ( 0 to iii ) . real time analysis of color flow mapping studies suggested no shunting ( grade 0 ) in 2 patients , grade i shunting in 20 , grade ii in 8 and grade iii in 1 ; contrast studies suggested grade 0 in 15 , grade i in 6 , grade ii in 8 and grade iii in 2 . interobserver variation in real time encoding of grade i or ii shunting was 25 % by color flow mapping and 6 % by contrast echocardiography . subsequent frame by frame analysis revealed that both diastolic and early systolic right ventricular turbulence gave rise to false positive results during real time analysis of color flow mapping studies . color flow mapping allowed exact localization of residual shunting , whereas contrast echocardiography allowed better semiquantification . postbypass results were correlated in 30 patients with late postoperative precordial studies ( mean interval 7.5 months ) . persistent shunts were found in 6 ( 20 % ) of 30 patients . no patient required reoperation for residual shunting . the predictive value of immediate grade i or ii shunting as a marker for persistent long-term shunting was poor , whereas both patients with immediate grade iii shunting had shunt persistence , indicating that immediate revision should be considered in such patients . intraoperative epicardial ultrasound is valuable for the immediate exclusion of important residual shunting after ventricular septal defect closure . maximal information is obtained when color flow mapping and contrast echocardiography are used in combination . 
prevalence of additional cardiovascular anomalies in patients referred for transcatheter closure of patent ductus arteriosus . catheter closure of the patent ductus arteriosus is now a reality . the purpose of this study was to establish the prevalence of associated cardiovascular defects and the accuracy of echocardiography in patients referred for transvenous ductal closure . this study reviewed 146 patients seen from 1981 to 1988 : 126 with only a patent ductus arteriosus ( group i ) and 20 with additional cardiovascular anomalies ( group ii ) . groups i and ii did not differ significantly in age , gender or physical examination except for the presence of a continuous murmur ( group i 100 % versus group ii 80 % , p less than 0.001 ) . a left patent ductus arteriosus was visualized by two-dimensional echocardiography in 96 % of patients and was evident by doppler study in 100 % . a patent ductus arteriosus was not seen in six patients including a patient who was found to have only a collateral network from the aorta to the main pulmonary artery . the 12 patients with noncardiovascular abnormalities such as down 's syndrome were more likely than the overall group to have additional cardiovascular anomalies ( 6 of 12 , p = 0.001 ) . the cardiovascular anomalies encountered were varied . eight of the 20 patients with such anomalies had only a restrictive ventricular septal defect in addition to the patent ductus arteriosus . significant anomalies found at catheterization included two thoracic arteriovenous malformations and an isolated right carotid artery draining into the right pulmonary artery by way of a right ductus arteriosus . this study indicates that echocardiography is an effective diagnostic technique in this patient group . a thorough cardiac catheterization with angiography should be performed before implantation of a ductal device . 
intraoperative echocardiography in infants and children with congenital cardiac shunt lesions : transesophageal versus epicardial echocardiography . to determine the utility and limitations of intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography in infants and children with congenital intracardiac shunts , intraoperative transesophageal ( n = 50 ) and epicardial ( n = 49 ) echocardiograms were performed before and after cardiopulmonary bypass in children from 4 days to 16 years old and 3 to 45 kg in body weight . a miniaturized transesophageal probe ( 6.9 mm maximal diameter ) was used in 36 patients weighting less than or equal to 20 kg . epicardial imaging was performed with a 5 mhz precordial probe . the intraoperative transesophageal echocardiographic findings before and after cardiopulmonary bypass were correct and complete in 94 % of patients . transesophageal echocardiography correctly identified atrial septal defects , most types of ventricular septal defects , anomalous pulmonary veins , atrioventricular septal defects , tetralogy of fallot , truncus arteriosus and double inlet ventricles . it failed to provide a correct diagnosis in only three patients , all of whom had doubly committed subarterial ventricular septal defects . epicardial echocardiography identified all cases that had a doubly committed subarterial ventricular septal defect . a correct and complete intraoperative diagnosis was obtained with the use of epicardial imaging in 92 % before and after cardiopulmonary bypass , but this technique required interruption of surgery and could not be completed in three patients because of induced arrhythmias and hypotension . these results demonstrated that intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography consistently defined important morphologic , color and pulsed doppler ultrasound features of most congenital shunt lesions . lesions that involved the right ventricular outflow tract are sometimes difficult to image with uniplane transesophageal echocardiography . there were no complications in any of the 50 subjects . 
increased birth prevalence of cardiac defects in yuma , arizona a systematic study was undertaken to estimate the birth prevalence of congenital heart disease because there was a clinical impression that a disproportionate number of cases occurred in yuma , arizona . control data were obtained from sierra vista , arizona , a region with similar demographic characteristics , and from the baltimore-washington infant study . patients with chromosomal or syndromal associations were excluded . in the baltimore-washington infant study only echocardiographic and invasively documented cases were included . from 1983 to 1988 the birth prevalence was significantly higher in yuma ( 10.5 / 1,000 ) than in sierra vista ( 5.4 / 1,000 , p less than 0.0001 ) . as assessed only by invasive or echocardiographic diagnosis , there was a higher birth prevalence of congenital heart disease in the study population ( 6.7 / 1,000 ) compared with both the baltimore-washington infant study ( 3.7 / 1,000 , p = 0.0008 ) and sierra vista ( 4.6 / 1,000 , p = 0.04 ) . families were interviewed to exclude cases in which the mother did not spend the month before conception and the first trimester in yuma or sierra vista . the birth prevalence for yuma ( 6.0 / 1,000 ) remained significantly greater than that for sierra vista ( 3.8 / 1,000 , p = 0.03 ) . the exclusion of cases in which the mother resided elsewhere suggests , but does not prove , that an environmental influence may have played a role in the increased birth prevalence of congenital heart disease in this community . 
ischiopagus tetrapus twins : urological aspects of separation and 10-year followup . conjoined twins occur once in 50,000 births . only 6 % of conjoined twins are of the ischiopagus type in which the twins are joined symmetrically at the pelvis and fusion begins at the level of the common umbilicus . the longitudinal axis extends in a straight line in opposite directions and the genitourinary and gastrointestinal tracts are shared . tetrapus is a subtype in which all 4 lower extremities are present and oriented at right angles to the axis of the common trunk . two sets of female ischiopagus tetrapus twins were born in 1977 and successfully separated at the st. louis children 's hospital in the following year . we describe the genitourinary and associated anomalies , surgical separation and long-term urological followup of these 2 sets of ischiopagus tetrapus twins . 
