evaluation of women with possible appendicitis using technetium-99m leukocyte scan . the authors evaluated the use of technetium-99m albumin colloid white blood cell ( tac-wbc ) scan in women with possible appendicitis . one hundred and nine women underwent 110 tac-wbc scans . one woman had a second scan on a separate admission and was considered two individual patients in the analysis . twenty-six women had appendicitis , 10 of whom had a perforated appendix at surgery . the tac-wbc scan was indeterminate ( abnormal but nondiagnostic for appendicitis ) in 52 women ( 47 % ) , nine of whom had appendicitis . fifty-eight scans were read as positive or negative for appendiceal pathology . there were 16 true positives , 5 false positives , 36 true negatives , and 1 false negative . the predictive value of a positive scan was 76 % , and the predictive value of a negative scan was 97 % . the tac-wbc scan was positive in 62 % of patients with appendicitis and negative in 43 % of the patients without appendicitis resulting in an overall accuracy of 47 % in the 109 women . the main value of tac-wbc scan in women with possible appendicitis is its high negative predictive value and the main problem with the tac-wbc scan is its high indeterminate rate . 
intermittent obstruction of an incarcerated hiatal hernia with a total thoracic stomach . a case of intermittent obstruction of a sliding hiatal hernia is presented . the obstruction occurred when the patient 's stomach was totally above the diaphragm . the anatomy of sliding hiatal hernias is discussed , as well as the presenting signs and symptoms of obstruction in sliding hiatal hernias . 
a retrospective analysis of therapy for acute graft-versus-host disease : initial treatment . we have reviewed results of therapy in 740 patients with grades ii-iv acute graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) after allogeneic marrow transplantation . at the beginning of therapy , 597 patients ( 81 % ) had rash , 369 ( 50 % ) had liver dysfunction and 396 ( 54 % ) had gut dysfunction . initial treatment was with glucocorticoids ( n = 531 ) , cyclosporine ( n = 170 ) , antithymocyte globulin ( atg ) ( n = 156 ) or monoclonal antibody ( n = 3 ) either singly ( n = 633 ) or in combination ( n = 107 ) . parameters of gvhd severity in each organ were recorded weekly , and evaluation of response was made using values at the initiation of secondary treatment or , for patients without such treatment , using values on day 29 of primary treatment or the last recorded value before death , whichever occurred first . minimal criteria for improvement or progression were defined for each organ , but no attempt was made to define liver or gut outcome if another complication such as venocclusive disease or infectious enteritis was present . improvement rates were 43 % for skin disease , 35 % for evaluable liver disease and 50 % for evaluable gut disease . overall complete or partial responses were seen in 44 % of patients . multivariate analyses were carried out to identify patient , disease or treatment factors associated with likelihood of overall improvement and likelihood of response in at least one organ . a similar analysis was also carried out to identify covariates associated with time to treatment failure ( defined as initiation of secondary therapy or death not due to relapse of malignancy ) . in all three models , gvhd prophylaxis using cyclosporine combined with methotrexate was associated with favorable gvhd treatment outcome compared to prophylaxis with either agent alone , and treatment with glucocorticoids or cyclosporine was more successful than treatment with atg . other factors associated with unfavorable outcome in the model of time to treatment failure and also entered in one of the response models were recipient hla disparity with the donor , presence of a liver complication other than gvhd , and early onset of gvhd . results of this analysis indicate that glucocorticoids represent the best initial therapy available for treatment of acute gvhd , although much room for improvement remains . 
the management of pseudomyxoma peritonei . the management of nine patients with pseudomyxoma peritonei was reviewed . aggressive surgical resection of tumor is the standard of treatment , with many patients requiring multiple laparotomies . chemotherapy , including the use of cisplatin is not effective . long-term nutritional support provides a better quality of survival for select patients . 
epidural morphine for analgesia after caesarean section : a report of 4880 patients this retrospective study was undertaken to assess the efficacy and safety of epidural morphine in providing analgesia following caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia . the morphine was administered as a single bolus , following delivery , in doses ranging from 2 to 5 mg . the charts of 4880 caesarean sections , performed on 4500 patients , were reviewed . the duration of analgesia and the occurrence of any symptoms which might be side-effects of the epidural morphine were recorded . the duration of analgesia was 22.9 + / - 10.1 hr and was not correlated with the dose of epidural morphine . eleven per cent of the patients required no supplemental analgesia during the first 48 hr . twelve patients ( 0.25 per cent ) had respiratory rates less than 10 breaths per minute , on at least one occasion . no serious sequelae resulted from these periods of bradypnoea . pruritus occurred in 58 per cent of patients , nausea and vomiting in 39.9 per cent and dizziness in ten per cent . herpes simplex labialis was recorded in 3.5 per cent of patients . epidural morphine is thus confirmed as an effective analgesic technique post-caesarean section with 3 mg being the optimal dose . even in this young healthy patient population , clinically detectable respiratory depression occurs so clinical respiratory monitoring is indicated . 
prospective trial comparing a combination ph probe-nasogastric tube with aspirated gastric ph in intensive care unit patients . upper gi bleeding related to stress ulcer syndrome is estimated to affect as much as 15 % of patients in an icu . since the occurrence of bleeding after icu admission may be associated with increased morbidity and mortality , many efforts have been directed at defining optimal therapy for stress ulcer prophylaxis . titration of intragastric ph with antacids or iv doses of h2-receptor antagonists may prevent stress ulcer bleeding in high-risk icu patients . we evaluated a recently developed ph probe incorporated into an ng tube and compared it with aspiration of gastric contents using ph paper as a means to monitor ph in 22 surgical icu patients . regression analysis comparing the intragastric probe ph values with the aspirated ph values showed a good correlation between the two methods ( r = .71 ) . this new technique for intragastric ph measurement appears technically simple and clinically applicable for use on patients at risk for stress ulcer bleeding . it may be more accurate than ph paper in patients receiving antacids . 
the exeter dysphagia assessment technique . the exeter dysphagia assessment technique ( edat ) uses noninvasive equipment to record , simultaneously , " feeding respiratory patterns , " the time drink entered the mouth , and associated swallow sounds during feeding . the easily portable equipment enabled patients ' swallowing ability to be tested , at the bedside if necessary , using a small amount of fruit-flavored drink . the results appear in chart form . edat findings from groups of normal subjects aged 2-90 years were compared with those from patients with dysphagia of neurologic origin and normal subjects under experimental feeding conditions . the results revealed maturation of the feeding respiratory pattern in the teenage years and remarkable consistency thereafter . differences in the recordings between the normal and abnormal subjects were sufficiently marked to allow the findings to be used in the diagnosis of other patients with dysphagia of doubtful neurologic cause . interpretation of the charts and recorded timings of the oral and pharyngeal stages of swallowing permitted a more accurate identification of sensory nerve , motor nerve , and functional involvement causing dysphagia of neurologic origin and may be used as a guide to the origin of the sensory deficit . 
transient mitral regurgitation due to mitral valve prolapse accompanied by systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve . a grade 4/6 systolic murmur , systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve ( sam ) , and severe mitral regurgitation ( mr ) documented by two-dimensional doppler echocardiography developed suddenly on the structurally normal heart of a patient with idiopathic portal hypertension . the patient did not have signs of congestive heart failure and the aforementioned phenomenon disappeared completely when the patient was in hepatic failure . this could be explained by a change in circulating blood volume either by gastrointestinal hemorrhage or hepatic failure . 
resolution of the adult respiratory distress syndrome following colectomy and liver transplantation . a 32-year-old woman with liver failure from end-stage cirrhosis and ulcerative colitis developed septicemia and severe ards . subtotal colectomy and a successful liver transplantation resulted in complete resolution of the ards . 
esophageal contribution to chest pain in patients with coronary artery disease . we conducted a prospective study to determine the role of the esophagus in causing chest pain in patients with established cad on optimum therapy . thirty-two men with documented cad who complained of frequent and usually daily retrosternal chest pain were evaluated . following a standard esophageal manometry and acid perfusion test , simultaneous two-channel ambulatory holter monitor and esophageal ph record tests were performed for 24 hours . fifty-three episodes of chest pain were documented in 20 patients ; 11 patients were free of pain . of the 20 patients who complained of chest pains , 17 ( 85 percent ) demonstrated at least one episode of ppr , defined as a drop in distal esophageal ph to less than 4 within ten minutes before or after the onset chest pain . episodes of asymptomatic ger were common . the correlation of ppr with chest pain was 70 percent ( 37/53 episodes ) and of ischemic ecg changes with chest pain 13 percent ( 7/53 ) ; in the remaining , there was no correlation with either . two patients demonstrated simultaneous ppr and ischemic ecg changes . seventeen esophageal motility abnormalities were observed in 14 patients ( 45 percent ) . it is our conclusion that esophageal disorders contribute to chest pain in patients with documented cad . in this group , ger plays a greater role than in those with normal coronary arteries . in addition , esophageal motility disorders are common in these patients . esophageal testing can be undertaken safely in these patients . 
absorption and motility of the bypassed human ileum . the authors assessed absorption and motility of the human ileum after a prolonged period of disuse . in eight patients with ulcerative colitis , a manometric-catheter assembly was placed via the ileostomy into the unused portion of distal ileum two months after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and temporary diverting loop ileostomy . the distal ileum was perfused at 5 ml/min with an isosmotic solution of either sodium chloride or ileal chyme diluted with sodium chloride for three hours before and three hours after a meal on two consecutive days . absorption was measured , single and clustered pressure waves were identified and quantitated with the aid of a computer program , and a motility index was calculated . mean absorption + / - s.e.m. of both perfusates was poor on day 1 ( -10 + / - 2 ml/25 cm x 30 min ) , and the meal induced no ileal motor response . by day 2 , however , absorption of both perfusates was much improved ( -1 + / - 2 ml/25 cm x 30 min ; p less than 0.05 ) , and the number of discrete clustered contractions and the motility index now clearly increased after the meal ( 2.6 + / - 0.6 vs. 7.2 + / - 1.0 clustered waves/hr ; 7.5 + / - 0.5 vs. 9.7 + / - 0.2 motility units/30 min ; p less than 0.05 ) . the conclusion was that absorption and motility of the human ileum were impaired after two months of disuse , but that ileal absorption and motility improved one day after the introduction of isosmotic ileal perfusates . 
the freckle sign -- an endoscopic feature of the cecum . mucosal spots , or " freckles , " surrounding the appendiceal orifice are an endoscopic feature of the cecum . these are clusters of 1 to 2 mm round or oval slightly raised spots , each with a pale center and an erythematous border . they correlate microscopically with subepithelial and submucosal lymphoid follicles . the freckling pattern , identified in about one third of colonoscopies , was seen best with the videoendoscope and was identified more commonly in patients with systemic illness . recognition of mucosal freckling around the appendiceal orifice helps identify the cecum and may be useful in the evaluation of cecal and appendiceal pathology . 
the starved colon -- diminished mucosal nutrition , diminished absorption , and colitis . nutrition of colonic epithelial cells is mainly from short chain fatty acids ( scfas ) produced by bacterial fermentation in the colonic lumen . n-butyrate contributes more carbon of oxidation to epithelial cells than glucose or glutamine from the vasculature . incomplete starvation of colonic epithelial cells through lack of luminal scfas leads , in the short term , to mucosal hypoplasia with either diminished absorption or diarrhea . a chronic lack of scfas or complete organ starvation in conjunction with other factors leads to nutritional colitis , either " diversion colitis " or " starvation colitis . " whether predominantly diarrhea or colitis develops in mucosal malnutrition appears to depend upon the severity and duration of starvation . ulcerative colitis may be classified as a nutritional colitis in that colonic epithelial cells are unable to utilize scfas reflecting epithelial starvation despite abundant scfas . 
crohn 's disease and pregnancy . seventy-eight pregnancies in 50 patients were reviewed to evaluate the effects of crohn 's disease on the outcome of pregnancy and the influence of the pregnancy on the course of crohn 's disease . overall , 21 pregnancies ( 27 percent ) had abnormal outcomes including spontaneous abortions ( 9 ) , infants small for gestational age ( 6 ) , premature infants ( 5 ) , and infants who developed respiratory distress ( 1 ) . eight ( 50 percent ) patients with active disease compared with 13 ( 21 percent ) patients with inactive disease at conception had abnormal outcomes ( p less than 0.05 ) . during pregnancy 15 ( 55 percent ) with active disease and 6 ( 12 percent ) with inactive disease had an abnormal outcome ( p less than 0.001 ) . neither medical nor surgical treatment , independent of disease activity , appeared to affect the outcome adversely . eighteen of 73 ( 25 percent ) patients with quiescent or mild disease relapsed , and seven of 16 patients with some disease activity improved ( 44 percent ) . of 34 patients on medication , nine relapsed ( 27 percent ) , and of 39 patients not on medication , nine relapsed ( 24 percent ) ( p = n.s. ) . these results suggest that the outcome of pregnancy is not adversely affected by crohn 's disease . however , patients with active disease at conception and/or during the pregnancy have poorer outcomes independent of the use of medication or requirement of surgery . neither pregnancy nor medications taken affect the course of the disease . 
short-term chemoprophylaxis with ceftizoxime vs. five-day aminoglycoside with metronidazole in ' contaminated ' lower gastrointestinal surgery . in a prospective , open , randomized controlled trial , 173 patients requiring surgery for potentially " contaminated " lower gastrointestinal surgery were allocated to receive either two doses of ceftizoxime ( 2 gm ) with one dose of metronidazole ( 1.5 gm ) or gentamicin 3 mg/kg/day for five days with one dose of metronidazole ( 1.5 gm ) . eighty-nine patients received ceftizoxime and 84 patients received gentamicin . the groups were comparable with respect to diagnosis , procedure , type of anastomosis , and wound closure . the incidence of withdrawal due to failure to respond to the study drug ( 11.5 percent ) was equivalent in the two groups . there was no difference in the overall incidence of postsurgical infection between the ceftizoxime and metronidazole group ( 22.2 percent ) and the gentamicin and metronidazole group ( 25.7 percent ) . the incidence of wound infection ( ceftizoxime and metronidazole , 6.9 percent ; gentamicin and metronidazole , 10 percent ) and deep sepsis ( ceftizoxime and metronidazole , 15.3 percent ; gentamicin and metronidazole , 15.7 percent ) was similar . 
gastrointestinal tuberculosis . report of four cases . gastrointestinal tuberculosis is a rare disease in the united states . correct identification is often delayed because it is not considered early on in the differential diagnosis . four patients with gastrointestinal tuberculosis and the symptoms , diagnosis , complications , and treatment of the disease are discussed . gastrointestinal tuberculosis should be considered in asian immigrant patients who present with symptoms and signs of inflammatory bowel disease . 
scintigraphic measurement of oropharyngeal transit in man . scintigraphic studies of the oropharyngeal transit of a liquid bolus were performed in 15 healthy controls , 12 patients with symptoms of oral-pharyngeal dysphagia , and 13 patients with neuromuscular disease , who did not have dysphagia . gamma camera imaging of the head , neck , and upper thorax was undertaken , in the lateral projection , during the swallowing of the radiolabeled bolus of water . inspection of summed images permitted the selection of regions of interest ( roi ) to represent the mouth , pharynx , and upper esophagus . transit times between each roi were calculated and compared . significant prolongation of bolus transit time between the mouth and esophagus was present in both patients with and without dysphagia ( 0.59 + / - 0.38 sec and 0.33 + / - 0.7 sec ; mean + / - sd , respectively ) compared with controls ( 0.26 + / - 0.04 sec p less than 0.001 , p less than 0.01 , respectively , mann-whitney u test ) . repeat studies in 25 individuals indicated that the transit measurements were more reproducible between swallows in normal subjects than in patients with symptoms . deglutitive scintigraphy provides a noninvasive technique for the quantitative study of swallowing and its disorders . 
effects of milk , prostaglandin , and antacid on experimentally induced duodenitis in the rat . use of myeloperoxidase as an index of inflammation . ulcerogenesis of the duodenal mucosa frequently involves an inflammatory reaction with infiltration of leukocytes . measurement of neutrophil myeloperoxidase activity might thus be a sensitive indicator of damage , before visible lesions occur . to test this possibility , a rat model for duodenal injury was used where fasted animals were treated with indomethacin and histamine-dihcl . twenty-four hours after indomethacin treatment , duodenal tissues were collected for histochemical staining and biochemical assay for myeloperoxidase activity . indomethacin - and histamine-challenged rats had significantly elevated myeloperoxidase activity compared to unchallenged controls ( p less than 0.05 ) for both histochemistry and biochemistry . there was also a significant correlation between these two parameters ( r = 0.68 , p less than 0.001 ) . the duodenal injury model then was used to test the effectiveness of known gastric protective agents . results indicated that milk and buttermilk did not aggravate or protect against duodenal injury , while antacid and prostaglandin did significantly protect against inflammation ( p less than 0.02 ) . we concluded that measurement of myeloperoxidase activity is a sensitive and potentially useful estimate of duodenal injury that can be valuable in assessing ulcerogenesis and healing . 
gastric dysrhythmias following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy . possible mechanism for early delayed gastric emptying . transient delayed gastric emptying is reported as a frequent complication following pancreas-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy ( ppw ) . we placed serosal electrodes on the stomach of a patient undergoing ppw . myoelectric recordings were obtained postoperatively and correlated with simultaneous radionuclide liquid gastric emptying studies . the patient developed early postoperative gastric atony , associated with frequent gastric dysrhythmias . these dysrhythmias may have been exacerbated by a perihepatic abscess . the gastric dysrhythmias correlated with alterations in liquid gastric emptying . gastric dysrhythmias may be a mechanism for gastric dysfunction in the early postoperative period . 
sterol-dependence of gastric protective activity of unsaturated phospholipids . the major aim of this study was to investigate the gastric protective effect of unsaturated phospholipids and to determine the ability of neutral lipids to enhance this activity . we found that although a liposomal suspension of unsaturated phosphatidylcholine ( pc ) administered intragastrically failed to protect rats from acid-induced gastric ulcer formation , addition of cholesterol to unsaturated pc induced a dose-dependent protective response with the maximally effective dose , reducing lesion score greater than 70 % . this effect also was seen with the plant sterol , beta-sitosterol ( reducing lesion score by 81.6 + / - 36 % ) but was blocked if cholesterol was esterified to fatty acids of varying chain length . addition of sterols to liposomes of saturated dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine , in contrast , attenuated the gastric protective action of the saturated pc . it appears that the protective mechanism elicited by sterols and unsaturated pc is not mediated by alterations in gastric emptying rate or prostaglandin biosynthesis , although maintenance of surface hydrophobicity may be involved . these results suggest that the sterol may promote the packing of adjacent unsaturated phospholipid molecules of either the cell membrane or a putative extracellular hydrophobic lining of the gastric epithelium to provide the mucosa with protection against luminal acid . 
gastric lesions secondary to long-distance running . gastrointestinal disorders have been reported during long-distance running . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of prolonged exercise on the upper digestive tract . seven subjects were submitted to a standard endoscopic examination of the upper digestive tract before and after long-distance running ( range 18-50 km ) . mucosal biopsy specimens were taken during all endoscopies . after running , all runners had histologically pathological features in the stomach . vascular lesions were present in the chorion in six subjects after running , with the intensity of the lesions ranging from congestion to hemorrhage . postexercise histological examination also showed a decrease in mucosal secretion . these lesions secondary to prolonged exercise indicate the presence of hemodynamic perturbations in the upper digestive tract . 
outpatient health care utilization of patients with inflammatory bowel disease . on the basis of the normal life expectancy of inflammatory bowel disease patients , the early onset of their disease , and the variety of symptoms , inflammatory bowel disease patients were anticipated to be frequent users of outpatients services . this study assesses ( 1 ) the characteristics , ( 2 ) outpatient health care utilization , and ( 3 ) the degree of satisfaction with health care of inflammatory bowel disease patients compared to patients with other gastrointestinal disease . the study method was a secondary analysis of data collected on 395 patients attending the university of calgary gastroenterology outpatient clinic in 1988 . inflammatory bowel disease patients were significantly younger ( p less than 0.001 ) and better educated ( p less than 0.05 ) than other patients . during the past year inflammatory bowel disease patients consulted significantly more often with their gastroenterologist ( p less than 0.001 ) and spent more time in hospital ( p less than 0.05 ) than other patients . inflammatory bowel disease patients also consulted more frequently with herbalists and naturopaths . lastly , inflammatory bowel disease patients were as satisfied with the health care they received as other patients . these results provide information useful for health care planners as well as for those dealing directly with inflammatory bowel disease patients . 
irritable bowel syndrome in women having diagnostic laparoscopy or hysterectomy . relation to gynecologic features and outcome . we identified irritable bowel syndrome ( ibs ) in 47.7 % of 86 women having diagnostic laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain , 39.5 % of 172 women having elective hysterectomy , and 32.0 % of 172 controls age-matched for the hysterectomy group ( p = ns ) . constipation and pain subtype ibs were more common in hysterectomy patients than controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . in laparoscopy patients , dyspareunia was more common in those with ibs than in those without it ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the hysterectomy group , more ibs patients had chronic pelvic pain ( p less than 0.005 ) , and abnormal menses ( p less than 0.01 ) . chronic pelvic pain was more frequently the only prehysterectomy diagnosis in ibs patients ( p less than 0.05 ) , and ibs was present more often when pain was a reason for hysterectomy ( p less than 0.01 ) . one year after laparoscopy , ibs patients gave lower overall status ratings ( p less than 0.01 ) and lower pain improvement ratings ( p less than 0.05 ) than non-ibs patients . in women who had a hysterectomy for pain , there was less pain improvement one year later in those with the pain subtype of ibs than in non-ibs patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . ibs is associated with gynecologic symptoms and affects the symptomatic outcome of diagnostic laparoscopy and hysterectomy . 
investigation of mode of action of biofeedback in treatment of fecal incontinence . a study was carried out in 25 incontinent patients to evaluate some of the factors thought to be responsible for the success of retraining for fecal incontinence . subjects were initially allocated to one of two groups ; one group was trained to perceive small rectal volumes ( active retraining ) , the other group carried out the same maneuvers but were not given any information or instruction . active sensory retraining reduced the sensory threshold from 32 + / - 8 to 7 + / - 2 ml ( p less than 0.001 ) , corrected any sensory delay that was present ( p less than 0.004 ) , and reduced the frequency of incontinence from 5 + / - 1 to 1 + / - 1 episodes per week ( p less than 0.01 ) . sham retraining caused a modest reduction in the sensory threshold ( from 29 + / - 9 to 20 + / - 8 ; p less than 0.05 ) but did not significantly reduce the frequency of incontinence . subsequent strength and coordination training did not significantly improve continence , although at the end of the study , 50 % of patients had no incontinent episodes at all and 76 % of patients had reduced the frequency of incontinence episodes by more than 75 % . this improvement in continence was not associated with any change in sphincter pressures or in the continence to rectally infused saline but was associated with significant improvements in rectal sensation . the functional improvement was sustained over a period of two years in 16 of the 22 patients available for follow-up . in conclusion , the results support the use of retraining in the management of fecal incontinence and suggest that retraining may work by enhancing rectal sensitivity and instilling confidence . 
analysis of 24-hour esophageal pressure and ph data in unselected patients with noncardiac chest pain . fourty-four unselected patients with noncardiac chest pain were studied using conventional manometry with additional edrophonium provocation and 24-hour ambulatory esophageal ph and pressure recording with a system developed by our group . new , fully automated techniques of statistical analysis of the complete set of esophageal pressure and ph signals were used to examine the temporal relation between pain , esophageal motility disturbances , and gastroesophageal reflux . the analysis used the 97.5 th percentile of amplitude and duration of all esophageal contractions in each patient as well as a chi 2 test of the distribution of contraction types to determine whether a pain episode was related to abnormal motility or not . the edrophonium test results were positive in 2 patients . only 25 patients ( 56.8 % ) had at least one pain episode ( total , 111 episodes ) during 24-hour recording . thirty-three percent of the pain episodes were related to reflux and 23.4 % to abnormal motility , and 43.2 % were not related to an esophageal function disturbance . in the patient-oriented analysis in this study , it was required for a positive correlation that the symptom index ( percentage of related pain episodes ) was higher than 75 % . it was found that the pain was related to reflux in 2 patients ( 4.6 % ) , to reflux and motor abnormalities in 4 ( 9.2 % ) , and to motor abnormalities in 2 patients ( 4.6 % ) . in 36 patients ( 81.8 % ) , no relation with an esophageal abnormality could be established , either because the patients had no pain during the 24-hour study , or because the pain seemed unrelated to reflux or abnormal motility . 
phospholipids from rat , human , and canine gastric mucosa . composition and metabolism of molecular classes of phosphatidylcholine . to validate a recent proposal that a phospholipid lining with a high content of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine may protect gastric mucosa against luminal acid , it was decided to study composition and metabolism of phospholipids in the gastric mucosa . phospholipids were analyzed in rat , human , and dog gastric mucosal surface tissue and in a chloroform/methanol-lavage of rat and canine stomach . phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine were the main components . saturated fatty acids were almost exclusively esterified at the sn-1 position of the glycerol moiety of phosphatidylcholine , and unsaturated fatty acids mainly at the sn-2 position . the disaturated class of phosphatidylcholine comprised 2 % -6 % of total phosphatidylcholine . precursors of phosphatidylcholine , i.e. , [ 32p ] orthophosphate and [ methyl-14c ] choline , were preferentially incorporated into the disaturated molecular class 0.5-6 hours after iv administration . it can be speculated that disaturated phosphatidylcholine , although quantitatively a minor component , is specifically triggered in mucosal renewal processes . 
multipolar electrocoagulation versus injection therapy in the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcers . a prospective , randomized trial . this study prospectively compares multipolar electrocoagulation and injection therapy in high-risk patients with bleeding ulcers . patients were considered for entry if they had a bloody nasogastric aspirate , melena , or hematochezia and unstable vital signs , transfusion of greater than or equal to 2 u of blood in 12 hours , or a decrease in hematocrit of greater than or equal to 6 % in 12 hours . sixty patients with endoscopic evidence of an ulcer with active bleeding ( n = 26 ) or a nonbleeding visible vessel ( n = 34 ) were randomly assigned to receive multipolar electrocoagulation or injection with absolute ethanol . hemostasis was achieved in 14 of 14 actively bleeding patients with multipolar electrocoagulation vs. 10 of 12 ( 83 % ) treated with injection . no significant differences were observed between electrocoagulation and injection therapy in any parameter assessed during the hospitalization : incidence of further bleeding ( 6 % vs. 10 % ) , units of blood transfused after treatment ( 1.8 + / - 0.6 vs. 1.3 + / - 0.4 ) , incidence of surgery for bleeding ( 6 % vs. 7 % ) , length of hospital stay in days ( 5.8 + / - 0.9 vs. 7.2 + / - 2.5 ) , cost of hospitalization ( +7160 + / - +1630 vs. +8520 + / - +2960 ) , or mortality rate ( 3 % vs. 3 % ) . treatment induced bleeding in nonbleeding visible vessels in 35 % of subjects in each group , but this was controlled with continued treatment in all patients . one delayed perforation occurred 9 days after multipolar electrocoagulation . multipolar electrocoagulation and injection therapy are of comparable efficacy in the treatment of patients with clinical evidence of a major upper gastrointestinal bleed and endoscopic evidence of an ulcer with active bleeding or a nonbleeding visible vessel . 
evolution of fundic argyrophil cell hyperplasia in nonantral atrophic gastritis . fundic argyrophil cells were studied for a mean period of 68.7 months ( range , 11-170 ) in 18 patients with fundic atrophic gastritis and achlorhydria . initially , 12 patients had hyperplasia of the argyrophil cells , the severity of which was assessed using a semiquantitative classification based on the number of argyrophil clusters per square millimeter . at the end of the study , the degree of hyperplasia was unchanged in 9 patients , had decreased in 2 , and had increased in 1 ; no significant increase in the number of argyrophil clusters , precarcinoid changes , or carcinoid tumors were observed and the high level of gastrinemia [ mean , 4.8 ( range , 1.9-8 .1 ) times the upper limit for normal ) did not change significantly . of the 6 patients with no hyperplasia at the outset of the study , 4 continued without hyperplasia and 2 presented a low-grade hyperplasia at the 20th and 130th month . gastrinemia increased significantly in the last patient and stayed normal in the other 5 . this study argues in favor of the stable appearance of fundic argyrophil cells in patients with atrophic gastritis and stable gastrinemia . 
a small animal model of human helicobacter pylori active chronic gastritis . isolation of a spiral-shaped bacterium closely related to helicobacter pylori from the cat stomach made it possible to investigate new small animal models of gastric infection . pure cultures of this bacterium , provisionally named " helicobacter felis , " were fed to germ-free mice . the organism colonized the stomach in large numbers in mucus and deep in the gastric pits and showed the same gastric trophism found with h. pylori . significant histopathology was seen in all h. felis-infected mice . at 2 weeks postinfection , an acute inflammatory response was seen composed primarily of eosinophils and neutrophils . at 3 weeks , the polymorphonuclear response was more pronounced with large numbers of neutrophils in some areas forming small microabscesses . lymphocytes also increased in number . by 8 weeks , several relatively large lymphoid nodules were present in the submucosa . multiple small microabscesses were still present in the pyloric mucosa . this is the first animal model of bacterial gastritis to be described that shows progression from acute inflammation to persistent acute on chronic inflammation ( active chronic ) as is seen in human infection with h. pylori . 
a comparison in vitro of human and rabbit distal colonic muscle responses to inflammatory mediators . the present study compared in vitro the motor responses of human and rabbit distal colonic longitudinal and circular muscle to acetylcholine , histamine , leukotrienes b4 and d4 , and prostaglandins e2 and f2 alpha . the active and passive mechanical properties of these muscles were also evaluated . all muscle types were contracted by acetylcholine and histamine . longitudinal muscle from both species was contracted by prostaglandin e2 and prostaglandin f2 alpha , although rabbit muscle was more sensitive . prostaglandin e2 relaxed the majority of both human and rabbit circular muscle preparations that were studied . prostaglandin f2 alpha first relaxed and then contracted circular muscle from both species . leukotriene b4 had no effect on any tissue studied . leukotriene d4 caused transient relaxations in a proportion of all muscle types , but the relaxations were not concentration-related . contractile responses did not differ under isotonic recording conditions , but relaxations were much more clearly defined . based on experiments using atropine , phentolamine and propranolol , and pyrilamine or tetrodotoxin , it was concluded that the responses of both human and rabbit distal colonic muscles to these inflammatory mediators have a similar pharmacological basis . all muscle types exhibited low passive tension and developed active tension in the range 0.8-1 .2 lo . these data strongly support the belief that after the onset of an induced colitis , the rabbit colon has value as a predictive model for the study of inflammatory mediator-induced colonic motility changes in humans . 
long-term 6-mercaptopurine treatment in adolescents with crohn 's disease although 6-mercaptopurine is often used to treat adolescents with intractable crohn 's disease , its long-term efficacy has not yet been studied in this population . this study shows data derived from 36 adolescents ( mean age + / - sd , 16.5 + / - 3.3 years ; 27 males , 9 females ) treated at least 6 months with 6-mercaptopurine ( 1.5 mg.kg-1 . day-1 , maximum of 75 mg/day ) . sites of crohn 's disease at the start of 6-mercaptopurine therapy included 17 ileocolic , 9 pancolic , 7 small bowel , and 3 partial colon . all had received corticosteroids , sulfasalazine , antibiotics , and nutritional support for 5.0 + / - 3.0 years before administering 6-mercaptopurine , but intractable symptoms persisted . disease activity lessened during the first year of 6-mercaptopurine , reflected by a higher lloyd-still disease activity score ( pre , 64 + / - 9 vs. 6-mercaptopurine , 72 + / - 11 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . general activity , physical examination , nutrition , and laboratory subscores all improved ( p less than 0.004 ) . lessened disease activity occurred despite concomitant decrease in duration of prednisone use ( pre , 9.5 + / - 4.2 vs. 6-mercaptopurine , 6.6 + / - 4.9 months/year ; p less than 0.001 ) and cumulative annual prednisone exposure ( pre , 3672 + / - 2106 vs. 6-mercaptopurine , 1964 + / - 1460 mg ; p less than 0.0007 ) . the frequency of perianal fistulae and abscesses also decreased ( p less than 0.01 ) during treatment . annual rates of hospitalization decreased in 44 % of subjects during 6-mercaptopurine treatment , while increasing in only 22 % . follow-up beyond 1 year of 6-mercaptopurine treatment showed continued remission in 23 of 30 subjects . no serious complications were seen . 6-mercaptopurine is an effective long-term therapy for adolescents with intractable crohn 's disease . while inducing remission , it also has a significant steroid-sparing effect which may be of particular benefit to this population . 
anorectal function in incontinent patients with cerebrospinal disease . anorectal manometry and the electrical activity of the external anal sphincter were measured in 20 patients with well-defined , incomplete spinal lesions who were referred because of fecal incontinence and in 30 normal subjects . six patients had a high spinal lesion , 11 had a low spinal lesion , and 3 had mixed high and low spinal lesions . patients with high spinal lesions had normal basal pressures but abnormally low squeeze pressures and impaired rectal sensation . unlike normal subjects , there was no relationship between the depth of sphincter relaxation and the distention volumes . the external sphincter responses to rectal distention and increases in intraabdominal pressure were enhanced , and leakage of perfusion fluid was uncommon . patients with low spinal lesions had abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures , blunted rectal sensation , and showed impaired external anal sphincter responses to rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressures . most of these patients leaked the infused fluid during these maneuvers . sphincter function in patients with mixed lesions was more severely impaired than in patients with low and high spinal lesions . patients with mixed lesions showed abnormally low basal and squeeze pressures , impaired rectal sensation , and no external anal sphincter responses to either rectal distention or increases in intraabdominal pressure . leakage occurred during these maneuvers in all patients with mixed lesions . 
alpha 1-antitrypsin excretion in stool in normal subjects and in patients with gastrointestinal disorders . fecal clearance of plasma alpha 1-antitrypsin is used as a measure of protein leakage into the intestinal tract . in this study , the alpha 1-antitrypsin concentration in stool and the plasma clearance of alpha 1-antitrypsin in normal subjects and in a consecutive series of patients with chronic diarrhea , malabsorption , or unexplained hypoalbuminemia was determined . the normal subjects were studied in their usual state and also when they had diarrhea secondary to ingestion of lactulose , sorbitol , sodium sulfate , or phenolphthalein . the study first concluded that induced diarrhea can cause an increase in alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance ; if this is not considered in establishing normal values , there may be an overdiagnosis of excess protein leakage in patients with diarrhea . second , there is a highly significant statistical correlation ( p less than 0.001 ) between alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance and serum albumin concentration . on average , the serum albumin falls below 3.0 g/dl ( 30 g/l ) when the alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance exceeds 180 ml/day , a value that is about threefold higher than the upper limit of normal . third , three of nine patients with microscopic/collagenous colitis had elevated clearance of alpha 1-antitrypsin ; by contrast , abnormal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance was not found in 23 patients with idiopathic secretory diarrhea . fourth , fecal alpha 1-antitrypsin concentration is not a reliable index of abnormal alpha 1-antitrypsin clearance . 
randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of somatostatin for variceal bleeding . emergency control and prevention of early variceal rebleeding . a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of somatostatin was conducted among 120 patients admitted for bleeding esophageal varices ( 59 placebo , 61 somatostatin ) . an initial 250-micrograms bolus of somatostatin followed by a 5-day continuous infusion of 250 micrograms/h and an identical administration of placebo were evaluated for both the control of bleeding and prevention of early rebleeding from varices . failure to control bleeding occurred in 22 ( 36 % ) somatostatin patients vs. 35 ( 59 % ) placebo patients , with time to failure occurring earlier with placebo ( p = 0.036 ) . blood and plasma transfused per hour during drug infusion of trial drug was reduced in the somatostatin group : median 0.033 vs. 0.105 unit/h ( p = 0.025 ) . use of balloon tamponade was halved in somatostatin-treated patients . the average effect of somatostatin was a 41 % reduction in the hazard of failure ( 95 % confidence interval , -1 % to 65 % , p = 0.0545 ) after adjustment for the severity of liver disease , which was the only other variable having a significant influence on time to failure . there was no difference in 30-day mortality per admission ( 7 placebo , 9 somatostatin ) or complications . it is concluded that somatostatin is safe and more effective than placebo for the control of variceal bleeding . 
hemodynamic events in a prospective randomized trial of propranolol versus placebo in the prevention of a first variceal hemorrhage . in a double-blind randomized trial , the hemodynamic events following the administration of propranolol ( n = 51 ) or a placebo ( n = 51 ) were prospectively studied in cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices . the hepatic venous pressure gradient , heart rate , and variceal size were determined at the baseline and 3 , 12 , and 24 months after the beginning of therapy . baseline values were similar in both groups . at 3 months , the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased significantly in propranolol-treated patients ( from 18.1 + / - 4.2 to 15.7 + / - 3.4 mm hg ; p less than 0.05 ) but not in patients receiving the placebo ( 19.6 + / - 6.8 to 17.5 + / - 5.3 mm hg ; ns ) . at subsequent time intervals this gradient decreased significantly from the baseline value in both groups . heart rate decreased significantly in the propranolol-treated group at all times ( p less than 0.001 ) . variceal hemorrhage occurred in 13 patients ( 11 placebo - , 2 propranolol-treated ; p less than 0.01 ) , all of whom had a hepatic venous pressure gradient greater than 12 mm hg . in 21 patients ( 14 propranolol - , 7 placebo-treated ) the hepatic venous pressure gradient decreased to less than or equal to 12 mm hg ; none of them bled from esophageal varices , and their mortality rate also decreased . because most of the bleeding events occurred during the first year ( 10 placebo - , 1 propranolol-treated ; p less than 0.01 ) , propranolol seems to have its protective effect during the period associated with the largest reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient . because a reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient to less than 12 mm hg protects from variceal bleeding and increases the rate of survival , this should be the aim of the pharmacological therapy of portal hypertension . 
effect of weight reduction on hepatic abnormalities in overweight patients . the effects of weight reduction on hepatic test results and physical findings related to the liver were retrospectively evaluated in 39 overweight patients screened to exclude other factors affecting the liver . an additional 11 overweight patients with primary liver disease were retrospectively evaluated to compare the effect of weight reduction in patients with liver disease with its effect in those without primary liver disease . this study showed that in overweight adults without primary liver disease , a weight reduction of greater than or equal to 10 % corrected abnormal hepatic test results , decreased hepatosplenomegaly , and resolved some stigmata of liver disease . in similarly studied overweight patients with primary liver disease , some findings improved , but the changes did not correlate with a greater than or equal to 10 % weight loss . increased alanine aminotransferase activity was the most frequent hepatic enzyme abnormality in this population . for every 1 % reduction in body weight , alanine aminotransferase activity improved by 8.1 % . after other causes of liver disease are eliminated by clinical and biochemical parameters , weight reduction should be tried for overweight patients with abnormal hepatic test results in the absence of obvious primary liver disease as judged by clinical and biochemical parameters before extensive and expensive studies are undertaken . 
immunochemical characterization and quantitative distribution of pancreatic stone protein in sera and pancreatic secretions in pancreatic disorders . a fluorometric immunoassay has been established to quantitate pancreatic stone protein providing a sensitivity for concentrations from 0.015 to 0.5 micrograms/ml . when concentrations of pancreatic stone protein were determined from pancreatic secretions obtained either from patients suffering from chronic pancreatitis ( n = 31 ) [ including the calcifying forms ( n = 10 ) ] , pancreatic cancer ( n = 22 ) , or nonpancreatic diseases ( n = 17 ) , no significant differences were found . in contrast , increased concentrations were found in serum samples from patients with chronic ( 39/66 ) and acute pancreatitis ( 16/20 ) compared with control patients . the differences between these diagnostic groups and controls were highly significant ( p less than 0.0001 ) and independent of pancreatic enzyme activity . immunochemical analyses of serum pancreatic stone protein showed an isoelectric point ( ph 9 ) similar to that reported for the pancreatic thread protein . with respect to recent communications , these data do not support the etiopathogenic role postulated for pancreatic stone protein in chronic pancreatitis and chronic calcifying pancreatitis by other investigators . 
piezoelectric lithotripsy : stone disintegration and follow-up results in patients with symptomatic gallbladder stones . one hundred symptomatic patients with radiolucent gallbladder stones were treated with a new piezoelectric lithotripter and oral chemolitholytic agents . stone disintegration was achieved in 99 of these patients ( 99 % ) with a mean ( + / - sd ) maximum fragment size of 5.1 + / - 4.1 mm . significant differences were found when the mean ( + / - sd ) fragment sizes of single stones less than or equal to 20 mm ( 4.2 + / - 2.5 mm ) were compared with those of single stones greater than 20 mm ( 5.8 + / - 3.4 mm ; p less than 0.05 ) and multiple stones ( 6.2 + / - 3.8 mm ; p less than 0.05 ) , respectively . none of the patients required anesthesia , analgesics , or sedatives before or during the treatment . the stone-free rates for all patients followed up for up to 4-12 months ( mean + / - sd , 10.7 + / - 2.9 months ) were 18 % ( 1 month ) , 25 % ( 2 months ) , 38 % ( 4 months ) , 52 % ( 8 months ) , and 67 % ( 12 months ) . partly significant differences were obtained in stone-free rates for single stones ( less than or equal to 20 mm ) compared with larger stones ( greater than 20 mm ) and multiple stones ( p less than 0.05 ) , respectively . serious adverse reactions ( i.e. , cholestasis and pancreatitis ) were observed in only 3 patients ( 3 % ) . these conditions were induced by fragment impaction in the common bile duct . in 2 of these patients , endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with endoscopic sphincterotomy was required . it is concluded that piezoelectrically generated shock waves are suitable for the effective and safe disintegration of gallbladder stones in humans . the anesthesia-free and analgesia-free shock-wave application opens up the possibility to perform biliary lithotripsy as an outpatient procedure . the stone-free rate achieved in combination with oral bile acids is most promising for single stones ( less than or equal to 20 mm ) . 
the effects of synthetic human secretin on calcium carbonate solubility in human bile this study sought to determine the effects of synthetic human secretin on ionized calcium and carbonate concentrations in human hepatic bile . five patients with a nasobiliary drain in the right hepatic duct were studied . three basal samples of bile were collected , each over a 15-minute period . synthetic human secretin was then infused iv at 0.05 micrograms.kg-1 . h-1 for 45 minutes followed by 0.5 micrograms.kg-1 . h-1 for 45 minutes . bile was sampled over 15-minute periods . to document return to baseline conditions , two further samples of bile were obtained over 15-minute periods 2 hours after the infusion was terminated . bile acid concentration was determined by an enzymatic method ; ph and pco2 were measured with an automated analyzer . total calcium was determined by inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry and ionized calcium by an ion-specific electrode . bicarbonate and carbonate concentrations were calculated using henry 's law and the henderson-hasselbalch equation . the fraction of bile sampled by the catheter was determined by indocyanin green recovery at the end of the experiment . secretin caused an increase in bile flow and bicarbonate output . bicarbonate concentrations increased from 26 + / - 3 mmol/l to 41 + / - 3 mmol/l ( p less than 0.05 ) , and chloride concentrations decreased . mean bile acid concentrations declined significantly from 14.6 + / - 2 mmol/l to 4.7 + / - 1 mmol/l ( p less than 0.05 ) . ionized calcium concentrations decreased from 0.7 + / - 0.005 mmol/l to 0.5 + / - 0.02 mmol/l ( p less than 0.05 ) while ph increased significantly from 7.44 + / - 0.06 to 7.6 + / - 0.04 ( p less than 0.05 ) . carbonate concentrations increased significantly from 0.15 + / - 0.02 mmol/l to 0.26 + / - 0.03 mmol/l , and the ion product for calcium carbonate increased significantly from 0.099 + / - 0.002 ( mmol/l ) 2 to 0.135 + / - 0.015 ( mmol/l ) 2 ( p less than 0.05 ) . synthetic human secretin augments the ion product of calcium and carbonate in human hepatic bile , increasing the tendency for calcium carbonate precipitation . 
in vivo assessment of shock-wave pressures . implication for biliary lithotripsy . during extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy , the pressure profile , which is generated by the lithotriptor , determines the risk of tissue damage . in the present study , the pressure distribution of a lithotriptor ( lithostar ; siemens a.g. , erlangen , federal republic of germany ) was investigated in 10 pigs , five of which had gallstones surgically implanted into the gallbladder . the in vivo values were compared with in vitro data . measurements were carried out along the shock-wave transmission path at the focus within the gallbladder , the adjacent liver , the diaphragmatic surface of the right lung , and the shock-wave exit site from the skin . interposition of ribs did not cause a significant decrease in focal positive pressure . however , a gallstone positioned in the focus caused a 30 % -65 % reduction in pressure , recorded immediately behind the stone . pressures obtained in vivo were always 15 % -25 % lower than those measured in vitro . the spatial distributions of the positive pressure in vivo and in vitro were almost identical . there was a high correlation between the pressures in vitro and in vivo ( r = 0.88 ; p less than or equal to 0.01 ) . this justifies assessment of shock-wave energies generated during biliary lithotripsy by extrapolation of in vitro data . it is concluded that it is possible to characterize different lithotriptors by in vitro pressure profile measurements . 
endoscopic retrograde brush cytology . a new technique . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography has been shown to be a very valuable adjunct in the diagnosis of malignancy involving the biliary and/or pancreatic ductal system . however , characteristic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography radiographic findings associated with malignant strictures are frequently not specific and cytological confirmation becomes essential for the diagnosis . unfortunately , the current overall diagnostic yield of positive cytology in such circumstances ranges from 18 % -56 % depending on the technique . a new brush device has been designed which is uniquely adapted to pancreaticobiliary strictures of varying anatomical configurations . this study shows results using this new cytology brush in a series of 53 patients with pancreaticobiliary malignancy . a significant improvement in the cytological yield of tumor confirmation was obtained with a diagnostic sensitivity of 70 % and specificity of 100 % using the new brush technique . 
bile duct emptying in response to fat : a validation study . fatty meal sonography has been suggested to assess patients with biliary pain after cholecystectomy , but the effects of gallbladder removal on biliary dynamics has not been studied prospectively . before elective cholecystectomy , 25 patients had their common hepatic ducts ' diameter measured by ultrasonography before and after a fat stimulus . in 23 , tests were repeated 1 month , 1 year , and 5 years after surgery . in preoperative studies , 5 patients showed dilatation after fat and 2 of these had stones in the common bile duct . however , another 4 patients with stones or sludge in the duct did not show dilatation , so that the response to fat was a poor indicator of patients requiring common bile duct exploration . no patient had major symptoms after surgery . at 1 month and 12 months , the response to fat was variable with more than half of those tested showing no decrease in duct size . a more consistent pattern emerged at 5 years , when 14 of 18 patients tested showed a decrease in common hepatic duct after fat ; 3 were unchanged and 1 increased by 1 mm . the response to fat was less consistent and more difficult to measure in the common bile duct , even 5 years after operation . it was concluded that not all patients with indications for exploration of the common bile duct on operative cholangiography show a dilatation response to fat on preoperative testing . also , fatty meal sonography should be used with caution because the response to fat in asymptomatic patients soon after operation is unpredictable , with occasional patients showing dilation without apparent obstruction . measurement of common hepatic duct is preferred to common bile duct and increases in diameter of 1 mm are probably not significant . 
pemoline-associated hepatic injury . among 100 cases of hepatic injury attributed to the administration of pemoline , 43 had sufficient accompanying information to permit analysis . all but two patients were less than 20 years old , and 80 % were less than 12 years old . males predominated the study . injury appeared as early as 1 week or as late as greater than 1 year of taking the drug . the injury was uniformly hepatocellular as judged by the high values for aminotransferases and by death in massive necrosis in one patient . mechanism was judged to be idiosyncratic , and the idiosyncrasy was probably metabolic rather than immunologic . 
endosonography of peri-anal and peri-colorectal fistula and/or abscess in crohn 's disease . transcolorectal endosonography ( es ) was performed in 36 patients with crohn 's disease suspected clinically to have a fistula or abscess . a hypoechoic or anechoic duct-like lesion immediately adjacent to the anorectal lumen compatible with a fistula was found in 32 patients . a communication between the fistulous tract and adjacent structures such as the skin , anal canal , or vagina was detected in all 32 patients . an anechoic cavity adjacent to or communicating with the fistula was visualized in 29 of the 36 patients . a fistula was visualized in the remaining seven patients with no evidence of an abscess . this anechoic cavity compatible with an abscess was surgically confirmed in 14 of 17 patients . we judged the extent and configuration of the abnormalities to be more clearly visualized by es when results were compared with fistulography in five patients . there were no es complications , and we conclude that es is the preferred diagnostic procedure in patients with peri-rectal pathology because of the low risk of bacterial dissemination and low incidence of patient discomfort . utilizing es after non-surgical treatment was successful in 19 patients for documentation of the response to therapy . 
mechanical lithotripsy of common duct stones . over the past 8 years we have utilized various types of mechanical lithotriptors to crush common bile duct stones . the procedure was performed in 93 patients with an overall success rate of 94 % . however , because many accessories were in a developmental stage , entrapment of stones was not always possible on the first attempt , and the procedure was repeated in some patients a second or third time . during the interim , while awaiting another attempt at lithotripsy , cholangitis was prevented by leaving a prosthesis in place . a variety of lithotriptor models from different manufacturers have proven effective . we recommend that endoscopists use these devices to rid the bile duct of retained stones . 
endoscopic palliative intubation of the esophagus invaded by lung cancer . thirty-two patients with esophageal involvement by lung cancer were managed by endoscopic intubation . in 22 patients with extrinsic esophageal strictures , the success rate of intubation was 91 % , and 82 % were discharged with their dysphagia relieved and esophageal patency restored . the mean survival rate was 4.4 months . in 10 patients with esophago-bronchial fistulas , 3 had the fistulous tract obliterated and lived a mean of 5 months . this low success rate of closing fistulas is due to failure to seal off the space between the stent and the fistula because of absence of tumor-associated stenosis . the overall morbidity rate was 28.1 % ( 18.8 % perforation , 6.3 % hemorrhage , and 3.1 % tracheal obstruction ) . the overall mortality rate was 18.8 % . although complications were more frequent than in primary esophageal tumors , endoscopic intubation was the only way to palliate this desperate condition and provided 66.6 % of patients with relief of symptoms , nutritional improvement , and a mean survival time of 4.5 months . 
endoscopic cholangiopancreatography in hepatic clonorchiasis -- a follow-up study . cholangiographic changes of the biliary system in 16 patients with proven hepatic clonorchiasis , diagnosed by positive stool or bile ova isolates , were studied . all patients presented with epigastric pain . other symptoms included jaundice in 31 % ( 5 of 16 ) and fever in 12.5 % ( 2 of 16 ) . praziquantel given at 25 mg/kg for three doses in 1 day were administered . three consecutive stool tests were performed 3 months after treatment and were negative in 87.5 % ( 14 of 16 ) . ercp studies were repeated at a mean interval of 31.6 months ( range , 8 to 69 months ) . measurements of the bile ducts on retrograde cholangiograms before and after treatment were compared using the paired student 's t test . filling defects and blunting of the terminal bile ducts seen on the initial cholangiogram , interpreted as the presence of adult worms , disappeared after treatment . however , there was no significant change between pre - and post-treatment measurement of bile duct caliber . bile duct dilation , irregularities , and ductal proliferation persisted despite eradication of the parasite . 
the role of ercp in children and adolescents . the diagnostic and therapeutic role of ercp in 42 patients ranging from 1 to 19 years of age is discussed . ercp provided useful additional information in 15 patients with biliary tract disease , 15 patients with pancreatic disease , and 9 patients with abdominal pain . the appropriate duct was cannulated in 95 % of cases . mild pancreatitis occurred in two patients after ercp . endoscopic papillotomy was successful in five patients . ercp plays an important part in the investigation of unexplained biliary tract and pancreatic disease . it rarely demonstrates abnormal pathology in patients with otherwise unexplained abdominal pain . 
can clinicians accurately assess esophageal dilation without fluoroscopy ? this study questioned whether clinicians could determine the success of esophageal dilation accurately without the aid of fluoroscopy . twenty patients were enrolled with the diagnosis of distal esophageal stenosis , including benign peptic stricture ( 17 ) , schatski 's ring ( 2 ) , and squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus ( 1 ) . dilation attempts using only maloney dilators were monitored fluoroscopically by the principle investigator , the physician and patient being unaware of the findings . physicians then predicted whether or not their dilations were successful , and they examined various features to determine their usefulness in predicting successful dilation . they were able to predict successful dilation accurately in 97 % of the cases studied ; however , their predictions of unsuccessful dilation were correct only 60 % of the time . features helpful in predicting passage included easy passage of the dilator ( 98 % ) and the patient feeling the dilator in the stomach ( 95 % ) . excessive resistance suggesting unsuccessful passage was an unreliable feature and was often due to the dilator curling in the stomach . when maloney dilators are used to dilate simple distal strictures , if the physician predicts successful passage , he is reliably accurate without the use of fluoroscopy ; however , if unsuccessful passage is suspected , fluoroscopy must be used for confirmation . 
endoscopic appearance and significance of functional lymphangiectasia of the duodenal mucosa . intestinal lymphangiectasia is found in a wide variety of pathologic conditions . functional lymphangiectasia has not been well characterized . we report 20 patients followed for 9 to 55 months ( mean 30 months ) after incidental detection at endoscopy of lymphangiectasia . our study indicates that functional lymphangiectasia is not pathologic and does not warrant repeat endoscopy in the absence of other clinical indications . 
circulating antibodies against human colonic extract enriched with a 40 kda protein in patients with ulcerative colitis . we have previously described a 40 kda colonic protein ( s ) which is specifically recognised by tissue-bound immunoglobulin g obtained from the colon of patients with ulcerative colitis . we now report the presence of circulating antibodies against this antigen using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with a highly enriched preparation of the 40 kda protein from normal colon extracts . serum was collected from 79 patients with ulcerative colitis , 36 with crohn 's disease , 16 with specific diarrhoeal syndromes , and from 19 normal subjects . twenty nine of 79 patients with ulcerative colitis , 21 of 36 with crohn 's disease , and all patients with diarrhoea were symptomatic during the collection of sera . the difference in optical density values between patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis and each of the other groups , including patients with ulcerative colitis in remission , was highly significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . seventy nine per cent of patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis had optical density values above the means for all other groups . fifty five per cent of sera from patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis had optical densities beyond two sds of the values for all other groups and only two of 71 sera from non-ulcerative colitis patients ( one crohn 's disease and one normal subject ) had values in this range . these results show the presence of anti-colon antibodies against the 40 kda protein ( s ) in the sera of many patients with symptomatic ulcerative colitis . 
effect of ulcerative colitis and smoking on rectal blood flow . rectal blood flow was measured by laser doppler flowmetry over 60 minutes in eight patients with colitis in remission and eight healthy male non-smokers . ten smokers were also examined on two occasions , one of which included smoking a cigarette . plasma nicotine concentrations were measured in smokers . all subjects showed a pronounced fall in rectal blood flow in the first 30 minutes and patients with colitis had significantly higher values compared with smokers ( p less than 0.002 ; p less than 0.04 ) and non-smokers ( p less than 0.007 ; p less than 0.002 ) during the first and second 30 minutes respectively . values in smokers and non-smokers were similar , but smoking a cigarette was associated with a significant fall in blood flow ( p less than 0.04 ) and this change was inversely related to the rise in plasma nicotine concentration ( r = -0.63 ; p less than 0.05 ) . the findings may be relevant to the association between colitis and the smoking history . 
daytime reduction of gastro-oesophageal reflux after healing of oesophagitis and its value as an indicator of favourable response to maintenance treatment . in order to investigate the response of gastro-oesophageal reflux after medically induced healing of oesophagitis and its relation to the occurrence of relapse during prophylactic treatment , 20 patients with erosive/ulcerative oesophagitis underwent 24 hour oesophageal ph monitoring before and after healing achieved with 12 to 24 week treatment with ranitidine 150 or 300 mg twice daily . compared with pretreatment values , after macroscopic healing , a significant reduction in daytime median percentage of reflux time ( 10.0 v 6.5 ; p less than 0.05 ) and median number of reflux episodes lasting more than 5 minutes ( 5-5 v 1.0 ; p less than 0.05 ) were observed , whereas during night time reflux frequency and severity did not change . during maintenance treatment with ranitidine 150 or 300 mg nocte , five of the six patients , who had shown no improvement in gastro-oesophageal reflux after acute healing , relapsed . these results suggest that , in contrast with previous work , a decrease in gastro-oesophageal reflux in patients with reflux oesophagitis can be achieved after macroscopic healing , and that the occurrence of such a reduction after acute healing is predictive of a good response to longterm treatment . 
inhibition of cell mediated cytotoxicity by sulphasalazine : effect of in vivo treatment with 5-aminosalicylic acid and sulphasalazine on in vitro natural killer cell activity . decreased cell mediated cytotoxicity occurs frequently in inflammatory bowel disease , particularly in patients with active disease . it is not clear , however , whether this decrease is caused by the disease or is a consequence of the medical treatment . in this study we evaluated the effect of in vivo treatment with 5-aminosalicylic acid and sulphasalazine on the in vitro natural killer cell activity in five patients with inflammatory bowel disease in remission and in four healthy control subjects in a double blind randomised crossover trial preceded and separated by four weeks of treatment with placebo . the natural killer cell activity was significantly impaired in 67 % ( six of nine subjects ) after four weeks ' sulphasalazine treatment and tended to be related to subjects with a slow acetylator phenotype . in contrast , 5-aminosalicylic acid treatment caused only a marginal reaction in the natural killer cell activity in 22 % ( two of nine subjects ) . the inhibitory effects were found to be reversible since the decreased natural killer cell activity was completely restored after placebo treatment in all subjects . in conclusion , in vivo treatment with sulphasalazine inhibits the in vitro natural killer cell activity and this seems to be mediated by the sulphapyridine moiety . this phenomenon may contribute to the low natural killer cell activity found in patients with active inflammatory bowel disease . 
soluble interleukin-2 receptor in crohn 's disease : relation of serum concentrations to disease activity . serum concentrations of soluble interleukin-2 receptor ( sil-2r ) were measured as a marker of immune activation in a group of 30 patients with crohn 's disease . sil-2r concentrations were determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay during periods of active and inactive disease and correlated with standard parameters of disease activity . serum concentrations of sil-2r were significantly raised in patients with active crohn 's disease compared with patients with inactive disease ( p less than 0.001 ) and control subjects . there was a significant correlation between serum sil-2r concentrations and disease activity as assessed by the harvey-bradshaw index ( r = 0.42 , p less than 0.01 ) , platelet numbers ( r = 0.49 , p less than 0.01 ) , and orosomucoid ( r = 0.47 , p less than 0.01 ) , alpha 1 antitrypsin ( r = 0.44 , p less than 0.01 ) , and c reactive protein concentrations ( r = 0.48 , p less than 0.001 ) but not with the erythrocyte sedimentation rate . measurement of serum sil-2r concentration is a simple and useful laboratory means of assessing disease activity . raised concentrations in patients with active crohn 's disease is further evidence for in vivo immune activation occurring in this disease . 
occupational distribution of inflammatory bowel disease among german employees . previous reports have shown that both crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis affect people in white collar occupations associated with higher income and higher social class more frequently than other groups in the population . this study sought to carry these analyses one step further and investigate the distribution of inflammatory bowel disease by individual occupations . the german social security statistics for ' rehabilitation ' were used to assess the occupational distribution of crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis . from 1982 to 1988 , a total of 12,014 people were granted rehabilitation as a result of inflammatory bowel disease . low male prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease was found among bricklayers , road construction workers , unskilled workers in brick and stone , unskilled labourers , and security personnel . low rates were found among women employed in cleaning and maintenance , and in those without occupation . in contrast , a high male prevalence was found among instrument makers , electricians , bakers , and technical assistants . among female employees , inflammatory bowel disease was significantly associated with sales representatives , office workers , health occupations , and hairdressers . these associations were found in the complete data for 1982-8 as well as in the separate data for the two half periods 1982-5 and 1986-8 . highly significant correlations between the occupational distribution of crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis were found among both male and female employees . it seems that occupations involving work in the open air and physical exercise are protective , while being exposed to air conditioned artificial working conditions or extended and irregular shift working confer a risk of contracting inflammatory bowel disease . 
low diacylglycerol values in colonic adenomas and colorectal cancer . the biochemical events that make colonic epithelial cells proceed along the adenoma-carcinoma sequence are not well understood . the phosphoinositol signal transduction pathway is involved in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation . to determine its role in colonic neoplasias we performed mass measurements of its second messenger sn-1 ,2 - diacylglycerol in biopsy specimens from normal mucosa and neoplasias of the colon . normal colonic mucosa was also investigated in patients without colonic abnormalities ( n = 10 ) . compared with pooled diacylglycerol values from five colonic sites ( 100 % ) , values in patients with a normal colon were highest in the ascending colon ( 120 ( 5 ) % , p less than 0.05 ) and lowest in the rectum ( 81 ( 5 ) % , p less than 0.01 ) . absolute diacylglycerol values in patients with normal colons ( 2.62 ( 0.16 ) nmol/mg protein ) were not significantly different from those found in the normal mucosa of patients with colorectal neoplasias ( 2.45 ( 0.17 ) nmol/mg protein ) . both colonic adenomas ( n = 15 ) and colorectal carcinomas ( n = 14 ) showed significantly decreased diacylglycerol values compared with the adjacent normal mucosa of each patient ( 72 ( 4 ) % , p less than 0.001 , and 71 ( 4 ) % , p less than 0.001 respectively ) . the appreciable decrease in mass diacylglycerol values clearly distinguishes adenomas and carcinomas of the colon from the surrounding normal mucosa . this finding suggests that profound metabolic changes of the phosphoinositol signal transduction pathway occur early in the adenoma-carcinoma sequence and may be important in colonic carcinogenesis . 
use of the pudendo-anal reflex in the treatment of neurogenic faecal incontinence . an electrical stimulator has been devised to treat neurogenic faecal incontinence caused by pudendal nerve neuropathy and works on the basis of repeated stimulation of the pudendo-anal reflex arc . although conduction in the pudendo-anal reflex arc may be prolonged , and is so in neurogenic faecal incontinence , it must be shown to be present before the method can be used . this stimulation results in an immediate rise in the pressure in the anal canal and a significant increase in the electromyographic activity of the external anal sphincter . maintenance of the stimulus over a two month period raised the mean resting pressure significantly in the anal canal and increased the reflex and voluntary responses of the external anal sphincter to coughing and squeezing actions respectively . the length of the sphincter was not affected . there was widening of the mean motor unit potential duration , though this was not significant . the resting electromyogram was enhanced after the course of treatment , indicating greater spontaneous activity in the external sphincter . the changes led to seven of the eight patients studied becoming continent at the end of the treatment . 
relation between rectal sensation and anal function in normal subjects and patients with faecal incontinence . the relation between sensory perception of rapid balloon distension of the rectum and the motor responses of the rectum and external and internal anal sphincters in 27 normal subjects and 16 patients with faecal incontinence who had impaired rectal sensation but normal sphincter pressures was studied . in both patients and normal subjects , the onset and duration of rectal sensation correlated closely with the external anal sphincter electrical activity ( r = 0.8 , p less than 0.0001 ) and with rectal contraction ( r = 0.51 , p less than 0.001 ) , but not with internal sphincter relaxation . all normal subjects perceived a rectal sensation within one second of rapid inflation of a rectal balloon with volumes of 20 ml or less air . six patients did not perceive any rectal sensation until 60 ml had been introduced , while in the remaining nine patients the sensation was delayed by at least two seconds . internal sphincter relaxation occurred before the sensation was perceived in three of 27 normal subjects and 11 of 16 patients ( p less than 0.001 ) , and could be associated with anal leakage , which stopped as soon as sensation was perceived . the lowest rectal volumes required to induce anal relaxation , to cause sustained relaxation , or to elicit sensations of a desire to defecate or pain were similar in patients and normal subjects . in conclusion , these results show the close association between rectal sensation and external anal sphincter contraction , and show that faecal incontinence may occur as a result of delayed or absent external anal sphincter contraction when the internal anal sphincter is relaxed . 
inter - and intraindividual variation in pressure-volume relations of the rectum in normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome . the relation between intrarectal volume and pressure during increasing rectal distension by a latex balloon were studied on repeated occasions in 10 healthy adult volunteers to define variations within and between individuals . a wide intersubject variation in the maximum tolerable volume ( 58-908 ml ) and pressure ( 12.2-108 .8 cm h2o ) at this end point was seen , and these two values were correlated ( r = 0.78 ) . intrasubject variation in maximum tolerable volume also occurred which was related to study order and progressively reduced with repeated study . in 26 unselected patients with pain predominant irritable bowel syndrome similar intersubject variation was noted and virtually all patients data fell within the calculated 95 % confidence limits of the normal individuals . differentiation between patients and normal subjects was not possible from knowledge of rectal responses . these noticeable inter - and intrasubject variations in rectal responses to distension need to be considered whenever similar techniques are proposed for use in the study of rectal disease or of rectal response to treatment . 
referral of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis for liver transplantation . all patients with primary biliary cirrhosis referred to this unit for consideration for transplantation between april 1981 and january 1989 were analysed retrospectively to assess whether disease stage at referral affects the outcome after grafting and whether greater awareness of the benefits of the procedure means that patients are now being referred at an earlier stage . seventy of the 107 patients have been grafted , with an overall one year actuarial survival of 62 % . a better prognosis at the time of referral , as assessed by both serum bilirubin concentration and a mathematically derived prognostic index , was associated with a greater probability of survival after grafting . patients in the tertile with the best prognosis ( median serum bilirubin concentration at referral 84 mumol/l and estimated survival in the absence of transplantation of more than nine months ) had a 78 % one year actuarial survival after transplantation , whereas those in the tertile with the worst prognosis ( median serum bilirubin concentration 467 mumol/l and estimated survival of less than four months ) had a one year actuarial survival of only 50 % . no trend towards earlier referral of patients , however , was shown using either of these two markers . this retrospective analysis suggests that many patients are being referred too late for an optimal outcome . we recommend that patients with primary biliary cirrhosis who are potential candidates for liver grafting should be referred to a transplant centre before the serum bilirubin concentration approaches 150 mumol/l . 
pancreatic duct abnormalities in gall stone disease : an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatographic study . this study was carried out to assess pancreatic duct abnormalities in gall stone disease . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatograms of 50 patients with gall stone disease were analysed and the results compared with those obtained in 33 patients investigated for cholestatic jaundice who were found to have a normal biliary tree ( control group ) . abnormal pancreatograms were obtained in 24 ( 48 % ) patients with gall stone disease and in only two ( 6 % ) in the control group ; the differences were statistically significant ( chi 2 = 14.3 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the patients in the control group showed mild abnormalities as did those in the gall stone group . the frequency of various abnormalities were : mild 16 ( 32 % ) , moderate five ( 10 % ) , and severe three ( 6 % ) . pancreatic duct abnormalities were more severe and occurred more frequently in patients with gall stones who had stones in the biliary tree than in patients with a normal biliary tree ( postcholecystectomy patients , 55 % v 25 % ) but the difference between the two groups just failed to be significant ( chi 2 = 3.34 ) . in conclusion , nearly half of all patients with gall stone disease have pancreatic duct abnormalities and in 16 % these were severe enough to be labelled as chronic pancreatitis . 
pancreatic function in crohn 's disease . we investigated exocrine pancreatic function in a population of patients with crohn 's disease in order to correlate the pancreatic function with clinical and laboratory variables . a total of 143 patients affected by crohn 's disease and 115 control subjects were studied . all had a lundh meal test . as a group patients with crohn 's disease had significantly decreased activity of both amylase ( p less than 0.02 ) and lipase ( p less than 0.001 ) in duodenal aspirates . in patients with crohn 's disease enzyme activities were not correlated to duration of disease or to extent or localisation of previous bowel resection . the lowest enzyme values were found in patients with the most extensive bowel involvement , and they were significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) than in patients with disease confined to the terminal ileum . the differences between enzyme values in other subgroups of patients were not significant . for the patient group as a whole no correlation was found between disease activity and enzyme values , but for the most uniform group of patients , those with terminal ileitis , pancreatic function was significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) in patients with moderate and severe disease compared with patients with mild disease . thus at least two factors seem to be responsible for impaired pancreatic function in crohn 's disease : firstly disease activity and secondly localisation or extent of disease . 
loss of duodenal folds allows diagnosis of unsuspected coeliac disease . we report three patients with coeliac disease who presented without the classic features of malabsorption and who underwent biopsy and were diagnosed only because of the endoscopic finding of the disappearance of kerckring 's folds in the descending duodenum . this sign constitutes a new and valid aid for the identification of patients with otherwise unsuspected coeliac disease . 
adult hepatic fibropolycystic disease presenting as obstructive jaundice . obstructive jaundice caused by compression of the common hepatic duct by a simple hepatic cyst in a 31 year old europid man is reported . the jaundice and duct compression resolved after percutaneous aspiration of the cyst under ultrasound direction and the patient has been well for 12 months . 
evaluation of the magnitude of gastro-oesophageal reflux in barrett 's oesophagus . a manometric study to determine the role of gastro-oesophageal reflux in barrett 's oesophagus was performed on 20 patients with barrett 's oesophagus and 53 patients with reflux oesophagitis without barrett 's oesophagus ( 25 with mild oesophagitis and 28 with severe oesophagitis ) . for the same reason , the 20 patients with barrett 's oesophagus also underwent 24 hour continuous oesophageal ph monitoring , and the results obtained were compared with those of 20 oesophagitis patients without barrett 's oesophagus ( 10 with mild oesophagitis and 10 with severe oesophagitis ) . the manometric results show that the motor changes found in the barrett 's group are specific but similar to the motor dysfunction associated with reflux oesophagitis . motor anomalies are probably related more to the inflammatory process in the oesophageal wall than to the metaplastic changes themselves . the ph monitoring results show that while reflux in the barrett 's oesophagus patients was greater overall than in the oesophagitis group without barrett 's oesophagus , the changes are similar when the results are compared with the severe oesophagitis group . in conclusion there are other factors besides gastro-oesophageal reflux involved in the pathogenesis of barrett 's oesophagus . 
comparison of omeprazole and cimetidine in reflux oesophagitis : symptomatic , endoscopic , and histological evaluations . symptomatic patients with endoscopically verified reflux oesophagitis were randomised to a double blind trial in which they received either omeprazole ( 20 mg once daily ) or cimetidine ( 400 mg four times daily ) for four , and if necessary , eight weeks . in an ' intention to treat ' analysis , oesophagitis was found to have healed after four weeks in 77 of 137 ( 56 % ) in the omeprazole group and in 34 of 133 ( 26 % ) in the cimetidine group ( p less than 0.001 ) . by eight weeks these values were 71 % and 35 % respectively ; p less than 0.001 . histological assessments were available for 73 % of the patients . at entry , 63 % ( 66 of 104 ) in the omeprazole group and 60 % ( 56 of 94 ) in the cimetidine group ( ns ) had abnormal histology . after the study , the proportions of patients who initially had had abnormal histology but who then progressed to normal were 67 % ( 44 of 66 : omeprazole ) and 48 % ( 27 of 56 : cimetidine ) respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) . all patients had reflux symptoms at entry . after four weeks , 46 % in the omeprazole group and 22 % ( p less than 0.001 ) in the cimetidine group were asymptomatic . diary cards completed for the first two weeks showed that patients treated with omeprazole experienced fewer reflux symptoms by day and night and used fewer antacids . omeprazole , 20 mg once a day for four to eight weeks , healed a greater proportion of patients with reflux oesophagitis than cimetidine , 1.6 g per day , assessed endoscopically and histologically , and relieved more patients ' symptoms . 
reduction of gastric ulcer recurrence after suppression of helicobacter pylori by cefixime . the effect on the recurrence of gastric ulcers after suppression of helicobacter pylori by combined treatment with cimetidine and the antimicrobial drug cefixime was investigated . twenty one of 43 patients with endoscopically proved gastric ulcer and h pylori infection were randomly assigned to receive cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks ; the remaining 22 patients received cimetidine 800 mg daily for 12 weeks plus cefixime 100 mg daily for the last two weeks . after treatment , 88 % of 17 patients on cimetidine only remained h pylori positive , whereas combined administration of cimetidine and cefixime had suppressed h pylori in 78 % of 18 patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . seventeen patients in the former group whose ulcers healed but who remained h pylori positive and 18 patients in the latter group whose ulcers healed and who were no longer infected with h pylori continued to be followed after treatment . these patients underwent endoscopy to detect ulcer recurrence if symptomatic , or at 12 and 24 weeks if asymptomatic . at 12 weeks , recurrence was observed in seven of 15 ( 47 % ) patients in whom h pylori persisted , but in only one of 14 ( 7 % ) patients in whom h pylori had been suppressed ( p less than 0.05 ) . at 24 weeks , however , recurrence rates were similar between the two groups . these findings indicate that h pylori infection may be closely related to early ulcer recurrence . 
high grade dysplasia of the gastric mucosa : a marker for gastric carcinoma . the natural history of gastric epithelial dysplasia and its relation to gastric cancer are ill defined . a consecutive series of 40 patients with an initial diagnosis of gastric epithelial dysplasia based on examination of endoscopic biopsies has been reviewed to determine the clinical outcome and to evaluate a two tier histological grading system as a predictor of the risk of cancer . on review , only 20 of the 40 patients were considered to have true dysplasia : seven patients had low grade dysplasia and 13 had high grade dysplasia . of the 13 patients with high grade dysplasia , 11 ( 85 % ) were found to have gastric cancer within 15 months . of the 10 patients with high grade dysplasia who underwent gastrectomy , six were found to have early gastric cancer , three had cancer invading into the muscularis propria , and none had lymph node metastases . high grade dysplasia is thus a marker of gastric cancer . moreover , the cancers associated with high grade dysplasia are usually pathologically favourable and curable . the finding , by an experienced pathologist , of high grade dysplasia in two separate sets of endoscopic biopsies is therefore an indication for radical surgical treatment , provided that the patient 's age and general condition permit such an approach . 
towards a true prevalence of peptic ulcer : the sorreisa gastrointestinal disorder study . this study , designed to overcome methodological problems inherent in earlier prevalence studies of peptic ulcer , was carried out in a municipality in northern norway . it included the total population of 2027 , aged 20-69 years , and comprised a questionnaire and search for previously diagnosed peptic ulcers in the local medical records for all subjects , and additional endoscopy of all subjects with dyspepsia and their matched healthy controls ( n = 619 ) . the overall prevalence was 10.5 % in men and 9.5 % in women , a sex ratio close to one and a higher duodenal : gastric ratio than previously reported from this region . a substantial 1 % prevalence of asymptomatic ulcers was also observed . 
duodenal ulcer and refined carbohydrate intake : a case-control study assessing dietary fibre and refined sugar intake an association between duodenal ulceration and a low fibre intake and a high refined carbohydrate diet has been reported . we therefore compared the current diet , smoking habits , social class , and possible other risk factors of 78 patients with duodenal ulcer and a community control group matched for age and sex . logistic regression for matched sets was used to calculate the relative risks for successive quintiles of dietary fibre and sugar intake before and after adjustment for total calorie intake and for the possible confounding effect of other known risk factors . relative risks did not differ materially or consistently for total dietary fibre or for the cereal moiety whether adjusted or not for calorie intake . by contrast , relative risks tended to be reduced with high vegetable fibre intake and with low refined sugar intake . after controlling for smoking and social class , both of which were associated with ulcer disease , and for relative weight ( quetelet 's index ) , the relation between ulcer disease and low refined sugar intake persisted , while that with high vegetable fibre intake was reduced . the results of this study indicate that a lack of cereal or total fibre intake plays no part in duodenal ulcer development but that a low refined sugar intake may be a protective factor . 
duodenal ulcer is associated with low dietary linoleic acid intake . it has been suggested that the falling incidence and virulence of duodenal ulcer is related to increased dietary polyunsaturated essential fatty acid intake . the adipose fatty acid profile , which closely reflects dietary intake , was measured in 35 men with chronic duodenal ulcer and 35 matched control men . the mean percentage of linoleic acid in adipose tissue was significantly lower in the ulcer group ( 10.0 ( 0.7 ) v 12.3 ( 0.7 ) % , p less than 0.01 ) and this difference was found in both smokers and non-smokers . this finding suggests that the diets of duodenal ulcer patients are deficient in linoleic acid and this could be of aetiological importance . 
adjuvant antibiotic therapy in duodenal ulcers treated with colloidal bismuth subcitrate . persistence of helicobacter pylori after duodenal ulcer healing is associated with high rates of ulcer relapse . we compared colloidal bismuth subcitrate alone with cbs combined with one of four antibiotic regimens in the treatment of duodenal ulcers . endoscopy and antral biopsies were performed before treatment and four weeks afterwards . biopsy specimens were examined for histological evidence of gastritis and by gram stain and culture for h pylori infection . altogether 141 patients were allocated to one of five treatment groups . giving cbs and metronidazole ( 400 mg tid for 7 days ) with and without amoxycillin ( 500 mg tid ) achieved higher clearance rates of h pylori than treatment with cbs alone ( p less than 0.01 ) . these two combinations also achieved higher rates of antral gastritis healing than cbs alone ( p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05 respectively ) . susceptibility to metronidazole was tested in 29 isolates before and in seven isolates after treatment with metronidazole by disc diffusion test and minimum inhibitory concentration assay . twenty seven ( 93 % ) of the isolates were sensitive before treatment while six of seven ( 86 % ) were resistant afterwards . four of the six resistant strains had acquired resistance during treatment and one of these had acquired metronidazole resistance despite concomitant treatment with amoxycillin , to which it remained sensitive . cbs with adjuvant metronidazole at a dose of 400 mg tid for seven days significantly improves the eradication of h pylori compared with cbs alone . acquired metronidazole resistance , however , seems to be an important cause of failure to eradicate h pylori . 
biliary cholesterol transport and precipitation : introduction and overview of conference . cholesterol is secreted into bile as cholesterol-phospholipid vesicles . the cholesterol and phospholipid are subsequently exposed to the bile salts contained in the bile , which leads to the process of micellation . two situations may arise depending on whether there is enough bile salt in proportion to cholesterol to complete this " maturation " process . if the cholesterol saturation is low , at equilibrium the bile salts will have completely micellized the vesicles . on the other hand , if bile is saturated with cholesterol , the micellation process is incomplete and vesicles and micelles will be present at equilibrium . the residual vesicle in this latter situation may have a higher cholesterol/phospholipid ratio because of the greater propensity of phospholipid to be micellized . this situation may result in cholesterol nucleation . the mechanism of nucleation from vesicles and the possible role of nucleating and antinucleating proteins in this process have been discussed . 
bile sampling , processing and analysis in clinical studies . obtaining a proper bile sample for investigative purposes is of utmost importance to obtain valid results . bile can be collected by direct aspiration of the gallbladder , by duodenal intubation or by t-tube drainage . the optimal method of collection depends on the investigative question , as well as on the resources available to the investigator . the procedures for obtaining , processing and analyzing human bile ( gallbladder and hepatic ) are summarized , pointing out the disadvantages and pitfalls that may occur . 
gallbladder mucin as a pronucleating agent for cholesterol monohydrate crystals in bile . mucin is a densely glycosylated macromolecule secreted by the gallbladder epithelium as the principal constituent of gallbladder mucus . hypersecretion of gallbladder mucus occurs in response to a lithogenic diet in experimental animals , and mucus accumulates as a viscous gel within the gallbladder lumen before gallstone formation . in both animals and man , the initial stage of cholesterol gallstone formation , the nucleation of cholesterol monohydrate crystals , occurs within the mucus gel . inhibition of mucus secretion with aspirin prevents gallstone formation in the cholesterol-fed prairie dog , indicating the importance of mucus in gallstone formation . mucin contains domains that bind cholesterol and lecithin transported as vesicles in supersaturated bile . furthermore , mucin accelerates the nucleation of cholesterol crystals in both supersaturated model and native biles . binding of cholesterol-enriched vesicles to hydrophobic domains on the mucin protein core appears to be critical for the acceleration of cholesterol crystal nucleation by mucin . further study of the structure and function of gallbladder mucin should help to elucidate the pathogenesis of cholesterol cholelithiasis . 
nonmucous glycoproteins as pronucleating agents . cholesterol crystallization-promoting factors probably play an important role in the pathogenesis of gallstone disease . we have isolated one of the factors involved by using lectin-affinity chromatography . a potent promoting activity binds to concanavalin a-sepharose . the activity is heat labile and sensitive to digestion by glycosidase but remarkably insensitive to proteases . the concanavalin a-binding pronucleator affects cholesterol solubilization in model bile in two ways . it induces a shift of cholesterol and phospholipid from the micellar to the vesicular phase but also interacts directly with cholesterol-phospholipid vesicles . the concanavalin a-binding protein fraction contains at least two different promoting factors with gel permeation molecular weights of about 150 kd and 5 kd , respectively . the higher molecular weight activity could be assigned to a protein with an apparent molecular weight of 130 kd . concanavalin a-binding-promoting activity was present in bile from both patients with and without stones , indicating that it is a normal constituent of bile . however , the activity was strongly increased in bile from patients with multiple cholesterol gallstones , suggesting that it could play a key role in gallstone formation in these patients . 
pathogenesis of biliary sludge . the increasing application of ultrasonography in biliary tract disease had led to more frequent recognition of an old disorder -- " biliary sludge . " sludge is detected on ultrasound as low-amplitude echoes without acoustic shadowing . it layers in the most dependent part of the gallbladder and shifts with positioning . particulate matter in bile , such as cholesterol monohydrate crystals , has been shown to be echogenic . agglomeration of these crystals in biles with high mucus content accounts for the layering and the characteristic appearance of the movement of sludge with alteration in patient position . within the gallbladder , the stability of the vesicular form of cholesterol and protein-lipid interactions are important determinants of cholesterol precipitation . in mixed and pigment gallstones , the equilibrium between ionized and unionized calcium and the hydrolysis of conjugated bilirubin are also important factors . although the risk factors contributing to the formation of gallbladder sludge have not been critically examined , it is now known that in some instances sludge can produce biliary pain and can be associated with acalculous cholecystitis , recurrent pancreatitis and , ultimately , the formation of gallstones . a better appreciation of the pathogenesis of sludge formation can help in the understanding of the genesis of gallstones and also perhaps in understanding other documented but poorly understood biliary and pancreatic disorders . 
biliary calcium and gallstone formation . the purpose of this paper is to present a brief overview of the current status of the field of biliary calcium and the role of calcium in the formation and maturation of gallstones . the study of free ca + ( + ) ions in bile by electrochemical potentiometric measurements using ca + ( + ) - selective ion-exchange electrodes is a relatively new field , but much progress has been made in the past few years . using this powerful analytical tool , new concepts and findings have arisen in almost every aspect of biliary calcium . although the current symposium is targeted primarily toward cholesterol gallstones , there are several areas in which understanding of biliary calcium may significantly contribute to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of cholesterol , as well as " pigment " ( calcium salt ) , gallstones . five broad areas are considered in relation to biliary calcium : ( a ) physiology ( calcium entry into bile ) , ( b ) biophysics ( the regulation of biliary free [ ca + ( + ) ] as related to gibbs-donnan equilibria , ( c ) physical chemistry ( the physicochemical state of calcium in bile , ( d ) thermodynamics ( calcium solubility in bile ) , and ( e ) kinetics ( pronucleating and antinucleating factors and metastable states ) . with more specific reference to cholesterol stones , consideration is also made of ( a ) the calcium salt " seed " hypothesis in cholesterol stone pathogenesis ; ( b ) the interactions of ca + ( + ) with phospholipid-cholesterol vesicles , with consideration of possible structural requirements and ( c ) thermodynamic and kinetic factors as related to peripheral or " eggshell " calcification of existing cholesterol stones . 
unconjugated bilirubin and cholesterol gallstone formation . cholesterol gallstones usually have small amounts of pigment at their centers and often have diffuse pigmentation or pigmented layers alternating with cholesterol layers and/or pigmented rims associated with calcium carbonate ( eggshell calcification ) . the pigments are primarily monomeric calcium salts of unconjugated bilirubin anions and/or an insoluble , black , network polymer of tetrapyrroles . bilirubin presumably can precipitate only if bile is supersaturated with calcium bilirubinates . among various in vitro model systems , the aqueous solubilities and pk ' a values for unconjugated bilirubin differ greatly . it is therefore not known whether normal bile is saturated with unconjugated bilirubin . however , all systems indicate that unconjugated bilirubin is solubilized by binding to bile salt monomers and oligomers , as well as micelles ; marked metastable supersaturation of unconjugated bilirubin can occur in the presence of bile salt micelles , and both pk ' a values of unconjugated bilirubin are greater than 6.0 , probably because of internal hydrogen-bonding of the -- cooh groups . lecithin decreases equilibrium solubilization of unconjugated bilirubin crystals but enhances metastable supersaturation of unconjugated bilirubin . calcium ions form insoluble salts with unconjugated bilirubin monoanions and dianions but soluble complexes with bilirubin conjugates . the solubility products of the calcium bilirubinate salts suggest that normal hepatic bile is not saturated with cab or ca ( hb ) 2 but that gallbladder bile may be supersaturated with ca ( hb ) 2 . 
current concepts of cholesterol transport and crystal formation in human bile . the presence of vesicles in human bile probably accounts almost entirely for the frequently observed , but hitherto unexplained , phenomenon of metastable cholesterol supersaturation . this , in turn , largely explains the prolonged stability of cholesterol solubilized in supersaturated human bile . under certain overall compositional conditions for a supersaturated native bile , the vesicular phase in its contribution to total cholesterol transport also becomes supersaturated in cholesterol . because of this , the vesicles also become unstable , leading to formation of cholesterol crystals . a simple but common example of one factor affecting composition in this way is concentration of total solutes , especially the biliary lipids . conversely , dilution of bile ( e.g. , hepatic bile ) markedly reduces the cholesterol saturation level in biliary vesicles . the result is that such vesicles become much more stable . under these conditions , cholesterol crystal formation becomes unlikely and rarely , if ever , occurs . 
fluorescence assays to monitor membrane fusion : potential application in biliary lipid secretion and vesicle interactions . membrane fusion constitutes an essential , intermediate step in numerous cell biological processes , occurring for example during endocytosis , membrane recycling and exocytosis . also less desirable events such as the infection of cells by animal viruses are mediated by membrane fusion during which the viral envelope merges with a cellular membrane , causing the expulsion of the viral nucleocapsid into the cytoplasm of the cell as an initial step in virus replication . much of our current knowledge concerning the mechanism of membrane fusion has been derived from studies using simple artificial membranes , such as liposomes or phospholipid vesicles , as model systems . a most essential feature of these studies has been the development of membrane fusion assays that register in a sensitive and continuous fashion the mixing of membranes or the aqueous volumes initially enclosed by these membranes . not only do these assays allow one to readily detect and quantify fusion , but they also provide the possibility to relate the kinetics of fusion to the rate by which certain molecular changes in membranes take place . obviously , this insight is of relevance for understanding the mechanism of membrane fusion . the principles and applications of some representative assays that rely on the use of fluorescence spectroscopy will be discussed . assays that monitor membrane mixing are commonly based on the detection of changes in resonance energy transfer efficiency or the relief of fluorescence self-quenching of appropriate fluorescent lipid analogs . contents mixing assays rely on either the formation of a ( aqueous-soluble ) fluorescent complex or quenching of a fluorophore , encapsulated in one vesicle population , by a suitable quencher , entrapped in a second population . 
hbv-dna detection by gene amplification in acute hepatitis b. serum samples from 62 women , inadvertently infected with hepatitis b virus in an in vitro fertilization program , were tested for the presence of hepatitis b virus-dna using the polymerase chain reaction . under conditions of a strict spatial separation of dna extraction , amplification and product analysis , we succeeded in detection of as few as 360 hepatitis b virus particles per milliliter . hepatitis b virus-dna was detected with a high frequency during hbsag and hbeag antigenemia ( 98.5 % ) but also in the convalescent phase after appearance of antibody to hbsag ( 18.2 % ) . however , all patients with hepatitis b virus-dna in convalescent sera were hepatitis b virus-dna negative 3 to 6 mo later . all patients with hbeag-positive samples showed hepatitis b virus-dna positivity by polymerase chain reaction . for acute hepatitis , gene amplification restores the relationship between hbeag and hepatitis b virus-dna observed in serum from chronic hepatitis b patients and calls attention to the prolonged presence of hepatitis b virus-dna in serum after generally accepted criteria for resolution of the infection have been reached . 
changes of serum hepatitis b virus dna and aminotransferase levels during the course of chronic hepatitis b virus infection in children . during a follow-up period of 3.2 + / - 1.6 ( 1 to 8.6 ) yr , 1,087 serum specimens from 230 hbsag carrier children were tested for hepatitis b virus markers . dividing the serum specimens into four groups according to the status of hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna , the frequency of abnormally elevated alt levels in serum was in the following order : hbeag ( + ) / hepatitis b virus dna ( - ) serum ( 60 % ) , hbeag ( - ) / hepatitis b virus dna ( + ) serum ( 53 % ) , hbeag ( + ) / hepatitis b virus dna ( + ) serum ( 41 % ) , hbeag ( - ) / hepatitis b virus dna ( - ) serum ( 11 % ) . analysis of the data before hbeag clearance showed that both a high serum alt level and a low serum hepatitis b virus dna level correlated with an imminent clearance of hbeag . approximately two thirds of children with serum alt levels higher than 100 iu/l cleared hbeag within the following year . clearance of hbeag occurred within the following year in 65 % ( 13 of 20 ) of cases with serum hepatitis b virus dna level less than or equal to 1,000 pg/ml , in contrast to 19 % ( 30 of 157 ) of those with serum hepatitis b virus dna level greater than 1,000 pg/ml . among 53 children who lost hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna during follow-up , only nine cases did not have an identified period of abnormal serum alt levels . for the remaining 44 children , abnormal serum alt levels fell to normal with clearance of both hbeag and hepatitis b virus dna in 33 children but remained elevated in the remaining 11 cases after seroconversion . 
prospective study of early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with cirrhosis . we prospectively monitored 140 cirrhotic patients for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma for 6 yr , using periodical screening by high-resolution convex-array ultrasonography and alpha-fetoprotein . twenty-eight patients were positive for hbs antigen , 26 patients had received blood transfusions and were negative for hbs antigen and 26 patients had a history of heavy drinking . we detected hepatocellular carcinoma in 40 patients during this period . the overall cumulative incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in the 6 yr was 39 % ; the cumulative incidence was 59 % in patients with hbsag , 53 % in patients who had had blood transfusions and were negative for hbsag and 22 % in patients who had a history of heavy drinking and who were without hbsag . detection of the carcinoma in 85 % of these 40 patients was based on results of ultrasonography . twenty-six of the patients ( 65 % ) had a small hepatocellular carcinoma of 2 cm or less . alpha-fetoprotein levels were lower than 100 ng/ml in 56 % of these 40 patients . patients with cirrhosis are at high risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma , especially patients with hbsag or with a history of blood transfusion who are negative for hbsag . periodic monitoring by use of ultrasonography in particular is recommended for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma . 
the auditory p300 event-related potential : an objective marker of the encephalopathy of chronic liver disease . recently many variants of electroencephalogram-evoked responses have been studied as potential diagnostic aids in the detection and evaluation of hepatic encephalopathy . this study assesses the value of the auditory p300 event-related potential -- a slow component of the auditory evoked response -- as a tool in this field . twenty-one nonencephalopathic and 12 encephalopathic ( grade 1/2 ) cirrhotic patients and 26 controls were assessed clinically and psychometrically . electroencephalogram spectral analysis and visual evoked response recordings were also conducted . an auditory p300 wave was elicited using the standard two-tone discrimination paradigm . the latency and amplitude of this wave were measured . the latency of the p300 was found to be significantly increased in the encephalopathic patients compared with both nonencephalopathic cirrhotic and control groups ( p less than 0.05 ) . amplitude of the wave was decreased in both nonencephalopathic and encephalopathic patients , but this was not statistically significant . this study suggests that the latency of the p300 is a good marker of grades 1 and 2 clinical hepatic encephalopathy . the delays in the p300 latency may indicate that encephalopathic patients have a deterioration of their stimulus evaluation abilities . 
monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites : a variant of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is diagnosed when ( a ) the ascitic fluid culture is positive , ( b ) the ascitic fluid neutrophil count is greater than or equal to 250 cells/mm3 and ( c ) there is no evident intraabdominal surgically treatable source for infection . few details are available regarding the variant of ascitic fluid infection in which the culture grows bacteria ( pure growth of a single type of organism ) , but the neutrophil count is less than 250 cells/mm3 . in this prospective study of 138 episodes of culture-positive spontaneously infected ascites detected in 105 patients , 44 ( 31.9 % ) were episodes of " monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites " compared with 94 ( 68.1 % ) episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . seventeen patients had both types of infection . the infection-related mortality and hospitalization mortality were similar between the two groups . patients with bacterascites appeared to have less severe liver disease . in 62 % of bacterascites episodes in which a second paracentesis was performed before any treatment the fluid spontaneously became sterile without development of ascitic fluid neutrocytosis . thirty-eight percent of patients with bacterascites ( who underwent a second paracentesis before treatment was started ) progressed to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis -- sometimes within a few hours . the concentration of the chemoattractant c5a was not decreased in the ascitic fluid of the bacterascites patients ; this excludes ascitic fluid c5a deficiency as the explanation of the lack of neutrocytosis . monomicrobial nonneutrocytic bacterascites is a common variant of ascitic fluid infection that may resolve without treatment or may progress to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . 
norfloxacin prevents spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence in cirrhosis : results of a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . eighty cirrhotic patients who had recovered from an episode of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis were included in a multicenter , double-blind trial aimed at comparing long-term norfloxacin administration ( 400 mg/day ; 40 patients ) vs. placebo ( 40 patients ) in the prevention of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence . at entry , both groups were similar with respect to clinical and laboratory data , ascitic fluid protein and polymorphonuclear concentrations , number of previous episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and causative organisms of the index spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . norfloxacin administration produced a selective intestinal decontamination ( elimination of aerobic gram-negative bacilli from the fecal flora without significant changes in other microorganisms ) throughout the study in six patients in whom the effect of norfloxacin on the fecal flora was periodically assessed . fourteen patients from the placebo group ( 35 % ) and five from the norfloxacin group ( 12 % ) developed spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence during follow-up ( chi 2 = 5.97 ; p = 0.014 ) ( mean follow-up period = 6.4 + / - 0.6 mo ; range = 1 to 19 mo ) . ten of the 14 spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the placebo group and only one of the five spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrences in the norfloxacin group were caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli ( chi 2 = 8.87 ; p = 0.0029 ) . the overall probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence at 1 yr of follow-up was 20 % in the norfloxacin group and 68 % in the placebo group ( p = 0.0063 ) and the probability of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis recurrence caused by aerobic gram-negative bacilli at 1 yr of follow-up was 3 % and 60 % , respectively ( p = 0.0013 ) . 
relative frequencies of portosystemic pathways and renal shunt formation through the " posterior " gastric vein : portographic study in 460 patients . percutaneous transhepatic portography was carried out in 460 patients with portal hypertension to study various collateral routes . besides the left gastric vein , which was the most frequent collateral route and feeder of esophageal varices , a distinct vein located between the left gastric vein and the short gastric vein constituted a major collateral route in 191 patients ( 42 % ) . in terms of frequency , this vein was more significant than the short gastric ( 34 % ) and the paraumbilical vein ( 24 % ) as a collateral route . we propose that this previously anonymous vein be called the " posterior gastric " vein because it runs posterior to the stomach . this vein also formed a renal shunt , a common cause of encephalopathy , in 43 ( 23 % ) of the 191 patients ; the relative frequency of renal shunt formation by this vein was significantly greater than that by the left gastric vein ( 12 % ) and the short gastric vein ( 18 % ) . 
albumin absorption and protein secretion by the gallbladder in man and in the pig . to study albumin absorption by the gallbladder in man , an in vitro model was first established in the pig and compared with in vivo function in the same species . water and electrolyte transport and 125i-albumin absorption and protein secretion in vivo and in vitro were compared . then similar in vitro studies were performed on human gallbladders obtained at surgery . the in vivo study in the pig was performed without disturbing the gallbladder except to tie a cannula in the cystic duct end . the in vitro model was identical in the pig and human gallbladders . gallbladders were excised using a technique causing minimal injury and anoxia . they were oxygenated on both mucosal and serosal surfaces in a temperature-controlled environment . luminal and external bath test solutions consisted of modified ringers bicarbonate with added glucose ; luminal solutions also contained 125i-albumin from different species , depending on the study . active absorption of sodium and water occurred in both types of studies in the pig but in vivo absorption rates were considerably greater than in vitro rates . albumin absorption in vivo was substantial ; although present in vitro , the absorption of albumin was diminished relatively more than electrolyte transport rates . protein secretion rates into the gallbladder were similar in vitro and in vivo . the results of studies in the human gallbladders in vitro were similar to the pig , except albumin absorption was greater . some human gallbladders were obtained from control patients and some from patients with cholesterol gallstones . there were no significant differences between the two groups for any of the variables studied ; however , the numbers were small and some control gallbladders were not normal gallbladders . 
diagnostic value of brush cytology in the diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma : a study in 65 patients with bile duct strictures . malignant strictures of the extrahepatic bile ducts are difficult to distinguish from benign strictures , particularly in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis . because attempts at diagnosing small cancers with fine-needle aspiration biopsy are not possible in the absence of an associated mass lesion and because the sensitivity of exfoliative biliary cytology is controversial , brush cytology has been used as a potential means of establishing a specific diagnosis of bile duct carcinoma . herein we report our experience with this technique when performed on 65 patients over a 5-yr period . each had at least one brushing . thirty-seven were found to have bile duct carcinoma and 28 were found to have benign strictures . of these 37 , the first brushing was positive for malignancy in 15 ( 40 % ) , whereas four ( 11 % ) had cells suspected but not diagnostic of malignancy . thirteen patients with bile duct carcinoma whose initial brushings were negative for malignancy had second brushings . of these , five ( 38 % ) had malignant cells , whereas three ( 24 % ) yielded suspicious cells . three of the eight whose first two brushings were negative for malignancy were found to have malignant cells on the third brushing . in contrast , of the 28 patients with benign strictures , malignant cells were never found . however , in two patients , suspicious cells were reported with the first but not the second brushing . a single negative or suspicious cytological finding decreased the probability of bile duct carcinoma to 43 % . two and three sequential negative tests reduced the probability to 32 % and 0 % , respectively . 
immunohistochemical detection of abnormal cell proliferation in colonic mucosa of subjects with polyps . previous studies have shown the presence of increased proliferation in the large bowel epithelium of those at high risk of developing colon cancer . an in vitro technique for labelling large bowel mucosa with the thymidine analogue bromodeoxyuridine ( brdu ) was therefore developed and its ability to distinguish differences in mucosal proliferation between subjects with colorectal adenomas and normal controls was assessed . sigmoid biopsy specimens from 15 subjects with polyps and 15 age and sex matched controls were labelled and the incorporated brdu visualised with an immunohistochemical technique . mean labelling index ( li ) was significantly higher in those with polyps than in controls . differences in the pattern of labelling in colonic crypts were compared by the generation of cumulative labelling distributions . analysis showed a significant expansion of the proliferative compartment in the colon crypts of those with polyps . it is concluded that in vitro labelling with brdu provides a useful method for the assessment of mucosal proliferation in subjects at high risk of developing colon cancer . 
serum pepsinogen i and gastrin concentrations in children positive for helicobacter pylori . serum pepsinogen i , serum gastrin concentration , and inflammatory scores were measured in a population of 71 children undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for investigation of upper abdominal pain . forty four were initially colonised with helicobacter pylori . the indices were measured before treatment ( in 71 children ) , one month ( in 41 children ) , and six months ( in 21 children ) after stopping treatment . before treatment there was a significant correlation between serum pepsinogen concentration , total inflammatory score , and h pylori state , but no correlation between serum gastrin concentrations and h pylori state . similarly , the total inflammatory score and serum pepsinogen concentrations were significantly correlated . there was no such correlation in children negative for h pylori . after treatment the inflammatory score improved in those patients in whom h pylori had been eradicated . there was also a significant fall in serum pepsinogen i and serum gastrin concentration in those patients in whom h pylori had been eradicated . these results were similar to those found six months after treatment had been stopped . these findings suggest that the serum pepsinogen i concentration could be considered a useful marker for gastritis and can be used as an index of severity of gastritis in h pylori positive subjects . the measurement of serum gastrin concentrations does not give useful information . 
photochemotherapy improves chronic cutaneous graft-versus-host disease . we have used oral psoralen photochemotherapy ( puva ) to treat four patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease of the skin , oral mucosa , and liver , who had responded only partially to long-term immunosuppressive therapy ( prednisolone , cyclosporine , azathioprine ) . puva therapy was delivered to the entire skin but not to the oral mucosa , and immunosuppressive therapy was continued in all patients . two patients ' skin lesions improved considerably ; the oral lesions healed and did not recur in one . immunosuppressive therapy could be reduced in these two patients . one patient with sicca signs did not improve . one patient had to interrupt puva therapy because of side effects attributed to 8-methoxypsoralen ( nausea and vomiting ) . no flare of acute cutaneous graft-versus-host disease was noted during puva therapy . chronic graft-versus-host disease of the liver did not improve in any patient . 
imidazole salicylate versus piroxicam in the treatment of arthrosis in elderly patients . a double-blind clinical and endoscopic trial . the clinical efficacy and gastroduodenal tolerability of imidazole salicylate ( imidazole 2-hydroxybenzoate , itf 182 ) , a new synthetic drug with an anti-inflammatory action , was evaluated endoscopically in comparison with those of piroxicam in elderly patients suffering from osteoarthrosis . of the 41 patients entering the trial , only 38 completed the protocol ( 6 men and 32 women ; mean age , 71 ; range , 65-80 years ) . after upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for the purpose of excluding gastric and duodenal mucosal lesions , the patients were allocated at random , according to a double-blind , double-dummy protocol , to treatment either with imidazole salicylate 750 mg three times daily or with piroxicam 20 mg once daily for a period of 4 weeks . imidazole salicylate proved active in controlling a number of the pain symptoms caused by arthrosis , although its efficacy was inferior to that of piroxicam . grade 2 gastric mucosal lesions were detected in 1 of 20 patients ( 5 % ) treated with imidazole salicylate ; lesions corresponding to grades 2 , 3 , and 4 were found in 6 of 18 ( 33 % ) of those treated with piroxicam ( p = .034 ) . painful dyspepsia was reported by 15 % of the patients in the imidazole salicylate group and by 28 % of those in the piroxicam group . on the basis of these results and under the experimental conditions adopted in this trial , the authors concluded that imidazole salicylate is characterized by good gastric tolerability and can thus be used in the treatment of rheumatic diseases in the elderly . 
alternation of gastric mucosal glycoprotein ( lectin-binding pattern ) in gastric mucosa in stress . a light and electron microscopic study . gastric mucosal cells of the rat glandular stomach were studied by light and electron microscopic procedures by use of lectins in the development of acute gastric mucosal lesions . effects of the h2-receptor antagonist sofalcone ( 2 ' carboxymethoxy-4 ,4 ' - bis 3-methyl-2 ) and truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty on lectin binding sites and distribution were also investigated . biotinylated lectins in combination with abc ( avidin-biotinyl peroxidase complex ) method were used for light and horseradish peroxidase ( hrp ) - labeled lectins for electron microscopic studies . gastric mucosal cells showed the specific binding pattern for each lectin by light microscopy . especially , binding sites and distribution of peanut agglutinin ( pna ) were characteristic after induction of stress , truncal vagotomy , and administration of each drug . staining and distribution increased in the gastric mucosa upward and downward after that . in electron microscopic studies , pna strongly stained the membranes of the intracellular secretory canaliculi of a parietal cell . these results suggested that alternation of binding sites and distribution was regulated by change of gastric mucosal blood flow and of acidity in the parietal cells . therefore , increase of glycoconjugate distribution is supposed to be a possibility of cytoprotective effect for a change of environment in the parietal cells . 
generation of ammonia and mucosal lesion formation following hydrolysis of urea by urease in the rat stomach . we examined the morphological changes in gastric mucosa and the generation of ammonia after exposure of the rat stomach to urea in the presence of urease , in attempts to investigate a pathophysiological role of urea , urease , and ammonia system in gastric ulcer diseases . exposure of the stomach for 20 min to 2 ml urea ( 0.025-0 .2 % ) together with urease ( 100 iu ) induced histological damages in a concentration-related manner . either urea or urease alone did not induce any histological change in the mucosa . instillation of urea into the stomach generated ammonia in the presence of urease ; the amount of ammonia was increased depending on the concentration of urea , and was closely associated with the severity of histological damage . the exposure of the stomach to ammonia ( nh4oh : 0.01-0 .1 % ) also produced histological damages in the gastric mucosa in a concentration-related manner . the characteristics of injury induced by 0.5-1 .0 % ammonia were stasis of microcirculation , disruption of the surface epithelial cells , and necrosis of the mucosa . these results demonstrated that ammonia generated from the hydrolysis of urea by urease in the stomach causes damages in the gastric mucosa . 
possible role of leukotrienes in gastritis associated with campylobacter pylori . this study was done to evaluate the role of leukotrienes ( lts ) in gastritis associated with campylobacter pylori . biopsy specimens of gastric mucosa were obtained endoscopically from 18 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia for bacteriological and histological examination and extraction of lts . there was correlation between the ltb4 level in the mucosa and the degree of gastritis evaluated histologically . the level was higher when infiltration of neutrophils in the gastric mucosa was more extensive . the ltb4 level in mucosa infected with c. pylori was higher than that in noninfected mucosa . these findings suggest that endogenous lts may be related to the pathogenesis of gastritis associated with c. pylori . 
" healed " experimental gastric ulcers remain histologically and ultrastructurally abnormal . the present study was designed to assess histologic and ultrastructural features of gastric mucosa in the areas of grossly healed ulcers ( acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers ) in rats . the specific question we studied was whether the structure and cellular composition of the gastric mucosa in an area of grossly healed ulcer were fully restored . eighty sprague-dawley rats underwent laparotomy ; 100 % acetic acid was applied to the lower gastric corpus serosa for 30 s and the abdomen was closed . the stomachs were reopened after 2 weeks or after 2 , 3 , or 4 months . standardized gastric wall specimens from the area of grossly healed ulcers were obtained , processed , and evaluated by light microscopy and by transmission electron microscopy . the gastric mucosa of grossly healed ulcers demonstrated re-epithelialization at each study time but the mucosa beneath the surface epithelium displayed prominent histologic and ultrastructural abnormalities . two different patterns of scar could be distinguished : ( a ) the mucosa in the area of healed ulcer was thinner ( 25-45 % reduction vs. normal ) , with increased connective tissue and poor differentiation and/or degenerative changes in the glandular cells ; or ( b ) the mucosa displayed ballooning dilatation of gastric glands , reduction in the microvascular network , and poor differentiation of glandular cells . we conclude that ( i ) the subepithelial mucosa of grossly healed gastric ulcer displays disorganized restoration of glandular and vascular structures and remains histologically and ultrastructurally abnormal ; ( ii ) these abnormalities may interfere with oxygenation , nutrient supply , and with mucosal resistance and defense , and therefore could be the basis for ulcer recurrence . 
vascular and microvascular changes -- key factors in the development of acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers in rats . the present study examined the time sequence and histologic and ultrastructural features of the formation and evolution of experimental , acetic acid-induced gastric ulcerations in rats . one hundred percent acetic acid was applied to the gastric serosa of 140 fasted male sprague-dawley rats through a polyethylene tube for 30 s. gastric mucosal changes were evaluated at 1 , 5 , 15 , and 30 min , 1 and 3 h , and 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 8 , and 11 days after acetic acid application by visual inspection , by quantitative and qualitative light microscopy , and by transmission electron microscopy . following exposure to acetic acid , the earliest morphologic changes occurred at 1 min and consisted of dilatation of large submucosal veins and arteries and mucosal collecting venules . five to 15 minutes after injury , thrombi developed in submucosal veins and collecting venules , leading to microvascular stasis and mucosal necrosis . by 3 h , necrotic masses started to detach . by 24-48 h , necrotic changes penetrated the submucosa . by 72 h , most ulcers underwent transition into a " chronic " stage characterized histologically by the presence of granulation tissue at the bottom , and the appearance of a transitional healing zone at the margins . by 5 days , an increased amount of granulation tissue was observed and the gastric glands in transitional zones at the ulcer margin displayed cystic dilatation . based on this study , we conclude that a key feature of acetic acid-induced ulcer formation is the early vascular and microvascular injury , which precedes glandular cell necrosis . 
further study of mucosal repair by sofalcone in experimental gastritis . the effect of sofalcone on the glandular structure and cell proliferation in the gastric mucosa of rats with gastritis induced by the administration of sodium taurocholate ( tca ) for 6 months was examined by histoquantitative analysis and [ 3h ] thymidine autoradiography . morphometric observation revealed that , with tca treatment , mucosal thickness , parietal cell mass , and the ratios of the length of the glandular portion/total length of the gastric gland were decreased in both the fundic and pyloric glands . inflammatory cell infiltration and collagenous fiber proliferation were present in the gastric mucosa following tca and indicated the presence of atrophic gastritis . these atrophic changes and inflammatory cell infiltration were reversed by a 3 week administration of sofalcone . cellular proliferative activity assessed by the labeling indices of the gastric mucosa increased in tca-induced gastritis in rats . the administration of sofalcone to rats with tca-induced gastritis significantly increased labeling indices , particularly in the pyloric glands . from these results , it appears that sofalcone stimulates the compensatory increase in proliferative activity of generative cells , which then may become available to heal the gastritis . 
effect of epidermal growth factor in combination with sucralfate or omeprazole on the healing of chronic gastric ulcers in the rat . epidermal growth factor ( egf ) has been shown to enhance healing of experimental gastric ulcers when given subcutaneously or orally in the drinking water . this effect of egf occurs without reducing gastric acid secretion . on the other hand , egf reportedly is excreted rapidly from gastric lumen when administered by intragastric bolus . this suggests that further stimulation of ulcer healing may be expected if egf is given with an acid-suppressive agent or with an agent allowing egf to remain in rat gastric lumen at high concentrations . in the present study , egf administered by gastric intubation at a dose of 10 micrograms/kg , which is three times smaller than reported in previous studies , was evaluated for its effect on acetic acid-induced rat gastric ulcers in combination with sucralfate or omeprazole . sucralfate is well known selectively to bind proteins covering the ulcer base , and omeprazole is a potent acid-suppressive agent . prior to the study of combined egf and sucralfate , oral sucralfate was confirmed to allow endogenous gastric egf and mouse egf given exogenously to remain at high concentrations in gastric contents and tissues . egf and sucralfate ( 2 g/kg/day ) given alone failed to stimulate ulcer healing in submandibularectomized rats ( smr rat ) whose endogenous gastric egf was depleted . however , the combination of both drugs administered at the same doses significantly accelerated ulcer healing in the smr rat . omeprazole ( 200 mg/kg/day ) significantly enhanced ulcer healing regardless of removal of the submandibular glands . the combination of egf and omeprazole further stimulated ulcer healing in the smr rat . 
fibronectin-related substance located in the chief cells of human and rat gastric mucosa . a novel substance located in the chief cells of human and rat gastric mucosa , which was detected immunologically by either polyclonal or monoclonal antihuman fibronectin ( fn ) antibodies , is reported . all three polyclonal antihuman fn antibodies used in this study reacted immunohistologically exclusively with the chief cells . monoclonal antibody against c-terminal peptide or cell binding peptide reacted clearly with the human chief cells , but monoclonal antibodies against fn n-terminal and midmolecule failed to react with the cells . western blot analysis of the rat gastric mucosal extract with polyclonal antihuman fn antibody showed that this substance has a molecular weight of about 70,000 da . therefore , this substance appears to be a fragment containing the c-terminal peptide of whole molecule fn and thus in the present study is named fn-related substance ( fnrs ) . in a further study with ethanol-induced ulcer model of the rat , the physiological significance of fnrs was examined . the fnrs decreased remarkably , in a dose-dependent manner , in the fundic mucosa of the rats that ingested ethanol . the fnrs appeared to be associated with development of mucosal damage and repair , subsequently playing , in part , an important role in the gastric mucosal protection mechanism . 
evidence for gastric mucosal cell invasion by c. pylori : an ultrastructural study . it is now generally accepted that campylobacter pylori is closely associated with peptic ulcer disease and chronic type b gastritis . whether c. pylori is the direct etiologic cause of either or both of these illnesses remains unclear . possible pathophysiologic effects of c. pylori are still a matter of debate and conjecture . utilizing a small group of patients with gastric ulcers and chronic gastritis , we examined the ultrastructural relationship between c. pylori and gastric cells . forty-eight percent of our gastric ulcer patients and 57 % of our chronic gastritis patients had c. pylori in their lower corpus mucosa . examination with the transmission electron microscope indicated a very close proximation by c. pylori to the surface epithelial cells strongly suggesting adherence . we also describe for the first time the invasion of gastric cells by c. pylori . although an uncommon occurrence , we had repeated observations of c. pylori invading surface epithelial cells , parietal cells , and chief cells . most of the intracellular c. pylori were intact but other forms appearing to be degenerating organisms were also seen . we suggest that cell invasion may be one mechanism by which c. pylori causes pathologic changes in the gastric mucosa . these observations may also explain why c. pylori chronically infects gastric cells and frequently recurs after treatment . 
pelvic pain : lessons from anatomy and physiology . pelvic pain is often a difficult differential diagnosis in the emergency department . for physiologic reasons , pain in the pelvis is difficult to localize to a specific organ , and pelvic peritonitis is hard to recognize . on the other hand , differences in types of pain can be very useful in arriving at a correct diagnosis . the clinician must learn to recognize superficial and deep somatic pain , and differentiate between various types of visceral pain which originate from inflammation , ischemia , or colic . a review of the anatomy and physiology of pelvic pain helps identify some of the problems as well as potential aids in approaching the patient with pelvic pain . 
biliary lithotripsy : in vitro analysis of gallstone fragmentation for equivalent stone volumes . the relationship between gallstone fragmentation during extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) and gallstone volume is poorly understood . clinical results of eswl show that the highest stone-free rate at 6 months occurs with radiolucent single gallstones 20 mm or less in diameter . in an in vitro study , individual gallstones from cholecystectomy specimens were divided by size and composition into nine single - and nine multiple-stone groups ; the stones were then paired on the basis of similar volume . eswl was performed in a phantom and the size of the largest fragment was measured at 500 , 1,000 , and 1,500 shock waves . at 1,500 shock waves , sandlike particles were present in six of nine single stones versus two of nine multiple stone groups ; the mean size of the largest fragment at 1,500 shock waves was 2.1 mm ( single ) and 4.4 mm ( multiple ) in diameter . when corrected for volume , the authors ' data suggest that single stones are more easily broken into fragments smaller than 5 mm in diameter than multiple gallstones . the implication , especially when spark-gap technology is used , is that more shock wave energy ( ie , an increased number of shock waves at a higher kilovoltage ) will be necessary to achieve the same results when treating patients with multiple stones versus a single gallstone with a similar stone volume . 
segmented turboflash : method for breath-hold mr imaging of the liver with flexible contrast . a method called segmented turboflash imaging allows high-resolution , multisection , short-inversion-time ( ti ) inversion-recovery ( stir ) , t1 - or t2-weighted magnetic resonance ( mr ) studies of the liver to be completed within a breath-hold interval . the method was applied in a phantom and in 19 patients with hepatic lesions . sequence comparisons were performed among segmented turboflash , single-shot turboflash , t1-weighted gradient-echo with ultrashort echo time , and t2-weighted spin-echo ( se ) techniques . signal from fat and liver could be nulled with the segmented turboflash method , with tis of 10 and 300 msec , respectively ; signal from these tissues could not be eliminated with the single-shot approach . signal-difference-to-noise ratios and contrast for the best segmented sequences were comparable with those of the best t2-weighted se and t1-weighted gradient-echo techniques . it is concluded that it is feasible to obtain breath-hold images with arbitrary tissue contrast by means of segmented turboflash imaging . the method may prove helpful for the detection and characterization of hepatic lesions and will likely have applications to other anatomic regions such as the chest and pelvis . 
intra-abdominal palpation of a nasogastric tube in the stomach does not assure appropriate placement . improperly placed nasogastric ( ng ) tubes have been associated with considerable morbidity . the only reliable indicator of correct ng tube placement appears to be the aspiration of gastric contents . we have reported a case of major morbidity from an improperly placed ng tube that perforated the cervical esophagus , dissected the mediastinum , and terminated in the omental bursa . no gastric aspirate was obtained by suctioning of the tube , but correct placement was presumed based upon the surgeon 's direct intraoperative palpation of the tip of the tube . failure to aspirate gastric contents should alert the practitioner to the possibility of improper ng tube placement . 
broad spectrum penicillin as an adequate therapy for acute cholangitis . in a previous study of patients with acute cholecystitis , we demonstrated equal efficacy with a broad spectrum penicillin ( piperacillin ) and a penicillin plus amino-glycoside combination . whether a single agent broad spectrum penicillin is adequate treatment for more severe infections , such as acute cholangitis , however , is still unclear . we , therefore , conducted a three center , prospective , randomized trial to determine whether or not a broad spectrum penicillin alone is adequate therapy for patients with acute cholangitis . during a 36 month period , 96 patients with sepsis and biliary obstruction were randomly assigned to receive either piperacillin ( n = 49 ) or ampicillin plus tobramycin ( n = 47 ) . the two groups receiving antibiotics were similar with respect to all clinical and laboratory parameters . the incidence of blood cultures with positive results ( 20 versus 21 per cent ) and underlying malignant lesions ( 51 versus 62 per cent ) was also similar between the two groups . the percentage of patients with a clinical cure or significant improvement was the same in the two groups ( 69 versus 70 per cent ) . however , there was a significant difference in the cure rate between patients with benign and malignant biliary obstructions ( 83 versus 59 per cent , p less than 0.01 ) . no significant differences were noted between the two antibiotic groups with respect to drug toxicity , but patients with malignant conditions were more prone to antibiotic related toxicities ( 2 versus 19 per cent , p less than 0.05 ) . these data suggest that outcome of treatment in patients with acute cholangitis is similar with either a broad spectrum penicillin or a penicillin plus aminoglycoside combination and is dependent upon the nature of the biliary obstruction . 
synchronous carcinoma of the colon and rectum . reports on the incidence of synchronous carcinoma of the colon and rectum have varied from 2 to 11 per cent . the variability is a result of a lack of uniformity in criteria of diagnosis , differences in the population studied and differences in time period used . in this study , we evaluated the incidence and distribution of synchronous lesions during a recent time period before the use of colonoscopy became widespread . we reviewed the records of all patients with newly diagnosed adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum who were operated upon at our institution between 1976 and 1981 . in a total group of 1,000 patients of which 52 per cent were men , there were 54 patients or 5.4 per cent who had synchronous carcinomas . the group of patients with synchronous carcinomas were older than the group with nonsynchronous carcinomas ( 72.4 versus 68.8 years ) . there was also a higher incidence of associated benign polyps in the group with synchronous carcinomas ( 70 versus 30 per cent for a nonsynchronous carcinomas ) . the anatomic distribution of carcinomas of the colon and rectum in the group with synchronous lesions ( 111 in total ) revealed a higher percentage of carcinomas located on the right side ( 29.7 versus 22.5 per cent ) , although the difference did not reach statistical significance . synchronous carcinomas were located in nonadjacent segments of the colon in 37 per cent . there was no difference in stage between the groups with and without synchronous carcinomas . the preoperative identification of synchronous lesions by either colonoscopy or barium enema is important for the proper treatment of patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum . failure to locate these tumors may lead to the demise of the patient . 
congenital dilatation of the bile duct in 100 instances and its relationship with anomalous junction [ published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 mar ; 172 ( 3 ) :246 ] congenital dilatation of the bile duct ( cdbd ) or choledochal cyst has been demonstrated to be associated with an anomalous junction of the pancreaticobiliary ductal system . multifarious clinical signs and symptoms of cdbd have been shown to be closely related with the presence of this anomalous junction . in the present study , 100 instances of cdbd treated surgically at our institutions during a 30 year period were classified into two types according to the morphologic features of dilatation of the bile duct ; there were 77 instances of the cystic type and 23 of the cylindric type . morphologic features of the lesion , clinical signs and symptoms and laboratory findings in these 100 instances were clinically analyzed . in almost all of the patients who were less than one year of age , the disease was of the cystic type and patients presented with either a palpable mass or jaundice as the main symptom . in patients more than one year of age , the disease was of either the cystic or cylindric type . a history of episodes of characteristic abdominal pain accompanied by elevated levels of serum amylase was present in 70 of the patients with the cystic type of disease and in all of the patients with the cylindric type . histologic sections from the patients showed glandular formation with chronic inflammation , possibly a result of refluxed activated pancreatic juice ; in contrast , histologic sections from the remaining patients of all ages showed only thickening of the fibrous layer . thus , such variable morphologic features and clinical signs and symptoms in cdbd are highly dependent on two factors -- the age at onset and the reflux of pancreatic juice into the bile duct through the common channel . 
a multifactorial analysis of mortality and morbidity in perforated peptic ulcer disease . perforated peptic ulcer disease remains a source of considerable morbidity and mortality , and the suggested methods of surgical therapy are diverse . we reviewed the course of 113 patients who were treated surgically and identified 14 factors that influenced the morbidity or mortality rates , or both . multiple regression analysis showed that the number of coexisting medical conditions , a lower mean blood pressure level and the duration of acute perforation were independent risk factors for death , while age , use of a bronchodilator , a lower mean blood pressure level and the number of coexisting medical conditions correlated positively with all complications . a duodenal site was independently favorable with respect to all complications . the type of operation performed either simple closure , vagotomy and drainage or resection , did not influence morbidity or mortality . the most severely ill patients also did not benefit from any particular type of operation in the short term . long term results were improved with definitive operation , as measured by the visick classification and the need for reoperations . definitive operations are recommended for virtually all patients with perforated peptic ulcer . 
surgical management of islet cell dysmaturation syndrome in young children . islet cell dysmaturation syndrome ( icds ) encompasses the causes of infantile hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia histologically described as islet cell hyperplasia , pancreatic adenomatosis and nesidioblastosis . eleven infants underwent 14 pancreatic resections for icds from 1965 to 1990 at the university of california at los angeles medical center for severe hypoglycemia unresponsive to medical therapy . seizures were the presenting symptoms of hypoglycemia in eight infants . six patients had nesidioblastosis , four had islet cell hyperplasia and one patient had an adenoma with histologically normal pancreatic islet cells . four neonates underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection ; three with nesidioblastosis required reoperation ( 90 to 95 per cent resection ) . four older infants underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection but required diazoxide for less than six months postoperatively . three infants underwent 90 to 95 per cent pancreatic resection . none have required reoperation or postoperative medications . all infants are normoglycemic without pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and none had postoperative complications . five infants had preoperative neurologic impairment , with three having severe retardation ; all showed some improvement postoperatively , but only one infant now has normal findings on neurologic examination . early diagnosis and aggressive surgical resection should minimize neurologic complications of the icds . 
ascending cholangitis : surgery versus endoscopic or percutaneous drainage . a retrospective review of 61 patients with calculous cholangitis was carried out . there were 31 men and 30 women and their mean age was 75.8 years . all patients had abdominal pain , 87 % had chills and fever , 65 % had clinical jaundice , 23 % were in shock , and 54 % had positive blood cultures . because intravenous hydration and antibiotics did not help , 33 patients underwent surgery , 25 patients underwent endoscopic papillotomy ( ep ) , and three patients underwent percutaneous transhepatic drainage of the common bile duct ( ptd ) . morbidity in the surgery group included two wound infections , one respiratory failure , and one renal failure . morbidity in the ep-ptd group was one case of arterial bleeding requiring surgery and one of pancreatitis treated conservatively . two patients ( 6 % ) died in the surgery group , one of sepsis and the other of cardiorespiratory arrest . in the ep-ptd group nine patients ( 32 % ) died of sepsis and multisystem organ failure . these patients were considered too ill to undergo surgery and thus repeat ep-ptd was carried out . cholangitis persisted , and retained common bile duct stones with sepsis was the cause of death . thus when initial ep or ptd is unsuccessful , surgical exploration of the common bile duct should be carried out to control sepsis . 
are cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy equivalent operations for pancreatic pseudocysts ? to compare the effectiveness of cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy for treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts , 39 patients with cystgastrostomy were compared to 59 patients with cystjejunostomy . the groups were comparable in age , sex , cause of pancreatitis , pseudocyst location , symptoms , and preoperative serum amylase level . cysts treated with cystgastrostomy were larger ( mean diameter , 11.1 + / - 0.9 cm ) than cysts treated by cystjejunostomy ( mean diameter , 6.7 + / - 0.7 cm ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . mean duration of surgery was 148 + / - 11 minutes for cystgastrostomy versus 265 + / - 15 minutes for cystjejunostomy ( p less than 0.05 ) . mean blood loss was 397 + / - 82 ml for cystgastrostomy versus 703 + / - 80 ml for cystjejunostomy ( p less than 0.05 ) mean intraoperative fluid requirements were 2640 + / - 313 ml for cystgastrostomy and 4403 + / - 362 ml for cystjejunostomy ( p less than 0.05 ) . cyst recurrence was 10 % for cystgastrostomy versus 7 % for cystgastrostomy . postoperative gastrointestinal bleeding occurred in 8 % of patients with cystgastrostomy and in 2 % of patients with cystjejunostomy . infection problems with cystjejunostomy included two wound infections and one case of septicemia ; infection problems with cystjejunostomy included five intraabdominal abscesses , two wound infections , and one case of pneumonia . two patients died with cystgastrostomy ( both from gastrointestinal bleeding ) ; two patients died with cystjejunostomy ( one from intraabdominal sepsis and one from pulmonary embolus ) . cystgastrostomy was used for significantly larger pseudocysts and was associated with significantly less blood loss and operating time than cystjejunostomy ( p less than 0.05 ) . morbidity and mortality from cystgastrostomy and cystjejunostomy were comparable , although gastrointestinal bleeding was more common with cystgastrostomy and intraabdominal abscess was more common with cystjejunostomy . since cystgastrostomy can usually be performed more quickly and with less blood loss , it should be considered whenever anatomically feasible . 
early results of combined electrohydraulic shock-wave lithotripsy and oral litholytic therapy of gallbladder stones at the university of iowa . one hundred thirty-three patients were entered into a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy for symptomatic gallstones versus extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy plus adjuvant litholytic therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid ( udca ) . six months after lithotripsy , patients receiving placebo were crossed over to udca therapy without unblinding the study . one hundred sixteen patients have completed 6 months of follow-up . five patients were dropped from the study . nine percent have required cholecystectomy ( 11 patients with biliary colic and 1 with acute cholecystitis ) . ninety-one patients had a solitary stone ( 64 patients had stones less than or equal to 20 mm and 27 patients had stones greater than 20 mm in diameter ) , and 25 patients had two to three stones . fifty percent were retreated . cumulative stone-free rates at 6 , 12 , and 18 months were 26 % , 39 % , and 41 % , respectively . at 6 months there was a significant advantage for patients treated with udca versus placebo ( 36 % vs 17 % were stone free ) that had disappeared by 12 months ( placebo-treated patients had received 6 months of udca ) . patients with solitary stones equal to or less than 20 mm in diameter treated with udca had stone-free rates at 6 , 12 , and 18 months of 58 % , 58 % , and 62 % , respectively , versus 27 % , 56 % , and 50 % . the difference was significant only at the 6 - month follow-up . stone-free rates for patients with large solitary stones and multiple stones were very low . extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy is both safe and effective therapy for treatment of symptomatic gallstones in patients with a solitary stone equal to or less than 20 mm in diameter . udca markedly improves the efficiency of the procedure and results in a stone-free gallbladder sooner . 
the diagnosis and definition of hepatic malignancies by use of arterial enhanced computerized tomographic scanning . axial computerized tomography is a useful tool in the evaluation of either primary or metastatic hepatic neoplasms . an adjunct to this technique is visceral arterial enhanced computerized tomography ( aect ) . to determine the effectiveness of this modality , bolus intravenous enhanced computerized tomography scans and aect were compared and correlated to operative findings . fifty-four consecutive patients were evaluated by aect and bolus intravenous enhanced computerized tomography over a 30-month period ( may 1986 to august 1989 ) for suspected primary or metastatic hepatic malignancies . forty-four patients ( 81 % ) had hepatic lesions . fifty-two percent ( 23 of 44 patients ) of the metastatic tumors were from colonic or rectal primary lesions , and 20 % were hepatocellular primary lesions . the remainder of the lesions were metastases from a variety of primary lesions . when studies were compared , 34 % of the patients ( 15 of 44 patients ) differed in either the location or total number of lesions noted . the lesions of three of the 15 patients ( 20 % ) were determined unresectable on the basis of aect . of the remaining patients , planned resections were revised in seven patients to either lesser or greater procedures . the number of lesions found at laparotomy equaled the number found by aect in all but two cases . aect caused no complications . aect improved our ability to identify and localize primary and metastatic lesions of the liver . this technique offers the advantage of preoperative definition of the hepatic arterial and portal venous anatomy . 
anomalies of intestinal rotation in childhood : analysis of 447 cases . this report concerns 447 infants and children with anomalies of rotation and fixation . patients were placed in four groups based on initial symptoms . group a involved 18 patients with acute midgut volvulus . at laparotomy , midgut volvulus was noted and reduction of midgut volvulus and a ladd procedure were performed in 10 cases and resection was required in 8 . there were five deaths ( 28 % ) . group b included 54 children with chronic symptoms of intermittent volvulus or duodenal obstruction . group c involved 44 cases of malrotation observed during exploration for other disorders . patients in groups b and c underwent a ladd procedure and appendectomy . there were five unrelated deaths . group d included 331 neonates with malrotation caused by either diaphragmatic hernia ( n = 111 ) or abdominal wall defects ( n = 220 ) . a ladd procedure was performed on 48 patients with abdominal wall defects and 29 surviving children with diaphragmatic hernia . only 2 of 172 ( 1.2 % ) patients with abdominal wall defects and 1 of 34 ( 2.9 % ) patients with diaphragmatic hernia not treated for malrotation had midgut volvulus . midgut volvulus is more common in infants and is associated with a high mortality rate ( 28 % ) . patients with malrotation and chronic obstructive symptoms or those observed during other elective procedures should undergo a ladd procedure because of the risk of midgut volvulus . the risk of midgut volvulus is low in patients with abdominal wall defects and , probably as a result of adhesions from previous neonatal operations . 
long-term follow-up of the ileoanal anastomosis in children and young adults . the purpose of this study was to carry out a long-term study of the ileoanal anastomosis ( iaa ) in children and young adults , comparing the straight iaa to the j pouch . one hundred twenty-one young people who had undergone iaa were studied , with 114 available for long-term follow-up . one hundred one were 18 years and under . forty-nine patients had a straight iaa and 72 had a j-pouch reservoir . there were no deaths . after surgery , three children had intraabdominal sepsis and one had pelvic sepsis , but it did not lead to excision of the iaa . the mean stool frequency in all 114 patients was 5.0 + / - 2.5 per day and 1.2 + / - 1.1 at night . the mean number of stools for the straight iaa was 6 per day and 2.1 at night . the mean number of stools for the straight iaa with balloon dilations was 5.8 per day and 1.2 at night , and for the j pouch it was 4 per day and 1 at night . patients with both the j pouch and straight iaa had good to excellent sensation , with patients with the j pouch always able to distinguish flatus from stool in 87 % of patients and almost always in 13 % . daytime continence was very good in both groups . moderate nighttime loss of stool occurred in 10 patients , 6 with a straight iaa and 4 with a j pouch . ninety-five percent of the 114 patients were satisfied or very satisfied , with most children with a j pouch very satisfied . the j pouch remains the procedure of choice in young people . 
circadian esophageal motor function in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease . effective esophageal peristalsis is a major determinant of esophageal clearance function and may contribute to the development of complications in gastroesophageal reflux disease . using 24-hour ambulatory esophageal manometry , we compared the circadian esophageal motor activity of normal volunteers to that of patients with increased esophageal exposure to gastric juice and various grades of mucosal injury ( no mucosal injury , esophagitis , stricture , or barrett 's esophagus ) . the prevalence of a mechanically defective lower esophageal sphincter , esophageal acid exposure time , and the frequency of nonperistaltic esophageal contractions during the supine , upright , and meal periods increased with increasing severity of mucosal injury . the median amplitude of esophageal contractions was compromised only in patients with a mechanically defective sphincter . this was particularly so in patients with stricture or barrett 's esophagus and was associated with an increased frequency of ineffective contractions ( less than 30 mm hg ) . these data show that esophageal motor function deteriorates with increasing severity of mucosal injury . this appears to be caused by persistent reflux of gastric juice across a mechanically defective lower esophageal sphincter . the need for surgical correction of a mechanically defective sphincter before the loss of esophageal body function is implicated . 
abnormal membrane physical properties of red cells in mcleod syndrome . mcleod red cells ( rbcs ) lack kx antigens and have weak expression of the kell antigens . individuals who carry the mcleod phenotype have acanthocytic rbcs and a compensated hemolytic state . to elucidate the role of the protein on which the kx antigens reside in maintaining membrane deformability , the rheologic properties of mcleod rbcs were determined by ektacytometry . rbcs were obtained from normal individuals and from four patients with mcleod syndrome . osmotic gradient deformability profiles of mcleod rbcs showed decreased whole cell deformability . resealed ghosts from mcleod rbcs also showed decreased deformability , partly because of the decreased cell surface area and partly because of an intrinsic membrane stiffness in this syndrome . for the measurement of membrane mechanical stability , resealed ghosts were subjected to constant high shear stress in the ektacytomer , and deformability was recorded continuously as the deformable ghosts fragmented into rigid spherical vesicles . membranes from mcleod rbcs showed a noticeable increase in mechanical stability . acquired causes of acanthocytosis , such as liver disease , did not cause the rheologic abnormalities observed in mcleod cells . other abnormalities noted in mcleod rbcs were decreased rbc potassium content and an increased number of dense rbcs , as determined by centrifugation on a discontinuous density gradient . the data indicate that mcleod rbcs are rigid and have decreased surface area and that their membranes are intrinsically rigid with increased mechanical stability . these abnormalities may account for the reduced rbc survival observed in mcleod syndrome . the protein that carries the kx surface antigen seems to be required for the maintenance of the normal physical function of rbc skeletal proteins . 
from leningrad to the day-care center . the ubiquitous giardia lamblia . giardiasis is recognized as a worldwide public health problem . seroprevalence data from both the developing and developed world show high rates of carriage in populations at risk for fecal-oral transmission , such as children in day-care centers . outbreak investigation has expanded our understanding of reservoirs for giardia lamblia and of the routes of transmission . various host factors have been associated with infection . the pathogenesis of giardial infections is being elucidated , in particular the role of lectin activation in producing disease . three standard chemotherapeutic agents are available in the united states . the institution of community-wide prevention measures is equally important . current areas of investigation including antigenic composition and enzymatic variants should result in effective forms of immunotherapy , while more effective forms of chemoprophylaxis could assist in eradicating the pathogen from institutional settings . 
pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis occurred in 30 patients ; 18 ( 60 % ) presented with at least 1 pulmonary complaint and 10 ( 33 % ) had multiple pulmonary symptoms . in 14 patients ( 47 % ) , abnormalities were found on examination of the chest . in 16 chest roentgenograms ( 53 % ) , there was at least 1 abnormality : right-sided pleural effusion ( 9 patients ) and elevated right hemidiaphragm ( 8 patients ) were the most common . all patients were treated with metronidazole ( flagyl ) and had resolution of the amebic liver abscess and pulmonary disease . pleuropulmonary disease is a common complication of amebic liver abscess . the clinical presentation and chest roentgenograms are virtually diagnostic and obviate the need for invasive procedures to confirm the diagnosis . pleuropulmonary disease resolves with amebicidal treatment of the hepatic abscess . 
does paramedic-base hospital contact result in beneficial deviations from standard prehospital protocols ? we reviewed written and audio records of paramedic-base hospital radio contact to determine whether care differed from that suggested in standard prehospital care protocols . records of all 659 contacts for seizure , syncope , abdominal pain , or altered mental state during 1987 ( 28.4 % of all contacts ) were scored for the use of standard therapies ( such as intravenous access , oxygen , naloxone hydrochloride ) and unanticipated therapies ( intubation , nitroglycerin ) . cases that involved unanticipated treatments were reviewed to determine whether they could have been prospectively identified by simple clinical findings . standard therapies were used in the majority of patients . unanticipated therapies were administered to 13 patients , all of whom had abnormal vital signs , diaphoresis , respiratory distress , or a second prominent symptom . data suggest that protocols could replace radio contact for most patients and that the few who might benefit from radio contact can be easily identified . a 90 % reduction in radio contacts in los angeles county could save $ 3 million each year . 
sudden death due to delayed rupture of hepatic subcapsular hematoma following blunt abdominal trauma . blunt abdominal trauma can cause sudden , unexpected death due to injuries to internal organs . rupture of a hepatic subcapsular hematoma is a relatively rare cause of sudden death following minor blunt abdominal trauma . death may be delayed several days to weeks . the autopsy is an invaluable diagnostic tool that can be utilized to uncover sudden deaths due to abdominal trauma . the case of an alcoholic who died of a ruptured hepatic subcapsular hematoma is presented . the death investigation revealed that the victim had sustained blunt abdominal trauma during a fall a few days prior to death . 
prospective randomized comparison of brown-mchardy and microvasive balloon dilators in treatment of achalasia . we report the results of a randomized prospective study comparing a standard bougie rubber balloon dilator [ brown-mchardy ( bmh ) ] and a newer polyethylene dilator passed over a guide wire [ microvasive rigiflex ( mvr ) ] . twenty achalasia patients ( 15m , 5f , mean age 45.4 yr ) considered candidates for either dilator were randomized . symptom assessment , body weight , and upright radionuclide solid esophageal emptying study were measured before and 6 months after pneumatic dilatation . all dilatations were performed by one of three experienced gastroenterologists under fluoroscopic guidance . overall success occurred with 10/10 bmh and 7/10 mvr . one patient not improved with mvr had myotomy ; the other two were successfully treated by bmh . no complications occurred with either dilator . 
features distinguishing secondary achalasia from primary achalasia . eighteen patients with cancer-induced or secondary achalasia ( sa ) were compared to 421 patients with idiopathic or primary achalasia ( pa ) . the aim of the study was to detect any differences in clinical presentation between the two groups . mean age of patients with sa was 57.1 ( range 15-78 ) and 47.1 ( range 1-90 ) in patients with pa ( p = 0.02 ) . three patients with sa were 15 , 24 , and 36 yr old , respectively . symptom frequency was comparable in sa versus pa . mean duration of symptoms in sa was 4.5 months , with 15 of the 18 patients experiencing symptoms for six months or less . weight loss occurred in 88.2 % of patients with sa and 57.3 % of patients with pa ( p less than 0.05 ) . cancer was at the gastroesophageal junction in 16 patients , duodenum in one , and breast in one . endoscopy showed tumor in 12 ( 67 % ) . the esophagram was suspicious for tumor in only 25 % . we conclude that patients with sa are older , more likely to lose weight , and have a short duration of symptoms . however , sa may occur in younger patients , and endoscopy with biopsy is necessary in any newly diagnosed case of achalasia . 
healing or amelioration of esophagitis does not result in increased lower esophageal sphincter or esophageal contractile pressure [ published erratum appears in am j gastroenterol 1991 feb ; 86 ( 2 ) :253 ] there is conflicting evidence regarding whether lower esophageal sphincter and esophageal contractile pressures are affected by changes in the severity of gastroesophageal reflux disease . we compared the manometric and endoscopic findings from 30 patients before and after treatment for esophagitis . before treatment , the grade of esophagitis ( i-iii ) was significantly correlated ( r = -0.37 ; p less than 0.05 ) with lower esophageal sphincter pressure , but not with esophageal contractile pressure . after treatment , the grade of esophagitis did not change or became worse in 15 patients , and became better in 15 patients . of these , seven healed . the group that showed no endoscopic improvement demonstrated no change in lower esophageal sphincter or esophageal contractile pressures . the group that did show endoscopic improvement also demonstrated no increase in lower esophageal sphincter or esophageal contractile pressures , and this was particularly evident in those whose esophagitis healed . these data suggest that healing of esophagitis does not result in improvement of esophageal motor function . 
sucralfate used as adjunctive therapy in patients with severe erosive peptic esophagitis resulting from gastroesophageal reflux . a total of 36 patients with grade 2 or greater erosive esophagitis and an abnormal 24-h ph monitor study , were treated in a randomized , double-blind fashion to assess the efficacy of sucralfate suspension as adjunctive therapy to cimetidine for severe esophagitis secondary to gastroesophageal reflux . treatment consisted of cimetidine , 300 mg qid and either sucralfate suspension ( 1 g/10 ml ) or an identical placebo suspension , 10 ml after meals and 20 ml hs . patients were treated for 12 wk unless endoscopic healing occurred earlier . initial evaluation and monthly follow-up consisted of symptom monitoring , endoscopic evaluation and pre - and post-therapy esophageal manometry , bernstein test , and 24-h ph monitoring . the combination of cimetidine and sucralfate suspension was superior to cimetidine alone in improving daytime heartburn symptoms ( p less than 0.05 ) but not nighttime heartburn , dysphagia , or regurgitation . sucralfate plus cimetidine improved the overall endoscopic outcome of esophagitis more than cimetidine alone ( p less than 0.05 ) . more patients exhibited endoscopic healing in the adjunctive sucralfate group than in the cimetidine-only group . endoscopic healing , however , was not statistically different between groups . we conclude that sucralfate used as adjunctive therapy to cimetidine resulted in improvement of some of the symptoms of reflux , and probably increases the likelihood of complete healing of esophagitis , compared with cimetidine alone . 
comparison of coffee intake and coffee-induced symptoms in patients with duodenal ulcer , nonulcer dyspepsia , and normal controls . coffee and decaffeinated coffee stimulate acid secretion . in addition , many patients experience dyspepsia after coffee ingestion . therefore , coffee is often prohibited by physicians in patients with peptic diseases . however , the association between peptic disease and symptoms remains unclear . this study compares coffee intake and the induction of symptoms by coffee in patients with duodenal ulcer disease , nonulcer dyspepsia , and normal controls . we have studied the coffee drinking habits of 58 duodenal ulcer patients , 55 nonulcer dyspepsia patients , and 55 normal controls . the use of coffee on a daily basis was not significantly different between duodenal ulcer patients ( 64 % ) and controls ( 56 % ) , or between nonulcer dyspepsia patients ( 55 % ) and controls . there was also no difference between the three groups in the use of decaffeinated coffee , the number of cups per day , the method of preparation , the length of time of coffee use , or any change in coffee intake in the previous year . the intake of tea , caffeinated carbonated beverages , and aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was also similar in the three groups . the duodenal ulcer patients were more likely to be cigarette smokers ( 45 % ) than either the controls ( 16 % ) or the nonulcer dyspepsia patients ( 24 % ) . daily alcohol intake was not significantly different in the three groups . the prevalence of coffee induction of dyspeptic symptoms was similar in duodenal ulcer patients ( 29 % ) and controls ( 22 % ) , but was much more common in nonulcer dyspepsia patients ( 53 % ) than in controls ( 22 % ) , p = 0.0036 . in conclusion , there was no difference in coffee intake between patients with duodenal ulcer , nonulcer dyspepsia , or normal controls . however , patients with nonulcer dyspepsia , but not duodenal ulcer , were more likely to experience dyspeptic symptoms after coffee ingestion . 
duodenal ulcer hemorrhage with and without dyspepsia . to clarify the clinical significance of dyspepsia in patients with bleeding duodenal ulcer , we studied 298 patients prospectively . ages of patients ranged from 16 to 81 yr ( mean 45.9 ) . there were 244 ( 82 % ) dyspeptic and 54 ( 18 % ) nondyspeptic patients . in the dyspeptic group , significantly more patients were taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . in the nondyspeptic group , there was a higher percentage of patients with duodenal bulb deformity ( p less than 0.005 ) , which deformity was related to previous peptic ulcer disease . the age , sex , past history of dyspepsia or bleeding , consumption of alcohol and cigarettes , and the hospital course of the two groups of patients did not differ significantly . our results show that the clinical course of duodenal ulcer hemorrhage is not significantly different in patients with or without dyspepsia , and indicate that bleeding and dyspepsia probably are two independent presentations in the natural course of the disease . the significance of the correlation between dyspepsia and duodenal bulb deformity is discussed . 
the value of push-type jejunal endoscopy in familial adenomatosis coli/gardner 's syndrome . push-type jejunal endoscopy using a long forward-viewing duodenofiberscope was performed in 10 patients with familial adenomatosis coli/gardner 's syndrome . jejunal polypoid lesions were detected in nine of the 10 patients ( 90 % ) . the lesions appeared sessile , whitish , and measured 3 mm or less in diameter . histologic findings of the biopsy specimens from these polypoid lesions revealed tubular adenoma in all nine patients . in addition , this method led to the detection of duodenal adenomas in one patient , in whom duodenofiberscopy with the side-viewing instrument revealed no polypoid lesions in the bulb and second portion of the duodenum . in view of these results , we recommend that push-type jejunal endoscopy , as well as side-viewing duodenofiberscopy , should be added to the usual preoperative examinations done in patients with this disease . 
liver pathology in morbidly obese patients with and without diabetes . the contribution of obesity and/or diabetes to liver pathology in the morbidly obese patient is controversial . we studied the liver biopsies of 100 consecutive patients undergoing gastric bypass surgery for morbid obesity . multiple morphologic parameters were analyzed and graded independently , without knowledge of the clinical history , liver function tests , and oral glucose tolerance results of the patients . six percent of the entire group demonstrated no fat , 42 % mild fat , 20 % moderate fat , and 24 % severe fatty metamorphosis of the liver . twenty-three percent of the patients had central vein fibrosis , 23 % sinusoidal fibrosis , 19 % bridging fibrosis , and 4 % cirrhosis . thirty-six percent of the patients had some degree of steatohepatitis , 66 % possessed so-called glycogen nuclei of hepatocytes , 6 % had pas-positive thickening of blood vessels in the portal tracts , and 1 % had lipogranulomas . the degree of fatty metamorphosis and fibrosis was analyzed in three separate groups , categorized by the glycemic status of the patient : 46 patients with normal glucose tolerance ( ngt ) , 23 patients with impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) , and 31 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . increasing severity of fatty metamorphosis from the normoglycemic obese to the diabetic obese patients was found , which was statistically significant by chi 2 analysis . four of the six patients showing no fatty metamorphosis were normoglycemic . glycogen nuclei and pas-positive blood vessels were significantly more prevalent in the diabetic obese than in the normal obese . in conclusion , the distribution of significant liver histopathology in the morbidly obese patient correlates in severity with the degree of impaired glycemic status . 
factors influencing the development of metabolic bone disease in primary biliary cirrhosis . the prevalence , type , and factors that may influence the development of bone disease in primary biliary cirrhosis , have been investigated in 20 consecutive patients , who , in addition to liver function tests and mineral and vitamin d metabolism studies , were submitted to a transiliac bone biopsy after tetracycline double-labeling for quantitative histomorphometric examination . intestinal calcium absorption was also assessed in 16 patients . seven patients ( 35 % ) had reduced bone volume and were considered osteoporotic . three also had bone mineralization impairment , but did not have criteria for osteomalacia . bone formation was depressed in 15 patients , and bone resorption was low or normal in 19 cases . eroded surfaces were reduced in all osteoporotic patients . duration of primary biliary cirrhosis was significantly longer in patients with osteoporosis ( 6.3 + / - 0.6 yr ) than in those without osteoporosis ( 2.6 + / - 0.6 , p = 0.004 ) . moreover , osteoporosis was more prevalent in postmenopausal women , and in those who had intestinal calcium malabsorption , which was present in 80 % of osteoporotic patients but in only 18 % of nonosteoporotic patients ( p = 0.03 ) . osteoporosis and mineralization bone impairment were unrelated to the severity of cholestasis . 25-hydroxyvitamin d was significantly lower in those patients with intestinal calcium malabsorption . the results of this study indicate that osteodystrophy in primary biliary cirrhosis is characterized mainly by " low-turnover " osteoporosis , which is related to the duration of the liver disease , postmenopausal condition , and calcium malabsorption . 
percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy for acute complicated cholecystitis in elderly patients . we report our experience with percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy in 10 elderly patients with acute cholecystitis , complicated by empyema formation . most of these patients has severe underlying disease , rendering them at high risk for surgical intervention . in all patients , the percutaneous procedure was followed by a rapid regression of clinical symptoms and of radiologic abnormalities . six were considered inoperable . three of these remain free of biliary symptoms , respectively 22 , 10 , and 7 months after percutaneous cholecystostomy . three others died of nonbiliary disease 1-4 months after cholecystostomy . three patients underwent successful elective cholecystostomy 1-5 wk after percutaneous cholecystostomy . in one patient , cholecystectomy had to be performed because of recurrence of hydrops , 1 wk after catheter removal . in our opinion , percutaneous transhepatic cholecystostomy is a safe and effective procedure in the treatment of elderly patients with acute complicated cholecystitis . it can be followed by elective cholecystectomy in good surgical candidates , or by an expectant conservative management in high surgical risk patients . 
comparative studies of du-pan-2 , carcinoembryonic antigen , and ca19-9 in the serum and bile of patients with pancreatic and biliary tract diseases : evaluation of the influence of obstructive jaundice . the levels of du-pan-2 antigen , carcinoembryonic antigen , and ca19-9 in serum and bile of patients with pancreatic and biliary tract diseases were measured . the sensitivities ( true positive ) of du-pan-2 in serum to pancreatic carcinoma ( 64 % ) and to biliary tract carcinoma ( 62 % ) were similar to those of ca19-9 in serum ( 69 % and 72 % , respectively ) . nine of 18 ( 50 % ) patients with ca19-9-negative pancreatic carcinoma tested positive for du-pan-2 . the sensitivities of cea to pancreatic carcinoma ( 56 % ) and to biliary tract carcinoma ( 52 % ) were lowest . the measurement of these antigens in bile seemed to be of little diagnostic value in differentiating between malignant and benign diseases . false positives of these three assays occurred frequently in patients with benign pancreatic or biliary tract disease coupled with obstructive jaundice . after percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage , serum du-pan-2 and ca19-9 levels returned to normal ranges in patients with benign diseases , but not in patients with carcinoma of the pancreas or of the biliary tract . serum ca19-9 and du-pan-2 antigens are useful tumor markers for pancreatic and biliary tract carcinomas . longitudinal assays of these antigens may be useful for the differential diagnosis of patients with obstructive jaundice . 
serum amylase in patients with renal insufficiency and renal failure . results vary with regard to the upper limits of serum amylase seen in patients with renal failure , and very little has been reported with patients with renal insufficiency not yet requiring dialysis . to determine the level of serum amylase elevation in renal insufficiency and renal failure , we determined serum amylase values in 128 subjects with creatinine clearances less than 90 ml/min . serum amylase remained in the normal range when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min , and did not become elevated until creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min . the highest serum amylase recorded in the absence of acute pancreatitis was 503 iu/l ( normal , less than 128 iu/l ) . serum lipase and trypsin values paralleled those for serum amylase ; values remained normal when creatinine clearance was greater than 50 ml/min , and were normal or elevated when creatinine clearance was less than 50 ml/min . these results indicate that elevations of serum amylase ( i.e. , amylase greater than 128 but less than 500 iu/l ) in asymptomatic patients with impaired renal function are not evident until creatinine clearances fall below 50 ml/min , and probably do not represent acute pancreatitis . 
comparison of a new immunoassay for determining serum pancreatic isoamylase with two standard techniques . a method has recently been developed for measuring serum pancreatic ( p ) isoamylase , using two monoclonal antibodies specific for salivary isoamylase . we performed this test on 67 healthy controls and 133 patients : 15 with acute pancreatitis , 53 with chronic pancreatitis ( 20 during painful relapse and 33 in clinical remission ) , 18 with pancreatic cancer , 41 with nonpancreatic disease with abdominal pain , five with macroamylasemia , and one with total pancreatectomy . results were compared with those of a wheat germ inhibition method and with electrophoresis on cellulose acetate . a close correlation was found between the results of immunoinhibition assay and those of the other two tests . all patients with acute pancreatitis had abnormally high values in all three tests . in the group with chronic pancreatitis studied during painful relapse , 16 had an increase in p-isoamylase , as determined with the immunoinhibition assay , 13 with the wheat germ inhibition test , and 15 with electrophoresis . in the group with chronic pancreatitis in clinical remission , we found low values in one patient , by immunoinhibition assay , but found low values in 17 and 19 patients by wheat germ inhibition and electrophoresis , respectively . low p-isoamylase values corresponded to a severe exocrine pancreatic insufficiency . in the group with pancreatic cancer , the three tests showed similar results , and the majority of the patients had normal values . in the patients with nonpancreatic diseases , abnormally high levels were found in five , by immunoassay , in four by electrophoresis , and in three by the wheat germ inhibition method . in the five cases with macroamylasemia , both inhibition assays erroneously demonstrated an abnormal p-isoamylase elevation . the results show that the three tests are equally useful for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis , or chronic pancreatitis during an acute relapse . in these diseases , the immunoinhibition test would be the preferred assay because it is simple and rapidly performed . 
in vivo evaluation of monopolar versus bipolar electrosurgical polypectomy snares . the energy required and tissue damage in bipolar and monopolar polypectomy snares were compared in a canine model . the bipolar snare required an average of 34 joules of energy , whereas the monopolar snare required 228 joules to cut the same diameter of gastric mucosa tended into a polypoid structure ( p = 0.0005 ) . the reduced energy delivered to the tissue from the bipolar procedure resulted in only 32 % average depth of damage to the underlying gastric wall , whereas the monopolar procedure caused an average 69 % ( p = 0.001 ) . surgically created polyps required 247 joules and 69 joules for corresponding monopolar and bipolar polypectomy ( p = 0.001 ) . the decreased energy required and the correspondingly reduced damage caused to the underlying bowel wall by the bipolar snare should reduce the incidence of perforation and post-polypectomy syndrome . the bipolar snare completes a local circuit about the snare , eliminating the return electrode and , consequently , the possibility of any return electrode burns . the bipolar snare thus provides an added safety margin during polypectomy . 
hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with persistent helicobacter pylori infection and active gastritis . we report two cases of patients with 3-yr histories of upper gastrointestinal symptoms , hyperplastic gastric polyps , and active chronic gastritis . biopsies retrospectively stained with giemsa revealed the persistent presence of helicobacter pylori ( hp ) in gastric biopsies of both patients throughout the 3 yr . after treatment with amoxicillin and bismuth subsalicylate , both became asymptomatic , one demonstrating disappearance and recurrence of the gastric polyps in conjunction with the hp . these cases demonstrate 3 yr of hyperplastic gastric polyps associated with hp and active gastritis . 
protein-losing enteropathy in systemic lupus erythematosus associated with intestinal lymphangiectasia . this case report concerns a young woman with systemic lupus erythematosus who presented with a protein-losing enteropathy . intestinal biopsy revealed lymphangiectasia . mesenteric lymph nodes showed paracortical lymphoid depletion and multiple small sinusoids . elevated cholesterol levels and normal lymphocyte counts characterized the peripheral blood samples . lymph nodes , though enlarged , showed no evidence of obstructive pathology . no secondary cause of lymphangiectasia could be identified . the patient exhibited antinuclear antibodies and antibodies to dsdna at the onset , and then , 5 yr later , the classic features of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . the lymphocytopenia and hypolipidemia that characterizes lymphangiectasia is not a feature of the sle cases reported to date . furthermore , the mechanism for the dilated lymphatics and villous edema is more likely immunological than mechanical disruption of lymphatics . 
gallbladder carcinoma producing human chorionic gonadotropin . a primary carcinoma of the gallbladder producing human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) was encountered in an 83-yr-old japanese woman , with elevation of hcg/beta-hcg in urine and serum . remarkable elevation of serum estradiol was an associated finding , with increased hcg . at autopsy , we found that the primary carcinoma of the gallbladder extensively involved the liver . histologically , the tumor revealed adenosquamous cell carcinoma in the primary site , and moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in metastatic foci . immunohistochemical staining for beta-hcg showed a positive reaction in adenocarcinoma components . this is an extremely rare case of an hcg-producing gallbladder carcinoma , which leads us to speculate that hcg-positive tumor cells may occur due to dedifferentiation . 
isolated ventral pancreatitis in a patient with pancreas divisum . a previously healthy 22-yr-old woman was found to have chronic pancreatitis restricted to the ventral pancreas in association with pancreas divisum . when conservative treatment failed , sphincteroplasty of both papillae was performed with good results . this well-documented case represents a clear exception to the commonly held concept that obstruction of the dorsal duct is the essential pathogenic factor in the development of pancreatitis associated with pancreas divisum . the importance of visualizing both the dorsal and ventral pancreatic ducts to direct therapy for patients with idiopathic pancreatitis is discussed . theories of the pathogenesis of concomitant pancreatitis and pancreas divisum are reviewed . 
exacerbation of chronic active hepatitis type b after short-term corticosteroid therapy resulting in fatal liver failure . the case of a 36-yr-old male with chronic active type b hepatitis in whom 4-wk prednisone therapy resulted in prolonged and fatal exacerbation of liver disease is described . thus , short-term corticosteroid therapy may in some patients have disastrous effects on the course of chronic active hepatitis b. 
toxoplasmic chorioretinitis and hepatic granulomas . a 71-yr-old male presented with a 2-month history of fever , malaise , and weight loss . physical exam revealed chorioretinitis . laboratory studies were notable for elevated levels of alkaline phosphatase , gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase , aspartate transaminase , and alanine transaminase . immunoglobulin g antibody to toxoplasma gondii was positive to a dilution of 1:4096 , whereas serologic studies for hepatitis a virus , hepatitis b virus , cytomegalovirus , epstein-barr virus , human immunodeficiency virus , brucella , and tularemia were negative . a percutaneous biopsy of the liver revealed hepatic granulomas . culture of the biopsy specimen was negative for growth of mycobacteria or fungi . spontaneous improvement in clinical and laboratory parameters occurred over a 4-month period . 
disseminated , nonmeningeal gastrointestinal cryptococcal infection in an hiv-negative patient . gastrointestinal cryptococcosis is extremely rare , especially in patients with no involvement of the central nervous system . we describe a 63-yr-old man undergoing prednisone therapy for chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis who presented with peritonitis , colitis , and skin lesions . pathological studies revealed necrosis and numerous cryptococcal organisms in the colon , omentum , and skin , and cultures yielded cryptococcus neoformans . the patient died of multisystem organ failure following emergency exploratory surgery performed when he had onset of symptoms of a bowel perforation after an endoscopic biopsy . clinicians should be aware that gastrointestinal cryptococcosis can occur in the absence of infection of the central nervous system or lungs , and that it may affect relatively healthy patients who are immunocompromised because of splenectomy , chronic liver disease , or steroid therapy . 
peritoneal dialysis in the geriatric patient . elderly patients on chronic peritoneal dialysis ( cpd ) from two large chronic peritoneal dialysis programs were compared with younger patients in regard to peritonitis rates , catheter problems , hospital days , transfers to other forms of therapy , and mortality . peritonitis rates and organisms were similar in younger and older patients . catheter replacements were less common in the elderly . differences in hospital days were attributable to hospitalization for vascular disease . the elderly were more likely to have the first episode of peritonitis , to die and to change dialysis modalities at all times after the first year of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) treatment , although other than increased mortality , differences between the two groups were small . cpd appears to be an acceptable form of renal replacement therapy in the elderly . 
treatment of wegener 's granulomatosis with intermittent high-dose intravenous cyclophosphamide purpose : concerns regarding the long-term toxicity of daily cyclophosphamide ( cp ) therapy for the systemic vasculitides have led us to evaluate alternative approaches to treatment in an attempt to achieve comparable efficacy with less toxicity . this study sought to determine the efficacy , toxicity , and immunologic effects of glucocorticoids ( gc ) and intermittent high-dose intravenous cp ( " pulse " cp ) in the treatment of 14 patients with wegener 's granulomatosis ( wg ) . patients and methods : the diagnosis of active wg was supported by a typical clinical presentation and histopathologic findings of vasculitis , granulomatous inflammation , and tissue necrosis . gc treatment was initially provided on a daily basis and later tapered to an alternate-day schedule if vasculitis remained inactive . pulse cp treatment was initially administered once a month for 6 months . if after 6 months remission had been attained and gc therapy had been discontinued , then pulse cp treatment was given at less frequent intervals thereafter . treatment and evaluation were provided for participants as inpatients in a clinical research center ( national institutes of health ) . results : thirteen of 14 patients ( 93 % ) initially experienced unequivocal improvement with pulse cp therapy , and seven of 14 ( 50 % ) achieved remission within 4 months . however , treatment was associated with significant toxicity in two patients and later relapses in nine patients , so that a total of 79 % either failed to achieve sustained remission or were unable to continue therapy . three of 14 ( 21 % ) patients have achieved sustained remissions with the pulse cp protocol and one additional patient ( who had a limited exacerbation of wg ) continues to receive that therapy after 14 to 22 months ( mean 17 months ) . conclusions : the use of pulse cp and gc therapy in 14 patients with wg was associated with a high initial response rate . however , failure to respond initially to treatment , to sustain improvement , or to tolerate continued treatment was noted in 79 % of patients within a period of 1 to 22 months . these observations indicate that this particular pulse cp protocol does not achieve a high degree of lasting efficacy . 
association of helicobacter pylori infection with dyspeptic symptoms in patients undergoing gastroduodenoscopy . purpose : to determine the prevalence of helicobacter pylori in patients with non-ulcer dyspepsia and ulcer disease as well as in a control population undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) for suspected pancreatic or biliary disease . patients and methods : forty-six eligible patients undergoing upper endoscopy at massachusetts general hospital were studied over a period of 18 months , as well as 24 patients undergoing ercp for presumed pancreatic or biliary disease . two biopsy specimens from the fundus and two from the antrum were taken for microbiologic and histopathologic analysis . sera were examined by enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay . all specimens were processed in a blind fashion . chi-square test with yates ' correction was used for statistical analysis . results : h. pylori was found in 31 of 46 ( 67 % ) study patients and in six of 24 ( 25 % ) control patients ( by microbiologic or histologic techniques ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . h. pylori was found in all patients with peptic ulcer disease and in 60 % of patients without ulcers . no association between h. pylori and any specific gastrointestinal symptom was observed . h. pylori was identified in the fundus as often as in the antrum , although in the antrum the organism was more often associated with histologic gastritis . compared with histology , serologic assays for igg and iga antibodies to h. pylori had sensitivities of 100 % and 94 % , and specificities of 86 % and 76 % , respectively . reexamination of selected specimens without knowledge of their identity revealed that the specificity of serology exceeded 94 % while the sensitivity of histologic and microbiologic studies may have been closer to 80 % . conclusions : h. pylori was more common in dyspeptic patients than in our control subjects undergoing ercp . multiple biopsy sites from fundus and antrum are required to exclude infection . serologies of igg and iga were sensitive and specific for h. pylori , suggesting a possible role for non-endoscopic diagnosis of this infection . the frequent association of h. pylori with active inflammation rather than with quiescent gastritis is consistent with a pathologic role of this organism . 
cardiorespiratory effects of endoscopic esophageal variceal sclerotherapy . endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy ( evs ) is an effective means of controlling variceal hemorrhage , which develops as a consequence of portal hypertension . while esophageal perforation , ulceration , strictures , and mediastinitis are potential complications associated with this procedure , it is not clear whether isolated pleuropulmonary events such as pleuritis , pneumonitis , and adult respiratory distress syndrome are causally related to the evs . endoscopy and sedation with the attendant risk of aspiration , particularly in the background of hepatic encephalopathy , may account for some of these events . recent controlled studies of respiratory function demonstrate that evs as such results in minor changes in gas exchange , lung volumes , and pulmonary and systemic hemodynamics . most pulmonary complications have been reported with the use of sodium morrhuate sclerosant . comparative studies among different sclerosants are necessary to evaluate relative safety . finally , there have been rare reports of myocardial ischemia and pericarditis reported in association with evs , but these are of a transient nature . chest symptoms , roentgenographic pleuropulmonary changes , pulmonary hemodynamics , and cardiac perturbations are transient and should not preclude offering evs to patients with variceal hemorrhage . 
pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy : atypical presentations . severe pregnancy-induced hypertension and markedly elevated levels of serum alkaline phosphatase developed in a 29-year-old-woman in whom one pregnancy resulted in intrauterine death . acute fatty liver of pregnancy developed with good fetal outcome in the next pregnancy . this case suggests that pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy are part of a clinical spectrum . moreover , classic abnormalities of liver function tests need not be present in acute fatty liver of pregnancy . 
antenatal spontaneous perforation of the extrahepatic biliary tree . spontaneous perforation of the biliary system is an unusual neonatal phenomenon that is rarely recognized at birth . to date , it has not been reported antenatally . a 16-year-old pregnant adolescent had an ultrasonogram at 25 weeks of pregnancy that revealed ascites in the fetus . after the infant was delivered at 32 weeks , a hepato-iminodiacetic acid scan showed a spontaneous rupture of the common bile duct . the infant was treated with external drainage of the biliary tree and recovered well . this case demonstrates that spontaneous perforations of the bile ducts can occur much earlier than the usually described 2 to 12 weeks after birth , can be diagnosed antenatally , and should be added to the list of causes of fetal ascites . 
intrapartum uterine rupture and inflammatory bowel disease . the incidence of uterine rupture in pregnant women ranges from 0 % to 1.1 % in large series . this case report describes a woman with a history of obstetric complications , uterine rupture , and active inflammatory bowel disease that was treated with high-dose prednisone . 
crohn 's disease and retinal vascular disease . patients with crohn 's disease may manifest extraintestinal findings including ocular involvement . we treated two patients with crohn 's disease who manifested retinal vascular disease that may have been related to the immune nature of the underlying disease or possibly to changes in the vasculature or coagulation system . one patient had a central retinal vein occlusion and the other had retinal vasculitis involving retinal arteries and veins with an apparent branch retinal artery occlusion . both patients were in excellent health except for crohn 's disease , which was confirmed by a biopsy specimen . in one patient , the diagnosis of retinal vasculitis preceded the clinical diagnosis of crohn 's disease , whereas for the second patient the symptomatology of the intestinal disease preceded the ocular manifestations . we suggest that inflammatory bowel disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis of retinal vascular occlusive disease , especially in a young patient . 
update on the epidemiology of anorexia nervosa in a defined region of switzerland . in this follow-up investigation , the authors studied all swiss women in the canton of zurich who developed anorexia nervosa between ages 12 and 25 years and who were hospitalized for the first time with this diagnosis between 1983 and 1985 . data were compared with those from an earlier study , which focused on the periods 1956-1958 , 1963-1965 , and 1973-1975 . the incidence of anorexia nervosa did not increase significantly during 1983-1985 compared to 1973-1975 , in contrast to the constant increase found between 1956 and 1975 . however , the more frequent use of vomiting and abuse of laxatives in 1983-1985 may indicate an increase in cases with mixed features of anorexia nervosa and bulimia . 
endemic cryptosporidium and giardia lamblia infections in a thai orphanage . we conducted a point prevalence survey for enteric protozoa in 205 institutionalized orphans 1-61 months of age in bangkok , thailand . cryptosporidium was identified in 17 children ( 8 % ) , giardia lamblia in 42 ( 20 % ) , and 3 children ( 1 % ) had both parasites . at the time of diagnosis , diarrheal symptoms were present in a minority of subjects : 36 % of children with cryptosporidium alone , 10 % with g. lamblia alone , and in 20 % of those with neither parasite . although chronic nutritional status ( height/age ) was similar in all groups , acute nutritional status ( weight/height ) was lower only in children with cryptosporidium ( z score = -1.39 + / - 0.13 ) compared with children with g. lamblia ( mean z score + / - sem = -0.56 + / - 0.26 ) or neither parasite ( z score = -0.78 + / - 0.13 ; p = 0.05 ) . detectable levels of cryptosporidium-specific igg antibodies by elisa were identified in 15 of 16 thai children with cryptosporidium and in 17 of 19 thai children without cryptosporidium ( mean od + / - sem = 1.27 + / - 0.18 vs. 1.06 + / - 0.13 , respectively ) , but in only 1 of 18 sera from toddlers in day-care centers in denver , co ( od = 0.128 + / - 0.03 ) . although neither infection with cryptosporidium nor g. lamblia was consistently associated with acute diarrheal symptoms , cryptosporidium was more often associated with depressed acute nutritional status than g. lamblia . the high prevalence of specific antibodies to cryptosporidium in thai orphans suggests an association between high rates of exposure with asymptomatic excretion of the parasites . 
brain and liver dolichol in chronic alcoholism : a necropsy study . cerebral gray and white matter and liver dolichol levels were measured in postmortem samples from chronic alcoholics and nonalcoholic controls following recent suggestions that dolichol levels may be used as a marker for alcoholism . no significant differences in brain dolichol were found between the control and alcoholic groups . a significant reduction in the liver dolichol was observed in the alcoholic group . this was most marked in those alcoholics with liver disease . 
esophageal motor disorder in alcoholics : result of alcoholism or withdrawal ? both acute and chronic ethanol consumption may cause esophageal dysmotility . in order to systematically evaluate the effect of ethanol on esophageal motility , we studied esophageal motility in 13 healthy subjects before and following acute intravenous administration of 0.8 g/kg ethanol and in chronic alcoholics within 6 hr of their last drink ( n = 6 ) and following 24 to 48 hr of abstinence when signs of withdrawal were present ( n = 13 ) . withdrawing alcoholics were also restudied after intravenous administration of 0.8 g/kg ethanol . ethanol transiently decreased lower esophageal sphincter pressure ( lesp ) and inhibited les relaxation in all control subjects ; this inhibitory effect of ethanol on lesp in alcoholics was significantly less , indicating the development of tolerance . ethanol moderately decreased esophageal contraction amplitude ( eca ) in 10 of 13 controls and prolonged duration of contractions in all but had no effect on velocity of esophageal contractions . in contrast , eca was significantly elevated in both groups of alcoholics , but this was significantly more marked in withdrawing alcoholics . ethanol infusion returned eca toward normal values in withdrawing alcoholics . abnormal motility was noted in three intoxicated alcoholics and 10 ( 77 % ) withdrawing alcoholics . this included nutcracker esophagus in five and hypertensive les in two . these data indicated that ( 1 ) esophageal motor dysfunction is common in alcoholics ; ( 2 ) acute ethanol administration decreases lesp and esophageal contraction amplitude , whereas chronic ethanol consumption and withdrawal from ethanol increases eca . this suggests development of a compensatory mechanism in chronic alcoholics leading to high pressure esophageal contractions during withdrawal . 
a hepatocellular carcinoma of massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain treated with cddp two-route chemotherapy -- a case report . massive arterioportal shunts without tumor vessels or tumor stain are sometimes encountered in advanced cases of liver cirrhosis . massive arterioportal shunts without tumor stain that responded well to intensive chemotherapy with cis-diamminedichloroplatinum ii are reported . 
methylene iodide poisoning . a 20-month-old girl ingested a maximum of 25 ml of pure methylene iodide . within two hours , the patient exhibited lethargy and incoordination and vomited . an abdominal radiograph demonstrated the radiopaque material in the gut . in vivo conversion to carbon monoxide was documented with a peak carboxyhemoglobin level of 14.2 % reached at 11 hours after ingestion . two days after ingestion , evidence of hepatotoxicity was apparent , and fulminant hepatic failure quickly ensued . despite aggressive supportive care and transfer to a liver transplant center , the patient died nine days after ingestion . methylene iodide ingestion has not been previously reported in human beings . this case verifies that this substance is a potent hepatotoxin , is metabolized to carbon monoxide in vivo , is radiopaque , and may cause bone marrow suppression . 
castor bean intoxication . we report the cases of a child who ingested two or more castor beans and two adults who each ingested four beans . all three patients developed severe gastroenteritis and recovered without sequelae after receiving iv fluids . the literature contains reports of 424 cases of castor bean intoxication . symptoms of intoxication include acute gastroenteritis , fluid and electrolyte depletion , gastrointestinal bleeding , hemolysis , and hypoglycemia . delayed cytotoxicity has not been reported . of the 424 patients , 14 died ( mortality rates : 8.1 % of untreated and 0.4 % of treated ) . deaths were due to hypovolemic shock . recommended treatment for asymptomatic patients who have chewed one or more raw beans is emergency department evaluation , gastric decontamination , administration of activated charcoal , observation until four to six hours after ingestion , and discharge instructions to return if symptoms develop . after decontamination and activated charcoal , symptomatic patients require hospitalization for treatment with iv fluids , supportive care , and monitoring for hypoglycemia , hemolysis , and complications of hypovolemia . monitoring for delayed cytotoxicity is unnecessary . castor beans and their dust are highly allergenic and may cause anaphylaxis . 
management of the acute abdomen complicating oral anticoagulation therapy . acute abdominal pain in the patient receiving oral anticoagulants poses a difficult diagnostic and therapeutic challenge . we describe two cases of peritonitis requiring laparotomy in anticoagulated patients , and review 49 similar case reports from the world literature . these patients were usually explored for signs of bowel obstruction . at operation , the intestine often appeared infarcted , but pathologic examination commonly revealed intramural hematomata . in contrast , we present microscopic evidence of hemorrhagic cecal infarction complicating oral anticoagulation therapy in one patient . intramural intestinal hemorrhage is the most common cause of acute abdominal pain in the anticoagulated patient who undergoes laparotomy . in addition to intramural hemorrhage , 14 per cent of patients had coexistent volvulus , appendicitis , intestinal wall disruption or intestinal infarction . we conclude that anticoagulated patients with suspected intramural intestinal hemorrhage may have severe intraabdominal pathology requiring operation . therefore , operation is mandatory for patients who fail to improve after a short course of expectant management . 
nonoperative management of small-bowel obstruction with endoscopic long intestinal tube placement . intestinal obstruction remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality in surgical patients . we reviewed the records of 77 patients with mechanical small-bowel obstruction who were treated with endoscopically and fluoroscopically placed leonard long intestinal tube decompression . most patients ( 59 % ) had failed a trial of nasogastric tube or miller-abbott tube decompression . overall , 29 per cent of patients were able to resolve their obstruction with leonard tube decompression alone . subdivision of patients on the basis of the etiology of their obstruction demonstrated a much higher rate of success for tube decompression in adhesive obstruction ( 37 % ) versus malignant obstruction ( 12 % ) or inflammatory obstruction ( no successes ) . patients with radiographic and clinical evidence of complete intestinal obstruction were significantly less likely to respond to long intestinal tube treatment ( 13 % ) . the long intestinal tube was easily passed in all patients . there were no complications of the intubation procedure in our series , and the incidence of tube-related complications was four per cent . we conclude that an initial period of long intestinal tube decompression allows a significant percentage of patients with mechanical small-bowel obstruction to be treated nonoperatively , particularly if a partial obstruction from postoperative adhesions is present . patients who have failed a trial of nasogastric tube decompression and are poor operative risks should also be considered for long intestinal tube placement . 
the influence of sclerotherapy on gastric mucosal blood flow distribution . hemodynamic events and structural vascular changes of the gastric mucosa in cirrhotics have caught the attention of investigators in the recent past , but as yet it is not known whether therapeutic interruption of variceal blood flow at gastroesophageal level alters such portal hypertensive mucosal features . the newly developed endoscopic laser-doppler technique was used to assess whether variceal eradication by means of endoscopic sclerotherapy influences the gastric mucosal congestion in portal hypertension patients . gastric mucosal blood flow was determined at ten defined sites of the stomach , before the first session of sclerotherapy and after complete variceal eradication had been achieved in 15 patients . a statistically significant decrease ( p less than 0.01 to 0.05 ) in microcirculation was found at the gastric antrum and corpus , an increase at the pylorus ( p less than 0.05 ) , but no change in the fundic area . an important question following these findings is : what are the consequences of such aggravation of gastric congestion on the integrity of the gastric mucosa ? . 
a five-year u.s. army experience with 36,250 abdominal hernia repairs . thirty-six thousand two hundred fifty abdominal hernia repairs were performed in u.s. army medical treatment facilities during a five-year period . this study presents data about the type of hernia , incidence of complications by obstruction or strangulation , age , sex , and mortality . hernias occurring with intestinal obstruction or gangrene ( strangulation ) are referred to as complicated hernias . inguinal hernias in children less than two years of age , femoral hernias , and unusual ( such as internal or obturator ) hernias were found to have an increased incidence of complications . surgical repair of ventral , umbilical , and femoral hernias was done with a low surgical risk and the presence of complications did not significantly increase this risk . an increased risk of mortality is associated with the repair of complicated unusual hernias and complicated inguinal hernias in patients more than 60 years of age . 
comparison of ulcer surgery at a veterans administration and university hospital . we compared the patient populations and outcome of surgery for peptic ulcer disease in 81 patients at a veterans administration hospital ( ovah ) and 97 patients at an affiliated university hospital ( unh ) . the surgeons and choice of operation were comparable at both facilities . patients were similar with respect to severity of ulcer disease , percentage of elderly patients and distribution of comorbid conditions . there were significantly more female patients ( 45 % vs 2 % , p less than 0.05 ) , patients less than 40 years old ( 22 % vs 6 % , p less than 0.05 ) , and patients with gastric ulcers ( 27 % vs 12 % , p less than 0.05 ) at unh . alcoholism was more prevalent at ovah ( 57 % vs 22 % , p less than 0.05 ) . postoperative morbidity and mortality rates were 27 per cent and 14 per cent at ovah and 25 per cent and 16 per cent at unh . these data suggest that quality of care for surgical therapy of ulcer disease at a va hospital is comparable to its tertiary care affiliate with a similar patient population . 
toxic shock syndrome after inguinal hernia repair . report of a case with patient survival . a 40-year-old man developed fulminant multisystem failure several days after elective repair of an inguinal hernia . toxic shock syndrome ( tss ) was diagnosed . there was , however , no evidence of wound infection at the time of multisystem failure . only later in his hospital course did the wound drain . staphylococcus aureus was cultured from the wound and was the presumed etiologic agent in the patient 's life-threatening illness . the patient recovered fully with supportive care , antibiotics , and surgical debridement of the inguinal hernia site . this case is discussed in the context of existing literature on the toxic shock syndrome . the site of infection is typically nonsuppurative , but the systemic manifestations are typically life threatening . the responsible organism is commonly believed to be a strain of s. aureus that expresses a toxin ( tss toxin-1 ) that effects multisystem failure , but which also diminishes the local inflammatory response and explains the benign appearance of the wound . although this is a rare clinical entity , elective surgical procedures complicated by fatal tss have been reported . surgeons should understand this disease and the management necessary to avert mortality . 
ct diagnosis of acquired small bowel volvulus . small-bowel volvulus is an uncommon but important cause of small-bowel obstruction and often results in ischemia or infarction . clinical examination and plain film radiography may be nondiagnostic , leading to delay in surgical intervention with subsequent increase in morbidity and mortality . we present two patients in whom the diagnosis of strangulating small-bowel volvulus was made by computed tomography ( ct ) , allowing rapid surgical correction of this potentially life-threatening condition . 
acute gastroenteritis in infants under 6 months old . sixty two babies under the age of 6 months who were admitted with gastroenteritis completed a study of gradual refeeding compared with abrupt refeeding after a period of rehydration . there was no difference in the incidence of recurrence of diarrhoea due to lactose intolerance , effect on weight , or duration of hospital stay . twenty six babies ( 42 % ) had recurrence of diarrhoea after refeeding , all of whom settled with the introduction of a lactose free soya based formula . well nourished babies under 6 months of age with mild to moderately severe gastroenteritis can be fed immediately with full strength milk feeds after rehydration . the introduction of a lactose free soya based preparation may provide an alternative to repeated attempts at regrading with cows ' milk feeds in those patients with lactose intolerance . 
management of gastroenteritis . childhood gastroenteritis remains a common reason for admission to british paediatric units , although the severity of the disease appears to be diminishing in recent years . we studied 215 infants and children with gastroenteritis admitted consecutively to four paediatric units in south wales in order to determine the severity of the disease , the organisms isolated , the frequency of complications , and the adequacy of management before admission . stool pathogens were isolated in 125 ( 58 % ) patients ( viruses in 65 , bacteria in 30 , and protozoa in 19 , with multiple infection found in 11 ) . there was a low incidence of morbidity and complications , but prolonged diarrhoea ( postenteritis syndrome ) was present in 24 ( 11 % ) cases and 77 ( 36 % ) had received inappropriate treatment before admission . contemporary gastroenteritis is thus a relatively mild disease in the acute phase , but management before admission to hospital is often inadequate , and prolonged diarrhoea may be a feature in a considerable number of cases . 
perforated duodenal ulcer : an unusual complication of gastroenteritis . a 7 year old boy was admitted to hospital with gastroenteritis , which was complicated by an acute perforated duodenal ulcer . after oversewing of the perforation he made an uncomplicated recovery . peptic ulceration is under-diagnosed in childhood and this leads to delay in diagnosis and appropriate management . ulceration is associated with severe illness and viral infections , but perforation is rare . 
congenital diaphragmatic hernia : impact of prostanoids in the perioperative period . a prospective study of 10 neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and five controls to determine the importance of prostanoid concentrations perioperatively and the relation with persistent pulmonary hypertension ( pph ) is reported . in neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia postoperative concentrations of the vasoconstrictor thromboxane b2 rose significantly and were higher during episodes of pph ; this rise may provoke pph and subsequent right to left shunting . 
cystic tumors of the pancreas . new clinical , radiologic , and pathologic observations in 67 patients . within a 12-year period we treated 67 patients ( 49 women , 18 men ; mean age , 61 years ) with cystic neoplasms of the pancreas , including 18 serous cystic adenomas , 15 benign mucinous cystic neoplasms , 27 mucinous cystadenocarcinomas , 3 papillary cystic tumors , 2 cystic islet cell tumors , and 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia . mean tumor size was 6 cm ( 2 to 16 cm ) . in 39 % the patients had no symptoms , and in 37 % the lesions had been misdiagnosed as a pseudocyst . computed tomography was useful for detection , for distinguishing the microcystic subgroup of serous cystadenoma , and for showing rim calcification ( all 7 cases were malignant ) but was not reliable for distinguishing neoplasm from pseudocyst , serous from mucinous tumors , or benign from malignant . arteriography showed hypervascularity in 4 of 10 serous adenomas , 3 of 11 mucinous carcinomas , and 1 of 1 papillary cystic tumors . endoscopic pancreatography showed no communication with the cyst cavity in 37 of 37 cases of cystic neoplasms but opacified the ectatic ducts in 2 of 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia . stenosis or obstruction of the pancreatic duct indicated cancer . the tumor was resected by distal pancreatectomy in 25 patients , by proximal resection in 29 , and by total pancreatectomy in one , with no operative deaths . forty-four per cent of the tumors were malignant . in 10 cases the tumor was unresectable because of local extension or distant metastases , and those patients died at a mean of 4 months . seventy-five per cent of those resected for cure are alive without evident recurrence . because the epithelial lining of the tumor was partially ( 5 % to 98 % ) absent in 40 % to 72 % of cases of the major tumor types , and the mucinous component comprised only about 65 % of mucinous cystadenoma lining , misdiagnoses on frozen and even permanent sections were made . mitoses and histologic solid growth correlated with malignancy . neuroendocrine elements were seen in 87 % of benign and 47 % of malignant mucinous tumors . it is recommended that the terms macrocystic and microcystic be abandoned in favor of the histologic designations serous and mucinous . incomplete examination of the cyst wall can be misleading , however . it is suggested that mucinous ductal ectasia be recognized separately from cystic tumors and that all of these lesions be resected , with the possible exception of asymptomatic confirmed serous cystadenomas . 
ileal pouch-anal anastomosis . reoperation for pouch-related complications . the aim was to assess the value of reoperative surgery for pouch-related complications after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis ( ipaa ) for chronic ulcerative colitis and familial adenomatous polyposis . between january 1981 and august 1989 , 114 of 982 ipaa patients ( 12 % ) seen at the mayo clinic had complications directly related to ipaa that required reoperation . among the 114 patients , the complications prevented initial ileostomy closure in 33 patients ( 25 % ) , occurred after ileostomy closure in 68 patients ( 60 % ) , and delayed ileostomy closure in the remaining patients . the salvage procedures performed included anal dilatation under anesthesia for anastomotic strictures , placement of setons and/or fistulotomy for perianal fistulae , unroofing of anastomotic sinuses , simple drainage and antibiotics for perianal abscesses , abdominal exploration with drainage of intra-abdominal abscesses with or without establishment of ileostomy , and complete or partial reconstruction of the reservoir for patients with inadequate emptying . none of the reoperated patients died . reoperation led to restoration of pouch function in two thirds of patients and , of these , 70 % had an excellent clinical outcome . however approximately 20 % of the 114 pouches required excision . excision was common , especially among patients who had pelvic sepsis . salvage procedures for pouch-specific complications can be done safely and will restore pouch function in two thirds of patients . complications after reoperation , however , may ultimately lead to loss of the reservoir in one in five patients . 
the role of prostanoids in the production of acute acalculous cholecystitis by platelet-activating factor . gallbladder tissue from patients with acute acalculous cholecystitis contains increased amounts of prostanoids when compared to normal gallbladder tissue . platelet-activating factor ( paf ) is a potent stimulus of eicosanoid formation . it has been implicated as a mediator of acute inflammatory processes and systemic responses to shock . in this study the role of paf in acute acalculous cholecystitis was evaluated . anesthetized cats underwent gallbladder perfusion with a physiologic buffer solution containing [ 14c ] polyethylene glycol as a nonabsorbable tracer to quantitate mucosal water absorption . platelet-activating factor was infused into the hepatic artery for 2 hours . control experiments were performed when vehicle alone was infused . experiments also were performed when indomethacin was administered intravenously and when indomethacin and paf were administered . gallbladder mucosal absorption/secretion and perfusate and tissue prostaglandin e ( pge ) and 6 keto prostaglandin f1 alpha ( 6-keto pgf1 alpha ) levels were evaluated . gallbladder inflammation was evaluated by beta-glucuronidase and myeloperoxidase tissue concentrations and by a histologic scoring system . platelet-activating factor eliminated gallbladder absorption and produced net fluid secretion associated with dose-related increases in perfusate pge concentrations and gallbladder tissue pge and 6 keto pgf1 alpha levels when compared to control values . platelet-activating factor produced significant inflammation in the gallbladder with increases in the histologic score of inflammation and tissue lysosomal enzyme activities . indomethacin significantly decreased the fluid secretion , prostanoid levels , and inflammation produced by paf . the results suggest that paf may induce acute gallbladder inflammation associated with systemic stress through a prostanoid-mediated mechanism . 
surgical aspects of sclerosing cholangitis . results in 178 patients . of 178 patients with sclerosing cholangitis treated since 1950 , 88 patients had associated inflammatory bowel disease , 72 had no such history , and 18 had iatrogenic injury or stone disease . a total of 233 biliary operations were performed , with a 75 % rate of temporary improvement after initial operation . subsequent operations resulted in a lower success rate and a higher mortality rate . radiologic findings included predominant extrahepatic , intrahepatic , and diffuse disease in 29 % , 28 % , and 43 % of patients , respectively ; no survival differences were noted . seventy-five of one hundred three deaths ( 73 % ) were related to liver failure , bleeding , or sepsis . of 14 patients undergoing portosystemic shunt , 13 died of surgical complications or related disease . orthotopic liver transplantation was performed in 16 patients and resulted in eight deaths , mainly in patients who had previously undergone extensive surgical treatment . no survival differences were seen between the patients with inflammatory bowel disease , those without the condition , or those who had colectomy . surgical treatment in patients with sclerosing cholangitis should be minimized . orthotopic liver transplantation should be offered as the treatment of choice for patients with portal hypertension , refractory cholangitis , advanced cirrhosis , or progressive liver failure . 
relief of tracheal compression by aortopexy . we have performed aortopexy in 12 children with tracheal compression . six infants had compression secondary to a vascular anomaly ( group 1 ) , and the other 6 had previous repair of esophageal atresia ( group 2 ) . eleven of the 12 children are alive after a mean follow-up of 36 months . in group 1 , 1 patient died and 3 patients ( 50 % ) experienced recurrent respiratory distress . five infants sustained a major postoperative complication , and the average postoperative hospital stay was 25 days . in group 2 , however , aortopexy was uniformly successful . there were no deaths , no postoperative complications , and no cases of postoperative respiratory distress , and the mean postoperative hospital stay was only 10 days . for children with reflex apnea after repair of esophageal atresia , aortopexy is lifesaving and can be performed with minimal morbidity and mortality . great caution is indicated in children with tracheal compression from other causes . 
pharyngoesophageal perforation after blunt neck trauma . pharyngoesophageal perforation secondary to blunt neck trauma is an uncommon injury that can cause serious morbidity and mortality if not recognized and treated . pharyngeal perforation secondary to blunt trauma sustained while boxing is reported . review of the world literature found 10 cases of pharyngoesophageal perforation secondary to blunt neck trauma . analysis of these cases indicates that perforations less than 2 cm and limited to the pharynx may be treated medically with close observation . large perforations and those perforations that extend to the esophageal inlet or involve the esophagus exclusively are best treated surgically . 
risk of gastric cancer after gastric surgery for benign disorders . the objective of this review was to evaluate published evidence for the association between gastric resection for benign disorders and subsequent cancer of the gastric remnant . we searched the literature through medline ( 1970 to 1988 ) and through the references of relevant articles . fifty-eight studies consisting of case series , uncontrolled surveys , and case control or cohort analyses were identified and critically assessed using defined methodological criteria . there were no consistent differences between the expected and observed number of cancers occurring within 15 years after gastric resection . however , all case control studies and seven of the eight cohort analyses , in which the prevalence of cancer was stratified by time since gastric resection , indicated a twofold to fourfold increase in the risk of gastric cancer in patients who survived 15 or more years after gastric surgery . we conclude that most studies of the association of gastric surgery with subsequent gastric cancer have relatively weak designs . still , the repetitive demonstration of this association by different investigators using different research designs supports the hypothesis that gastric resection increases the risk of cancer in the gastric remnant . 
the prevalence of helicobacter pylori in nonulcer dyspepsia . importance of stratification according to age helicobacter pylori ( formerly campylobacter pylori ) is causally related to active antral gastritis and is highly associated with duodenal and gastric ulcers . however , the relationship of h pylori to nonulcer dyspepsia is less clear . we determined the presence of h pylori in unselected patients who were undergoing upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy , and we found a prevalence of 37 % in 110 patients with nonulcer dyspepsia that was similar to previous data . patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who had h pylori were found to be significantly older than patients with nonulcer dyspepsia who did not have h pylori . in addition , when stratified according to age , we detected an increased prevalence of h pylori in patients with nonulcer dyspepsia with increasing age , similar to that reported for asymptomatic control populations . this finding casts doubt as to the causal role of h pylori for most patients with nonulcer dyspepsia and stresses the importance of considering epidemiologic factors , such as age , when evaluating the role of h pylori in specific disease states . 
study of preneoplastic changes of liver cells by immunohistochemical and molecular hybridization techniques . the status of hepatitis b virus dna was investigated by in situ hybridization in multifocal areas of a noncancerous hepatitis b virus-associated cirrhosis . this liver exhibited a marked degree of dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia . the results of these studies were correlated with the histopathology and immunohistochemical stains for hepatitis b core and surface antigens . there was clear evidence of a marked reduction to absence of hepatitis b viral dna by in situ hybridization and absence of hbc and hbsag in the foci of liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia . these results support the hypothesis that liver cell dysplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia are preneoplastic in nature . 
acalculus lymphoeosinophilic cholecystitis associated with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cell therapy . a case of unusual cholecystitis that developed on completion of interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cell therapy is described . a 62-year-old man was treated with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cells for disseminated renal cell carcinoma . during the course of the immunotherapy , his serum alkaline phosphatase level increased , as did the peripheral eosinophil count ( 0.31 ) . subsequently , clinical and radiologic evidence of acute cholecystitis was noted . the removed gallbladder showed acalculus cholecystitis with extensive diffuse infiltrates of numerous eosinophils and t lymphocytes , but sparse polymorphonuclear leukocytes . the authors name this unusual cholecystitis acalculus lymphoeosinophilic cholecystitis and believe it to be associated with interleukin-2 and lymphokine-activated killer cell therapy . the pathogenic relationship is discussed . 
comprehensive management of acute necrotizing pancreatitis and pancreatic abscess . achieving reduced mortality rates in patients with necrotizing pancreatitis and pancreatic abscess is possible by employing a comprehensive management plan . components of the plan include ( 1 ) rapid evaluation and assessment of the degree of physiologic and anatomic derangement , the latter by the prompt use of vascular enhanced computed tomographic scan ; ( 2 ) adequate fluid resuscitation determined by early institution of advanced hemodynamic monitoring ; ( 3 ) attempts to identify and document septic foci via computed tomography-guided percutaneous aspiration ; and ( 4 ) aggressive surgical debridement . close adherence to these policies allowed us to keep mortality in this seriously ill group of patients to 14 % . most deaths occurred in patients who were referred to this service late in the course of their disease . the acute physiology and chronic health enquiry ( apache ) ii severity of illness index applied at the time of admission proved an accurate predictor of mortality . a score of 25 or greater was highly predictive of death , and a lesser score , of survival . 
blunt intestinal injury . keys to diagnosis and management . fifty-six patients with blunt intestinal injury seen during 39 months were reviewed for keys to diagnosis and treatment . motor vehicle accidents were involved in 80 % of the cases and seat/lap belts were in use 69 % of the time . blunt intestinal injury was the only abdominal injury in 70 % of the cases . there were 42 perforations and 20 devascularizations ; multiple injuries were common ( 27 % ) . abdominal tenderness was present on admission in 43 of 44 patients in whom a reliable examination was possible . peritoneal lavage was positive in 13 ( 93 % ) of 14 patients . computed tomography was falsely negative in three of four instances in which it was used . perforations were most common in the upper and lower ends of the small bowel and in the sigmoid colon ; devascularizations were most common in the distal ileum and sigmoid colon . resection/anastomosis was performed in 38 % of small-bowel perforations and in all small-bowel devascularizations . resection/diversion was required in most colonic perforations ( five of six patients ) and devascularizations ( four of six patients ) . there were five deaths ( 9 % ) , none due to intestinal injury . there were seven complications related to intestinal injury . diagnostic delay occurred in two patients ; both had resultant morbidity . blunt intestinal injury is associated with physical findings in conscious patients . peritoneal lavage should be used when tenderness can not be evaluated . timely operative intervention minimizes morbidity and hospital stay . 
the recalcitrant perineal wound after rectal extirpation . applications of muscle flap closure . perineal wounds developing after abdominoperineal resection result in chronic purulent drainage and intermittent episodes of sepsis and are generally unresponsive to conservative medical and surgical treatment . thirteen consecutive patients ( aged 27 to 74 years ; mean , 48 years ) who underwent debridement and immediate muscle flap closure of these wounds were analyzed to identify risk factors for delayed healing and to evaluate the effectiveness of muscle flap coverage . three risk factors were identified : preoperative or postoperative radiation therapy , resection for recurrent carcinoma , and inflammatory bowel disease . a total of 19 muscle flaps ( 11 gracilis , five gluteal thigh , two gluteus maximus , and one rectus abdominis ) were used to close these wounds . during an average 3.5-year follow-up , four ( 31 % ) minor complications and one ( 8 % ) recurrence were noted to occur . muscle flaps provide safe , effective , single-stage procedures for the closure of chronic perineal wounds . 
fibrin glue inhibits intra-abdominal adhesion formation . to determine the effect of fibrin glue on intra-abdominal adhesion formation , 45 rats were randomized to three groups . each animal received two adhesion models . group 1 received no further treatment . groups 2 and 3 had the adhesion models covered with fibrinogen from fresh frozen plasma ( 1.77 g/l ) and cryoprecipitate ( 23.6 g/l ) , respectively . in group 1 , 13 of 15 rats had high-grade adhesions in both models . in group 2 , high-grade adhesions were noted in nine of 15 rats in model 1 and in 12 of 15 rats in model 2 . in group 3 , however , high-grade adhesions were seen in only three of 15 rats in model 1 , with 11 rats having no adhesions , and in only two of 15 rats in model 2 . histologic analysis suggested accelerated healing in group 3 . we conclude that ( 1 ) fibrin glue inhibits intra-abdominal adhesion formation in rats , ( 2 ) the inhibitory action is dependent on the fibrinogen concentration of the fibrin glue , and ( 3 ) adhesions are reduced by fibrin glue regardless of whether the peritoneal defect is closed . 
reoperative surgery for the morbidly obese . a university experience . patients who undergo surgery for morbid obesity are often subjected to reoperation for a wide array of indications . to evaluate outcome following revisional procedures , we reviewed the records of 32 such patients treated at ucla between april 1986 and may 1989 . twenty-five women ( 78 % ) and 7 men ( 22 % ) with a mean age of 44 years underwent 76 reoperations ( 2.4 per patient ) for complications of prior obesity surgery . indications for initial surgical revision consisted primarily of metabolic derangements ( 12 patients ) and weight-related problems ( 11 patients ) . in contrast , indications for the patients ' final surgical procedure were commonly for bowel obstruction ( 41 % ) , intra-abdominal sepsis ( 12 % ) , and gastrointestinal bleeding ( 6 % ) . following initial revision , 23 patients ( 71.8 % ) required further surgery for major complications and four patients died ( 12.5 % ) . while initial revisions are frequently indicated for metabolic problems , final reoperations are more frequently undertaken for urgent , life-threatening complications . revisional procedures for morbid obesity should be carefully considered , and the potential for major complications and/or death should be weighted heavily against proposed benefits . 
endocrine consequences of alcohol abuse . the recognized endocrine consequences of alcohol abuse are reviewed on an organ by organ basis . the organ systems for which the most information is available ( liver , heart , brain ) are presented first followed by those where the information base is less . 
t cell subsets ( tc , th , ts , tsi ) and il2 receptor-bearing cells in peripheral blood of patients in the acute phase of alcoholic hepatitis . the present study was designed to evaluate the proportion of t cell subsets and il2 receptor positive cells in the peripheral blood of patients with acute alcoholic hepatitis ( aah ) using monoclonal antibodies to t cell antigens and tac in a double immunofluorescent technique . the results indicate that the percentage of the total t cells and the intensity of all the t cell antigens are significantly reduced and the percentage of t helper cells and the ratio between th/ts cells are significantly increased in aah when compared to healthy controls . but , significant differences in values observed in this study were not found for the absolute number of these cells . these altered values returned to normal levels during convalescence . 
pharmacokinetics of propofol infusions in patients with cirrhosis . we have compared the pharmacokinetics of propofol as an infusion in 10 control and 10 patients with cirrhosis . anaesthesia was induced within 3-4 min during administration of an infusion of propofol 21 mg kg-1 h-1 . after 5 min , the infusion was decreased in a stepwise manner to 12 mg kg-1 h-1 and subsequently 6 mg kg-1 h-1 . the mean recovery time after discontinuation of the infusion was significantly longer in the cirrhotic group ; however , when patients opened their eyes , blood concentrations of propofol were similar in both groups ( 1 micrograms ml-1 ) . pharmacokinetic analysis was performed from the beginning of infusion to 8 h after termination . total body clearance was not reduced significantly in cirrhotic ( 1.56 ( sd 0.48 ) litre min-1 ) compared with control ( 1.75 ( 0.32 ) litre min-1 ) patients . the volume of distribution at steady state was significantly greater in patients with cirrhosis than in control patients ( 202 ( 82 ) litre vs 121 ( 49 ) litre ) . however , this difference did not change terminal elimination half-life . the pharmacokinetics of propofol given by infusion to maintain general anaesthesia were not affected markedly by moderate cirrhosis . 
pivoting larynx -- an unusual clinical observation at laryngoscopy . rigid oesophagoscopy was planned in the investigation of a young patient with dysphagia . during laryngoscopy for tracheal intubation an unusual pivoting manoeuvre was required to see the vocal cords . although the initial diagnostic investigations were unhelpful , follow up directed at explaining the clinical observations led to an eventual diagnosis of anterior tubercles of c6 , which explained the observation and accounted for the dysphagia . 
postoperative analgesic requirements in patients exposed to positive intraoperative suggestions . objective -- to establish whether positive suggestions given to a patient under general anaesthesia reduce postoperative pain and analgesic requirements . design -- prospective double blind randomised study . setting -- operating theatre and gynaecology ward of a teaching hospital . patients -- 63 woman undergoing elective abdominal hysterectomy were randomised to be played either a tape of positive suggestions or a blank tape during the operation through a personal stereo system . interventions -- three women were withdrawn from the study . anaesthesia was standardised for all of the women . postoperative analgesia was provided through a patient controlled analgesia system for the first 24 hours . pain scores were recorded every six hours . main outcome measures -- morphine consumption over the first 24 hours after the operation ; pain scores . results -- mean morphine requirements were 51.0 mg ( 95 % confidence interval 42.1 to 60.0 mg in the women played positive suggestions ; and 65.7 mg ( 55.6 to 75.7 mg ) in those played a blank tape . the point estimate ( 95 % confidence interval ) for the difference of means was 14.6 mg ( 22.4 % ) ( 1.9 ( 2.9 % ) to 27.3 mg ( 41.6 % ] ( p = 0.028 ) . pain scores were similar in the two groups . conclusion -- positive intraoperative suggestions seem to have a significant effect in reducing patients ' morphine requirements in the early postoperative period . 
bile acids and the increased risk of colorectal tumours after truncal vagotomy . an association between colorectal cancer and previous peptic ulcer surgery is reported . in a prospective screening study , 100 asymptomatic patients ( 80 men and 20 women ) who had undergone truncal vagotomy at least 10 years previously were investigated by barium enema , colonoscopy and gallbladder ultrasonography . control data were obtained from forensic autopsy subjects . the incidence of neoplasms greater than or equal to 1.0 cm in the vagotomized group was 14 per cent ( 11 adenomas , 3 carcinomas ) and 3 per cent in controls ( p = 0.01 ) . duodenal bile obtained at endoscopy from 21 vagotomized patients with normal gallbladders and from 21 control patients undergoing endoscopy was analysed by high performance liquid chromatography . the mean percentage of cholic ( ca ) , chenodeoxycholic ( cdca ) , deoxycholic ( dca ) and lithocholic ( lca ) acids in the bile of vagotomized patients was 32.3 , 45.6 , 20.7 and 1.4 per cent respectively compared with 45.3 , 36.2 , 17.9 and 0.7 per cent respectively in controls . the increased proportions of cdca and lca and decreased proportions of ca in the duodenal bile of vagotomized patients were significant ( p less than 0.001 ; p = 0.02 ; p = 0.007 ) . abnormalities in bile acid metabolism may help to explain the increased risk of colorectal neoplasia 10 years after truncal vagotomy . 
urinary tissue factor activity in colorectal disease . procoagulant activity ( pca ) in normal urine has been recognized for over 50 years . although tissue factor ( tf ) is produced by certain tumours , and is increased in both tumour-associated macrophages and blood monocytes , the possibility that it might also be increased in urine has not been studied in patients with cancer . we have measured urinary pca in hospital controls without inflammatory or neoplastic disease ( n = 79 ) , in patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( n = 8 ) , inflammatory bowel disease ( n = 19 ) , colorectal cancer ( n = 70 ) and in patients undergoing colonoscopy ( n = 50 ) . urinary pca was higher ( p less than 0.001 ) in patients with colorectal cancer and inflammatory bowel disease than controls or patients with rheumatoid arthritis . fourteen ( 88 per cent ) out of 16 colonoscopy patients subsequently found to have carcinoma or inflammatory bowel disease had levels above the control upper quartile , compared with 8 ( 24 per cent ) out of 34 with normal colonoscopy ( p less than 0.001 ) . tf inhibitors confirmed the nature of the pca and western blotting studies indicated a urinary tf molecular weight of approximately 38,000 . these studies provide further evidence of abnormal haemostasis in malignancy and suggest that determination of urinary tf may provide a useful screening test in patients undergoing colonoscopy . 
malignant left-sided large bowel obstruction managed by subtotal/total colectomy . of 60 patients presenting with acute obstructing carcinoma of the left colon , 49 underwent immediate resection either by radical subtotal/total colectomy ( 31 patients , group i ) or by radical segmental resection ( 18 patients , group ii ) of whom three had immediate anastomosis after on-table bowel irrigation and 15 had a planned staged procedure . the operative mortality rate was 3 per cent in group i and 11 per cent in group ii ( not a statistically significant difference ) . however , substantial differences were found for major morbidity ( 6 versus 44 per cent in groups i and ii respectively ; p less than 0.01 ) and mean length of hospital stay ( 17 days in group i versus 35 days in group ii ; p less than 0.05 ) . all three patients who had on-table lavage developed anastomotic leaks which necessitated a second operation to form a stoma . six patients ( 19 per cent ) in group i required antidiarrhoeal medication in the immediate postoperative period . however , subsequent improvement in stool frequency was noted in all patients . it is concluded that subtotal/total colectomy is an acceptable means of managing patients with obstructing carcinoma of the left colon in that it is associated with a low morbidity and mortality rate and good functional results . 
blood transfusion and recurrence of colorectal cancer : the role of platelet derived growth factors . efforts to explain the possible effects of blood transfusion on the recurrence of colorectal cancer have been based entirely on the immunosuppressive effects of blood transfusion . however , the relationship between solid tumour development and the immune system is inconclusive . we have investigated an alternative mechanism involving the potential role of growth factors in this phenomenon . using a human fibroblast : [ 125i ] deoxyuridine uptake mitogenesis assay , the relative amounts of growth factor in the plasma of stored blood were measured . there was a progressive increase in mitogenesis from day 0 ( n = 6 ) to day 28 ( n = 6 ; p less than 0.001 , mann-whitney u test ) . the effect of growth factors on the development of liver and intraperitoneal metastases was studied in hooded lister rats . following an intraportal injection of 10 ( 5 ) mc28 tumour cells , the experimental group ( n = 25 ) received 2 ml of syngeneic serum intravenously for 4 days . likewise , colonic anastomoses were performed on omentectomized rats and the peritoneal cavity seeded with 10 ( 3 ) cells . the experimental groups ( n = 20 ) received either 2 ml serum intravenously repeatedly or 3 ml serum intraperitoneally ( n = 19 ) . there was no significant increase in liver metastases or peritoneal disease following intravenous infusion of serum but serum delivered intraperitoneally resulted in a significant increase in tumour from 22 per cent in the controls to 89 per cent in the study group ( p less than 0.01 ) . growth factors released from platelets following blood loss into the peritoneal cavity may be important in enhancing local recurrence of colorectal cancer . 
experimental study of starch-induced intraperitoneal adhesions the effects of starch on the development of postoperative adhesions were examined in 144 sprague dawley rats . groups of rats were injected intraperitoneally with suspensions of washings from starched gloves , starch-free gloves and starch-poor washed gloves , and after operative manipulation of the bowel . the incidence of adhesions was greatest ( 78 per cent ) after laparotomy and injections of starch-rich washings and least when starch-poor ( 33 per cent ) or starch-free glove suspensions ( 37 per cent ) were used , confirming an advantage for washing gloves or switching to starch-free products . 
on-table pancreatography : importance in planning operative strategy . we describe our experience with 124 on-table pancreatograms performed during 117 operative procedures on 112 patients in a wide variety of clinical settings . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) was performed on 84 occasions with a 73 per cent success rate for visualization of the main pancreatic duct . on-table pancreatography ( otp ) was performed by one of five different techniques : retrograde , prograde or ambigrade ductography , cystography and ascending loopography after pancreaticojejunostomy . otp provided important information about the main pancreatic duct when endoscopic visualization was unsuccessful ( n = 23 ) , incomplete ( n = 17 ) or not performed ( n = 33 ) ; there was a failure rate of 4 per cent . in 35 patients either the additional information or discrepancies between ercp and otp findings resulted in a change of operative plan ( 19 extra procedures , 16 altered procedures ) . complete ductography was especially helpful in the 63 patients with chronic pancreatitis . otp is technically simple , free from complications and invaluable for planning operative strategy . 
laser recanalization versus endoscopic intubation in the palliation of malignant dysphagia . forty patients with widely disseminated or locally advanced malignant obstruction of the middle or lower third of the oesophagus underwent endoscopic treatment by either ndyag laser recanalization or intubation . groups were matched on the basis of tumour location and swallowing was graded clinically before and after treatment . technical success was achieved in 17 of 20 laser treated and 18 of 20 intubated patients . pretreatment swallowing ability , histology , tumour location and overall length were unrelated to functional outcome in both groups . however , circumferential tumour length identified endoscopically strongly influenced the quality of swallowing after laser recanalization . patients with excellent swallowing quality ( n = 7 ) had significantly shorter circumferential tumour lengths , 3.1 ( 1.0 ) cm , than those with poorer quality swallowing ( n = 10 ) , 6.3 ( 1.6 ) cm , ( p less than 0.001 ) . both methods of treatment had low complication rates and there was one death in the series in the laser-treated group . laser recanalization provides a better functional result than intubation for short ( less than 4 cm ) circumferential tumour . intubation at a single session seems more appropriate than repeated laser therapy when tumour length exceeds 4 cm . 
aetiology of pancreatic cancer curative surgery is possible in only a small minority of patients with pancreatic cancer and , to date , responses to chemotherapy and radiotherapy have been disappointing . to make any impact on the incidence of the disease a clearer understanding of its aetiology is required . this review explores present knowledge of the aetiology and epidemiology of pancreatic cancer . 
abdominal wall pain : an alternative diagnosis . the cause of abdominal pain need not necessarily reside in the viscera ; the abdominal wall is another source of symptoms . some causes of abdominal wall pain are obvious , e.g. hernias , but not so others such as nerve entrapment syndromes . this review is concerned with causes of abdominal wall pain which , although common , may be easily overlooked . 
toxicity of high-dose cytosine arabinoside in the treatment of advanced childhood tumors resistant to conventional therapy . a pediatric oncology group study . experience with high-dose cytosine arabinoside ( hdac ) in pediatric solid tumors is limited . sixteen children with solid tumors resistant to conventional therapies were registered in a pilot pediatric oncology group ( pog ) study that required the administration of hdac at 3 g/m2 every 12 hours for four doses . there were four cases of rhabdomyosarcoma , two cases of fibrosarcoma , four cases of neuroblastoma , and one case each of germ cell tumor , wilm 's tumor , retinoblastoma , hepatocellular carcinoma , ewing 's sarcoma , and burkitt 's lymphoma . all eligible patients had advanced diseases and had previously received extensive chemotherapy . thirteen patients received one course of hdac and three patients received two courses of hdac . due to prior treatments , patients had less than normal marrow reserves . short-term toxicity included nausea , vomiting , suppression of hemopoiesis , drug fever , and increased blood urea nitrogen ( bun ) , creatinine , and liver enzymes . all evaluable patients recovered from their toxicities . there were no drug-related deaths . none of the patients had neurologic problems , including the only patient with prior irradiation to the skull . with the above schedule , hdac appears to have manageable toxicity . 
effectiveness of periodic checkup by ultrasonography for the early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma . periodic checkup by ultrasonography was conducted on patients with chronic liver diseases for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma . in 19 months , a total of 2004 examinations were performed on a total of 660 cases ( 179 cases with liver cirrhosis in the compensatory stage , younger than 70 years ; 481 cases with chronic hepatitis , aged 40 to 70 years for men and 50 to 70 years for women ) . of the 660 cases , 22 hcc cases ( 3.3 % ) were detected and finally diagnosed by angiography and/or histologic examination . four of those cases ( 18 % ) had a single nodule smaller than 1 cm in diameter , and 11 cases ( 50 % ) had a single nodule smaller than 2 cm . surgical resection was performed on 12 cases ( 55 % ) . in comparison with the control group ( 83 hcc cases not receiving any periodic checkup ) , the frequency of small liver cancer and the surgical resection rate in the study group were significantly higher . this examination system by periodic ultrasonography checkup of patients with chronic hepatic diseases was effective for early detection and permitted aggressive therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma . 
parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells . mesothelioma has not been commonly reported as a cause of hypercalcemia of malignancy . we have studied a patient with malignant mesothelioma and hypercalcemia in association with elevated plasma concentrations of parathyroid hormone-like peptide ( plp ) . immunohistochemical analysis of the tumor and seven of eight other mesotheliomas that were not associated with hypercalcemia revealed the presence of plp cytoplasmic immunopositivity . plp immunopositivity was also detected in normal and reactive mesothelial cells . the results of these studies suggest that plp immunoreactivity is common in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells and raises the possibility that plp production may play a role in the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia associated with mesothelioma . 
glomerular iga deposits in patients with celiac disease . glomerular immunopathology was studied in 25 patients with newly diagnosed celiac disease . none had clinical signs of renal disease . glomeruli were obtained by fine-needle aspiration biopsy . the specimens were processed and studied by indirect immunofluorescence for immunoglobulins and complement . mesangial iga was found in 8 of the patients . it occurred occasionally together with slight igg or igm , but c3 was not seen in these patients . iga-class circulating immune complexes ( cic ) , antireticulin antibodies ( ara ) , antigliadin antibodies ( aga ) , and rheumatoid factor ( rf ) occurred significantly more often in the patients with mesangial iga than in the 17 patients having no mesangial iga . the patients with mesangial iga also had significantly higher mean levels of serum iga , iga-ara and iga-aga than those without . the results suggest that glomerular mesangial deposits of iga occur frequently in untreated celiac disease and that they are in some way associated with circulating iga-class antibodies and immune complexes . in this situation iga seems to be deposited without being able to induce clinically overt glomerulonephritis , a circumstance that may be related to the lack of complement in the deposits . 
acute deterioration of renal function associated with enteric hyperoxaluria . enteric hyperoxaluria due to malabsorption syndromes has been well documented to cause renal calculi and chronic tubulointerstitial renal damage . rarely , in the setting of intestinal bypass operations for morbid obesity , enteric hyperoxaluria has produced acute renal failure . we report two patients who suffered acute deterioration of renal function associated with increased intestinal absorption and renal excretion of oxalate associated with steatorrhea . one patient had a large portion of his small bowel resected many years prior to the onset of the renal failure and the second patient had chronic pancreatitis causing steatorrhea . both patients had renal biopsy documentation of the acute nature of the tubular damage produced by oxalate deposition . the mechanisms of their deterioration of renal function may relate to sudden increases in steatorrhea in association with episodes of volume depletion . enteric hyperoxaluria may be an easily overlooked and potentially preventable etiology of acute renal dysfunction . 
computed tomography in patients with esophageal perforation . contrast esophagram is the diagnostic procedure of choice in patients with clinically suspected perforation of the esophagus . in patients in whom the usual clinical signs or symptoms are unrecognized and in whom the diagnosis is obscure , the diagnosis of a perforated esophagus may be suggested by the finding of mediastinal fluid and air on ct . three patients are reviewed . the perforations included one spontaneous , one from erosion of an esophageal carcinoma , and one iatrogenic . in two of the three patients , the diagnosis of perforated esophagus had not been made initially and in one patient the initial esophagram was interpreted as normal . computed tomography of the chest in each patient led to the suspected diagnosis of perforated esophagus . prompt appropriate surgical intervention followed . the findings of mediastinal fluid and more importantly mediastinal air on ct of the chest are strongly suggestive of esophageal perforation . 
systemic hemodynamic and cardiac function changes in patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation . the objective of this study was to determine the changes in systemic hemodynamics ( systemic vascular resistance [ svr ] , cardiac output [ co ] , systemic blood pressure [ sbp ] ) and cardiac function ( pulmonary artery pressure [ pap ] and pulmonary wedge pressure [ pwp ] ) during the 96 hours following orthotopic liver transplantation ( olt ) and correlate these with changes in hepatic and renal function and patient outcome . the study took place in a 12-bed medical respiratory intensive care unit in a large teaching hospital . twenty-one patients had olt performed over a 21.5-month period ( january 1988 to october 15 , 1989 ) for end stage liver disease ( esld ) from a variety of causes . a flow-directed right heart catheter and an indwelling arterial cannula were inserted for hemodynamic monitoring over a 96-hour postoperative period . liver and renal function studies , total serum calcium , serum albumin , and fluid balance were determined daily . the svr increased significantly to 12.8 + / - 0.6 u at 48 hours compared with immediate ( less than 8 hours ) postoperative levels ( p less than 0.05 ) and remained elevated for 96 hours . the co fell progressively and was significantly lower than baseline values from 64 to 96 hours . there was significant inverse correlation between the increase in svr and the fall in co ( r = .85 , p less than 0.01 ) . the sbp was stable except for a small , but significant fall at 16 and 24 hours postoperatively . the pwp increased significantly from a baseline value of 12.5 + / - 0.9 mm hg to 15 + / - 0.9 mm hg at 32 hours and remained elevated through 96 hours ( p less than 0.05 ) . the serum bilirubin level fell progressively postoperatively and the prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time ( ptt ) shortened significantly . bile flow increased progressively from 107 + / - 120 ml/24 hours at the end of the first 24 hours to 188 + / - 125 ml/24 hours by 96 hours postoperatively . five patients died from nine to 43 days postoperatively . these patients ' hemodynamic parameters were not significantly different from the patients who survived . successful olt is associated with a rapid increase in svr and a fall in co without changes in sbp . these findings tend to parallel the improvement found in results of liver function tests . however , there is no correlation between the improvement in the hemodynamic state and long-term survival . 
colonoscopic screening of asymptomatic patients with a family history of colon cancer . the records of 201 asymptomatic patients who underwent colonoscopy based solely on a family history of colon cancer were reviewed . eighty-five patients ( 42 percent ) had a total of 166 lesions . fifty-four ( 27 percent ) patients of the screened population had neoplastic lesions , while 31 ( 15 percent ) patients had nonneoplastic polyps . four carcinomas were found . twenty-five of the patients with polyps ( 29 percent ) had no polyps distal to the splenic flexure ; these proximal polyps ( and two carcinomas ) would have been missed on screening with fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy . nineteen of these 25 patients had polyps smaller than 0.5 cm , which likely would have been missed with contrast enemas . almost one half ( 47 percent ) of all polyps discovered at screening colonoscopy were proximal to the descending colon . only one patient younger than 40 years old had adenomas . the yield of polyps and cancer in patients with familial risk indicates screening colonoscopy should be considered after age 40 . 
perirectal abscess in crohn 's disease . drainage and outcome . the role of surgical intervention in the treatment of patients with anorectal crohn 's disease is controversial . to clarify the success of aggressive drainage and the subsequent clinical course of patients with crohn 's disease and perirectal abscesses , the authors reviewed the records of 38 patients who presented with this condition during an eight-year period . twenty-two male and 16 female patients ( median age , 32 years ; range , 17 to 61 years ) with clinically or pathologically confirmed crohn 's disease of the bowel underwent operation for perirectal abscesses . thirty-two percent of patients had no previous history of anorectal crohn 's disease . thirty simple abscesses and 8 complex horseshoe abscesses were treated . at operation , 53 percent of patients underwent incision and drainage whereas 26 percent received loop indwelling drains and 21 percent had mushroom catheters placed . after resolution of the index abscess , recurrent abscesses occurred in 45 percent of the patients who underwent catheter drainage and 56 percent of the patients who underwent incision and drainage . more importantly , 44 percent of the incision and drainage group and only 31 percent of the catheter drainage group required subsequent proctectomy to control perineal sepsis . the healing time of the perineal wound was longer than six months in 83 percent of patients requiring rectal excision . we concluded that long-term catheter drainage may offer substantial benefit in the overall outcome of the treatment of patients with crohn 's disease and perirectal abscess . 
the surgical management of children with ulcerative colitis . the old vs. the new . the authors ' experience with children who have chronic ulcerative colitis was reviewed to compare their current surgical approach ( ileoanal anastomosis ) with earlier methods of management . between 1960 and 1984 , 137 children with chronic ulcerative colitis underwent surgery ( mean duration of follow-up , 7.1 years ) . in 91 patients , the procedures were a total proctocolectomy with ileostomy or kock pouch ( 66 ) or a lesser colectomy with either an ileostomy ( 16 ) or an ileorectal anastomosis ( 9 ) ( group i ) . forty-six patients underwent an ileoanal anastomosis procedure ( group ii ) . children in group i were more likely to have significant preoperative loss of weight , a debilitated condition , and malnutrition . urgent or emergency surgical intervention was required in 25 percent of patients in group i but in only 4 percent of patients in group ii . trends included 1 ) a younger age at operation in group ii , 2 ) a higher mortality in group i ( 7.7 percent ) than group ii ( 0 percent ) , and 3 ) a higher perioperative mortality with emergency operations ( 23 percent ) than elective procedures ( 1.6 percent ) . in group i , 98 percent of patients had an abdominal ostomy , but no patients in group ii had an abdominal ostomy . the children with an ileoanal anastomosis had an average of 4.8 stools during waking hours and 1.3 stools each night . on the basis of this experience , the authors recommend use of the ileoanal anastomosis procedure in the surgical treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis in children . 
accumulation and pepsin solubility of collagens in the bowel of patients with crohn 's disease . the collagen content of resected strictured intestine , with and without fistulas , from patients with crohn 's disease has been compared with that in macroscopically normal intestine removed from the same patients and from others without inflammatory bowel disease . collagen content per unit wet or dry weight of tissue was significantly increased in all grossly diseased tissue whether fistulated or not . although there was a significant increase in collagen types i , iii , and v in diseased tissue , the relative proportions of major collagen types extracted by limited pepsin digestion were similar for both crohn 's and non-crohn 's intestine ( type i , 65 to 70 percent ; type iii , 25 to 30 percent ; type iv , 2 to 3 percent ; and type v , 2.5 to 3 percent ) . cnbr digestion of pepsin insoluble material showed a similar relative abundance of types i and iii , indicating no major change in collagen type distribution between older ( insoluble ) and more newly synthesized collagen . there was no evidence of the presence of type i trimer collagen . type vi collagen , although not quantitated , was observed in 70 percent of intestinal specimens . the proportion of total collagen solubilized by pepsin treatment was significantly greater in both grossly diseased and macroscopically normal crohn 's bowel compared with non-inflammatory bowel disease bowel . these findings suggest that there are disturbances of collagen metabolism in crohn 's intestine , which account for the stricturing process and which may predate gross pathologic changes . 
endometrioma . an intra-abdominal troublemaker . a ten-year review of intestinal and abdominal wall endometriomas is reported . seven cases of intestinal and two cases of abdominal wall endometriomas are presented . symptoms were varied but a majority had some gynecologic complaint . in this select group of patients , preoperative investigations did not assist in establishing the diagnosis . all patients underwent surgery and coexisting inflammatory bowel disease was present in two patients . this review suggests that endometrioma of the intestine requires a high index of suspicion for diagnosis and that danazol does not appear to be effective treatment for these patients . 
enteroglucagon and peptide y-y response after construction of a pelvic reservoir in humans . the results of an investigation of plasma levels of gastrointestinal hormones in patients after the construction of a pelvic reservoir are reported . enteroglucagon ( eg ) and peptide tyrosine-tyrosine ( pyy ) , two hormones believed to play a relevant role in the adaptive response to bowel resection , were investigated using a specific radioimmunoassay in basal conditions and after a standard meal . pouch patients showed a statistically significant increase in basal levels of both enteroglucagon and pyy compared with control subjects ( p less than 0.02 and p less than 0.001 , respectively ) . the response of enteroglucagon to food ingestion , evaluated by means of the total integrated response , was similar in patients and controls . conversely , the response of pyy was significantly increased in pouch patients compared with control cases ( p less than 0.02 ) . results of this investigation suggest that gut hormones may be involved in mediating the adaptive response of the intestine to pouch construction . changes of gut peptides may explain , at least in part , the functional results observed after pouch construction . 
malignant potential of juvenile polyposis coli . report of a case and review of the literature . juvenile polyps of the colon and rectum traditionally have been viewed as being benign inflammatory or harmartomatous lesions without potential for malignant change . the authors report a case of adenocarcinoma developing in a patient with sporadic juvenile polyposis . juvenile polyposis was diagnosed in the patient at age 4 years . he underwent subtotal colectomy at age 6 years . at age 12 , he underwent a proctectomy and a swenson pull-through because of adenomatous changes in the rectal stump . at age 19 surveillance endoscopy revealed invasive cancer in a juvenile polyp . 
yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the transverse colon . report of a case . yersinia enterocolitica abscess of the bowel is a rare entity . only five cases have previously been reported -- none in the surgical literature . a unique presentation for yersinia infection , abscess of the transverse colon , is described , and the literature of y. enterocolitica intestinal perforation and abscess is reviewed . 
ileocolic nipple valve anastomosis for preventing recurrence of surgically treated crohn 's disease . long-term follow-up of six patients . to prevent coloileal reflux after ileocecal resection , an ileocolic nipple valve anastomosis was constructed in six patients with crohn 's disease . the patients were observed for more than 7 years and were compared with 21 crohn patients in whom conventional end-to-end ileocolic anastomosis was performed during the same period . the outcome was more favorable in the group with nipple valve anastomosis , i.e. , longer interval between surgery and symptomatic relapse , and tendency to less frequent recurrence and re-resection . an association was found between radiologically preserved nipple valve and remission , and two patients with intact valve at long-term follow-up remained symptom-free . the observations implied that protection of the terminal ileum from coloileal reflux after ileocecal resection for crohn 's disease may favorably influence the prognosis . 
plasma neurotransmitters and cortisol in duodenal ulcer patients . role of stress . levels of noradrenaline , adrenaline , dopamine , free serotonin , platelet serotonin , and cortisol were measured in the plasma of duodenal ulcer patients and controls . all subjects received antacids , and these substances were also measured . during relapse , all patients showed raised noradrenaline , adrenaline , dopamine , free serotonin , and cortisol values . in contrast , platelet serotonin showed very low values , which correlated negatively with all the former , except free serotonin . no correlations were found in parameters of the controls . after healing , significant reductions of noradrenaline , adrenaline , dopamine , free serotonin , and cortisol and significant increases of platelet serotonin values were observed . however , only dopamine , free serotonin , and cortisol reached normal values . noradrenaline and adrenaline remained higher and platelet serotonin lower , both significantly more so than normals . these still-altered parameters showed similar correlations to those found during relapses . the present results demonstrate that some baseline autonomic system imbalance exists in patients , amplified and accentuated during relapse . we discuss the possibility that stress plays some role in triggering duodenal ulcer relapse . 
putative mechanisms of cytoprotective effect of certain antacids and sucralfate . an investigation of cytoprotective activity of certain antacids and inert particles was carried out by treating ethanol-induced gastric mucosal damage in rats in order to clarify possible mechanisms by which aluminum-containing antacids act . al ( oh ) 3 inhibited gastric mucosal damage in a dose-related and time-dependent manner . neither aluminum ions themselves nor the particle size of the al ( oh ) 3 complex were responsible for the observed cytoprotection , since neither alcl3 , chemically inert al2o3 * c , nor sea sand showed protective effects . hyperosmolality in the gastric lumen was not a deciding factor in inducing cytoprotection . silicic acid and titanium dioxide , with superficial charge similar to al ( oh ) 3 proved to be effective in inhibiting gastric hemorrhagic lesions and releasing pge2 , suggesting that the surface charge of al ( oh ) 3 may be important in its cytoprotective properties . the same may also be valid for sucralfate . since antacid-induced cytoprotection was only partly reduced by pretreatment with indomethacin , it is likely that additional mechanisms and mediators other than prostaglandins , such as nonprotein sulfhydryls , also are involved in gastric cytoprotection arising from aluminum-containing antacids . 
gastric contents retained in rat stomach following mild irritant exposure contribute to adaptive cytoprotection . fluid retained in the gastric lumen immediately preceding the administration of a damaging product will dilute that product and decrease its injurious capacity . in an attempt to explain the phenomenon of adaptive cytoprotection , we studied the effect of mild irritant exposure on the volume of fluid retained in the gastric lumen . rats treated with 0.2 n-0 .4 n hcl had a larger volume of gastric fluid retained as compared to animals treated with 0.4 n nacl . additionally , a mixture of gastric juice derived from rats exposed to 0.4 n hcl with 2 ml ethanol was significantly less damaging to the gastric mucosa than a similar mixture containing an equal volume of gastric juice derived from 0.4 n nacl-exposed rats . we conclude from our observations that in mild irritant-exposed stomachs , the gastric juice is a main contributor to the protection against ethanol injury . 
modulatory action of adenosine on gastric function and ethanol-induced mucosal damage in rats . this study examines the gastric effects of adenosine and its antagonist , theophylline , on secretory function , mucosal blood flow , and on ethanol-induced glandular mucosal damage in rats that were fasted for 24 hr before experimentation . the animals were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbitone ( 50 mg/kg intraperitoneal ) and their tracheae cannulated . an ex vivo stomach chamber then was prepared . the luminal bathing solution was collected every 15 min and the concentrations of h + and na + were determined by a ph autotitrator and an ionmeter , respectively . the glandular mucosal blood flow was measured by a laser doppler flowmeter and the severity of lesions was determined by measuring the hemorrhagic areas . adenosine administration ( 2.5 or 7.5 mg/kg , subcutaneous ) markedly lowered the h + and na + output but increased the secretory volume and mucosal blood flow in a dose-dependent manner . the same doses of the nucleoside also prevented ethanol-induced mucosal damage . these effects were prevented by pretreatment with theophylline ( 30 or 60 mg/kg , subcutaneous ) . ethanol given alone significantly depressed the h + and na + secretion . both effects were not modified by adenosine treatment . however , the depressive action of ethanol on mucosal blood flow was prevented by adenosine . these findings indicate that adenosine modulates the physiological function of the stomach . it also directly activates the defensive mechanism of the stomach , which is partially mediated by the improvement of the gastric mucosal blood flow and an increase in the nonacid component of gastric secretion . 
dynamic ct scanning of pancreatic duct after secretin provocation in pancreas divisum . variations in pancreatic duct diameter at ct scanning and serum pancreatic amylase response following secretin administration were studied in 29 patients with pancreas divisum and unexplained upper abdominal pain . eleven healthy individuals were used as controls . at endoscopic retrograde pancreatography ( erp ) six patients had signs of marked and six moderate pancreatitis , whereas there were no pancreatitis changes in 17 of the patients . at ct scanning patients with marked pancreatitis ( erp ) had significantly increased pancreatic duct diameter as compared to patients without signs of pancreatitis . the duct was visualized in 52 % of all patients before and 71 % after secretin stimulation the corresponding figures for healthy controls , being 18 % both before and after secretin . in patients without signs of pancreatitis , it was demonstrated in 5/17 ( 29 % ) before and 11/17 ( 65 % ) after secretin , whereas it was seen in 10/12 ( 83 % ) pancreatitis patients both before and after the hormonal provocation . in five of the nonpancreatitis patients in whom the duct was measurable before and at all study intervals ( 10 , 20 , and 50 min ) after secretin , there was a significant duct dilation response both at 10 min and when comparing the maximal duct diameter after secretin to the initial values . in contrast secretin did not affect the duct caliber in pancreatitis patients . serum pancreatic amylase increased significantly after secretin administration to healthy controls and nonpancreatitis patients but was uninfluenced in the marked and moderate pancreatitis groups , respectively . however , when all pancreatitis patients were grouped together , the amylase levels were significantly elevated by secretin . in conclusion , secretin provocation caused duct dilation at ct scanning in pancreas divisum patients without signs of pancreatitis at erp . 
improved scintigraphic assessment of severe cholestasis with the hepatic extraction fraction . in previous studies , we found that biliary scintigraphy with technetium-99m-labeled iminodiacetic acid ( [ 99mtc ] ida ) provided excellent discrimination between intrahepatic and extrahepatic cholestasis , except in patients with profound cholestasis who had poor visualization of the biliary tree . in this study , we have used deconvolution analysis to determine the hepatic extraction fraction ( hef ) of a hypothetical single circulatory pass of [ 99mtc ] ida . our hypothesis was that extraction of radionuclide from the blood would be normal in patients with extrahepatic obstruction alone , but would be impaired in patients with intrahepatic disease ( ihd ) . the purpose of this study was to compare the hef in patients with profound cholestasis ( bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl ) due to either ihd or common bile duct obstruction ( cbdo ) . normal subjects ( n = 13 ) had an hef of 100 % . patients with cbdo ( n = 13 ) had slightly reduced hef values ( 92.8 + / - 3.2 % ) despite profound hyperbilirubinemia ( 6.1 + / - 1.0 mg/dl ) . patients with ihd ( n = 23 ) had a markedly reduced hef ( 43.1 + / - 4.1 % ) which was significantly lower than patients with cbdo and normal subjects ( p less than 0.001 ) . we conclude that the determination of the hef during biliary scintigraphy is helpful in distinguishing between intrahepatic and extrahepatic disease in patients with hyperbilirubinemia ( bilirubin greater than or equal to 3.0 mg/dl ) . 
effect of race upon organ donation and recipient survival in liver transplantation . the effect of the race of the donor on organ donation and on the outcome of clinical liver transplantation has not been addressed previously . the aims of this study were to determine : ( 1 ) the number of organs donated by each of the major racial groups of the united states , ( 2 ) the outcome of transplantation of these organs across racial groups , and ( 3 ) the pattern of liver disease that required transplantation in each of these racial groups . a significantly higher proportion of organs were donated by white non-hispanic americans than either black or hispanic americans . there was no significant difference in survival when an organ was transplanted between black and white americans and vice versa . postnecrotic cirrhosis from a variety of causes was the most common indicator affecting black and white recipients , while primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis were uncommon in the black population . while the number of organs donated by blacks was low , it was , however , proportional to the number of black recipients in this study . reasons for the low rate of donation by the black and white hispanic population are discussed . it is concluded that race is not a criteria to be used in selection of donors for liver transplantation . educational programs addressing issues of organ donation and transplantation directed towards the black and hispanic populations are recommended . 
cirrhosis of the liver . a risk factor for development of cholelithiasis in males . an ultrasonographic study about the prevalence of cholelithiasis was performed in 410 cirrhotic patients and in 414 controls matched for age and sex . gallstone disease was found more often in cirrhotic patients ( 31.9 % ) than in controls ( 20.7 % ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . the female-to-male ratio of gallstones prevalence in cirrhotic patients approached to 1:1 . gallstone disease in cirrhotic patients vs controls was significantly higher ( 30.2 % vs 16.5 % ) ( p less than 0.001 ) in males only . no difference was found , for gallstone disease prevalence in cirrhosis of different etiology . the prevalence of cholelithiasis increased from child 's a to child 's c with a significant trend ( p less than 0.001 ) ; this difference was significant in males ( 12.3 % vs 40.5 % ) ( p less than 0.001 ) but not in females . this study shows that cirrhosis represents a risk factor for the development of cholelithiasis in males . we suggest that high levels of estrogens could play a role in these patients , by an impairment of gallbladder emptying similar to that observed in pregnant women . 
corticosteroid treatment reduces mast cell numbers in inflammatory bowel disease . mast cell degranulation in the gut causes mucus secretion , mucosal edema , and increased gut permeability and may be responsible for some of the symptoms and signs of inflammatory bowel disease . we have used a novel monoclonal antibody ( aai ) against tryptase expressed exclusively in the granules of mast cells to enumerate mast cells in rectal biopsies in order to study the effect of inflammatory bowel disease and drug treatment upon rectal mast cell numbers . rectal mast cell numbers are significantly reduced in inflammatory bowel disease patients taking corticosteroids ( mean 4.95 cells/mm2 ) when compared with control patients ( 10.1 , p less than 0.001 ) and inflammatory bowel disease patients not taking corticosteroids ( 9.7 , p less than 0.001 wilcoxon rank sum test ) . the reduction in mast cell counts was independent of the degree of inflammation or architectural distortion . there was a negative correlation between the dose of corticosteroids and mast cell count ( r = 0.53 , p less than 0.05 spearman rank correlation ) , and the mast cell count was reduced within a few days of treatment and remained low throughout steroid therapy . mucosal mast cell depletion may be an important mechanism of action of corticosteroids in inflammatory bowel disease . 
small bowel phytobezoar mimicking presentation of crohn 's disease . a case of small bowel phytobezoar formed from unusual ingested vegetation is described . the patient presented with recurrent subacute obstruction and a right iliac fossa mass mimicking the presentation of crohn 's disease . none of the usual gastrointestinal disorders that predispose to bezoar formation were present . the phytobezoar passed spontaneously following small bowel enema and colonoscopy . it is possible that relaxation of the gut secondary to the antispasmodics administered at investigation or the physical disturbance during these procedures enabled migration through the ileocecal valve . antispasmodics may be of use in the conservative management of bezoars obstructing otherwise normal bowel . 
pancreatitis . pancreatitis is a common but rather poorly understood entity most often associated with alcohol abuse or biliary tract disease . despite the availability of a variety of diagnostic tests and imaging techniques , the diagnosis of pancreatitis continues to be primarily a clinical one . of major concern to the emergency physician is distinguishing pancreatitis from other , potentially lethal , causes of abdominal pain , and identifying those patients with severe pancreatitis who are at risk for a complicated course secondary to the remote systemic effects of the disease . 
alcoholic liver disease . alcoholic liver disease presents a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from mild asymptomatic fatty liver to alcoholic hepatitis and severe life-threatening liver failure with ascites , hemorrhaging esophageal varices , and encephalopathy . although still poorly understood , the mechanism of this injury is probably the result of numerous direct toxic and metabolic effects of alcohol on the hepatocyte . therapy consists primarily of abstinence and supportive care . however , several newer treatments are actively being studied . these include prednisolone , anabolic steroids , glucagon and insulin , propylthiouracil , and cyanidanol . colchicine is promising as an agent to inhibit fibrosis . complications of cirrhosis , including ascites and variceal hemorrhage , are the result of end stage disease . a return to old techniques of ascitic fluid management suggests that therapeutic large-volume paracentesis with albumin infusion is a safe and effective form of therapy . variceal hemorrhage is best treated with sclerotherapy , vasoconstrictors , and balloon tamponade . little has been done to alter the ultimately dismal prognosis and long-term survival of alcoholic liver disease . 
natural history of congestive gastropathy in cirrhosis . the liver study group of v. cervello hospital . in a prospective study of the natural history of congestive gastropathy , 212 consecutive cirrhotic patients ( 75 treated with sclerotherapy ) were included . mean follow-up was 46 months . mild gastropathy ( mosaiclike pattern ) was found in 110 patients and severe gastropathy ( granular mucosa with cherry spots ) was found in 20 . prevalence of helicobacter pylori , formerly campylobacter pylori , was 50 % in patients without , 43 % in those with mild , and 28 % in those with severe gastropathy . congestive gastropathy was significantly more frequent in patients treated with sclerotherapy ( 83 % vs. 50 % , p less than 10 ( -5 ) ) . sixty-month actuarial proportions of patients free of anemia ( in the absence of hematemesis or melena ) , were 17 % with severe , 62 % with mild , and 93 % without gastropathy ( p less than 10 ( -8 ] . corresponding figures for overt bleeding were 25 % , 73 % , and 87 % ( p less than 10 ( -7 ] , whereas those for survival were 46 % , 72 % , and 85 % ( p = 0.0005 ) , respectively . a multivariate regression analysis supported the following conclusions : ( a ) sclerotherapy and the presence of large esophageal varices significantly increase the risk of congestive gastropathy , which ( b ) is a significant risk indicator of both chronic and overt bleeding but does not independently affect survival . 
24-hour intragastric acidity and plasma gastrin after omeprazole treatment and after proximal gastric vagotomy in duodenal ulcer patients the relationship between suppressed gastric acidity and the increase in plasma gastrin levels after pharmacological and surgical treatment of peptic ulcer disease were compared in this study . eight patients with chronic duodenal ulcer and referred for proximal gastric vagotomy were studied . 24-hour intragastric acidity and plasma gastrin levels were investigated in the same patients on three consecutive occasions : preentry without any treatment ; after 4 weeks of administration of 20 mg of omeprazole daily , and 4-6 months after proximal gastric vagotomy . intragastric acidity was slightly more reduced by omeprazole ( 94 % ) than after proximal gastric vagotomy ( 78 % ) , with no difference found during the day or night with either . plasma gastrin levels increased slightly more after proximal gastric vagotomy [ 284 % ( median , 2120 pmol.h / l ; range , 733-2831 pmol.h / l ) ] than after omeprazole administration [ 186 % ( median , 1586 pmol.h / l ; range , 495-2573 pmol.h / l ) ] . there is strong evidence that the increased plasma gastrin concentration following omeprazole treatment is caused by the reduced intragastric acidity . the slight increase in plasma gastrin concentration following proximal gastric vagotomy despite a lesser reduction in intragastric acidity may be the result of additional effects on gastrin release by the vagotomy . both treatments resulted in a modest increase in plasma levels of gastrin that were far below the gastrin levels observed in achlorhydric patients , e.g. , patients with pernicious anemia . 
role of epidermal growth factor , prostaglandin , and sulfhydryls in stress-induced gastric lesions . epidermal growth factor promotes the growth of and protects gastric mucosa against various ulcerogens , including stress , but little is known about its role in the pathogenesis of stress ulcerations . in this study , wistar rats with intact and resected salivary glands were exposed to water-immersion and restraint stress . during 2-14 hours of water-immersion restraint stress , the formation of gastric ulcerations increased progressively and the duration of stress was accompanied by a decrease in dna synthesis in the gastric mucosa . following sialoadenectomy , a significant increase in the number of stress ulcerations and further reduction in dna synthesis were observed . exogenous epidermal growth factor and dimethyl prostaglandin e2 significantly reduced the ulcerations in the stressed rats with intact salivary glands , but this reduction was significantly less pronounced after sialoadenectomy . water-immersion restraint stress also resulted in about 50 % reduction in mucosal prostaglandin e2 generation , and the pretreatment with indomethacin , which suppressed prostaglandin e2 by about 90 % , almost doubled the number of stress ulcerations and abolished the gastro-protective effect of exogenous epidermal growth factor ( but not dimethyl prostaglandin e2 ) against the stress lesions . an inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase activity by difluoromethyl ornithine also augmented stress-induced ulcerogenesis and abolished the protective action of epidermal growth factor while the administration of spermine almost completely prevented stress ulcerations in rats both without and with pretreatment with difluoromethylornithine . water-immersion restraint stress also significantly reduced mucosal content of glutathione . cysteamine increased tissue glutathione and reduced stress ulcerations but n-ethylmaleimide , an sulfhydryl blocker , decreased mucosal content of glutathione without affecting the stress ulcerations . this study indicates that the stress ulcers are accompanied by the reduction in mucosal synthesis of dna , prostaglandin , and glutathione and that the presence of salivary glands attenuates the stress ulcerogenesis probably by releasing epidermal growth factor which acts , in part , by enhancing ornithine decarboxylase activity , mucosal growth , and prostaglandin and glutathione formation . 
acute and chronic stress in duodenal ulcer disease . acute and chronic life event stressors were objectively assessed in a sample of duodenal ulcer patients and community controls . stress was assessed on two dimensions , " personal threat " and " goal frustration . " chronic stressors ( those of 6 months ' duration or more ) involving high goal frustration were significantly and independently associated with the onset and relapse of duodenal ulcers , as were acute events of high immediate but transient personal threat . 
role of visceral afferent mechanisms in functional bowel disorders . this report analyzes the clinical and physiological evidence supporting a role for altered visceral afferent mechanisms in the pathogenesis of two functional bowel syndromes : noncardiac chest pain and the irritable bowel syndrome . considerable recent evidence indicates that increased contractility is present only in a minority of patients and that hypercontractile episodes are not temporally related to abdominal pain . in contrast , altered sensation and motor reflexes in response to physiological stimuli , such as mechanical distention or acid , is common when appropriately investigated . the vagal and spinal afferent innervation mediates visceral sensation and is involved in multiple reflex loops regulating gastrointestinal effector function , such as motility and secretion . sensory input can be modulated peripherally at the afferent nerve terminal , at the level of prevertebral ganglia , the spinal cord , and the brainstem . an up-regulation of afferent mechanisms would result both in altered conscious perception of physiological stimuli and in altered motor reflexes . current evidence is consistent with an alteration in the peripheral functioning of visceral afferents and/or in the central processing of afferent information in the etiology of altered somatovisceral sensation and motor function observed in patients with functional bowel disease . 
glucose disposal , beta-cell secretion , and hepatic insulin extraction in cirrhosis : a minimal model assessment . factors controlling glucose metabolism after iv load were studied in nine patients with compensated cirrhosis and in six age-matched controls . the time courses of glucose , insulin , and c peptide were analyzed by means of the minimal model technique . in cirrhosis , insulin sensitivity was reduced by approximately 70 % and glucose-dependent glucose uptake ( glucose effectiveness ) by 45 % . decreased glucose effectiveness explained 65 % of the variance of glucose disappearance and correlated with the ratio of urinary creatinine to height , an independent measure of muscle mass ( r = 0.839 ) . beta-cell responsiveness to glucose , measured on c-peptide kinetics , was variable and increased on average by 170 % and 107 % ( first-phase and second-phase , respectively ) . the total amount of insulin secreted by beta-cells in the course of the study was nearly doubled , whereas the basal insulin secretion rate was in the normal range . the time courses of hepatic extraction of insulin did not differ between groups , and basal extraction was on average 58 % in controls and 56 % in patients with cirrhosis . it was reduced to 30 % in a single patient who had severe hepatocellular failure and large spontaneous portosystemic shunting . we conclude that the alterations in glucose metabolism of cirrhosis include a decreased insulin sensitivity , a reduced glucose effectiveness , and an increased pancreatic responsiveness to glucose , leading to hyperinsulinemia . the hepatic extraction of insulin is reduced only in the very advanced stages of the disease , possibly because of a large reserve capacity of the hepatic parenchyma . 
host response to mycobacterial infection in the alcoholic rat . animals , chronically treated with alcohol , were inoculated with mycobacteria ( bacillus calmette-guerin , 10.2 x 10 ( 6 ) organisms ) into the spleen to produce a granulomatous hepatitis . before infection , chronic alcohol ingestion was associated with a depressed skin test response to phytohemagglutinin , 71.7 % of baseline ( p = 0.009 ) . mycobacterial ( bacillus calmette-guerin ) infection stimulated phytohemagglutinin skin test response to 417 % of baseline in controls and 299 % in alcoholics ( p less than 0.001 ) . the hepatic granuloma response was altered with smaller but more numerous granulomas ( mean + / - sem , 81.2 + / - 1.5 microns2 of area with a frequency of 1.8 granulomas per field in alcoholics vs. 129.8 + / - 5.71 microns2 and 1.2 granulomas per field in controls ; p less than 0.001 ) . these changes were associated with a 10-fold increase in colony-forming units per gram of liver ( 54.5 + / - 18.2 in alcoholics vs. 5.6 + / - 1.83 in controls ; p = 0.0006 ) . this model offers precise parameters for host response to infection and indicates that alcohol significantly impairs the clearing capacity for mycobacteria from the liver . 
pathogenesis of ceftriaxone-associated biliary sludge . in vitro studies of calcium-ceftriaxone binding and solubility . ceftriaxone , a semisynthetic third-generation cephalosporin , has recently been associated with biliary sludge formation . analysis of the biliary concretions induced by this agent shows a calcium salt of ceftriaxone . the present in vitro studies were undertaken to provide insight into the pathogenesis of ceftriaxone-associated biliary sludge formation by evaluating possible interactions that may exist between calcium , bile salts , and ceftriaxone . ceftriaxone possessed high calcium-binding affinity . the formation constant for the calcium ceftriaxone salt at 37 degrees c was about 157.3 l/mol ; stoichiometry of the salt was 1:1 , i.e. , calcium ceftriaxone . the calcium-binding property of ceftriaxone was observed to be additive to that of taurocholate in mixed taurocholate-ceftriaxone solutions . although the solubility product constant for calcium ceftriaxone was only 1.62 x 10 ( -6 ) mol/l2 , marked metastability was observed ; neither visible nor microscopic precipitates developed until the [ ca2 + ] x [ ceftriaxone ] ion product exceeded the solubility product constant by a factor of 10.4 . metastability of the calcium ceftriaxone salt was also observed in human gallbladder bile in vitro . estimates of human biliary calcium ceftriaxone solubility in vivo were than calculated from previously-reported values for biliary [ ca2 + ] , [ ceftriaxone ] , and from the solubility product constant as defined in this study . calculated saturation indices for calcium-ceftriaxone in human bile generally increased ( corresponding to a decrease in solubility ) with increasing ceftriaxone dose . at doses less than or equal to 1 g , saturation index was well within the metastable range of this calcium-salt . however , at doses greater than or equal to 2 g , the saturation index surpassed the metastable limit . under these conditions , precipitation of ceftriaxone could occur . it was concluded that the development of ceftriaxone-induced biliary sludge is a solubility problem that occurs in patients receiving high-dose treatment ( greater than or equal to 2 g ) . this study proposes that the risk of developing ceftriaxone-associated biliary " pseudolithiasis " increases with increasing ceftriaxone dose and in patients with impaired gallbladder emptying . 
gallbladder motility in cholesterol gallstone disease . effect of ursodeoxycholic acid administration and gallstone dissolution gallbladder motility was evaluated by ultrasonography in 75 cholesterol gallstone patients and in 77 matched control subjects . all 75 gallstone patients were candidates for oral bile acid therapy ( radiolucent gallstones , less than 2 cm in diameter , in well-opacified gallbladder ) , and 38 of them were also studied during ursodeoxycholic acid administration . an additional 20 gallstone patients were studied 1 year after confirmed gallstone dissolution with oral bile acids . gallstone patients showed significantly greater fasting and residual volumes , a decreased percent of gallbladder emptying , but a similar absolute emptying and emptying rate compared with the control subjects . greater fasting volumes and reduced percents of gallbladder emptying were also found in gallstone-free patients who achieved complete dissolution with oral bile acids . after ursodeoxycholic acid administration , fasting gallbladder volumes were greater , and percents of gallbladder emptying were further decreased than in untreated gallstone patients . in conclusion , greater fasting volumes , and not reduced gallbladder contractility , account for the defective gallbladder function in radiolucent ( cholesterol-rich ) gallstone patients . this condition is likely to precede , and possibly to promote , gallstone formation because it persists after gallstone dissolution . ursodeoxycholic acid administration worsens the defect observed in gallstone patients . this finding also suggests , although indirectly , that the expected normalization of cholesterol saturation during oral bile acid administration is not paralleled by an improvement in gallbladder function . 
primary biliary cirrhosis . quantitation of autoantibodies to purified mitochondrial enzymes and correlation with disease progression . primary biliary cirrhosis is characterized by the presence of antimitochondrial antibodies . recently , six of the autoantigens have been identified as components of the 2-oxo acid dehydrogenase multienzyme complexes located within mammalian mitochondria . immunoblotting studies have shown that two of these components , namely e2 and protein x of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex , are the major antigenic polypeptides recognized by autoantibodies . this study shows the development of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect and quantitate antibodies to these two purified antigens . coded serum samples from 166 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis , 140 patients with other liver and/or autoimmune disease , and 52 normal women were analyzed for reactivity using this immunoassay . these results indicate that this rapid , simple method has a 93 % sensitivity and 96 % specificity in the diagnosis of primary biliary cirrhosis . the titer of immunoglobulin g autoantibodies correlated not only with antimitochondrial antibody titer measured by indirect immunofluorescence ( p less than 0.0001 ) but also with histological stage of disease ( p less than 0.04 ) and prognostic biochemical variables such as higher serum bilirubin and lower serum albumin levels ( p = 0.038 and 0.028 , respectively ) . there was no significant correlation between titer of autoantibodies and serum globulin or immunoglobulin g levels , indicating that the positive correlation with disease progression was not secondary to hypergammaglobulinemia . 
long-term outcome after surgery for biliary atresia . study of 40 patients surviving for more than 10 years . to define long-term prognosis of children who underwent surgery for biliary atresia , a retrospective study was undertaken in 122 children who underwent one of the kasai procedures between 1968 and 1977 . forty of the 122 children ( 32.7 % ) were alive after 10 years . firm hepatomegaly was present in 31 and splenomegaly in 29 children . serum bilirubin or all liver function tests were normal in 21 and 11 children , respectively ; survival rate decreased with the age at operation , but no significant difference was observed in the rate of children surviving with normal serum bilirubin whether they underwent surgery before age 2 months or between 2 and 3 months . twenty-four had esophageal varices and 15 experienced gastrointestinal bleeding . normal liver-function tests and absence of portal hypertension were observed in 11 of 122 children . these results indicate that kasai 's procedures were helpful in a significant proportion of children with biliary atresia who underwent surgery during this period . however , 80 % of children who initially underwent surgery with kasai 's procedures should eventually undergo liver transplantation . 
microprocessor-assisted solvent-transfer system for gallstone dissolution . in vitro and in vivo validation . to improve the efficacy , safety , and convenience of contact dissolution of gallbladder stones , a microprocessor-assisted solvent transfer system was developed . the system 's two pumps simultaneously infuse and aspirate solvent into and from the gallbladder at a high flow rate through a multilumen catheter . the microprocessor controls the pumps using a closed feedback loop control algorithm to regulate intragallbladder pressure to prevent solvent escape into the duodenum . turbulent solvent flow at the catheter end in the gallbladder is designed to induce rapid stone dissolution and to suspend insoluble residue , thus promoting its aspiration . the system 's response and gallbladder emptying capacity was 160-fold faster than the natural gallbladder emptying rate . the rate at which gallstones were dissolved by methyl tert-butyl ether using the system was compared with that achieved with a syringe pump . for 6 of 11 pairs of stones that totally dissolved , the mean dissolution time with the system was 10 + / - 6 minutes compared with 112 + / - 81 minutes for the syringe pump . in the 5 of 11 stone pairs which dissolved incompletely , insoluble residue was completely eliminated by the system in 21 + / - 9 minutes but not by the syringe pump even at 360 minutes . when the system was used in gallstone patients , solvent recovery was 99 % + / - 1 % , and the concentration of a nonabsorbable marker did not change , confirming the lack of appreciable absorption of methyl tert-butyl ether . these studies suggest that the microprocessor-assisted solvent transfer system is a device capable of safe , complete , and fully automatic contact dissolution of cholesterol gallbladder stones using methyl tert-butyl ether or similar solvents . 
esophageal obstruction after ingestion of a fiber-containing diet pill . foreign bodies of the esophagus in adults may be the result of a food bolus that becomes lodged proximal to a structural abnormality of the distal esophagus . a case of peptic stricture of the esophagus in a patient who presented with acute dysphagia after ingesting an over-the-counter diet pill composed of guar gum is discussed . it is recommended that anorectics composed of dietary fiber should not be used in patients with a history of esophageal stricture . 
idiopathic biliary ductopenia in adults : a report of five cases . the clinical and pathological findings of five adult cases of idiopathic nonsyndromatic paucity of interlobular bile ducts are reported . patients were 18-32 years old at the onset of the disease ; four presented with pruritus and/or jaundice and one with bleeding of the esophageal varices . two patients were siblings . serum alkaline phosphatase counts ranged from 1 to 16 times the upper normal value , and total bilirubin counts ranged from 0.6 to 8.8 mg/dl ( 10 to 150 mumol/l ) . initial liver biopsy showed portal and periportal fibrosis with cholangiolar proliferation and reduction in the number of interlobular bile ducts . antimitochondrial antibodies were absent , and bile ducts were normal after opacification . the patients were observed for 3-11 years . repeated liver biopsies in the five patients showed progression of the lesions , with development of biliary type cirrhosis in four . two of the four patients with cirrhosis died of hepatic failure 3 and 11 years after onset of the disease . in the two other cases , liver transplantation was performed successfully . these cases suggest that chronic cholestasis with marked ductopenia resembling the nonsyndromatic paucity described in infancy and childhood may reveal itself at an adult age . this disorder , possibly familial , may rapidly progress to severe and even fatal liver disease and could be a new indication for liver transplantation . 
omeprazole in the management of intractable esophageal ulceration following injection sclerotherapy . transient esophageal ulceration is a common finding after sclerotherapy of varices . a small proportion of these ulcers become chronic and resistant to conventional therapy . such chronic ulcers have been associated with pain , stricture formation , and recurrent hemorrhage . the use of omeprazole , a proton pump inhibitor , was examined in the current study in the treatment of 10 patients ( 6 women , 4 men ; age range , 27-86 years ) with cirrhosis ( pbc , 4 ; sclerosing cholangitis , 2 ; chronic active liver disease , 2 ; alcohol , 1 ; and cryptogenic , 1 ) who developed an esophageal ulcer after a mean of 13 ( range , 8-21 ) sessions of sclerotherapy . the ulcers had been present for 3-54 months despite prolonged treatment with high-dose h2-receptor antagonists and sucralfate . in each case one or more complications had occurred : severe pain in 3 , stricture formation in 4 , and recurrent hemorrhage in 7 cases . after an 8-week course of omeprazole , 40 mg daily , endoscopy confirmed complete healing of the ulceration in all 10 cases with symptom resolution . in 2 cases the ulcer recurred , with associated bleeding within 6 weeks of discontinuing the treatment in 1 patient . both cases responded to repeat therapy . these results confirm the efficacy of omeprazole for postsclerotherapy ulceration and imply that acid-pepsin has a role in perpetuating such ulcers . 
heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant wilson 's disease . wilson 's disease may present with severe acute hepatocellular failure . the only effective treatment for fulminant wilson 's disease is liver transplantation , which may lead to reversal of the underlying disease . some patients with cirrhosis who are too ill to undergo orthotopic liver transplantation have been treated with heterotopic liver transplantation . however , use of heterotopic liver transplantation for fulminant hepatocellular failure has not been successful . this case study involves a patient in whom a heterotopic liver transplant was successfully used for treatment of wilson 's disease presenting with fulminant hepatocellular failure . 
caseating hepatic granulomas in hodgkin 's lymphoma . a 68-year-old man presented with recurrent hodgkin 's lymphoma after a 9-year disease-free interval induced by chemotherapy . in addition to histological evidence of recurrent hodgkin 's disease , the liver biopsy specimen showed extensive caseating granulomas . cultures of bone marrow and liver tissue tested negative for mycobacterium tuberculosis . no antituberculous treatment was administered , and the patient had an excellent clinical response to additional chemotherapy for lymphoma . hodgkin 's lymphoma should be added to the list of disease entities associated with caseating granulomas in the liver . 
colonic lipomas : outcome of endoscopic removal . colonic lipomas are benign adipose tumors which are usually submucosal . with the increase in the number of endoscopic procedures being performed , these tumors are often detected incidentally at colonoscopy . although the risks of removing these tumors have been recognized , numerous reports have documented safe removal by snare electrocautery . we have reviewed the clinical outcome and the endoscopic and histopathologic features of seven lipomas that were endoscopically removed over a 5-year period . four patients recovered uneventfully , while three patients ( 42.8 % ) developed colonic perforation after the polypectomy . in the latter group , the lipomas were significantly larger than they were in the patients who did not develop colonic perforation ( 1.9 + / - 0.4 and 4.2 + / - 0.7 cm , respectively ; p = 0.048 ) . furthermore , the polypectomy specimens from those patients who developed perforation all contained significant muscularis propria . lipomatous polyps that are identified at endoscopy to be greater than or equal to 2 cm in diameter and to have a limited pedicle are at the greatest risk for endoscopic perforation . 
a laser-induced scar at the cardia increases the yield pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter low yield pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter is associated with esophageal reflux , and fundoplication must increase yield pressure if it is to prevent reflux . we attempted to increase yield pressure endoscopically in the dog by using the nd : yag laser to produce a fibrous scar at the cardia in the approximate line of the gastric sling fibers . ten beagle dogs were studied . in a pilot study with two dogs , 15 watts for 4.2 sec were found to produce a scar deep into the muscle coat of the stomach . three configurations of scar were used . one produced significant rises in yield pressure in all four of the dogs treated , the second produced a significant rise in one of the two dogs treated , and the third caused a significant drop in yield pressure in the one dog treated . one dog died of gastric perforation 10 days after lasering , but no other animal experienced any ill effects . these findings may have therapeutic implications for the management of esophageal reflux . 
endoscopic retrograde cannulation of the gallbladder : direct dissolution of gallstones . percutaneous transhepatic catheterization of the gallbladder for dissolution of cholesterol stones by instillation of methyl tert-butyl ether ( mtbe ) is an invasive therapeutic procedure . the only non-invasive alternative available to now , endoscopic retrograde cannulation of the cystic duct , was difficult because of the cystic duct 's tortuosity and spiral valves . we therefore developed a catheter system which , using conventional duodenoscopes during a routine endoscopic retrograde cholangiography ( erc ) procedure , permits reliable and safe catheterization of the gallbladder without the need for endoscopic sphincterotomy . in 18 of 22 patients ( 82 % ) we were able to place a cysto-nasal catheter , and in 14 patients mtbe dissolution therapy was then performed . eight patients ( 57 % ) were completely free of stones after treatment ; the other six ( 43 % ) had residual debris . in 4 of 22 patients ( 18 % ) cannulation attempts failed , in 3 patients due to cystic duct blockage by a calculus . endoscopic retrograde cannulation of the gallbladder ( ercg ) represents a promising alternative to the invasive percutaneous transhepatic catheterization procedure . 
expandable biliary metal stents for malignancies : endoscopic insertion and diathermic cleaning for tumor ingrowth . seventeen patients with malignant biliary strictures have been treated by endoscopic insertion of self-expandable metallic prostheses . two patients received two prostheses inserted simultaneously in both the left and right hepatic ducts for klatskin tumor type iii . immediate results were satisfactory despite an operative mortality of 18 % , and neither early nor late clogging was observed even in patients who presented previously with sludge above plastic stents that were removed . however , among five patients followed for more than 4 months , two presented with obstruction due to tumor ingrowth into the stent through the metallic mesh . accordingly , initial enthusiasm concerning long-term patency of these stents has decreased . however , we describe a technique of " diathermic cleaning " of tumor ingrowth which can easily restore the stent patency . the advantages of these wire mesh 30 f stents are their easier insertion , better immediate drainage , and absence of dislocation or perforation . 
pain on common bile duct injection during ercp : does it indicate sphincter of oddi dysfunction ? the reproduction of a patient 's biliary-type pain upon initial injection of contrast material into the common bile duct during diagnostic ercp is a dramatic experience for both patient and physician . the significance of this phenomenon is not clear , but it is touted by some to be a provocative test for sphincter of oddi dysfunction . sphincter of oddi manometry was performed on 224 consecutive patients referred over a 2-year period for evaluation of post-cholecystectomy syndrome and suspected sphincter of oddi dysfunction . all patients received only intravenous diazepam as premedication for ercp . delayed drainage time ( greater than 45 min ) , bile duct dilation ( greater than or equal to 12 mm ) , and a basal sphincter of oddi pressure of greater than 40 mm hg ( mean + / - 3 sd ) were considered elevated . we observed a reproduction of pain in 15 of 224 patients ( 6.7 % ) immediately following contrast injection . there was no correlation between pain on contrast injection and elevated basal sphincter of oddi pressure , delayed common bile duct drainage , bile duct dilation , or abnormal liver enzymes . therefore , we feel that reproduction of the patient 's biliary-type pain associated with contrast injection of ercp is not a provocative test for sphincter of oddi dysfunction . 
sphincter of oddi manometry : decreased risk of clinical pancreatitis with use of a modified aspirating catheter . this study was undertaken to determine whether routine use of a modified triple-lumen five french sphincter of oddi manometry catheter would reduce the frequency and severity of post-manometry pancreatitis and pancreatic enzyme elevation . seventy-six patients were alternately assigned to undergo sphincter of oddi manometry ( som ) with a standard perfusion ( infused group ) catheter or the newly developed aspiration ( aspirated group ) catheter . after som , there were significantly more patients in the infused group with both amylase and lipase values elevated at least two times the upper limits of normal at 2 ( p less than 0.001 ) , 6 ( p = 0.01 ) , and 18 hours ( p = 0.03 ) after the procedure . as compared with the standard perfusion system , the aspiration catheter was associated with a decreased frequency of clinical pancreatitis ( 23.5 % vs. 3 % , p = 0.01 ) reduced hospital stay ( 5 + / - 1.83 days , mean + / - se , versus 1 day ; p = 0.03 ) and milder pancreatitis . the aspiration manometry catheter should be considered for standard use for som , particularly if the pancreatic duct sphincter is being evaluated . 
the role of endoscopic injection sclerotherapy in the management of bleeding peristomal varices . peristomal varices usually occur in patients with enterostomies who develop portal hypertension , and represent a cause of recurrent or intractable gastrointestinal bleeding . treatment options for such bleeding include surgical ligation of varices , stoma revision with devascularization , injection sclerotherapy , portacaval shunt , or liver transplantation . we reviewed the records of seven patients with peristomal varices , who were followed for a mean of 17 months after diagnosis . fourteen episodes of clinically significant peristomal bleeding occurred in six patients . surgical ligation of varices was ineffective in controlling bleeding in two of three patients , although stoma revision with devascularization was temporarily effective in two other patients . injection sclerotherapy , used in three patients , effectively controlled acute bleeding without serious complications or need for surgery . definitive treatment for peristomal bleeding ( portacaval shunt or liver transplantation ) has prevented any further bleeding in three patients for a mean of 8 months after surgery . 
variceal sclerosis in schistosomotic patients : a 5-year follow-up study . to assess the therapeutic possibilities of injection sclerosis in schistosomotic portal hypertension , a 5-year prospective study was conducted in northeast brazil , where this parasitosis is endemic . fifty patients undergoing endoscopy for upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage from rupture of esophageal varices from july through december 1981 were chosen for the study . the 32 consenting patients were submitted to injection sclerotherapy paravariceally , using ethanolamine oleate ; the 18 refusing to participate were assigned to the control group . the incidence of rebleeding was 28.1 % in the former and 44.5 % in the latter , a difference which was not statistically significant ( fisher 's test , p = 0.375 ) . mortality from rupture of esophageal varices was 3.1 % in the sclerotherapy group and 27.7 % in the control group , a statistically significant difference ( fischer 's test , p = 0.017 ) . since sclerotherapy markedly improved the long-term survival rate of the patients , this procedure is advocated for the treatment of esophageal varices in cases of portal hypertension due to schistosomiasis . 
schatzki 's ring : long-term results following dilation the purpose of this study is to report long-term results of 61 patients with schatzki 's ring who were dilated for relief of dysphagia . the severity of schatzki 's ring was mild in 28 patients ( 46 % ) , moderate in 26 ( 43 % ) , severe in 5 ( 8 % ) , and indeterminate in 2 ( 3 % ) . follow-up information was available in 56 of 61 patients ( mean , 75 months ) . during follow-up , 35 patients ( 63 % ) developed recurrent dysphagia and required repeated dilations : 19 patients ( 34 % ) had one to two dilations , 9 patients ( 16 % ) had three to seven dilations , 6 patients ( 11 % ) had more than seven dilations ; 1 patient underwent surgery for resection of the schatzki 's ring ( 2 % ) . the mean ( range ) dilation-free interval was 50.1 months ( 11.8 to 100 months ) in mild cases , 44.5 months ( 8.9 to 82 months ) in moderate cases , and 28.6 months ( 9 to 76 months ) in severe cases . there was no significant correlation between the severity of schatzki 's ring on initial presentation and the subsequent dilation-free interval . our data indicate that recurrent dysphagia is common among patients with schatzki 's ring after a successful dilation , and that the severity of schatzki 's ring is not a good prognostic indicator of the need for subsequent dilation . 
witzel pneumatic dilation for achalasia : safety and long-term efficacy forceful dilation of the lower esophageal sphincter is considered primary therapy for achalasia . the witzel pneumatic balloon dilator , unlike fluoroscopically placed dilators , is placed over a standard gastroscope allowing positioning and dilation under direct vision . we report our experience with the witzel dilator in 45 patients with achalasia over a 5-year period . all patients had at least one major symptom score of 8 out of 10 for dysphagia and/or regurgitation before dilation . after witzel dilation , symptomatic response was graded as excellent ( score 0 to 2 ) , good ( score 3 to 5 ) , fair ( score 6 to 8 ) , and poor ( no improvement ) . symptom response was assessed after 1 week , 1 month , 6 month , 1 year , and present . the mean period of follow-up was 25 months ( range , 3 to 85 months ) . passage of the balloon across the gastroesophageal junction was technically unsuccessful in three patients . esophageal perforation occurred in two patients ( 4 % ) and transient chest pain greater than 2 days in three patients ( 7 % ) . there was no bleeding or death . symptomatic long-term improvement was excellent in 25 patients ( 63 % ) , good in 6 patients ( 15 % ) , fair in 4 patients ( 10 % ) , and poor in 5 patients ( 12 % ) . a repeat witzel dilation was performed in five patients but resulted in good/excellent improvement in only one patient . we conclude that pneumatic dilation with the witzel balloon is a safe , effective procedure for achalasia . 
fatty liver hepatitis ( steatohepatitis ) and obesity : an autopsy study with analysis of risk factors . steatohepatitis ( fatty liver hepatitis ) , histologically identical to alcoholic disease , occurs in some obese patients after jejunoileal bypass . a similar lesion occurs rarely in obese patients without bypass surgery , but the risk factors are poorly understood . hepatic steatosis , steatohepatitis and fibrosis were sought in 351 apparently nonalcoholic patients at autopsy and various risk factors were evaluated . incidence of steatosis and steatohepatitis correlated with the degree of obesity . steatohepatitis was found in 18.5 % of markedly obese patients and 2.7 % of lean patients . additional risk factors for steatohepatitis were type ii diabetes , weight loss in the preterminal period shortly before death and intravenous glucose therapy in the last week of life . severe fibrosis was found in 13.8 % of markedly obese patients and in 6.6 % of lean patients ; this difference was largely explained by the higher prevalence of diabetes in obese groups . the risk factors defined in this study are known to be associated with abnormalities of free fatty acid metabolism . obesity , type ii diabetes and intravenous glucose therapy are associated with hyperinsulinemia , which may inhibit fatty acid oxidation . obesity and weight loss increase the presentation of fatty acids to the liver . similar metabolic changes may occur in obese patients after jejunoileal bypass surgery . thus this study supports the hypothesis that fatty acids have a role in the hepatocellular necrosis found in some obese individuals . 
immunological studies before and during interferon therapy in chronic hbv infection : identification of factors predicting response . lymphoblastoid interferon is effective therapy in some but not all patients with chronic hepatitis b virus infection . to assess whether immunological parameters were predictive of response to interferon therapy , we determined the human leukocyte antigen type , cd4/cd8 ratio , natural killer cell activity , igm anti-hbc antibody levels and concanavalin a-induced lymphocyte proliferative response in 30 patients before treatment . in addition , to investigate the mechanisms of action of interferon in promoting hepatitis b virus clearance , we serially measured the cd4/cd8 ratios , natural killer activity and lymphocyte proliferative response at wk 4 , 8 and 12 of treatment . a beneficial response to therapy was defined as the sustained clearance of hbeag and serum hepatitis b virus dna within 1 yr of commencing therapy . elevated igm anti-hbc levels were associated with a beneficial response to therapy , but there was no correlation observed between response and pretreatment cd4/cd8 ratio , natural killer activity or lymphocyte proliferative response . six of seven human leukocyte antigen dr3-positive patients responded . no measurable changes in the immunological parameters studied were observed in the nonresponder group , whereas a significant rise in cd4/cd8 ratio , associated with a fall in peripheral cd8 number and a decline in measurable nk activity , was seen in the responder group . these changes were maximal at the time of hepatitis b virus dna clearance , which was associated with a transient increase in hepatic inflammation . 
hormonal and enzymatic parameters of hepatic regeneration in patients undergoing major liver resections . thirteen patients who underwent 40 % to 80 % removal of their livers had blood samples drawn initially and daily on postoperative days 1 to 7 . the enzyme marker of heightened polyamine metabolism , ornithine decarboxylase , and the indicator of dna synthesis , thymidine kinase , were measured . in addition , the hormones ( insulin , glucagon , estradiol and androgen ) , which in animals are known to reflect and possibly modulate regeneration , were measured . changes in all these indices followed the same pattern as in rats , dogs and swine but at a slower rate . ornithine decarboxylase and estradiol increased within 24 hr , but thymidine kinase and insulin rises did not become statistically significant until 3 to 5 days . using these plasma or serum indices as surrogate measures of biochemical events in the liver itself , regeneration reached a maximum after 4 or 5 days . by computed tomography scan analysis , restoration of hepatic cell mass was not complete until 3 wk . 
human hepatic regenerative stimulator substance : partial purification and biological characterization of hepatic stimulator substance from human fetal liver cells . current support or replacement therapies for fulminant acute hepatic failure are frequently very disappointing . in this study , human hepatic stimulator substance -- a liver-specific growth factor -- was partially purified from human fetal liver cells and characterized by its biological effects . almost 70-fold protein content was purified with an approximately 80-fold increase in specific growth stimulator activity . human hepatic stimulator substance proved to be heat-stable , protease-sensitive , organ-specific and species-nonspecific . human hepatic stimulator substance produced a two - to threefold increase of 3h-thymidine incorporation into hepatic dna when injected intraperitoneally into growing weanling mice ( nonhepatectomized ) or regenerating rats ( 34 % hepatectomy ) . the effects of hhss in reversing the lethality of d-galactosamine ( 1.6 gm/kg body weight ) - induced hepatic necrosis in rats were further evaluated . a survival rate of 4 % ( n = 24 ) , 41 % ( n = 12 , p less than 0.05 ) , 33 % ( n = 12 , p less than 0.05 ) , 31 % ( n = 13 , p less than 0.05 ) and 18 % ( n = 11 , p greater than 0.05 ) was observed when the rats were injected with 4 ml of saline intraperitoneally , 4 ml of human intact fetal hepatocytes ( 2.4 x 10 ( 8 ] intraperitoneally , 4 ml of human hepatic stimulator substance intraperitoneally , 2 ml of twofold concentrated human hepatic stimulator substance intravenously and 1 ml of fourfold human hepatic stimulator substance intramuscularly , respectively , 20 hr after poisoning . 
hepatic vascular disease and portal hypertension in polycythemia vera and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia : a clinicopathological study of 145 patients examined at autopsy . the pathogenesis of portal hypertension arising in patients with myeloproliferative disorders has been difficult to understand because liver biopsy findings often show minimal changes . it has been suggested that increased splenic blood flow , hepatic infiltration with hematopoietic cells or sinusoidal fibrosis may be important . we have reviewed the autopsy findings and clinical histories of 97 patients with polycythemia vera and 48 patients with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia collected from three institutions and from the polycythemia vera study group . cirrhosis was present in seven patients , one of whom had bleeding varices . esophageal varices were present clinically in 10 patients without cirrhosis ( seven polycythemia and three agnogenic myeloid metaplasia ) . all of these patients had lesions in small or medium-sized portal veins and four had stenosis of the extrahepatic portal vein with histology compatible with organized thrombi . nodular regenerative hyperplasia occurred in 14.6 % and correlated closely with the presence of portal vein lesions . thirty patients had greater than 500 ml of ascites , seven of these patients also had varices and six of them had hepatic vein thrombosis . ascites also correlated with hepatic vein disease confined to small intrahepatic branches . no correlation was seen between hepatic hematopoietic infiltration and signs of portal hypertension . we conclude that esophageal varices are common and are almost always associated with portal vein lesions visible by light microscopy . these portal vein lesions , and the secondary effects of nodular regenerative hyperplasia and portal hypertension , are most likely a result of portal vein thrombosis in patients with myeloproliferative disorders . 
selective intestinal decontamination increases serum and ascitic fluid c3 levels in cirrhosis . selective intestinal decontamination for 7 days with norfloxacin was performed in 14 cirrhotic patients with ascites and low ascitic fluid total protein . variations in serum and ascitic fluid of c3 and c4 and ascitic fluid total protein after therapy were compared with those of a control group of 14 untreated patients with similar characteristics . after oral norfloxacin administration , we saw a significant increase of c3 in serum ( p less than 0.05 ) and ascitic fluid ( p = 0.01 ) . a significant increase was also observed in ascitic fluid total protein ( p less than 0.05 ) but not in serum and ascitic fluid c4 . there were no changes in serum c3 , ascitic fluid c3 , ascitic fluid c4 or in ascitic fluid total protein in group 2 . these data demonstrate that selective intestinal decontamination increases serum and ascitic fluid c3 levels and , therefore , might be useful in preventing spontaneous infections in cirrhotic patients at high risk of infection . 
pathological observations of intrahepatic peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers . iii . survey of necroinflammation and cystic dilatation . pathological changes and significance of intrahepatic peribiliary glands , hitherto poorly recognized intrahepatic elements , have been evaluated in our laboratory . in this report , we surveyed necroinflammatory and cystic changes of the peribiliary glands in 1,000 consecutive autopsy livers because these two changes coexisted frequently in the same liver . the necroinflammatory change was found in 228 livers ( 22.8 % ) and the cystic change in 202 livers ( 20.2 % ) , and 103 cases showed both changes in the same liver . the necroinflammatory change was frequently found in intrahepatic cholangitis and extrahepatic biliary obstruction with bacterial infection , suggesting that biliary bacterial inflammation extends into these peribilary glands . this change was also frequent in systemic infection or septicemia without biliary bacterial infection , implying that the peribiliary glands were also damaged in such conditions without direct infection . the cystic change was frequent in livers with portal hypertension or obstruction , adult polycystic disease and necroinflammation of the glands , suggesting that the cystic change of the glands could occur as the result of the disturbance of intrahepatic circulation or as the result of inflammatory destruction of the glandular conduits . some of peribiliary cysts may be of congenital origin . dysfunction related to these pathological changes in the glands may diminish seromucous secretion and cause alterations in hepatic bile composition . the cystic change of the glands may retard bile flow by compressing bile duct lumina . 
inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms . in a series of 517 operations for abdominal aortic aneurysm from 1971 to 1988 there were 45 cases ( 8.7 % ) with an inflammatory aneurysm with a typical thick glistening whitish fibrous layer . almost two-third of the patients had rather severe chronic or acute progressive pain in the abdomen , the back or the flank . unilateral ( 7 ) or bilateral ( 2 ) hydronephrosis due to ureteral compression occurred in 9 patients ( 20 % ) . a diagnosis of inflammatory aneurysm was made preoperatively only in 10 patients . in 8 of the 9 patients with hydronephrosis ureterolysis was done , unilaterally ( 6 ) or bilaterally ( 2 ) . after ureterolysis all had complete resolution of the hydronephrosis . preoperative diagnostic methods are excretory urography , showing medial deviation , ultrasonography and ct-scanning of the abdominal aorta . all patients with an inflammatory aneurysm should undergo aortic replacement to prevent rupture and achieve pain relief . ureterolysis in cases of hydronephrosis is strongly recommended and may be performed safely and with excellent results . 
left retroperitoneal exposure for distal mesenteric artery repair . distal disease in the mesenteric arteries has usually been repaired transabdominally since it is believed that only the proximal centimeter of each vessel is accessible through the retroperitoneum . we treated five patients with chronic visceral ischemia and lesions extending beyond the orifice using a retroperitoneal approach . exposure was obtained with a left flank incision through the tenth interspace . the left crus of the diaphragm was divided in order to control the supraceliac aorta . the mesenteric vessels were identified and dissected until their entrance into the peritoneum . there were no difficulties in exposing the superior mesenteric artery ( sma ) as it coursed under the pancreas and over the duodenum for an approximate length of 5 to 10 cm . the uncinate process of the pancreas was not a limiting factor for exposure of the sma in this region and further distal exposure could be obtained by incising the peritoneum . the trifurcation of the celiac artery and the splenic artery were accessible through this exposure ; however , only the first centimeter of the hepatic and gastric branches could be reached . revascularization was performed with endarterectomy ( 2 patients ) and bypass ( 3 patients ) . bowel viability was assessed at the conclusion of the procedure by incising the peritoneum . there were no complications from this exposure and no patient required reoperation for ischemic bowel . we conclude that the left retroperitoneal approach is not only acceptable for orifice lesions but is also applicable for distal disease . 
parathyroid hormone and cirrhosis of the liver . fifty patients with liver cirrhosis ( 36 alcoholic , 1 drug-induced , 7 posthepatitic , and 6 cryptogenic ) and normal renal function were investigated to determine whether pth levels in serum , measured using the common midregion human pth - ( 44-68 ) ria , are elevated in such patients and whether this is related to impaired liver function rather than to the effect of secondary hyperparathyroidism . their data were compared with those from 25 control subjects . the median pth level of 462 + / - 18 ng/l ( + / - sem ) was significantly increased ( p less than 0.01 ) in cirrhotics compared with that of 236 + / - 13 ng/l in the control group . significant correlations were found between pth levels and parameters of liver function such as prothrombin time ( r = -0.40 ; p less than 0.01 ) , albumin as a percentage of total protein ( r = -0.48 ; p less than 0.01 ) , bilirubin ( r = 0.35 ; p less than 0.05 ) , albumin ( r = -0.34 ; p less than 0.05 ) , and cholesterol ( r = -0.32 ; p less than 0.05 ) , but not for antipyrine clearance , suggesting increasing pth with decreasing liver function . the median calcium level ( 2.26 + / - 0.03 mmol/l ) , corrected for changes in albumin , was near the lower limit of the normal range ( 2.25-2 .60 ) , but corrected calcium and pth were positively correlated ( r = 0.33 ; p less than 0.05 ) , indicating that the elevation is not reactive to calcium depletion . a negative correlation existed between pth and 25-hydroxy-cholecalciferol ( r = -0.49 ; p less than 0.05 ) , the main circulating metabolite of vitamin d. normal values in an immunoradiometric assay that detects the whole sequence of human pth - ( 1-84 ) suggest that fragments rather than the intact hormone are responsible for pth elevations in cirrhosis . the positive correlation between midregion pth and corrected calcium is probably an artifact of the correction formula . in conclusion , midregion pth fragments are increased in patients with liver cirrhosis . the reason for this elevation may well be the impaired liver function rather than secondary hyperparathyroidism . 
gastrointestinal side-effects of octreotide during long-term treatment of acromegaly . gastrointestinal side-effects of prolonged therapy ( greater than 2 yr ) with the long-acting somatostatin analog octreotide were studied in 10 acromegalic patients . after 2 yr of therapy , 6 of 10 patients had newly developed gallstones , complicated by cholangitis and jaundice in 1 . serum vitamin b-12 concentrations declined in all 10 patients [ from 380 + / - 32 to 172 + / - 21 pmol/l ( mean + / - se ) ; p = 0.023 ] and became abnormally low in 4 . gastric biopsy specimens , obtained during gastroscopy ( 9 patients ) , showed moderate to severe active gastritis , with damage to the superficial and deeper layers of the mucosa in 9 of 9 and focal atrophy in 7 of 9 patients . campylobacter pylori was found in the antral mucosa in 8 of 9 patients . although information is lacking on similar studies in untreated acromegalic patients , we suggest that patients receiving chronic octreotide therapy be closely monitored for these and possible other side-effects related to gastrointestinal actions of octreotide . 
crypt cell proliferation and hla-dr expression in pelvic ileal pouches . to investigate the nature of the morphological changes that occur in ileal pouches , 26 biopsy specimens from patients with functioning ileo-anal pouches ( eight with pouchitis ) were studied . normal ileum ( n = 10 ) was used as a control . mucosal morphometry ( using linear measurements ) , crypt cell proliferation ( ccp ) ( using the monoclonal antibody ki67 ) , and epithelial hla-dr expression ( monoclonal antibody cr3/43 ) were assessed . ccp ( expressed as the percentage of ki67 positive nuclei for each crypt ) was significantly higher in pouches with pouchitis , compared with those without , and in pouches without pouchitis compared with normal ileum . ccp values in some pouches without pouchitis approached values found in those with pouchitis . ccp was related inversely to villous height and an index of villous atrophy ( vh/tmt ) , and directly to crypt depth . in the presence of pouchitis there was intense epithelial hla-dr expression that extended into the crypts . in some pouches with high ccp values , but without clinically important inflammation , surface epithelial hla-dr expression was weak and patchy . it is concluded that villous atrophy and crypt hyperplasia in ileal pouches are associated with high ccp values . these may be increased even in the absence of active inflammation , and this increase may occur as a response to the new luminal environment . 
abnormal cardiac sensitivity in patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries . the causes of chest pain in patients found to have angiographically normal coronary arteries during cardiac catheterization remain controversial . cardiac sensitivity to catheter manipulation , pacing at various stimulus intensities and intracoronary injection of contrast medium was examined in several groups of patients who underwent cardiac catheterization . right heart ( especially right ventricular ) catheter manipulation and pacing and intracoronary contrast medium provoked chest pain typical of that previously experienced in 29 ( 81 % ) of 36 patients with chest pain and angiographically normal coronary arteries and 15 ( 46 % ) of 33 symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . in contrast , only 2 ( 6 % ) of 33 symptomatic patients with coronary artery disease experienced their typical chest pain with these sensitivity tests ( p less than 0.001 ) . none of 10 patients with valvular heart disease but without a chest pain syndrome experienced any sensation with these tests . cutaneous pain threshold testing demonstrated that patients with chest pain and normal coronary arteries had a higher pain threshold to thermal stimulation compared with patients who had coronary artery disease or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . no relation existed between cardiac sensitivity and cutaneous sensitivity testing . thus , patients who have chest pain despite angiographically normal coronary arteries may have abnormal cardiac sensitivity to a variety of stimuli . this increased sensitivity may be of causal importance to their chest pain syndrome or may contribute to their perception of ischemia-induced pain . the same phenomenon was also commonly seen in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . whether this phenomenon represents abnormal activation of pain receptors within the heart or abnormal processing of visceral afferent neural impulses in the peripheral or central nervous system is unknown . 
crohn 's disease : what about the pancreas ? [ editorial ] crohn 's disease ( cd ) is now accepted as a systemic illness . the importance of extraintestinal manifestations is underlined by the fact that such " complications " can be more prominent and even more difficult to control than the intestinal disease itself . lately , evidence for a more than accidental association of pancreatitis and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency with cd is growing . this might have a significant impact on the treatment of abdominal pain and diarrhea in cd , symptoms which have so far been attributed exclusively to the intestinal rather than the extraintestinal manifestations of the disease . 
can the blood urea nitrogen/creatinine ratio distinguish upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding ? we wanted to know if the blood urea nitrogen to creatinine ( bun/cr ) ratio could help distinguish upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding . we analyzed retrospectively patients admitted to our hospital for gastrointestinal bleeding over the past 5 years . a total of 126 patients represented 74 upper bleeds and 52 lower bleeds . the mean bun/cr ratio was significantly higher in upper than lower bleeders , 34.8 and 17.8 respectively ( p less than 0.001 ) . no lower bleeder had a ratio of greater than or equal to 36 , whereas 38 % of upper bleeders had a ratio of greater than or equal to 36 . the bun/cr ratio may be an easy , cheap method of distinguishing upper from lower gastrointestinal bleeding in some cases . a bun/cr ratio of greater than or equal to 36 suggests upper gastrointestinal bleeding , whereas a ratio of less than 36 is not helpful in locating the source of bleeding . 
stasis syndromes following gastric surgery : clinical and motility features of 60 symptomatic patients . we retrospectively reviewed the records of 60 patients who had been referred for gastrointestinal manometry because of stasis after gastric surgery . nausea , vomiting , bloating , abdominal pain , and weight loss were the most common symptoms . two thirds of these patients had a well-documented history of peptic ulcer before their initial operations ; in others , surgery was performed for other reasons , such as obesity ( 5 % ) or reflux esophagitis ( 8 % ) . twelve patients had undergone truncal vagotomy and a " drainage operation " and 48 had received a partial gastrectomy with a gastroenterostomy : billroth i ( n = 8 ) , billroth ii ( n = 11 ) , roux-en-y ( n = 29 ) . all patients had recordings of gastrointestinal manometry ; 16 also had a scintigraphic measurement of gastric emptying . measurements were compared with data from healthy controls . gastric manometry , which could be assessed only in the group with an intact antrum , was characterized by antral hypomotility ( p less than 0.05 ) . gastric emptying studies showed rapid early emptying of liquids and delayed emptying of solids ( both p less than 0.05 ) . in the whole group , fasting jejunal motility was characterized by absence of phase ii in 13 , presence of bursts of phasic activity in 18 , and abnormal propagation of phase iii in 8 . a significantly increased frequency of phase iii of mmc was noted in the patients after billroth ii and roux-en-y operations . postprandially , 19 patients failed to develop a " fed pattern . " . 
rosacea and ulcerative colitis : a possible association . although rosacea was formerly believed to be associated with gastrointestinal upsets , no one any longer finds a significant association between rosacea and the intestinal tract . we describe four patients with a combination of ulcerative colitis and rosacea . in all four , ulcerative colitis preceded the onset of severe papulopustular rosacea , and we therefore feel that the severity of rosacea could have been due to the associated bowel disorder . in one , the severity and poor initial response of rosacea to treatment was clearly related to the activity of the ulcerative colitis , and the rosacea improved only after proctocolectomy . while it is possible that this purported association is fortuitous , we report these cases in the hope that others may have seen this combination of diseases , to our knowledge previously unreported . 
limitations in the evaluation of therapy in inflammatory bowel disease : suggestions for future research . the current treatment of inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) , though improved over earlier therapies , remains variable rather than consistent and supportive rather than curative . the similar management of ulcerative colitis ( uc ) and crohn 's disease ( cd ) , which are thought to be differing though related disorders , suggests that therapy is nonspecific . the variation in therapeutic practices results from the fact that the etiologies of the diseases are obscure , from limited knowledge of the biological and pharmacological actions of drugs commonly prescribed ( sulfasalazine , 5-asa compounds , steroids , 6-mp and azathioprine ) , from an inadequate understanding of genetic differences influencing drug metabolism , from insufficient awareness of the factors influencing drug efficiency ( concurrent use of antimotility drugs , cigarette smoking , food combinations ) , from the variability of the patient groups studied ( extent and severity of disease ) , and from incomplete documentation of the clinical status of patients at the time of therapeutic trial . future advances in treatment will depend on gaining new information about the nature of ibd and of drug pharmacology and bioavailability , derived from collaborative studies by clinicians , clinical investigators , and basic scientists . important areas for ibd research include the biology of intestinal epithelium , the nature of the ibd inflammatory reaction and of gut mucosal immune regulation ( via the application of new biotechnologies ) and more representative experimental animal models . decisive multicenter therapeutic studies require agreement on definitions of ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease , accurate characterization of patient groups , acceptable objective criteria of ibd severity and activity , and reliable indicators of therapeutic response . 
frequency of recovery of blastocystis hominis in clinical practice . we examined the frequency of isolation of blastocystis hominis from stools of patients seen in an indigent-care teaching hospital . over a 2-year period , 2,744 stool specimens were examined prospectively . b. hominis was found in 262 stools ( 9.5 % of all stool specimens and 53.5 % of the positive specimens ) . clinical data were obtained from 80 patients with stools positive for b. hominis . b. hominis was the only parasite isolated in 39 of 47 ( 83 % ) of the adults , compared with 17 of 33 ( 52 % ) of the children ( p = 0.006 ) . all but 2 of 52 patients without concomitant parasitic infection or bacterial pathogens in stool had gastrointestinal symptoms ( 41 abdominal pain , 26 diarrhea , and 5 vomiting ) , but no association was seen with fever , peripheral leukocytosis , stool occult blood , fecal leukocytes , or endoscopic or radiologic evidence of colitis . therefore , b. hominis was frequently recovered from stools examined in a hospital clinical parasitology laboratory . the clinical presentations of patients in our series did not suggest that b. hominis was invasive . most patients with b. hominis probably do not require treatment since they will either have spontaneous resolution of symptoms or will be found to have an alternative explanation for their problem . 
clinical significance of cholelithiasis in patients with decompensated cirrhosis . there is general agreement that the prevalence of gallstones in cirrhotics is high ( at least twice that in the general population ) , but the pathogenetic link between cirrhosis and cholelithiasis is still uncertain . the influence of cholelithiasis on survival in cirrhotics is also unknown . during an 8-year period , we observed 90 patients affected by decompensated cirrhosis : 36 of them ( 40 % ) turned out by cholecystographic/cholangiographic or ultrasonographic examination to have cholelithiasis . we were not able to demonstrate any correlation between cholelithiasis and sex , age of patients , etiology of cirrhosis , severity of the illness , degree of portal hypertension , previous gastrointestinal bleeding , number of pregnancies , or levels of serum cholesterol , bilirubin , and triglycerides . during the follow-up observation , ( range , 1-91 months ) , 30 patients died . survival curves analyzed by the log-rank test did not show any difference between patients with or without gallstones . we therefore confirm that cirrhosis is a lithogenic condition , but we were not able to explain the reasons for the close relationship between cholelithiasis and cirrhosis . gallstones , however , did not affect the survival of these patients . 
risk factors for gallstones among chinese in taiwan . a community sonographic survey . a health survey of adults aged 30 years or more was carried out in southwest taiwan to determine the prevalence of gallstones and to study risk factors associated with gallstones . blood samples were collected and abdominal sonographic examination and anthropometric measurements were performed on a total of 923 people . the 40 gallstone cases detected resulted in a prevalence of 4.3 % . the risk factors explored included age , sex , hepatitis , obesity , hyperlipidemia , and diabetes mellitus ( dm ) . age and dm were the only significant factors associated with gallstones in our study . with a reference group of 30-39-year-olds as a comparison , multiple logistic regression analysis showed a trend effect with odds ratios of 1.73 , 3.74 , and 6.32 for age groups of 40-49 , 50-59 , and 60 or above , respectively . the odds ratio for dm was as high as 2.59 . however , sex , body weight index , chronic hepatitis b , and hyperlipidemia were not significantly associated with gallstones . 
gallstone disease in north india : clinical and ultrasound profile in a referral hospital . we studied the prevalence of gallstones in patients with upper abdominal pain , heaviness , or discomfort by ultrasound examination of the gallbladder . the actual ultrasound examination was performed by a clinical gastroenterologist blinded to the symptoms . of 1,680 consecutive dyspeptic patients , 500 ( 29.8 % ) had gallstones . the gallbladder was contracted in 450 ( 91.2 % ) , normal-size in 36 ( 7.2 % ) , and distended in 8 ( 1.6 % ) . biliary colic was more frequently the presenting complaint in patients with a contracted gallbladder than in those with normal size gallbladder ( p less than 0.001 ) . dyspepsia was more frequent in the presence of a normal size gallbladder than a contracted one ( p less than 0.001 ) . we conclude that ultrasonography of the gallbladder by the clinician has a high diagnostic yield , and the symptom complex has an excellent correlation with the sonographic appearance . 
tuberculous peritonitis : a study comparing cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients . tuberculous peritonitis is a rare disease , which often goes unrecognized because of the subtle clinical clues and its insidous onset . we retrospectively analyzed the records of 37 cases of tuberculous peritonitis diagnosed over a 15-year period , and compared the clinical and diagnostic features of cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients . in cirrhotic patients , tuberculous peritonitis can simulate ascites from liver disease or spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . the diagnosis is difficult in these patients because the ascitic fluid may not be of the exudative type as a result of the low albumin level in serum , and lymphocytes do not predominate in all cases . adenosine deaminase ( ada ) activity in ascitic fluid was elevated ( higher than 40 u/l ) in all 11 patients ( four patients with hepatic cirrhosis ) . the time required to achieve a correct diagnosis was significantly longer in cirrhotic than in noncirrhotic patients . the overall mortality was 13 % , with deaths occurring exclusively among cirrhotic patients . we emphasize that tuberculous peritonitis in cirrhotic patients can present an atypical picture . a considerable element of suspicion is necessary . 
small bile duct abnormalities in sarcoidosis . we report four patients with hepatic involvement of sarcoidosis manifested primarily by bile duct depletion . the patients developed fever , weight loss , anorexia , a markedly elevated alkaline phosphatase , and mildly abnormal serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography showed slight intrahepatic irregularities but were not diagnostic of sclerosing cholangitis . liver biopsy showed predominantly bile duct depletion , ranging from an estimated 10-100 % absence of bile ducts in portal areas , which correlated with the degree of fibrosis . the degree of bile duct depletion is useful as a histological marker in patients with sarcoid liver disease . steroids improve symptoms , but do not inhibit the development of " ductopenia . " . 
spontaneous reactivation in chronic hepatitis b : patterns and natural history . we identified spontaneous reactivation of hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) retrospectively by utilizing serum alanine aminotransferase and hbv dna in 19 men ( 79 % homosexual ) , with an estimated annual incidence of 7.3 % . in 11 patients , spontaneous reactivation occurred as a single episode and in eight patients , reactivation was recurrent , with two to five episodes each . the mean serum alanine aminotransferase level was elevated over 10-fold at the peak of reactivation . serum anti-hbc igm was detected during 73 % of the reactivation episodes . actuarial analysis revealed that reactivation was long lasting with 45 % and nearly 20 % of episodes continued after 6 and 24 months , respectively . the course of 24 chronic hbv carriers with a negative serum hbv dna test and normal alanine aminotransferase levels at initial appearance was unremarkable . we could not identify clinical features predictive of reactivation or its resolution . severe reactivation hepatitis occurred in three patients ( 10 % ) , with two deaths ( 6 % ) . none of the patients lost hbsag . spontaneous reactivation in chronic hepatitis b can appear variably , persist long term , recur , and be fatal . therefore , accurate classification of chronic hbv infection requires prolonged observation , and spontaneous reactivation should be considered a variable in therapeutic trials for chronic hepatitis b. 
mallory-weiss syndrome after cardiopulmonary resuscitation . we report hematemesis from mallory-weiss tears after successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( cpr ) . a computer search of the english language literature disclosed only 3 similar cases , and we review them . this complication of cpr may occur more frequently than recognized and should be prevented by careful technique . 
a nongastrin malignant ampullary tumor causing gastric acid and pepsin hypersecretion . a case report . we report a case of multiple duodenal ulcers with gastric hypersecretion due to a nongastrin secretagogue produced by a malignant tumor of the pancreas in a 78-year-old man . the case resembled a zollinger-ellison syndrome ( zes ) with high acid output ( basal acid output 27 , sham meal-stimulated 37 , maximum acid output 47 meq/h ) , but with fasting gastrin 43 pg/ml , nonresponsive to secretin . as in zes , pepsin output was comparatively low , and secretion was inhibitable by atropine ( 50 % inhibited by 1 microm ) . the tumor removed at surgery contained less than 1 ng gastrin per gram , but was many times more potent than pentagastrin in stimulating acid from a lumen-perfused rat stomach . the tumor also contained cholecystokinin ( cck-8 and cck-33 ) , motilin , insulin , and somatostatin , which were also present in adjacent normal pancreas ; in addition , the tumor contained pancreatic polypeptide and pancreatic cancer-associated antigen . this case represents a rare syndrome due to an as yet undefined peptide secreted by a ( frequently malignant ) pancreatic endocrine tumor and masquerading as zes . this is the first report of studies of pepsin secretion and of the effect of atropine , suggesting that the physiologic effects of the secretagogue resemble that of gastrin . 
chylous ascites should suggest constrictive pericarditis even in a patient with cirrhosis . chylous ascites , a milky , high triglyceride fluid is usually found in patients with lymphatic obstruction from malignancy . we describe a patient with cirrhosis who developed constrictive pericarditis and chylous ascites . long-standing portal hypertension compounded by elevated central venous pressure provided several pathophysiologic contributions to the formation of the chylous ascites . chylous ascites even in a cirrhotic requires prompt assessment for conditions leading to elevated central venous pressure . 
morphological study of cholesterol hepatolithiasis . report of three cases . three cases of pure cholesterol intrahepatic stones are compared morphologically to those of calcium bilirubinate stones . cholesterol stones were found in the intrahepatic bile duct of the left lateral lobe in two cases and in both the left lateral and the right posterior lobe in one . although the chronic inflammatory reaction and fibrous thickening of bile duct wall were similar in both types of hepatolithiasis , the proliferation of intrahepatic periductal glands and the production of mucin were rather mild , compared to that is the liner containing calcium bilirubinate stones . multiple intramural cholesterol calculi and cholesterin granulomas ( cholesterin crystals surrounded by foreign-body giant cells ) were found within the cystically dilated small bile duct branches and/or conduits of periductal glands . the calculi and granulomas were characteristic for cholesterol hepatolithiasis . these findings suggest that the formation of the cholesterol stones differs from that of calcium bilirubinate stones ; the perturbation of factors influencing cholesterol nucleation in the hepatic bile may be related to the changed microenvironment of the intrahepatic bile ducts , which is followed by the formation of cholesterol stones . 
portal venous gas in a patient with crohn 's disease . portal venous gas usually occurs in the setting of an acute abdomen . several causes for benign portal venous gas ( pvg ) have been reported . we describe the finding of pvg by computed tomography in a febrile patient with crohn 's disease and discuss the clinical implications of such a finding . 
cellular immune response to hepatitis b virus-encoded antigens in acute and chronic hepatitis b virus infection . the proliferative response of pbmc to hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) envelope , core , and e ag was analyzed prospectively in 21 patients with acute self-limited hbv infection and compared with the response of patients with chronic hbv infection and different levels of hbv replication ( i.e. , hepatitis e ag ( hbeag ) - or anti-hbe-positive ) and liver damage ( i.e. , chronic active hepatitis or chronic asymptomatic carriers ) . our results indicate that : 1 ) hbv-infected subjects who develop a self-limited acute hepatitis show a vigorous pbmc response to hepatitis b core ag and hbeag , as expression of t cell activation ; 2 ) appearance of a detectable lymphocyte response to hbv nucleocapsid ag is temporally associated with the clearance of hbv envelope ag ; 3 ) in patients with chronic hbv infection the level of t cell responsiveness to hepatitis b core ag and to hbeag is significantly lower than that observed during acute infection ; 4 ) t cell sensitization to hbv envelope ag in acute and chronic hbv infection is usually undetectable and when measurable is expressed transiently and at low levels . these results may reflect immune events of pathogenetic relevance with respect to evolution of disease and viral clearance . 
evaluation of wc3 rotavirus vaccine and correlates of protection in healthy infants . the safety , immunogenicity , and efficacy of wc3 rotavirus vaccine was evaluated in a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of healthy infants 2-12 months of age ; 103 received one dose of vaccine and 103 received placebo . vaccination appeared to be safe and induced an antibody response ( wc3 neutralizing antibody ) in 97 % of vaccinees . only 9 ( 9 % ) of these , however , produced antibody to human rotavirus serotypes ; at least 7 of the 9 were naturally infected before vaccination . neither the number of symptomatic episodes of rotavirus diarrhea ( 21 vs 25 ) nor the number of moderate to severe rotavirus illnesses ( 9 vs. 15 ) was significantly different in vaccine or placebo recipients , respectively , during a predominantly serotype 1 rotavirus season . a slight but significant decrease in mean symptom score was detected in vaccine recipients . despite an overall lack of efficacy , protection could be correlated to previous rotavirus infection , high levels of wc3 neutralizing antibody , and preexisting ( maternal ) serotype 1 neutralizing antibody with a titer greater than or equal to 30 . 
properties of strains of escherichia coli o26 : h11 in relation to their enteropathogenic or enterohemorrhagic classification . thirty-seven strains of escherichia coli o26 : h11 from infants and calves with diarrhea were examined for properties associated with enteropathogenic ( epec ) or enterohemorrhagic e. coli ( ehec ) . strains were heterogeneous with respect to vero cytotoxin ( vt ) production and hybridization with the ehec plasmid-specific ( cvd419 ) probe ; 26 strains produced vt1 ; 1 produced vt2 . twenty-four of 27 vt + strains and 5 of 10 vt - strains hybridized with the cvd419 probe and produced enterohemolysin ; these properties are characteristic of ehec . the strains did not hybridize with the epec adherence factor probe , a property characteristic of some epec . nevertheless , 36 strains adhered to hep-2 cells in a localized manner and were positive by the fluorescence actin staining ( fas ) test that is considered to correlate with the ability to cause attaching and effacing lesions in vivo . epec and ehec cause these lesions . although the fas test appeared to be the most general pathogenicity test for the o26 : h11 strains , it could not be used to assign strains specifically to epec or ehec groups . 
fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk protect suckling mice from heat-stabile enterotoxin of escherichia coli . human milk protects suckling mice from the diarrheagenic effects of heat-stabile enterotoxin of escherichia coli ( st ) . to identify the human milk fraction responsible for this protection , pooled skimmed , deproteinated milk was passed through charcoal , whereupon lactose was separated from the oligosaccharides . the oligosaccharides contained st-protective activity ; the lactose did not . the neutral , but not the acidic , fraction exhibited protective activity against st ( 22 % vs. 57 % mortality , respectively ; p less than .001 ) . the fucosylated , but not the nonfucosylated , subfractions of the neutral fraction contained the factor protective against st ( 35 % vs. 50 % mortality , respectively ; p less than .05 ) . an oligosaccharide isolation scheme based on different principles produced confirmatory results . the commercially available neutral fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk did not significantly protect the mice from the effects of st. thus , the protective factor against st seems to be a minor neutral fucosyloligosaccharide of human milk . 
rotavirus-specific antibody response in saliva of infants with rotavirus diarrhea . the reliability of saliva as an indicator of rotavirus infection was assessed among 15 infants ( 3-12 months ) with rotaviral and 15 with nonrotaviral diarrhea . paired salivary samples collected during acute and convalescent phases were tested for rotavirus-specific iga and igm by an elisa . the sensitivity of iga or igm alone to predict infection was 53.3 % and 46.6 % , respectively ; used in conjunction , the sensitivity rose to 80 % . it seems that infants with rotaviral diarrhea mount mucosal antibody responses as reflected in their saliva ; possibly salivary antibodies could be used to evaluate vaccine " take " in rotavirus vaccine trials . 
adult immunization in a network of family practice residency programs . a substantial proportion of morbidity and mortality associated with vaccine-preventable diseases occurs among adults . teaching residents about disease prevention is mandated in the curriculum guidelines for family practice programs . a cooperative study among the kansas city family practice residency programs was begun to look at immunization behaviors in these teaching programs . a retrospective audit of medical records and a prospective survey of residents and faculty were performed . from the medical records of 400 patients seen for health maintenance examinations , the frequency of tetanus-diphtheria immunizations recorded was 4.75 % . the pooled immunization rate recorded for pneumococcal vaccine was 25 % , and for influenza vaccine , 24 % . although 93 % of respondents knew patients need tetanus-diphtheria immunization every 10 years , on a written questionnaire giving clinical examples , they were less likely to elect to immunize older patients eligible for tetanus-diphtheria vaccine . the following immunization criteria were listed by respondents : for pneumococcal vaccine , age over 65 years ( 86 % ) ; for influenza vaccine , age over 65 years ( 85 % ) , chronic diseases ( 69 % ) , residence in a chronic care facility ( 7 % ) , and being a health care worker ( 28 % ) . educational interventions stressing the appropriate criteria and involvement of the patient are planned at the separate programs . 
phase i clinical and pharmacologic study of intraperitoneal cisplatin and fluorouracil in patients with advanced intraabdominal cancer . fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) and cisplatin display marked therapeutic synergy in preclinical models and are effective in the treatment of a number of solid tumors when combined and administered intravenously ( iv ) . each drug has also been administered intraperitoneally ( ip ) and displays a favorable pharmacologic profile and acceptable clinical toxicity . we therefore undertook a phase i study to determine the feasibility and toxicity of combination ip chemotherapy with these agents . thirty-one patients with histologically documented malignancy confined to the peritoneal space were treated with cisplatin 90 mg/m2 mixed with 5-fu in 2 l of lactated ringer 's solution and given ip for 4 hours every 28 days . cohorts of at least three patients received starting 5-fu concentrations ranging from 5 mmol/l ( 1,300 mg in 2 l ) to 20 mmol/l . the dose-limiting toxicity was neutropenia with a median granulocyte nadir of 156 cells per microliter occurring at a 5-fu dose of 20 mmol/l . intrapatient escalation of the 5-fu dose was permitted and 15 cycles of chemotherapy were delivered at 5-fu concentrations greater than 20 mmol/l , the highest concentration being 30.7 mmol/l ( 8 g of 5-fu in 2l ) . other toxicities included mild to moderate nausea during all cycles of therapy , vomiting in 54 % of cycles , and diarrhea in 15 % of cycles . abdominal pain , renal dysfunction , peripheral neuropathy , and oral mucositis occurred infrequently and were not related to the 5-fu dose . peritoneal fluid and plasma 5-fu concentrations were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography ( hplc ) in selected patients . mean peak plasma 5-fu concentrations ranged from 6.19 mumol/l to greater than 60 mumol/l , and peritoneal fluid to plasma 5-fu area under the curve ( auc ) ratios ranged from 85 to 1,150 . nine of 15 patients with nonbulky disease had resolution of malignant ascites or at least a 50 % reduction of peritoneal studding by tumor at repeat laparotomy . we conclude that combination ip chemotherapy with cisplatin and 5-fu is technically feasible and has acceptable clinical toxicity and a favorable pharmacologic profile . the recommended starting 5-fu dose for phase ii trials is 3,900 mg mixed with 90 mg/m2 of cisplatin in 2 l of isotonic fluid . 
transient renal acidification defect during acute infantile diarrhea : the role of urinary sodium . we studied urinary acidification daily during the hospital course of 16 infants with acute gastroenteritis and metabolic acidosis . urine ph value on admission was higher than 5.5 in 14 ( 87 % ) patients . we hypothesized that inappropriate urinary acidification was due to sodium deficiency and inadequate sodium delivery to the distal nephron . forty-one urinary samples were collected during metabolic acidosis . the mean ph of 24 urine samples with sodium concentration less than 10 mmol/l was significantly higher than the ph of 17 samples with sodium concentration greater than 10 mmol/l ( 6.04 + / - 0.06 vs 5.19 + / - 0.1 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the urine ratios of titratable acid to creatinine and of total acidity to creatinine were significantly higher in urine samples containing more sodium ( p less than 0.02 ) , whereas the ammonium/creatinine ratio was not . after administration of furosemide or correction of the sodium deficit , appropriate acidification was observed . we conclude that impaired urinary acidification is frequently found during metabolic acidosis in infants with acute gastroenteritis and results from a sodium deficit rather than from transient distal renal tubular acidosis . 
azathioprine in the treatment of children with inflammatory bowel disease . during a 6-year period , we treated 21 patients with azathioprine , 2 mg/kg/day , as an adjunct to their customary regimen . nine patients had ulcerative colitis and 12 patients had crohn disease ; the patients ' ages ranged from 3 to 17 years . the median duration of disease before the start of azathioprine therapy was 2 years , and median follow-up was 2 years . sixteen patients seemed to respond to azathioprine therapy : six patients in each disease group had complete responses and four patients ( one with ulcerative colitis and three with crohn disease ) had partial responses . two patients with ulcerative colitis and three patients with crohn disease did not respond . the median time until patients responded was less than 3 months for patients with ulcerative colitis and 4 months for those with crohn disease . reduction of corticosteroid dose was possible for all patients who responded to azathioprine therapy . only minimal side effects were attributable to the drug . we conclude that azathioprine is an effective adjunctive agent for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease in childhood , but because questions remain regarding its long-term safety , its use should be reserved for children with refractory disease or severe and unacceptable side effects of corticosteroids . 
effects of cisapride in patients with cystic fibrosis and distal intestinal obstruction syndrome . in a double-blind , placebo-controlled , crossover trial , we investigated the effects of the prokinetic drug cisapride in patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic recurrent distal intestinal obstruction syndrome ( dios ) . after a baseline period , 17 patients ( 12.9 to 34.9 years ; 12 boys ) received , in random order , cisapride ( 7.5 to 10 mg ) and placebo three times daily by mouth , each for 6 months . gastrointestinal symptoms ( flatulence , abdominal pain , fullness , abdominal distension , nausea , anorexia , heartburn , diarrhea , vomiting and regurgitation ) were scored three times monthly and physical examinations assessed . at baseline and at each 6-month period , assessment included food intake for 7 days , 3-day stool collection , pulmonary function tests , and abdominal radiographs . during cisapride therapy compared with placebo , there were significant reductions in flatulence ( p less than 0.005 ) , fullness , and nausea ( p less than 0.05 ) . patients with the worst symptom scores benefited most from cisapride . with cisapride , 12 patients felt better and three worse ( p less than 0.05 ) ; physicians judged 11 patients improved and two worse ( p less than 0.05 ) . no side effects were noted . there were no significant differences between cisapride and placebo periods in nutritional status , x-ray scores , pulmonary function , food intake ( fat , protein , calories ) , stool size and consistency , and fecal losses of fat , bile acids , chymotrypsin , and calories . for acute episodes of dios , intestinal lavage was needed 6 times in 4 patients during treatment with cisapride , and 11 times in 6 patients receiving placebo . in comparison with unselected patients with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic insufficiency who were receiving enzyme supplements and who had no distal intestinal obstruction , fecal fat losses ( percentage of intake ) were almost twice as high in the study group with dios ( 31.2 + / - 20.6 % vs 16.2 + / - 17.6 % ; p less than 0.01 ) . we conclude that in the dosage used , long-term treatment with cisapride appears to improve chronic abdominal symptoms in patients with cystic fibrosis and dios , but fails to abolish the need for intestinal lavage . cisapride treatment had no effect on digestion and nutritional status of cystic fibrosis patients with pancreatic insufficiency . 
prospective study of the frequency and size distribution of polyps missed by colonoscopy . an important determinant in interpreting the results of colorectal polyp chemoprevention trials is the rate of polyps missed during colonscopic examination . we prospectively examined 90 patients by tandem colonoscopy performed by two alternating examiners . in 69 ( 76.7 % ) patients , 221 neoplastic lesions were documented histologically . of a total of 58 lesions detected in 31 patients , no neoplastic lesion greater than or equal to 10 mm in size was missed ; 16 % of diminutive ( less than or equal to 5 mm ) neoplastic polyps and 12.3 % of medium-sized ( 6-9 mm ) neoplastic polyps were missed by the first examiner . we conclude that an experienced colonoscopist will miss about 15 % of colorectal neoplastic polyps less than 10 mm in size in the setting of adequate bowel preparation . large ( greater than or equal to 10 mm ) polyps were rarely missed , however , with the " miss " rate in our study equal to 0 , with a 95 % confidence limit of 4.64 % . 
effect of endotoxin and a burn injury on lung and liver lipid peroxidation and catalase activity . both endotoxin and a burn alone produce oxidant-induced tissue lipid peroxidation . the endotoxin response is due in large part to hydrogen peroxide . the combination of endotoxin after a burn results in an increased liver , but not lung , oxidant injury . our purpose was to determine whether the burn oxidant injury inactivated endogenous liver tissue catalase , thereby amplifying a subsequent h2o2 insult . twenty-six adult sheep were studied . twelve sheep had a 15 % tbs burn . tissue catalase activity , measured in lung and liver 3 days postburn , was significantly decreased from a control of 3.58 + / - 1.8 and 193 + / - 63 , respectively , to 1.72 + / - 0.63 and 148 + / - 33 k ( sec-1 ) / 0.5 gram tissue . the addition of endotoxin 3 days postburn resulted in an increase in liver malondialdehyde , mda , a measure of lipid peroxidation , from a control of 110 + / - 80 to 450 + / - 54 nmol/gram tissue . this value was significantly greater than the 210 + / - 80 nmol/gram tissue seen after endotoxin alone . lung tissue mda with burn and endotoxin was 65 + / - 8 compared to 42 + / - 7 for control and 80 + / - 6 nmol/gram for endotoxin alone . we conclude that a decrease in liver catalase activity occurs after a burn . the decrease corresponds to an accentuated oxidant-induced lipid peroxidation after an added endotoxin insult where h2o2 is known to be an etiologic agent . the catalase activity also decreases in postburn lung , but accentuated lung damage was not seen , indicating a variable tissue response from the burn-induced decrease in antioxidant activity . 
the abdominal trauma index -- a critical reassessment and validation . the abdominal trauma index ( ati ) was devised to quantify the risk of complications following abdominal trauma . with scores greater than 25 , the risk of postoperative complications became exponential . the purpose of the present study was to determine if : 1 ) the organ risk factors previously assigned were more statistically valid ; and 2 ) the addition of physiologic variables would enhance the prediction of postinjury intra-abdominal sepsis . fifteen abdominal organ systems and 17 physiologic variables in 300 consecutive patients were analyzed to determine ability to predict intraabdominal sepsis . there were no significant differences in predictive ability between the old and new organ risk factors . the addition of physiologic factors did not enhance the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis . this clinical study demonstrates that : 1 ) the risk of intra-abdominal sepsis increases with increasing ati score ; 2 ) the previous ( 1979-initial ) organ risk grading concept is statistically valid ; 3 ) six of the 15 organ systems warrant a change in their relative rank order ( 1989-revision ) ; 4 ) the addition of demographic , physiologic , and immunologic variables did not significantly improve the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis . 
gastrointestinal pathology in adult iron overdose . the gastrointestinal effects of iron overdose have been described in children . they may occur acutely , ranging in severity from mucosal injury to complete infarction , or several weeks later , as obstruction due to stricture formation . they typically occur in the stomach or proximal small bowel . we describe an adult example of both , each occurring in the distal portion of the small intestine . both patients had ingested enteric-coated iron preparations and both experienced significant , protracted abdominal pain . thus adults as well as children are at risk for severe gastrointestinal complications after iron overdose . significant protracted abdominal pain should alert the clinician of its possibility . damage to distal areas of the bowel can occur with complete sparing of proximal portions particularly if the iron is an enteric-coated preparation . 
renal scintigraphy in the diagnosis and surgical management of a patient with caliceal colic : a case report . a patient with persistent renal colic and a caliceal stone is presented . furosemide renography , commonly used to differentiate functional stasis from mechanical obstruction of an entire kidney or duplicated collecting system , can make this determination at the caliceal level . as in this case such determination can affect clinical management of the patient . 
small cell carcinoma of the pancreas and biliary tract . four cases of anaplastic carcinoma of the pancreas or biliary tract were studied clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically . all four cases were intermediate cell type and contained a minimum amount of microscopic foci of differentiated glandular adenocarcinoma . argyrophilic tumor cells were not seen in any of the four tumors . immunohistochemically , no tumor was positive for hormonal products , but all tumors were positive for epithelial markers . these findings suggest that the anaplastic carcinoma are not derived from argyrophilic cells , but rather from adenocarcinomas which have the potential for anaplastic metaplasia . the long-term survival of one patient emphasized the importance of chemotherapy in the treatment of small cell carcinoma of the pancreas and biliary tract . 
obstructing carcinoma of the cecum . carcinoma of the cecum , the third most common location for malignancy of the large bowel , was examined with attention centered upon cecal cancers producing obstruction . reviewing 136 patients revealed 11 obstructing lesions ( 8.1 % ) presenting as distal small bowel obstructions . the mean age of the patients was 74 years . all but one patient had resection for cure which consisted of a right hemicolectomy with ileotransverse colostomy . there was no operative mortality or significant morbidity . bowel obstruction due to cecal carcinoma is an infrequent occurrence arising in elderly patients and carries a poor survival rate due to advanced disease at the time of diagnosis and treatment . 
complications of stapled anastomoses in anterior resection for rectal carcinoma : colorectal anastomosis versus coloanal anastomosis . postoperative results of 48 patients who underwent anterior resection using the eea-stapler were evaluated . in all but 2 cases the indication for surgery was colorectal carcinoma . in 24 patients an anastomosis was created above the 5 cm level ( above the anal verge : colorectal anastomosis ) and in 24 at the 0-5 cm level ( coloanal anastomosis ) . there was no perioperative mortality . the only complication observed in the colorectal anastomosis group was one case of late anastomotic stenosis . in the coloanal anastomosis group there were 4 cases with early anastomosis leaks , 3 cases with late stenosis and 5 cases with various degrees of late fecal incontinence , ultimately resulting in a permanent diverting stoma in 5 ( 10.4 % ) patients . we conclude that for rectal tumors the eea-stapled anterior resection provides excellent functional results in most cases . stapled coloanal anastomoses more often demonstrate various ( early and late ) complications . nevertheless in spite of chronic discomfort , many patients still prefer their complaints to a permanent stoma . 
assessment of functional gastrointestinal disease : the bowel disease questionnaire . a need exists for a self-report questionnaire that reliably and accurately measures symptoms and that distinguishes patients with functional gastrointestinal disease from those with other conditions . we have developed such an instrument , the bowel disease questionnaire , and herein describe details of its discriminatory validity . data from 399 subjects were analyzed . patients with gastrointestinal symptoms were ultimately diagnosed as having functional gastrointestinal disease ( 82 with the irritable bowel syndrome and 33 with functional dyspepsia ) or organic gastrointestinal disease ( n = 101 ) . there were 145 healthy control subjects and 38 patients with a psychiatric disease , somatoform disorder ( which includes those with a diagnosis of hypochrondriasis , psychogenic pain , and somatization or conversion disorder ) . all subjects completed the questionnaire before undergoing an independent diagnostic assessment by experienced physicians . functional gastrointestinal disease could be distinguished from organic disease , somatoform disorder , and health by using models derived from logistic discriminant analysis . with use of these models , the estimated probability of functional gastrointestinal disease was then calculated . descriptive symptom scores were of less value than the scores derived from the data sets by logistic discriminant analysis . age did not significantly affect the responses to the questionnaire items . we conclude that , in the population studied , the bowel disease questionnaire is a valid measure of symptoms of functional gastrointestinal disease , and this instrument may have clinical and research applications . 
impact of active immunisation against enteritis necroticans in papua new guinea . enteritis necroticans , known locally as pigbel , has been a major cause of illness and death among children in the highlands of papua new guinea . after a successful trial of active immunisation against the beta toxin of the causative organism , clostridium perfringens type c , immunisation of children was begun in 1980 . the effects of the immunisation programme on pigbel admissions in 3 of the 5 major highland hospitals were assessed . in each of the centres studied the proportion of admissions due to enteritis necroticans dropped significantly after immunisation was introduced ( p less than 0.001 ) and hospital admissions for pigbel in 1984-86 , when immunisation was well established , were less than one fifth of previous figures . 
preliminary report : the antegrade continence enema . the principles of antegrade colonic washout and the mitrofanoff non-refluxing catheterisable channel were combined to produce a continent catheterisable colonic stoma . the intention was that antegrade washouts delivered by this route would produce complete colonic emptying and thereby prevent soiling . the procedure has been successfully carried out in five patients with intractable faecal incontinence . 
increased cholecystectomy rates in saudi arabia gallstones have become increasingly prevalent in saudi arabia , where cholecystectomy is now one of the commonest major abdominal operations . 2854 people underwent cholecystectomy in the 14 hospitals of the country 's eastern province in the years 1977 to 1986 . during this period the overall frequency of cholecystectomy increased by 978 % , a finding not explained by the 67 % increase in population or the 87 % increase in other operations . simultaneously , the average daily individual consumption of total calories , fat , and sugar increased by 81 % , 197 % , and 164 % , respectively , and consumption of high-fibre grain fell by 75 % . this striking increase in the frequency of cholecystectomy , which presumably reflects the incidence of gallstones , can not be explained by demographic changes and seems more closely linked to the concomitant changes in dietary habits . 
binding to human jejunum of serum iga antibody from children with coeliac disease . jejunal histology and the presence of serum iga antibodies ( jab ) binding to human jejunum in vitro were studied in 139 children with severe malabsorptive symptoms . among 33 children with confirmed coeliac disease ( espgan criteria ) , 13 ( 93 % ) of 14 sampled before starting on a gluten-free diet had jab , none of 21 sampled had jab while on a gluten-free diet of long duration , and 90 % of 30 sampled during gluten challenge had jab . 53 children had severe jejunal villous atrophy ( probable coeliac disease ) : 71 % of those younger than 2 years and 94 % of those aged 2-18 years had jab during gluten intake . jab could not be detected in 53 disease control patients ( normal jejunal histology ) and in 3 coeliac disease patients with selective iga deficiency . simultaneous determination of antigliadin ( aga ) and antiendomysium ( ema ) levels , and gliadin and tissue absorption studies , showed that jab and aga are different , whereas jab and ema are probably identical . iga jab could be the target-organ-related autoantibodies in coeliac disease . 
a chronic granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin . a small clinically distinct group of patients with widespread tissue granulomata are described . the principal presenting symptoms are malaise , fever , and weight loss , although a wide variety of complaints are documented . pulmonary involvement is uncommon . the granulomata are noncaseating with a few multinucleate giant cells and some surrounding chronic inflammatory infiltrate . there is no evidence of an associated arteritis . the disease has a relapsing and remitting course and although it may require treatment with immunosuppressive drugs , particularly if the kidneys are involved , the prognosis is relatively good . we propose that this entity be called granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin . the characteristics that set this syndrome apart from the other granulomatous vasculitides are discussed . the current limited understanding of granuloma formation does not allow us to propose a definite etiology for this condition . it is emphasized that it is not helpful to encompass it within a label of sarcoidosis . first , it may only serve to confuse the doctor in assessing and treating this very particular group of patients . secondly , it may hinder future attempts to understand the different pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the various conditions in which granulomata may arise . 
pancreaticopleural fistula . report of 7 patients and review of the literature . pancreaticopleural fistula is an uncommon clinical condition . its presentation is often confusing because of the paucity of clues suggestive of pancreatic disease and the preponderance of pulmonary symptoms and signs . most patients are alcoholics but only one-half will have a clinical history of previous pancreatitis . pleural effusions are large , recurrent , and highly exudative in nature . many patients go through extensive pulmonary evaluation before the pancreas is identified as the site of primary pathology . an elevated serum amylase may be the first clue to the diagnosis . however , the key to the diagnosis is a dramatically elevated pleural fluid amylase . effusions in association with acute pancreatitis , esophageal perforation , and thoracic malignancy are important to consider in the differential diagnosis of an elevated pleural fluid amylase but are usually easy to exclude . computed tomography is excellent in defining pancreatic abnormalities and should be the first abdominal imaging study in suspected cases . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) is used as a diagnostic tool only in confusing cases . although no systematic study evaluates medical versus surgical therapy , we recommend an initial 2 to 4-week trial of medical therapy , including allowance of no oral intake , total parenteral nutrition , chest tube thoracostomy , and possibly a regimen of somatostatin or its analogs . the major complication in these patients is superinfection , which results in significant morbidity and mortality . failure of medical therapy should be considered failure of pleural effusion ( s ) to clear , recurrence after reinstatement of oral intake , or superinfection . for those patients who fail to benefit from medical therapy , surgery is indicated . 
coccidioidomycosis during human immunodeficiency virus infection . a review of 77 patients . through a retrospective review , we identified 77 previously unreported cases of coccidioidomycosis during hiv infection . patients were classified into 1 of 6 categories based on their primary clinical presentation : 20 had focal pulmonary disease ( group 1 ) , 31 had diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) , 4 had cutaneous coccidioidomycosis ( group 3 ) , 9 had meningitis ( group 4 ) , 7 had extrathoracic lymph node or liver involvement ( group 5 ) , and 6 has positive coccidioidal serology without a clinical focus of infection ( group 6 ) . coccidioidal serologies were positive on initial testing in 83 % of the patients in whom such serologic testing was performed . sera from 39 % of patients were positive for tp antibodies while 74 % had cf antibodies . eleven of 12 seronegative patients had pulmonary disease ( group 1 or 2 ) . serologic results of other patients sent to a single reference laboratory were similar , with 26 % positive for immunodiffusion tp antibodies and 79 % positive for immunodiffusion cf antibodies . for the 77 patients in this study , the cd4-lymphocyte count was below 0.250 x 10 ( 9 ) cells/l in 46 of the 55 patients who had this test performed , and a low cd4 count was significantly associated with mortality ( p less than 0.01 ) . at the time of follow-up , 32 of the 77 patients ( 42 % ) had died . there were significantly more deaths in those with diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) than in other groups ( p less than 0.001 ) . amphotericin b , ketoconazole , fluconazole , and itraconazole were all used as antifungal therapies . outcome could not be related to the therapy used . of note , 3 patients developed coccidioidomycosis while receiving ketoconazole for other conditions . 
aspiration in bilateral stroke patients . seventy patients with bilateral strokes underwent neurologic and videofluoroscopic barium swallowing examinations ; 34 ( 48.6 % ) aspirated . patients with aspiration were more likely to have posterior circulation strokes , abnormal cough , abnormal gag , and dysphonia . however , patients likely to aspirate can be identified best by the presence of an abnormal voluntary cough , an abnormal gag reflex , or both . the prediction of patients at risk for aspiration was not improved by additional clinical information ( ie , presence of dysphonia or bilateral neurologic signs ) . 
cyclic pelvic pain . cyclic pelvic pain is a common gynecologic problem caused by relatively few diseases , which usually can be diagnosed and remedied quickly . some complaints reflect normal physiologic aspects of the menstrual cycle ( mittelschmerz , menstrual awareness ) . premenstrual syndrome can be diagnosed , but an effective and convenient treatment is lacking . dysmenorrhea is the commonest source of cyclic pain , diagnosed by its characteristic history and rapid relief on administration of antiprostaglandin agents . endometriosis is diagnosed surgically and best treated either surgically then , or medically by danazol or gnrh agonists . in contrast , adenomyosis is a problem commonly encountered in later life , and hysterectomy is usually needed for both definitive diagnosis and treatment . 
pelvic pain and infections . infectious etiologies of both acute and chronic pelvic pain are common and may involve multiple organ systems . in the evaluation of the acute pain , it is important to remember that rapidity of diagnosis is important because of the possibility of significant morbidity and even death if a condition is not attended to rapidly . in recent years , laparoscopic evaluation of the pelvis has provided a better understanding of the pathophysiology of some of these infections , as well as possible therapeutic maneuvers . the evaluation of chronic pelvic pain requires a thorough attempt at careful diagnosis with minds open to the possibility that other organ systems besides the genital tract may be involved . laparoscopy also may be an important diagnostic and therapeutic tool in the evaluation of the sequelae of pelvic inflammation leading to chronic pelvic pain . all therapeutic modalities that are instituted on the basis of the diagnostic evaluation must take into consideration that a strong emotional component is generally associated with chronic pelvic pain . such components must be addressed in order to achieve the best possible results for the patient . 
an epidemic outbreak of cryptosporidiosis : a prospective community study from guinea bissau . in the first year of a prospective community study of childhood diarrhea conducted in a semiurban area in the capital of guinea bissau , cryptosporidium sp . was found in 73 ( 6.0 % ) of 1216 episodes of diarrhea . the parasite was the second most prevalent intestinal parasite , and the only one significantly associated with diarrhea ( or = 2.79 , p = 0.0006 ) . the seasonal distribution was striking , with a peak prevalence in the beginning of the rainy season ( may 17.6 % ) when an epidemic outbreak of diarrhea started . the prevalence was highest in children younger than 18 months , an age at which prevalences of other intestinal parasites were low . this reverse age pattern may possibly be explained by the small infective dose needed to create severe infections , by air-borne transmission and by the development of protective immunity . 
case-control study of cryptosporidium parvum infection in peruvian children hospitalized for diarrhea : possible association with malnutrition and nosocomial infection . a retrospective , hospital-based case-control study was used to investigate whether there were any clinical characteristics that could distinguish cryptosporidium parvum-infected children with diarrhea from other non-c . parvum-infected children with diarrhea . ten percent ( 24 of 248 ) of children admitted to a rehydration ward at cayetano heredia university hospital , lima , peru , were infected with c. parvum . the 24 patients infected with c. parvum ( cases ) were matched to an equal number of noninfected patients ( controls ) . c. parvum-infected patients were more likely to be malnourished than were children without this infection ( p less than 0.05 ) . also nosocomial infection caused by c. parvum occurred in three severely malnourished patients , two of whom died . no other clinical or laboratory characteristics were found that would distinguish children with diarrhea caused by c. parvum from other children with diarrhea . in children hospitalized for diarrhea c. parvum infection occurs most frequently in malnourished children . 
clinical features of adenovirus enteritis : a review of 127 cases . we retrospectively analyzed the clinical features of 127 hospitalized pediatric patients whose fecal samples were positive for adenovirus ( ad ) by electron microscopy during an 18-month period . serotyping results obtained by microneutralization tests and restriction endonuclease analysis were available for 105 of 127 cases . there were 69 males and 58 females and 94 % of patients were less than 4 years of age . the average body temperature was 38 degrees c rectal ( range , 36.2-40 .8 degrees c ) with an average duration of fever of 1.6 days . the average duration of clinical illness was 8.8 days ( range , 1 to 32 days ) . although ad 40 and ad 41 were isolated in the majority of cases ( 59 of 105 ( 56 % ] , ad 31 was associated with 18 of 105 cases ( 17 % ) . of the 18 cases associated with ad 31 , 14 were nosocomial and associated with diarrhea . our survey confirms the importance of fastidious enteric ad in infantile diarrhea ( ad 40 , ad 41 ) and suggests that ad 31 produces a clinical syndrome indistinguishable from that caused by ad 40 and ad 41 . the occurrence of ad enteritis in patients admitted for unrelated illnesses well after initial hospitalization suggests that ad is also an important cause of nosocomial enteritis in our hospital . 
advanced assessment of the abdomen and gastrointestinal problems . there are many unique physical assessment findings that are associated with specific gastrointestinal disorders . the detection of these findings enables the nurse to manage gastrointestinal emergencies on the patient unit in a timely fashion , preventing deterioration and maintaining the safety of the patient . these skills build well on the traditional , detailed , and comprehensive assessments the nurse makes when using the nursing process . specific abdominal assessments include detection of signs associated with appendicitis such as rebound tenderness and mcburney 's , rosvig 's , and aaron 's signs . the nurse must always be alert to the possibility of peritonitis and the urgency of early detection and treatment . the patient with cirrhosis of the liver presents a distinct clinical picture . there is a need for subtle evaluation of mental status to detect early signs of hepatic coma . another extra-abdominal assessment of this complication is asterixis . finally , the assessment of the patient is enhanced when the nurse is able to help identify the location of bleeding . improving abdominal and gastrointestinal system assessment leads to early detection of nursing problems and appropriate interventions . 
nausea , vomiting , and retching . although nausea , vomiting , and retching have plagued mankind since antiquity , limited attention has been given to the three symptoms as separate entities . although knowledge of symptom occurrence is essential to practice , nurses must focus on patients ' response or distress to the occurrence of symptoms . the differentiation of symptom occurrence and symptom distress of nausea , vomiting , and retching is critical to the management and self-care demands of patients and the enhancement of their quality of life . basic research on patterns of these individual symptoms and their components promises to provide a more progressive and fruitful approach to the patient response to these symptoms . 
diarrhea . diarrhea is one manifestation of gi disturbance . symptoms may be acute if caused by such things as infections , drug reactions , alterations in diet , heavy metal poisoning , or fecal impaction . chronic diarrhea is a symptom of gi diseases such as irritable bowel syndrome , lactase deficiency , cancer of the colon , inflammatory bowel disease , and malabsorption diseases . chronic diarrhea may also be associated with gi surgery , radiation therapy , laxative abuse , alcohol abuse , and chemotherapeutic agents . when interventions are required to deal with diarrhea , they may include such things as alteration in tube feeding products and methods of administration , fluid replacement by oral rehydration procedures , a rapid return to feeding , and education aimed at the health information clients need to prevent or control the symptom of diarrhea . 
colonoscopy in critically ill patients . what conditions call for it ? indications for colonoscopy in the intensive care unit include acute lower intestinal bleeding , sigmoid volvulus , pseudo-obstruction of the colon , and suspicion of pseudomembranous colitis . although the incidence of cardiorespiratory complications may be higher in these critically ill patients , the procedure can be done safely with proper attention to detail . because of colonic dilatation , endoscopy can often be done without bowel preparation . 
interventional radiologic alternatives to cholecystectomy . it has been estimated that 20 million people in the united states have gallstone disease . the choice of the optimal management strategy for a patient with symptomatic gallstones in the 1990s will take into account the clinical status of the patient , the characteristics of the gallstones , and the patient 's preference . only patients whose doctors understand the advantages and disadvantages of the newer methods can make properly informed choices . when interventional radiologic alternatives to cholecystectomy are being contemplated , one approach is to first consider the patient 's clinical presentation ( acute or nonacute ) and then their risk of death after cholecystectomy ( low or high ) . figure 5 shows an algorithmic approach to the management of gallbladder stones based on this concept . this algorithm also can be used as a framework for discussion of treatment options with any individual patient . 
interventional radiology of the biliary tract . transcholecystic intervention . diagnostic and therapeutic biliary intervention by percutaneous access to the gallbladder is an important new area in interventional radiology . the anatomy of the gallbladder , biliary tree , and surrounding viscera is reviewed in this article as a preliminary to discussion of the diagnostic techniques of aspiration , cholangiography , biopsy , and the therapeutic techniques of gallbladder drainage and cholelithotomy . recently there has been a bewildering proliferation of procedures aimed at removal , fragmentation , and dissolution of gallbladder stones . several of these are discussed in this article . removal of common bile duct stones by percutaneous cholecystostomy also is discussed . 
interventional gallbladder procedures . interventional radiologic procedures in the gallbladder are influencing both the diagnosis and therapy of many gallbladder disorders . current diagnostic and therapeutic percutaneous techniques offer important alternatives for their management . this article highlights the spectrum of interventional radiologic techniques available for gallbladder diseases . 
intracorporeal biliary lithotripsy . most bile duct calculi can be removed with standard percutaneous or endoscopic techniques . very large stones are the most common cause for failure . intracorporeal lithotripsy , and ehl in particular , can be used safely in either the biliary tree or gallbladder to fragment these large stones and allow percutaneous removal or passage . intracorporeal ehl requires direct vision to prevent damage to the bile duct mucosa . intracorporeal laser lithotripsy may offer some safety advantages , but the laser requires much more expensive equipment than intracorporeal ehl . additional studies are needed to determine the technique that is better in each circumstance . 
technical aspects of biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy . radiologic imaging procedures play a major role in the evaluation of the potential patient for biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy , both during the procedure and in follow-up evaluation . the treating physician must have a thorough knowledge of ultrasonography techniques . lithotripsy requires continual monitoring and frequent reassessment to optimize targeting and fragmentation of the gallstones while maintaining patient comfort . 
clinical experience with biliary extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy . biliary lithotripsy is a new and important development in the nonsurgical management of gallbladder , cystic duct , and bile duct stones . most patients do not require general or epidural anesthesia with newer second-generation machines . patient selection and the use of adjuvant therapy to aid fragment clearance are important issues that are discussed . results from different centers are compared but few long-term results are yet available , i.e. , longer than 18 months . 
ablation of the cystic duct and the gallbladder . experimental basis and initial clinical observations . bipolar radiofrequency electrocoagulation of the cystic duct by catheter can be performed safely and reproducibly using fluoroscopic control and induces endoluminal scar formation . the scar within the cystic duct forms a reliable barrier between the gallbladder and the biliary system and avoids recanalization of the cystic duct at a later date . sclerotherapy of the isolated gallbladder with 95 % ethanol and 3 % sts can be performed without toxic or otherwise adverse effects and is suitable to ablate the porcine gallbladder . initial clinical trials with this new technique on a small number of patients are promising and have demonstrated that the protocol can be applied safely to humans . the electrocoagulation technique by catheter appears suitable to ablate the human cystic duct . follow-up evaluation of our first patients is under way and must determine whether our regimen is appropriate to ablate the human gallbladder on a long-term basis . further development of this new approach may eventually enable definitive nonoperative treatment of cholecystolithiasis in selected patients . 
combined radiologic and retrograde endoscopic and biliary interventions . methods of treating complex biliary duct problems by a team composed of an endoscopist and interventional radiologist are described . these procedures are of two types : those in which all manipulations are performed through the endoscope and those in which an antegrade transhepatic and a retrograde endoscopic approach are combined . 
a case of group b streptococcal pyomyositis the group b streptococcus is an opportunistic pathogen that causes a variety of serious infections including bacteremias , puerperal sepsis , and neonatal meningitis . group b streptococcal infections of muscle are rare . we report here an unusual case of group b streptococcal pyomyositis . pyomyositis arises predominantly from infections caused by staphylococcus aureus and , occasionally , streptococcus pyogenes . because of the rarity of pyomyositis in temperate climates , the common lack of localizing signs or symptoms , and the frequently negative blood cultures , considerable delay often precedes the diagnosis of pyomyositis ; in fact , the infection has been initially misdiagnosed as muscle hematoma , cellulitis , thrombophlebitis , osteomyelitis , or neoplasm . diagnosis may be greatly aided by radiologic techniques that can demonstrate the sites of muscle enlargement and the presence of fluid collections . the response to antibiotics is usually rapid , but resolution of the infection may require aspiration of deeply situated muscle abscesses . this report describes a diabetic patient with an unusual presentation of pyomyositis that mimicked an acute abdomen . 
visceral protothecosis mimicking sclerosing cholangitis in an immunocompetent host : successful antifungal therapy . a healthy 39-year-old man who had clinical findings consistent with sclerosing cholangitis was found to have systemic protothecosis at surgery . severe granulomatous inflammation and palpable nodules were found in the gallbladder , on the surface of the liver , and in the duodenum . prototheca wickerhamii was detected in biopsied specimens and stool ; the titer of indirect fluorescent antibody to this organism was 1:2,000 . the patient recovered after a short course of treatment with amphotericin b and 3 months of oral therapy with ketoconazole . he had no other concurrent illness and had no abnormality in his immune system . this is the second reported human case of systemic protothecosis . an elevated igg level , an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate , eosinophilia , and abnormal levels of enzymes in the liver were found in both cases . protothecosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of hepatic and biliary inflammatory diseases of uncertain etiology . 
postoperative pancreatic abscess due to plesiomonas shigelloides . plesiomonas shigelloides is being recognized with increasing frequency as a human pathogen . the organism is ubiquitous in fresh and brackish water , and clinical illness has been associated with foreign travel and ingestion of inadequately cooked seafood . we describe a 64-year-old filipino woman who presented 2 weeks after elective cholecystectomy and pancreatic biopsy with left upper quadrant pain , abdominal distention , and fever . computerized tomography of the abdomen revealed an abscess in the tail of the pancreas with fluid accumulation in the lesser omental sac . percutaneous aspiration yielded purulent material , and p. shigelloides was recovered in pure culture . to our knowledge , this is the first reported case of pancreatic abscess due to p. shigelloides . 
emphysematous gastritis : case report and review . emphysematous gastritis is a condition involving gastric wall inflammation , radiologic or intraoperative evidence of intramural gas , and systemic toxicity . a recent case of emphysematous gastritis in a 57-year-old diabetic man is reported , and 27 cases published since 1889 are reviewed . predisposing factors include ingestion of corrosive substances ( 37 % ) and alcohol abuse ( 22 % ) . diagnosis of emphysematous gastritis is based on the clinical presentation of an acute abdomen with systemic toxicity and on radiographs demonstrating gas bubbles within the stomach wall . for the case reported herein , computed tomography was useful both in establishing the diagnosis and in following the resolution of emphysematous gastritis . organisms most commonly involved were escherichia coli ( six cases ) , streptococcus species ( six cases ) , enterobacter species ( five cases ) , and pseudomonas aeruginosa ( three cases ) . the mortality was 61 % ( 17 of 28 patients ) , and morbidity with gastric contractures occurred in 21 % of cases ( 6 of 28 ) . optimal therapy has not been defined ; however , antimicrobial chemotherapy and surgery , when appropriate , may improve survival rates . 
preventing colorectal cancer . knowledgeable patients should not die of colorectal cancer . increasing the intake of dietary fiber , decreasing fat consumption , and increasing the use of modern technology to detect adenomatous polyps and early cancer can greatly decrease the mortality associated with colorectal cancer . 
normeperidine-induced seizures in hereditary coproporphyria . seizures are common in acute exacerbations of hepatic porphyria , even though the etiology is not identified in most cases . we have reported a case of normeperidine-induced seizures in a patient with hereditary coproporphyria . although meperidine is commonly used for pain control during acute attacks in these patients , this report suggests that meperidine is not a good analgesic choice in porphyria . normeperidine-induced seizures in patients with porphyria may be treated by withdrawal of meperidine therapy and selective use of anticonvulsants . 
traumatic diaphragmatic hernia and intestinal obstruction due to penetrating trunk wounds . we have reported two cases of intestinal obstruction due to traumatic diaphragmatic hernia , both resulting from apparently trivial knife wounds . when tdh is due to a penetrating injury , it tends to produce symptoms of intestinal obstruction . a high index of suspicion , a chest x-ray film , and barium studies of the gastrointestinal tract are usually needed to make the diagnosis , though ct scans , ultrasonography , laparoscopy , and radionuclide scanning may also be useful . surgeons and emergency physicians should be aware of the potential for tdh when there is a history of a penetrating wound of the chest or abdomen . 
adenocarcinoma of the appendiceal stump . we have reported the case of a 58-year-old woman with nonspecific abdominal complaints in whom barium enema and subsequent colonoscopy showed a 3 cm lobulated adenocarcinoma within a villous adenoma arising from the appendiceal stump . because such appendiceal malignancies have no specific clinical signs , symptoms , or radiologic features , preoperative diagnosis is extremely difficult , and colonoscopy may be required to clarify radiologically demonstrated irregularities . 
adenocarcinoma of the colon occurring with intussusception in an adolescent . hydrostatic reduction of intussusception is definitive therapy in most infants with this abnormality . in the older child , adolescent , and adult , a polyp or tumor is often present . operative intervention should be considered earlier in the clinical course both to relieve the intussusception and to define the nature of the lead point . 
preventing postoperative acute bleeding of the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract . two hundred and ninety-eight critically ill patients at risk for the development of postoperative stress ulcers and bleeding were randomized into three groups . the first group comprised 85 patients who received meciadanol , a new bioflavonoid , 500 milligrams every six hours through a nasograstric tube ; the second group comprised 100 patients who received sucralfate ( crushed tablets ) , 1,000 milligrams every six hours through a nasogastric tube , and the third group comprised 113 patients who received an antacid ( maalox [ magnesium aluminum hydroxide gel ] ) through a nasogastric tube at an initial dose of 15 milliliters every hour . the gastric ph was measured hourly and titrated to a ph greater than or equal to 4.0 in patients in the group receiving the antacid . the gastric ph was measured every two hours in the other two groups . bleeding in the upper part of the gastrointestinal tract was determined visually ( frank blood in gastric contents ) or by guaiac testing . bleeding occurred in seven patients receiving meciadanol , nine receiving sucralfate and six receiving the antacid . the difference in rates of bleeding was not statistically significant . correlation between the severity of illness index and the development of bleeding was poor , at least in the low and intermediate index range . in contrast , there was a strong correlation between the age of the patient and the development of bleeding . only one patient younger than 50 years had bleeding develop . apparently , meciadanol exerts its action by a mechanism other than ph control . it may , therefore , fill an important gap in the ability to prevent postoperative stress ulcers and bleeding . 
intraoperative scintigraphy for active small intestinal bleeding . localizing active sites of bleeding within the small intestine remains a difficult task . endoscopic , angiographic or scintigraphic studies may point to the small intestine as the site of blood loss , but at operation , without a palpable lesion , the exact site of bleeding remains elusive . patients are managed at laparotomy with intraoperative endoscopy , angiography , multiple enterotomies , " blind " resections , or placement of an enterostomy . we describe two patients in whom intraoperative scintigraphy accurately identified active sites of bleeding in the small intestine when other modalities failed . intraoperative scintigraphy is rapid , easy to perform and is an effective means of identifying active sites of bleeding within the small intestine . 
high or low hepaticojejunostomy for bile duct strictures ? the 19 patients who underwent 22 postoperative repairs of bile duct stricture in our institution between 1973 and 1984 were evaluated to assess whether the recognition of the tenuous blood supply of the supraduodenal bile duct in 1979 had improved the results thereafter . thirteen of these 22 operations followed a previous biliary tract repair ; in 10 of the operations a low anastomosis had been performed without taking blood supply into account . follow-up was complete and ranged from 5 to 15 years . there were no operative deaths and minimal morbidity . there were three deaths at a later time . five of the 11 patients treated by surgery to 1979 had a clinically unsatisfactory result : recurrent strictures developed in all five patients . all but one of the eight patients receiving a high hepaticojejunostomy from 1980 had a clinically satisfactory result with no recurrent strictures . the one exception was the patient who had a second repair with separate high right and left hepatic duct anastomoses and who has ongoing symptoms from preexisting secondary sclerosing cholangitis . the results in the five high repairs performed for low strictures were particularly striking : all five were asymptomatic . this study lends support to the hypothesis of an ischemic basis for biliary strictures and to the recommendation that strictures be repaired with a high hepaticojejunostomy . 
biliobiliary fistula : preoperative diagnosis and management implications . experience with cholecystohepaticodochal and cholecystocholedochal fistulas as a result of an erosion of gallstones from the gallbladder into the adjacent common duct in five patients is presented . the incidence was 1.4 % in a population of 350 patients undergoing cholecystectomy . the condition was indicated clinically on the basis of a symptom triad of jaundice , fever , and pain with cholelithiasis in a small contracted gallbladder . in addition , proximal intra - and extrahepatic ductal dilatation , calculus in the common duct , and normal-caliber ( or unprofiled ) distal common duct on ultrasound scan were present in all the patients . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography proved to be the most useful means of investigation , and it confirmed the diagnosis in four patients before surgery . a modified antegrade cholecystectomy was performed with the gallbladder opened inferiorly at the fundus , and the stones were evacuated . a partial cholecystectomy and choledochoplasty were accomplished with gallbladder flaps whenever feasible . other useful operative procedures are side-to-side hepaticodochojejunostomy and hepaticodochoduodenostomy . in the presence of high benign bile duct stricture , an approach to the left hepatic duct is now preferred for biliary bypass . 
the role of gastric resection in the management of multicentric argyrophil gastric carcinoids . a patient with pernicious anemia , atrophic non-antral gastritis , hypergastrinemia , and widespread hyperplasia of enterochromaffin-like cells and manifest enterochromaffin-like cell carcinoma was followed up during 39 months , including 15 months after gastric resection . in this case normalization of gastrin levels did not prevent the development of multiple gastric carcinoids in the fundic mucosa , suggesting that factors other than gastrin are of importance in the pathogenesis . 
esophageal reflux before and after isolated myotomy for achalasia . four patients with achalasia underwent 24-hour esophageal ph measurements as ambulatory patients before and after limited myotomy without fundoplication . resting lower esophageal sphincter pressure was reduced from 24.3 + / - 1.3 mm hg to 7.5 + / - 4.3 mm hg . no significant differences ( p greater than 0.05 ) were found before and after operation in the total 24-hour ph data distribution ( ph 6.24 + / - 0.84 vs 5.75 + / - 1.03 ) , the fraction of time below ph 4.0 ( 4.8 % + / - 5.3 % vs 8.0 % + / - 6.9 % ) , or the mean duration of reflux episodes greater than 5 minutes ( 22.8 + / - 18.8 minutes vs 23.0 + / - 10 minutes ) , all + / - sd . effective relief of esophageal obstruction in achalasia is feasible by isolated limited myotomy without producing gastroesophageal reflux . 
incisional parapubic hernias . a parapubic hernia , distinct from other lower abdominal wall hernias , is identified as a particular type of incisional hernia . this hernia results from the disruption of the musculotendinous elements of the abdominal wall as they insert into the pubis . this disruption is brought about by either the destruction of these musculotendinous tissues at their lower end or the resection of portions of the pubic bone as is sometimes done in suprapubic radical prostatectomies for easier access to the prostate . seven cases have been identified and reported . men and women were seen to make up a clinical picture that is suggestive of the diagnosis , namely , multiple previous operations through the lower abdominal wall , procedures of a gynecologic or urologic nature , a herniation that mimics an incisional or inguinal hernia , and a defect that can not possibly be corrected without the use of a prosthesis . when the diagnosis is accurately established , the polypropylene mesh is inserted in the preperitoneal space and anchored laterally to the ligaments of cooper and in between to the arcuate pubic ligament and the periosteum of the posterior aspect of the pubis . excellent results have been obtained , and the success must be ascribed to the recognition of the parapubic hernia as a distinct entity . 
portal vein resection with a new antithrombogenic catheter . curative resection of pancreatic and hepatobiliary tumors is rarely possible because of local invasion , especially into the portal vein . we developed a new antithrombogenic catheter using a heparinized hydrophilic polymer to allow portal vein bypass during resection of tumors invading the portal vein . pancreatectomy or hepatectomy accompanied by portal vein resection was performed for pancreatic or hepatobiliary cancer , with an intraoperative shunt from the superior mesenteric vein to the femoral vein or from the superior mesenteric vein to the intrahepatic portal vein through the umbilical vein or the hepatic hilar portal vein . use of the shunt prevented stasis in the superior mesenteric vein and hepatic ischemia even during prolonged occlusion of the portal vein , and portal vein resection was performed in 81 patients with hepatobiliary and pancreatic disease with greater safety and ease . 
gastric outlet obstruction caused by traumatic pseudoaneurysm of superior mesenteric artery . traumatic pseudoaneurysms of the superior mesenteric artery ( sma ) are extremely rare . we describe two cases of posttraumatic proximal sma pseudoaneurysms with symptoms of gastric outlet obstruction . repair was accomplished by aorta-sma bypass with saphenous vein . injuries to the proximal sma are easily missed at laparotomy , especially if intestinal ischemia or hematomas are absent . recognition and repair are stressed to avoid the complications associated with pseudoaneurysm formation . 
high ethanol consumption as risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage in young and middle-aged people . we examined the prevalence of high ethanol intake , hypertension , and other risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage in a case-control study of 24 young and middle-aged patients with intracerebral hemorrhage . we recorded ethanol consumption , history of hypertension , liver disease , cigarette smoking , and mild or severe coagulation disorder in each case of intracerebral hemorrhage and in 48 control patients matched by sex and age . in univariate matched analyses , the frequencies of high ethanol intake ( p = 0.009 ) , hypertension ( p = 0.05 ) , and coagulation disorder ( p = 0.05 ) were higher in the cases than in the controls . after controlling for possible confounding factors , we found that high ethanol intake and hypertension were the only independent risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage ( p = 0.02 and p = 0.05 , respectively ) . the hemorrhagic lesion found in cases with a high ethanol intake tended to be located in the cerebral lobes ( p = 0.01 ) , contrasting with the typical basal ganglia location of hypertensive hematomas ( p = 0.009 ) . we conclude that chronic , high ethanol intake should be considered as an important risk factor for lobar hematomas in young and middle-aged people . 
dietary predictors of symptom-associated gallstones in middle-aged women . in 1980 , 88,837 women aged 34-59 y completed a semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire and were followed for 4 y. four hundred thirty-three women reported a cholecystectomy for recent cholecystitis , and 179 reported unremoved , newly symptomatic gallstones diagnosed by ultrasound or x ray . among the 59,306 women with quetelet 's index of relative weight less than 25 kg/m2 , inverse associations were observed between intakes of vegetable fat and vegetable protein and the risk of reportedly symptomatic gallastones , after adjusting for age , quetelet 's index in 1980 , weight change between 1976 and 1980 , energy intake , and alcohol intake . the relative risk in the highest quintile of vegetable fat intake , as compared with the lowest quintile , was 0.6 [ 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) , 0.4-0 .9 ] , and the corresponding relative risk for vegetable protein intake was 0.7 ( 95 % ci , 0.6-0 .9 ) . no significant associations were found with energy-adjusted intakes of cholesterol , animal fat , animal protein , carbohydrate , or sucrose . 
effects of common illnesses on infants ' energy intakes from breast milk and other foods during longitudinal community-based studies in huascar ( lima ) , peru . to assess the effects of common infections on dietary intake , 131 peruvian infants were observed longitudinally . home surveillance for illness symptoms was completed thrice weekly , and food and breast-milk consumption was measured during 1615 full-day observations . mean ( + / - sd ) energy intakes on symptom-free days were 557 + / - 128 kcal/d ( 92.4 + / - 26.5 kcal.kg-1 . d-1 ) for infants aged less than 181 d and 638 + / - 193 kcal/d ( 77.7 + / - 25.7 kcal.kg-1 . d-1 ) for infants aged greater than 180 d. statistical models controlling for infant age , season of the year , and individual showed significant 5-6 % decreases in total energy intake during diarrhea or fever . there were no changes with illness in the frequency of breast-feeding , total suckling time , or amount of breast-milk energy consumed . by contrast , energy intake from non-breast-milk sources decreased by 20-30 % during diarrhea and fever , and the small decrements in total energy consumption during illness were explained entirely by reduced consumption of non-breast-milk foods . 
inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor ( plasma cell granuloma ) . clinicopathologic study of 20 cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations . twenty cases of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor ( imt ) were studied ; 19 involved the lung and 1 the esophagus only . the patients ' ages ranged from 3 to 72 years . there were 9 males and 11 females . involvement of a bronchus was seen in one case and of mediastinal structures in four . chest pain and dyspnea were common symptoms ; eight patients were asymptomatic . seven patients underwent lobectomy , 12 local excision , and 1 biopsy alone . the lesions were nonencapsulated and ranged from 1.2 to 15 cm . various proportions of plasma cells , histiocytes , and spindle cells were observed ; the latter corresponded ultrastructurally to fibroblasts and myofibroblasts , were immunoreactive for vimentin and actin and focally for desmin , and were negative for epithelial markers . plasma cells were polyclonal for light chains . one patient had two recurrences , and in one case a large pleural imt was found eight years after the excision of a similar lesion in the lung . all patients with follow-up ( ten ) were well as long as ten years after the diagnosis ( average , 3.7 years ) . 
computerized tomography in acute gastrointestinal disorders . in recent years , computerized tomography ( ct ) has become one of the most important imaging modalities in evaluation of patients with acute gastrointestinal disorders . its role , diagnostic accuracy , indications , and limitations in some of the most commonly encountered acute abdominal conditions are succinctly presented and reviewed . ct should not be used indiscriminantly , but is best considered a valuable primary or complimentary diagnostic tool in critically ill patients . its selective use in a variety of emergency abdominal diseases will significantly improve accuracy of clinical diagnoses , leading to a prompt and adequate medical or surgical management . 
effect of omeprazole and high doses of ranitidine on gastric acidity and gastroesophageal reflux in patients with moderate-severe esophagitis thirty to fifty percent of patients with reflux esophagitis fail to heal after treatment with conventional doses of h2-receptor antagonists , whereas omeprazole administration induces more than 90 % healing . to investigate the effect of omeprazole and higher-than-presently-recommended doses of h2-blockers , we evaluated gastric acidity and gastroesophageal reflux in 17 patients with severe-moderate esophagitis before and after treatment with 300 mg ranitidine twice daily or 20 mg omeprazole once daily . three ph-metric studies were performed , in a cross-over design , before and after 8 days of treatment with omeprazole or ranitidine . both drugs significantly reduced intragastric acidity ( p less than 0.001 ) during both night and day hours . median hourly 24-h intragastric ph was 1.8 in the basal study , 2.9 after ranitidine , and 3.4 after omeprazole . intragastric acidity fell from 84.0 mmol/l in the basal study to 14.2 mmol/l ( 79 % inhibition ) with ranitidine and 9.3 mmol/l ( 84 % inhibition ) with omeprazole . patients with esophagitis were significantly more exposed to acid than healthy subjects , in both the supine and upright position ( p less than 0.01 ) . the time with esophageal ph less than 4 dropped from 23.9 % in the basal study to 8.5 % with ranitidine and to 7.2 % with omeprazole ( p less than 0.001 ) . both drugs significantly reduced esophageal exposure to acid in both the supine and upright positions ( p less than 0.001 ) , whereas neither had any effect on esophageal acid clearance . 
esophageal 24-h ph monitoring : is prior manometry necessary for correct positioning of the electrode ? in 24-h esophageal ph monitoring , the electrode is usually positioned 5 cm above the manometrically localized esophagogastric junction . in order to replace esophageal manometry for this purpose , we tested whether the esophagogastric junction can be identified correctly by fluoroscopy or the determination of the ph-step between stomach and esophagus , compared with esophageal manometry . the distance from the nares to the esophagogastric junction was determined three times with each of the three methods in 46 patients and 14 volunteers . fluoroscopy assumed the esophagogastric junction 1.23 + / - 0.23 cm ( mean + / - se ) lower than the peak pressure point determined at manometry , ph-step only 0.45 + / - 0.16 cm . with ph-step , only one subject had a difference of more than 3 cm to the manometrically defined esophagogastric junction , whether gastroesophageal reflux disease ( as proven by ph monitoring ) was present or not . we conclude that the esophagogastric junction can usually be identified with sufficient accuracy by the measurement of the ph-step between stomach and esophagus . fluoroscopy is far less accurate than ph-step , and should not be used . 
dysphagia following fundoplication : " slipped " fundoplication versus achalasia complicated by fundoplication . failure to obtain preoperative esophageal manometry in patients being considered for antireflux surgery can result in immediate persistent postoperative dysphagia due to a missed diagnosis of achalasia . we describe the clinical assessment and management of a case of delayed postoperative dysphagia due to a " slipped " fundoplication , which is contrasted with three patients with immediate postoperative dysphagia due to a missed diagnosis of achalasia . surgical revision was required to correct the " slipped " fundoplication , and pneumatic dilatation was successfully used in two of three cases of achalasia complicated by fundoplication . careful preoperative esophageal evaluation with manometry is essential to rule out the presence of a primary esophageal motor disorder . 
endoscopic management of chronic organoaxial volvulus of the stomach . endoscopic correction of the chronic organoaxial volvulus of the stomach was attempted in seven cases of primary and three cases of secondary volvulus . endoscopic correction was successful in six cases of primary volvulus and one case of volvulus secondary to duodenal carcinoma . this paper describes the details of the technique of endoscopic correction of gastric volvulus , and documentation of correction of the volvulus by barium meal study with a follow-up of 5-26 months . 
recurrence of duodenal ulcer and elevated serum pepsinogen i levels in smokers and nonsmokers . we determined serum pepsinogen i ( pg i ) levels by radioimmunoassay in 472 patients with duodenal ulcer and 141 normal subjects to investigate whether serum pg i levels were related to cigarette smoking , and in 225 patients to determine whether the recurrence of duodenal ulcer was related to serum pg i levels or cigarette smoking . serum pg i levels were not influenced by cigarette smoking in either patients with duodenal ulcer or normal subjects . the recurrence rate of duodenal ulcer not under maintenance therapy was significantly higher in hyperpg i patients than in normopg i patients , regardless of their smoking habits . only in hyperpg i patients was the recurrence rate in smokers higher than in nonsmokers . patients under maintenance therapy showed similar results . multilogistic regression indicated that hyperpg i had a greater effect than cigarette smoking on ulcer recurrence . these findings indicate that serum pg i levels are not influenced by smoking , and the important characteristic in patients with recurrent duodenal ulcers is the increased serum pg i levels . 
adenocarcinoma arising in barrett 's esophagus after total gastrectomy a 64-yr-old japanese male who underwent a partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer at the age of 21 , a total resection of the remnant stomach for a stomal ulcer at age 25 , and in whom barrett 's esophagus was diagnosed at age 47 , was found to have a tumor at the distal esophagus and was operated on by thoracic esophagectomy . the tumor was a well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma invading down to the muscularis propria . the entire esophageal mucosa in the resected specimen was lined by columnar epithelium . this tumor was thought to derive from the barrett 's esophageal epithelium . 
" spontaneous sump syndrome " : successful treatment by duodenoscopic sphincterotomy . " sump syndrome " is a rare complication of side-to-side choledochoenterostomy operations which develops in the distal , nonfunctioning limb of the common bile duct where lithogenic bile , gastrointestinal contents , and debris accumulate . we report here a patient who developed spontaneous sump syndrome as a result of the formation of choledochoduodenal fistula , and who presented with multiple pyogenic liver abscesses . the patient 's symptoms and liver abscesses resolved completely after treatment by endoscopic sphincterotomy and antibiotics . this case demonstrates that sump syndrome may occur spontaneously , that it can be a cause for pyogenic liver abscess formation , and that it may be treated effectively by endoscopic sphincterotomy . 
hepatic portal venous gas : an unusual presentation of crohn 's disease . hepatic portal venous gas is associated with numerous conditions and traditionally has been regarded as an ominous prognostic sign . there are several reports of hepatic portal venous gas occurring in patients with inflammatory bowel disease after or during the performance of colonic diagnostic studies . we report an unusual case of crohn 's disease whose initial presentation included hepatic portal venous gas . the literature of hepatic portal venous gas associated with inflammatory bowel disease is reviewed . 
oral dissolution therapy for cholelithiasis : mix and match . the authors conducted a prospective , randomized trial of chenodeoxycholic and ursodeoxycholic acid versus ursodeoxycholic acid alone in patients with cholelithiasis to determine their efficacy for dissolution of gallstones . one hundred and twenty patients with radiolucent gallstones , less than or equal to 15 mm and who had a functioning gallbladder were enrolled . the patients were divided into two groups based on the diameter of their largest stones . seventy patients had stones larger than 5 mm but less than 15 mm , whereas 50 patients had stones that measured 5 mm or less . the patients were randomly assigned to treatment with chenodeoxycholic acid plus ursodeoxycholic acid ( 5 mm/kg of each ) or ursodeoxycholic acid ( 10 mm/kg ) alone . oral cholecystography , plain abdominal x-rays , and ultrasonography of the gallbladder were done at 6 , 12 , and 24 months . dissolution was deemed to be complete if not stones were visualized on two examinations . partial dissolution was defined as a 50 % reduction in stone size and/or number . stones that were not detected by cholecystography but still detected during ultrasonography were considered to be partially dissolved . plasma triglycerides , serum cholesterol , hdl , and serologic liver function tests were determined at 1 , 3 , 6 , 12 , 18 , and 24 months . in a select group of patients , bile-rich duodenal aspirates were aspirated and analyzed for biliary lipid contents . in the group with small stones , defined as less than or equal to 5 mm , complete stone dissolution occurred significantly more often utilizing combination therapy at 6 months ( 52 % vs 24 % ) , and this trend persisted , although no longer significant , at 12 and 24 months . combination therapy also achieved an improved rate of dissolution for large stones within 6 months ; however , this did not persist at 12 and 24 months . although not statistically significant , stone calcification occurred less often with combined therapy . all treatment regimens were well tolerated , with only minor changes in bowel habits and mild elevations in serum transaminase levels . serum lipid levels did not change with either therapy . the authors concluded that the combination of chenodeoxycholic acid and ursodeoxycholic acid was the preferred therapy for gallstone dissolution , because it dissolves stones more rapidly , with a lower incidence of stone calcifications , and thus might reduce the long-term cost of treatment . 
autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease -- more than a renal disease . autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease ( adpkd ) is the most common genetic disease , affecting a half million americans . the clinical phenotype can result from at least two different gene defects . one gene that can cause adpkd has been located on the short arm of chromosome 16 . this discovery has made possible new methods for diagnosing the disorder in gene carriers prior to the development of renal cysts . although renal cysts are clearly an important manifestation of the gene defect , other systemic manifestations are both common and clinically important . cardiac valvular lesions , intracranial aneurysms , hepatic cysts , and diverticula are included in the array of systemic manifestations . moreover , renal cysts are only one of a myriad of renal manifestations . although adpkd was long considered an adult cystic disease , it is also a common cause of childhood cystic disease and must be considered in the differential diagnosis in that setting . 
adult and pediatric peritonitis rates in a home dialysis program : comparison of continuous ambulatory and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis . we reviewed our 115-month experience with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis ( ccpd ) in adult and pediatric patients to determine whether there is a difference in the incidence of peritonitis between patients performing capd or ccpd . peritonitis rates were similar in patients performing capd or ccpd in both the adult and pediatric age groups . the overall capd peritonitis rate was significantly lower in adult patients when compared with pediatric patients . there was no difference in peritonitis rates for ccpd between adult and pediatric patients . when the data are divided into 3-year subgroups , the incidence of peritonitis is significantly lower in adult patients undergoing either capd or ccpd when compared with pediatric patients during the years 1986 to 1988 . there is significant improvement over time in the incidence of peritonitis in both adult and pediatric patients performing ccpd ; similarly , there is a trend toward improvement in patients performing capd . staphylococcus species organisms remain the most common bacterial cause of peritonitis , except in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years or with nephrostomies , where gram-negative rod infections were more common . peritonitis resulted in discontinuation of peritoneal dialysis in a greater number of adult patients . these results suggest that the number of catheter manipulations is not important in determining the incidence of peritonitis . pediatric patients are more likely than adult patients to develop peritonitis with either capd or ccpd . adult patients are more likely than pediatric patients to discontinue peritoneal dialysis secondary to peritonitis . 
clinical and manometric aspects of diffuse esophageal spasm in a cohort of subjects evaluated for dysphagia and/or chest pain . manometric criteria for diffuse esophageal spasm have recently been restated . in this study , a cohort of 358 subjects was evaluated in a gastrointestinal motility laboratory for dysphagia and/or chest pain . applying the recently proposed criteria of richter and castell , 18 subjects ( 5 % ) were diagnosed as having des . dysphagia was the major complaint ( 89 % ) , while 44 % of patients complained of chest pain and 33 % of both symptoms . all patients shared more than 30 % simultaneous contractions after wet swallows interspersed with normal peristaltic sequences . associated manometric findings were repetitive ( greater than 3 peaks ) contractions ( 67 % ) , high-amplitude contractions ( 33 % ) , spontaneous activity ( 22 % ) , prolonged duration ( 11 % ) , and lower esophageal sphincter abnormalities ( 5 % ) . radiology disclosed significant abnormalities in only 27 % of des patients . 
endometrioma of the liver . hepatic endometriosis is extremely rare . we describe a patient sent to us with epigastric pain as the only symptom and who was found to have associated endometrioma of the liver and left ovary . we suggest a gynecologic evaluation before surgery for hepatic cyst of unknown cause . 
hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury . hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury is an extremely rare entity , and evidence by only five cases that have been reported in the medical literature to date . we report five additional cases encountered in two medical centers . two of these were ruptured corpus luteum cysts , one was a laceration of the round ligament , another was a laceration of an ovary , and the fifth was rupture of a serous cystadenoma . this diagnosis should be considered in patients with hemoperitoneum after coitus . 
the associated anomalies that determine prognosis in congenital omphaloceles . cogenital abdominal wall defects such as omphaloceles can be recognized by fetal ultrasonography . to determine whether associated anatomic features may be useful in determining fetal prognosis , a retrospective study was performed over a 5-year period . there were 28 cases of omphalocele ; 16 were larger than 5 cm and classified as giant , and the remainder were considered small . eleven of the 12 infants with small omphaloceles survived with minimal neonatal complications . ten of the 16 infants with giant omphaloceles died because of associated congenital anomalies . these were congenital heart disease , central nervous system malformations , and diaphragmatic hernias . this review suggests that the prognosis is good when a prenatal diagnosis of giant omphalocele is made and careful fetal ultrasonography , including echocardiography , does not identify heart , central nervous system , or diaphragmatic malformations , even when there is liver herniation into the omphalocele . 
a clinicopathologic study of the eyes in familial adenomatous polyposis with extracolonic manifestations ( gardner 's syndrome ) . the eyes of a 51-year-old woman with familial adenomatous polyposis and extracolonic manifestations ( gardner 's syndrome ) were obtained postmortem and studied by light microscopy and by transmission and scanning electron microscopy . we found a generalized abnormality in melanogenesis of the retinal pigment epithelium and at least three types of pigmented lesions . the histologic findings in one type of lesion were consistent with congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium or benign pigmented nevus of the retinal pigment epithelium . the other two types of lesion were most consistent with hamartomatous malformations of the retinal pigment epithelium featuring cellular hypertrophy , hyperplasia , and rarely retinal invasion and formation of a minute mushroom-shaped tumor . these histopathologic findings indicate a generalized effect of the familial adenomatous polyposis gene on the retinal pigment epithelium . this oncogene , which is responsible for tumor formation in the gastrointestinal tract , soft tissues , bone , and other locations in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis , also leads to a generalized defect in melanogenesis and focal lesions of the retinal pigment epithelium . 
histologic similarity of murine colonic graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) to human colonic gvhd and inflammatory bowel disease . in a study designed to determine which t-cell subsets are involved in the development of murine graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) , a prospective histologic analysis of gastrointestinal involvement was performed . in c57bl/6jxdba/2f1 ( b6d2f1 ) recipients of dba/2 donor spleen and bone marrow cells , the colonic histologic findings were found to be similar in many respects to the histologic findings reported in human colonic gvhd and were much more severe and diffuse than were the abnormalities of the small intestine . host irradiation before transplantation was found to play an additive or synergistic role in the development of gvhd . furthermore the histologic features noted in dba/2 ---- b6d2f1 murine colonic gvhd suggest that bone marrow and spleen cell transplantation in this strain combination may be a useful model for studying the immunologic mechanisms involved in human inflammatory bowel disease . thus severe colonic disease noted during the course of dba/2 ---- b6d2f1 murine gvhd was found to have significant histopathologic similarities to both human gvhd enteropathy and other inflammatory diseases of the human colon . 
development of multiple necrotizing enteritis induced by a tumor necrosis factor-like cytokine from lipopolysaccharide-stimulated peritoneal macrophages in rats . we report the development of an animal model of multiple necrotizing enteritis ( mne ) in rats . when rats were injected directly with a culture supernatant of lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) - stimulated rat peritoneal macrophages into the abdominal aorta , the overt pathologic lesions of mne developed within 30 minutes after injection . the rats showed an elevated level of blood fibrinogen degradation product content even 30 minutes after injection . furthermore the rats that were pretreated intravenously with heparin sulfate did not develop mne , indicating the acute disturbances of blood microcirculation in the intestine . multiple necrotizing enteritis was developed also by the injection with recombinant tumor necrosis factor ( rtnf ) but rarely was observed with even a high dose of recombinant interleukin-1 ( ril-1 ) or platelet-activating factor ( paf ) . the supernatant was cytotoxic in vitro to tnf-susceptible lm and many other cells but was less cytotoxic to the tnf-resistant lr line . partial purification of the supernatant suggested that the supernatant contained a cytokine that has biochemical features of tnf . furthermore polyclonal anti-tnf antibody could inhibit not only the cytotoxicity in vitro but also mne development in vivo by this factor . these data strongly indicate that mne possibly could be caused by a tnf-like cytokine produced by macrophages that are stimulated by the endotoxin . 
association of hepatitis b surface antigen and core antibody with acquisition and manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection . we examined the associations between seropositivity for hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) with the presence or development of antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv-1 ) and with hiv-1 induced t-helper lymphocyte deficiency or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . serologic data on hbv and hiv-1 , cytometric enumeration of cd4 + lymphocytes , clinical events ( aids by centers for disease control criteria ) and hepatitis b vaccination histories were available on 4,498 homosexual participants in the multicenter aids cohort study , men were classified as to previous infection with hbv and prevalent or incident infection with hiv-1 . although there was an association between seropositivity for hbv infection and hiv-1 infection at enrollment ( odds ratios anti-hbc 2.6 ; hbsag 4.2 ) , the relation between hbv seropositivity and subsequent seroconversion to hiv-1 was weaker ( odds ratios 1.3 and 1.6 ) . hiv-1 seroconversion was also associated with a history of certain other sexually transmitted diseases , but predisposing sexual practices did not account for the association between hbv and hiv-1 infection . seropositivity for hbv infection at entry was not related to initially low or more rapid subsequent decline in t-helper lymphocyte counts and was not associated with an increased incidence of aids during 2.5 years of follow-up . history of vaccination against hbv did not appear to decrease susceptibility to hiv-1 infection or to subsequent progression of immunodeficiency . we conclude that prior hbv infection is unlikely to be specifically associated with acquisition of hiv-1 infection and is unrelated to more rapid progression of hiv-1-induced immunodeficiency . 
human t cell lymphotropic virus infection in guaymi indians from panama . preliminary studies found that 9 % of guaymi indians from bocas del toro province have antibody to human t cell lymphotropic virus ( htlv-i/ii ) . the present study enrolled 317 ( 21 % of the population ) guaymi indians from changuinola , the capital of bocas del toro province and 333 ( 70 % of the population ) from canquintu , an isolated rural village . demographic information and family relationships were ascertained and subjects were screened for neurologic diseases . serum specimens were screened by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for htlv-i/ii antibody and positives were confirmed according to u.s. public health service criteria . twenty-five ( 8 % ) guaymi residing in changuinola and 7 ( 2.1 % ) from canquintu were confirmed seropositive . in changuinola , antibody was virtually limited to residents greater than or equal to 15 years of age ( 24 [ 16 % ] of 153 ) and rates were slightly higher in males than in females ; in canquintu , antibody rates did not increase significantly with age and appeared higher in females than in males . in changuinola , there was no evidence for household clustering of infection . in contrast , htlv antibody among canquintu residents clustered significantly by household . htlv-associated neurologic disease was not detected in either population . the atypical seroepidemiology observed in both locations might be explained if the virus endemic to the guaymi differed from htlv-i previously described in the caribbean basin and japan . 
recurrence rate after discontinuation of long-term mebendazole therapy in alveolar echinococcosis ( preliminary results ) . the recurrence rate was investigated in 19 patients with non-resectable alveolar echinococcosis after discontinuation of a long-term therapy with mebendazole ( average treatment 4.3 years ) . a control group consisted of 14 patients who underwent radical surgery and finished a course of prophylactic postoperative mebendazole treatment of 2 years . in the controls , no recurrence was observed after a post-therapy period averaging 3.5 years . in contrast , recurrence occurred in 7/19 patients ( 37 % ) with non-resectable alveolar echinococcosis an average of 1.6 years after discontinuation of the long-term mebendazole therapy . the absence of clinically detectable recurrence in the remaining 12 patients seems to be due either to spontaneous inactivation of alveolar echinococcosis preceding chemotherapy or too short post-therapy surveillance . the patients with recurrence responded favorably to reintroduction of chemotherapy . the data indicate that mebendazole therapy is parasitostatic rather than parasiticidal . 
high incidence of viral hepatitis among american missionaries in africa . protestant missionaries ( n = 360 ) serving in sub-saharan africa between 1967-1984 were studied to determine the risk of hepatitis a virus ( hav ) and hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection . personnel were serologically screened for antibody to both the hepatitis a virus ( anti-hav ) and the surface antigen to the hepatitis b virus ( anti-hbs ) prior to departure , periodically during service abroad , and upon completion of their african tour . rates of seroconversion were used as measures of the incidence of infection . prior to service , 16 % of the staff had anti-hav and 3 % had anti-hbs ; post-service rates were 42 % and 26 % , respectively . over 90 % of the staff with greater than 20 years of service were seropositive for anti-hav . for both viruses , the infection rate was highest during the first 1-2 years of service , when 28 % of those susceptible to hav and 11 % of those susceptible to hbv became infected . over the next decade , the median annual attack rate was 5.4 % for hav and 4.2 % for hbv . differences in the missionary hbv infection rate among the various african nations served tended to reflect differences in the magnitude of chronic hbv carriage among indigenous population groups . we conclude that missionaries to sub-saharan africa are at enhanced risk of both hav and hbv infection , and that all should receive passive immunization with immune globulin and active immunization with hepatitis b vaccine . 
outpatient laparoscopic laser cholecystectomy . laparoscopic laser cholecystectomy has been performed clinically in the united states since 1988 . after refinement of the technique , the procedure was offered on an outpatient basis . eighty-three patients underwent laparoscopic laser cholecystectomy during the study period . thirty-seven ( 45 % ) had the procedure as an outpatient . younger patients were more suited for the outpatient procedure and those without previous surgery were more likely to have the procedure done as an outpatient . weight , operating time , and gallbladder pathology were similar , although patients with acute inflammation of the gallbladder were more likely to require hospitalization . the primary reason for patient admission was patient preference . 
rectal prolapse in infants and children . rectal prolapse that is intractable to the usual medical therapy was successfully managed without significant complications in 10 patients by simple subcutaneous encirclement of the anus with a heavy nonabsorbable suture , which was in place until the suture was removed or broke after 4 to 6 months . four patients required two sutures and one needed a third insertion . since this procedure is simple , has no serious complications , and controls rectal prolapse , it is recommended as the preferred initial surgical treatment of this condition . 
prevention of pancreatic fistula by modified pancreaticojejunal anastomosis . a major cause of morbidity after pancreatoduodenectomy is leakage from the pancreaticojejunal anastomosis . to prevent this complication , we have employed mucosal stripping from the proximal jejunum prior to end-to-end anastomosis in 19 patients with good results . 
role of surgery in antibiotic-induced pseudomembranous enterocolitis . with the increased use of prophylactic and broad-spectrum antibiotics , pseudomembranous colitis has emerged as a significant clinical problem . management with specific anti-clostridium difficile therapy ( vancomycin or metronidazole ) has reduced mortality to less than 2 % . nevertheless , the disease may progress to a fulminant toxic colitis or colonic perforation . additionally , another subset of patients will present with a dramatic clinical picture , suggesting acute peritonitis , eventuating in unnecessary laparotomy . this report reviews both the medical and surgical literature during the past 15 years of patients treated for pseudomembranous colitis . analysis of this clinical data has provided us with the opportunity to both define the role of surgery in this disorder and illustrate the necessity for a combined medical and surgical cooperative approach in the early management of this iatrogenic disease . 
blood contamination of anaesthetic and related staff the incidence of skin contamination of anaesthetic and related staff by patient 's blood and saliva was studied during 270 anaesthetics in cardiff hospitals over seven continuous days in october 1989 . a survey was also made of current hepatitis b immunisation status and glove-wearing habits of 75 anaesthetists . blood from 35 ( 14 % ) patients caused skin contamination of 65 staff during 46 incidents . twenty-eight ( 61 % ) of the contamination incidents occurred during vessel cannulation . five ( 8 % ) of the 65 staff contaminated by blood already had cuts on their hands . there were nine incidents ( 4 % ) of skin contamination by saliva . fifty-three ( 71 % ) anaesthetists were immunised against hepatitis b. only seven ( 9 % ) anaesthetists wear gloves for oral or nasal intubation , six ( 8 % ) for insertion of peripheral venous cannulae , 47 ( 63 % ) for insertion of arterial lines and 67 ( 89 % ) for insertion of central lines . all anaesthetic and associated staff should wear gloves on a routine basis . 
acute abdominal pain in the elderly . study objectives : to determine the incidences of both specific diagnosis and surgical diseases in patients more than 65 years old who present to the emergency department with nontraumatic abdominal pain of less than one week 's duration , and to determine the ed staff 's ability to diagnose and triage elderly patients with acute abdominal pain . design : a 12-month retrospective review of all elderly patients who presented to the ed with acute , nontraumatic abdominal pain . setting : a regional trauma center serving a predominately rural population in the midwest . the ed has 55,000 patient visits yearly . measurements and main results : of the 127 patients enrolled , 30 ( 24 % ) had no specific diagnosis made in the ed . biliary tract disease ( 12 % ) and small bowel obstruction ( 12 % ) were the two most common specific diagnoses . overall , 53 patients ( 42 % ) required surgery , usually during the initial hospitalization . in four cases , the postoperative diagnosis differed significantly from the ed diagnosis . of the 74 patients ( 58 % ) who did not undergo surgery , 51 had follow-up information available . in 14 patients , the follow-up diagnosis differed from the original diagnosis , but most of these changes did not appreciably alter the treatment and outcome . conclusions : the incidence of surgical disease is high in elderly patients with acute abdominal pain , and ed staff are able to diagnose and triage these patients accurately . 
colobronchial fistula : a rare complication of crohn 's colitis . a 29-yr-old white woman presented with chronic pneumonia in the left lower lobe and with left pleural effusion . she was known to have inflammatory bowel disease , but she was asymptomatic under maintenance treatment with 5-asa . she received numerous antibiotic regimens according to susceptibility testing of microorganisms cultured from sputum and bronchial lavage and on an empiric basis was also given antituberculosis treatment , but there was no clinical improvement or change in the chest radiographic findings . sputum was repeatedly examined and yielded , among other organisms , clostridium inocuum , enterobacter , klebsiella pneumoniae , proteus mirabilis , and staphylococcus aureus . on one microscopic examination of sputum , the presence of feculent material was suspected . a subsequent gastrografin enema revealed a cologastric and colobronchial fistula between the splenic flexture of the colon and the greater curve of the stomach and the bronchial system . segmental resection of the colon and resection of the lower lobe of the left lung were performed . histologic findings of the resected colon were consistent with crohn 's disease . after a long period of postoperative recovery , the patient returned to good general health and well-being . to our knowledge , a colobronchial fistula caused by crohn 's colitis has not been previously reported . 
gastroesophageal reflux and sclerotherapy strictures . the development of esophageal stricture is common following endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy ( evs ) . gastroesophageal reflux may be at least partly responsible . twelve randomly selected male patients underwent chronic evs for the management of bleeding esophageal varices . six patients developed strictures during or after evs , six did not . there were no significant differences between stricture and nonstricture patients during 24 hour esophageal ph monitoring . three of the six stricture patients and four of the six nonstricture patients had an abnormal amount of reflux . gastroesophageal reflux occurs frequently in patients undergoing evs , and it is not likely to play a major role in evs stricture formation . 
starch peritonitis . a case report and clinicopathologic review . a case of starch peritonitis is presented with a review of the history of this continuing problem . the syndrome 's presentation , diagnosis , histopathology and treatment are discussed . the rarity of starch peritonitis today may be due to more attention to glove washing by surgeons , fewer impurities in the glove powder or lack of recognition of the syndrome . in order to prevent a resurgence of the starch peritonitis syndrome we must continue to emphasize the importance of washing gloves , maintain the quality control and purity of the powder used , and be cognizant of the signs and symptoms so that such cases may be managed nonoperatively . 
cecal diverticulitis presented as a cecal tumor . seven patients diagnosed as having acute appendicitis were operated on and a cecal wall mass due to cecal diverticulitis was found . in two patients the mass could not be separated from the cecal wall and right colectomy was performed . in five patients , in whom the mass could be separated from the cecum , conservative operations ( three diverticulectomies and two wedge resections ) were performed , thus avoiding needless , more extensive surgery . 
intra-abdominal abscesses in crohn 's disease . we reviewed 22 patients who had intra-abdominal abscesses secondary to crohn 's disease . a total of 29 abscesses were discovered . these included superficial and deep intraperitoneal as well as pelvic and retroperitoneal abscesses . diagnosis was aided by ultrasound and computer tomographic scanning . barium studies continue to play an important role in delineating the extent of bowel involvement and fistulization . treatment varied depending on the location and size of the abscess . the need for ultimate bowel resection was determined in the majority of cases by the presence of fistulization between the abscess cavity and the bowel . the terminal ileum or neoterminal ileum were almost always involved . 
association of acute colonic pseudo-obstruction ( ogilvie 's syndrome ) with herpes zoster . ogilvie 's syndrome , or acute pseudo-obstruction of the colon is characterized by massive distension of the colon in the absence of organic distal obstruction . the syndrome is associated with various unrelated and , most often , extra-abdominal causes . an association between ogilvie 's syndrome and herpes zoster has been reported only once , by ceccese et al . in 1985 . we present a second such case . this patient did not show evidence of any active illness other than the involvement of the t10 dermatome by herpes zoster . the patient 's symptoms of colonic obstruction subsided with resolution of the zosteriform rash . 
jejunal-rectal fistula as a complication of postoperative radiotherapy . we present the case of a patient with an unusual , complex enteric fistula with multiple tracts and associated abscesses . the fistula was a late complication of radiotherapy , administered three years earlier , after resection for carcinoma of the sigmoid colon . most of the small bowel was involved in the radiation-induced disease . a wide resection was performed successfully . this report reviews current literature on intra-abdominal postradiotherapy injuries , particularly intestinal fistulae . 
the role of endoscopic retrograde pancreatography ( erp ) in blunt abdominal trauma . the diagnosis of pancreatic injury is often difficult because it lies retroperitoneally in a protected area . delayed diagnosis and treatment of blunt pancreatic trauma can result in significant morbidity and mortality . endoscopic retrograde pancreatography ( erp ) is infrequently used in the diagnosis of pancreatic injury . we reviewed our experience with the use of erp in patients with blunt pancreatic injury . two stable patients with traumatic pancreatitis underwent erp shortly after injury . ct scans revealed a transverse fracture of the distal pancrease in one and fluid accumulation in the other around the pancreas extending to the right kidney and left hepatic lobe . the absence of ductal disruption on erp allowed nonoperative management of the pancreatitis . resolution was documented by the absence of symptoms on regular oral intake , normal serum amylase levels , and normal follow-up ct scans . a third patient with persistent fistulae three months postinjury underwent preoperative erp revealing ductal obstruction . this facilitated the planning of a distal pancreatectomy and subsequently the fistulae healed . a fourth patient underwent an exploratory laparotomy on the basis of clinical and ct scan findings that could have been circumvented with preoperative erp . erp in selected patients allows nonoperative treatment in the absence of ductal injury or earlier operative treatment of ductal injury . it also aids the treatment of late complications by delineating ductal anatomy . 
risk for colon adenomas in patients with rectosigmoid hyperplastic polyps objective : to determine whether hyperplastic polyps found in the rectosigmoid area of the colon are associated with proximal adenomas , and to judge whether patients with distal hyperplastic polyps found during sigmoidoscopy might benefit from full colonoscopy . design : data on patients having colonoscopy collected prospectively according to a set protocol . the size and location of all polyps were noted , and all polyps were biopsied . setting : two university hospitals . patients : one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six consecutive patients referred for colonoscopy between 31 december 1987 and 31 august 1989 . results : of the 970 patients who met eligibility requirements , 274 ( 28.3 % ) had adenomas and 108 ( 11.1 % ) had hyperplastic polyps . the proportion of patients with distal hyperplastic polyps and proximal adenomas ( 31.9 % ) was similar to the proportion of those without distal hyperplastic polyps ( 23.0 % ) ( crude odds ratio , 1.57 ; 95 % ci , 0.77 to 3.06 ) . after adjusting for age and sex , the results were unchanged ( adjusted odds ratio , 1.53 ; ci , 0.82 to 2.88 ) . patients with distal adenomas , on the other hand , were three times more likely to have proximal adenomas than those without distal adenomas ( adjusted odds ratio , 3.42 ; ci , 1.99 to 5.88 ) . conclusions : distal hyperplastic polyps are not strong predictors of risk for proximal adenomas . based on the magnitude of the risk difference , we do not believe that finding a hyperplastic polyp during sigmoidoscopy justifies doing a full colonoscopy to search for proximal adenomas . because rectosigmoid adenomas are associated with proximal adenomas , however , small polyps seen during sigmoidoscopy should be biopsied to determine their type . colonoscopy should be reserved for patients who are proved to have adenomas . 
sexual and physical abuse in women with functional or organic gastrointestinal disorders . study objectives : to determine the prevalence of a history of sexual and physical abuse in women seen in a referral-based gastroenterology practice , to determine whether patients with functional gastrointestinal disorders report greater frequencies of abuse than do patients with organic gastrointestinal diseases , and to determine whether a history of abuse is associated with more symptom reporting and health care utilization . design : a consecutive sample of women seen in a university-based gastroenterology practice over a 2-month period was asked to complete a brief questionnaire . measurements : the self-administered questionnaire requested information about demographics , symptoms , health care utilization , and history of abuse . physicians indicated the primary diagnosis for each patient and whether she had ever discussed having been sexually or physically abused . results : of 206 patients , 89 ( 44 % ) reported a history of sexual or physical abuse in childhood or later in life ; all but 1 of the physically abused patients had been sexually abused . almost one third of the abused patients had never discussed their experiences with anyone ; only 17 % had informed their doctors . patients with functional disorders were more likely than those with organic disease diagnoses to report a history of forced intercourse ( odds ratio , 2.08 ; 95 % ci , 1.03 to 4.21 ) and frequent physical abuse ( odds ratio , 11.39 ; ci , 2.22 to 58.48 ) , chronic or recurrent abdominal pain ( odds ratio , 2.06 ; ci , 1.03 to 4.12 ) , and more lifetime surgeries ( 2.7 compared with 2.0 surgeries ; p less than 0.03 ) . abused patients were more likely than nonabused patients to report pelvic pain ( odds ratio , 4.05 ; ci , 1.41 to 11.69 ) , multiple somatic symptoms ( 7.1 compared with 5.8 symptoms ; p less than 0.001 ) , and more lifetime surgeries ( 2.8 compared with 2.0 surgeries ; p less than 0.01 ) . conclusions : we found that a history of sexual and physical abuse is a frequent , yet hidden , experience in women seen in referral-based gastroenterology practice and is particularly common in those with functional gastrointestinal disorders . a history of abuse , regardless of diagnosis , is associated with greater risk for symptom reporting and lifetime surgeries . 
ondansetron compared with high-dose metoclopramide in prophylaxis of acute and delayed cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting . a multicenter , randomized , double-blind , crossover study . objective : to compare the efficacy and side effects of ondansetron with those of high-dose metoclopramide in treating acute and delayed cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting . design : randomized , double-blind , crossover trial . setting : conducted at two university hospitals , a cancer institute , and six community hospitals . patients : of 125 patients , 95 were evaluable for the acute phase and 79 for the delayed phase . major reasons for not being evaluable were no second course ( 14 patients ) , protocol violation ( 5 patients ) , and change in cisplatin dose ( 3 patients ) for the acute phase , and rescue medication on day 1 ( 7 patients ) , protocol violation ( 3 patients ) , and inadequate data ( 4 patients ) for the delayed phase . interventions : all patients received cisplatin , 50 to 100 mg/m2 body surface area ( median , 75 mg/m2 ) ; none had previously received chemotherapy . thirty minutes before the cisplatin administration , ondansetron was given intravenously over 15 minutes , at a loading dose of 8 mg followed by a continuous infusion of 1 mg/h for 24 hours . metoclopramide was given at a loading dose of 3 mg/kg body weight , followed by a continuous infusion for 8 hours ( 4 mg/kg ) . for the delayed phase ( days 2 through 6 ) , the first oral dose was given as soon as the infusion was completed ; the oral dose consisted of either metoclopramide , 20 mg three times daily , or ondansetron , 8 mg three times daily for another 5 days . measurements and main results : in the acute phase , a major or complete response was seen in 72 % of the ondansetron-treated and 41 % of the metoclopramide-treated patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . nausea was significantly better controlled among the ondansetron-treated patients ( p = 0.04 ) . in the delayed phase , no statistically significant difference was seen between ondansetron - and metoclopramide-treated patients . nausea was significantly better controlled with metoclopramide ( p = 0.016 ) . conclusions : ondansetron is significantly more effective than metoclopramide in preventing acute nausea and vomiting . in the delayed phase , the results of both drugs were disappointing , although metoclopramide 's effect on delayed nausea was superior . patients preferred ondansetron . 
polyneuropathy , ophthalmoplegia , leukoencephalopathy , and intestinal pseudo-obstruction : polip syndrome . we describe 5 individuals ( from three separate families ) with a progressive neurological disorder characterized by sensorimotor peripheral polyneuropathy , cranial neuropathies ( external ophthalmoplegia , deafness ) , and the syndrome of chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction . magnetic resonance imaging showed widespread abnormality of the cerebral and cerebellar white matter in the 2 patients studied . autopsy examination in 3 revealed widespread endoneurial fibrosis and demyelination in the peripheral nervous system , possibly secondary to axonal atrophy , and poorly defined changes in cerebral white matter ( leukoencephalopathy ) . the cranial nerves and spinal roots were less severely involved and the neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord were intact . the fatal gastrointestinal dysmotility was due to a severe visceral neuropathy . we suggest that these patients manifested a hereditary disorder with distinctive clinical , radiological , and neuropathological features , and propose the acronym polip to emphasize the distinctive tetrad of polyneuropathy , ophthalmoplegia , leukoencephalopathy , and intestinal pseudo-obstruction . 
preoperative stabilisation in congenital diaphragmatic hernia . between january 1983 and november 1986 , 26 newborn infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia were treated by early operation at a mean of 7 hours of age . a further 23 infants admitted between december 1986 and december 1989 were stabilised for a mean period of 40 hours before operation . there was no significant difference in survival between the two groups . delayed operation is not detrimental to infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia . 
the acutely affected abdomen in paraplegic spinal cord injury patients . the records of 145 paraplegic or quadriplegic patients were reviewed to identify those factors useful in the correct diagnosis of the acute abdomen in this population . twenty-one patients had 22 episodes of acute or subacute abdominal problems . presenting complaints , physical findings , and laboratory results were useful in various ways . however appropriate radiographic studies led to the correct diagnosis in 77 % of patients . although paraplegic and quadriplegic patients are predisposed to a distinct constellation of medical problems , including urinary tract infection and calculi , they also may present with other abdominal conditions that cause significant morbidity and mortality if not promptly recognized . 
results of a multicenter trial comparing imipenem/cilastatin to tobramycin/clindamycin for intra-abdominal infections . we designed a multicenter study to compare tobramycin/clindamycin to imipenem/cilastatin for intra-abdominal infections . we included the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ( apache ii ) index of severity and excluded patients without established infection . two hundred ninety patients were enrolled , of whom 162 were evaluable . using logistic regression to analyze both outcome at the abdominal site of infection and outcome as mortality , we found a significant correlation for both with apache ii score ( p less than 0.0001 for both ) . next we analyzed the residual effect of treatment assignment and found a significant improvement in outcome for imipenem/cilastatin-treated patients ( p = 0.043 ) . the differences in outcome were explained by a higher failure rate for patients with gram-negative organisms for tobramycin/clindamycin-treated patients ( p = 0.018 ) . this was reflected in a significantly higher incidence of fasciitis requiring reoperation and prosthetic fascial replacement . maximum peak tobramycin levels were analyzed for 63 tobramycin/clindamycin patients harboring gram-negative organisms . for failures the maximum peak was 6.4 + / - 1.9 micrograms/ml , and time to maximum peak was 4.6 + / - 5.2 days . for successes the maximum peak was 6.1 + / - 1.7 micrograms/ml , occurring at 3.8 + / - 2.6 days . this study supports inclusion of severity scoring in statistical analyses of outcome results and supports the notion that imipenem/cilastatin therapy improves outcome at the intra-abdominal site of infection as compared to a conventionally prescribed amino-glycoside-based regimen . 
parietal cell vagotomy and dilatation for peptic duodenal stricture . gastric outlet obstruction due to peptic duodenal stricture ( pyloric stenosis ) was treated with parietal cell vagotomy and dilatation of the stricture in 32 patients . follow-up is in the range of 5 years in 37.4 % of the patients , while 6 to 10 years follow-up is available in 62.4 % of the patients . at their last follow-up , 74.9 % of the patients were in either visick 1 or 2 clinical status . recurrence rates have been 3.1 % at 1 year , 9.3 % at 5 years , and 21.8 % after 6 to 10 years follow-up . there has been only one instance ( 3.1 % ) of restenosis . two patients required reoperation because of recurrence and one of them died . 
prognostic determinants in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure in newborns . extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) is becoming an accepted therapeutic modality for newborn respiratory failure , but there is little information available regarding the prognostic determinants with this technique . one hundred thirty-five newborns treated with ecmo over a 4-year period were critically analyzed with regard to the influence that birth weight , gestational age , age at initiation of ecmo , best blood gases before ecmo , number of hours on ecmo , renal failure , intracerebral hemorrhage , and long-distance air transport had on survival . infants with meconium aspiration and those undergoing long-distance transfer showed significant differences in blood gases before ecmo , with survivors having more normal ph and carbon dioxide tension values . intracerebral hemorrhage and renal failure that developed during ecmo were grave prognostic signs , with few survivors in either group . these data show that ability to ventilate patients before ecmo , giving normal carbon dioxide tension and ph values , is an important prognostic sign in infants with meconium aspiration and undergoing long-distance transfer for ecmo , whereas renal failure and intracerebral hemorrhage are usually lethal complications of ecmo . each center performing ecmo should continually reevaluate this invasive technique and its results and complications . 
acquired benign esophagorespiratory fistula : report of 16 consecutive cases . sixteen cases of acquired benign esophagorespiratory fistula were treated in a 20-year period . a delay in diagnosis was usual , and most patients were first seen with a pulmonary infection already developed . contrast esophageal x-ray studies established the diagnosis in all patients . there were seven esophagotracheal and nine esophagobronchial fistulas . a fistula between the esophageal diverticulum and a bronchus considered to be of inflammatory origin developed in 7 patients . a fistula as the consequence of trauma developed in 9 patients , and these fistulas were situated at a higher level of the respiratory tree . all patients underwent surgical treatment ; in 12 it was definitive , and in 4 temporary gastrostomy was performed to improve nutrition before definite repair . the definitive repair consisted of eventual diverticulectomy , division of the fistula , and suture of both esophageal and respiratory defects . two patients required esophageal resection and later reconstruction with colon interposition . one patient died , creating an operative mortality of 8.3 % in the definitive-repair group . the remaining 11 patients had a gratifying long-term result . there were two deaths in the gastrostomy group due to an extremely poor condition of patients and debilitating pulmonary infection . early diagnosis of this rare condition is necessary if severe pulmonary complications are to be avoided . early direct repair gives excellent results . 
collis gastroplasty : origin and evolution . in 1957 j. leigh collis published his innovative operation for treating the difficult problem of the irreducible hiatal hernia , esophagitis , and stricture . the design of the operation was based on the relatively primitive understanding of hiatal hernia and the newly emerging concept of reflux esophagitis . a variety of antireflux operations by different surgeons emerged over the years to follow . the original collis gastroplasty has been subsequently modified with the addition of both partial and complete fundoplication procedures . the place of the modified collis gastroplasty-fundoplication operations in today 's approach to the problems of hiatal hernia and gastroesophageal reflux disease remains unsettled . 
congenital tracheoesophageal fistula associated with carcinoma of the lung in an adult . a rare case of adult congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistula was diagnosed . subsequently , at operation , large cell , undifferentiated carcinoma of the right middle lobe with extension to the right lobe and adherence to the diaphragm was documented . the diagnosis , surgical intervention , and 4-year follow-up are presented . 
acute autonomic neuropathy . two cases and a clinical review . acute autonomic neuropathy is an uncommon syndrome , usually affecting healthy young people . presentation is often dramatic and initial misdiagnosis is common . we describe two young women with acute autonomic neuropathy who presented with gastrointestinal involvement heralding widespread dysautonomia and review 26 additional cases of acute autonomic neuropathy from the english language literature . acute autonomic neuropathy can be primarily cholinergic without orthostatic hypotension ( 26 % ) or pandysautonomic ( 74 % ) involving sympathetic adrenergic functions . onset has been temporally related to viral syndromes in 20 % of cases , with autonomic deficits usually evolving over 1 to 3 weeks . gastroparesis ( 69 % ) and syncope ( 12 % ) are frequent presenting complaints . spinal fluid protein levels are often ( 75 % ) elevated in pandysautonomic subtypes . prolonged and incomplete recovery is the rule ( 60 % ) , with persistent gastroparesis and orthostatic hypotension . other specific diseases that occasionally mimic acute autonomic neuropathy include botulism , porphyria , amyloidosis , and paracarcinomatous neuropathies . acute autonomic neuropathy shares several clinical features with acute idiopathic polyneuropathy ( guillain-barre syndrome ) , suggesting an immune-mediated pathogenesis . 
primary malignant peritoneal mesothelioma . a report of seven cases and a review of the literature . mesothelioma of the peritoneum is a rare malignant neoplasm easily mistaken by both surgeon and pathologist for one of the more common neoplasms of the abdomen . review of our records from metropolitan-area hospitals for the past 15 years identified seven patients with primary peritoneal mesotheliomas . their diagnosis , management , and survival is analyzed . we report a case of an extended survivor ( 7 years ) and one of a long-term survivor ( 15 years ) , as well as what we believe to be the only case in the literature presenting with a coexistent malignant neoplasm . prevention of this commonly fatal neoplasm is linked to avoiding occupational exposure to asbestos ; long-term survival for a few patients may be achieved with correct identification of the neoplasm and aggressive management . this report includes a review of the literature . 
management of perineal wounds following abdominoperineal resection with inferior gluteal flaps . our experience treating perineal wounds secondary to abdominoperineal resection , either for inflammatory bowel disease or cancer , is presented . a total of 16 patients were treated either on a delayed basis or at the same time as the abdominoperineal resection . all wounds were closed using the inferior gluteal myocutaneous flap . fifteen of 16 patients have achieved healing , eight of whom had no complications . only minor revisions or local wound care were required in the remaining patients , with only one patient failing to heal . our results compare favorably with previous reports of treatment of this difficult problem . 
extrahepatic biliary obstruction by lymphoma . extrinsic compression of the common bile duct by enlarged lymph nodes is an unusual cause of obstructive jaundice . we describe two patients with such a manifestation of lymphoma and the use of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in distinguishing this rare complication from other causes of jaundice in lymphoma . patients may have rapid resolution of both symptoms and biochemical abnormalities by nonoperative biliary bypass combined with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy . lymphomatous obstruction should be considered a cause of potentially treatable jaundice in patients with known lymphoma ; endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography can be valuable as a diagnostic and therapeutic tool . 
plasma thrombomodulin in health and diseases . sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by immunoblot analysis of plasma thrombomodulin concentrate revealed that four degraded forms of thrombomodulin with different molecular weights are present in plasma . plasma concentrations of thrombomodulin in patients with various diseases were measured by two methods of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using monoclonal antibodies . one method measures intact thrombomodulin and degraded forms of thrombomodulin ; the other does not detect the two smaller degraded forms of thrombomodulin present in plasma . the results indicated that thrombomodulin was increased in the circulating blood of patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome , pulmonary thromboembolism , adult respiratory distress syndrome , chronic renal failure , or acute hepatic failure . the different values obtained by the two methods indicate that the increase of plasma thrombomodulin found in these patients was mainly due to an increase of the smaller fragments of degraded forms , suggesting that the release of thrombomodulin from endothelial cells was accelerated in various disease states by proteolytic activity generated on the surface of the endothelium and may be removed from the circulation mostly by the kidneys and liver . 
ultrasonography in patients with suspected acute appendicitis : a prospective study . the diagnostic accuracy of high-resolution real-time ultrasonography was prospectively studied in 240 patients admitted to the hospital with suspected acute appendicitis . the criteria for ultrasound diagnosis of appendicitis included a sausage-shaped , aperistaltic , hypoechoic structure when imaged along its longitudinal axis , with a target-like appearance on transverse section . the ultrasonographic findings were correlated with surgical-pathological outcome in 82 cases with proven appendicitis , with laparotomy findings in another 21 patients and with clinical follow-up in the remainder . the overall sensitivity , specificity and accuracy of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis were 78 % , 92 % and 87 % , respectively . the positive predictive value was 84 % and the negative predictive value was 88 % . ultrasonography may significantly improve the diagnostic accuracy in patients with suspected acute appendicitis and should be performed in all patients in whom the clinical diagnosis is equivocal . the ultrasonographic findings must be interpreted in light of the clinical findings . 
a combined electromyographic and cineradiologic investigation in patients with defecation disorders . records from 20 patients on whom defecography and electromyography were performed simultaneously because of defecation disorders were analyzed . according to the electromyographic investigation , the patients could be divided into three main groups : 1 ) normal sphincter reaction ; 2 ) paradoxical sphincter reaction ; and 3 ) combined reaction . group a was characterized by a marked reduction of muscular activity during emptying and a pronounced closing reflex after emptying . this was followed by return of normal tonic activity . patients in group b had no relaxation of the sphincters during emptying but a pronounced increased activity in the external sphincter and the puborectalis muscle . they also had severe emptying difficulties at defecography . no closing reflex was seen . in group c the electrical activity in the sphincters increased during moderate straining and when emptying was complete a clear closing reflex was seen . in this study , a dynamic visualization of the defecation together with a registration of electromyographic activity in the striated anal sphincters was performed . it was shown that patients with paradoxical sphincter reaction were lacking a closing reflex after emptying was complete . this has not been reported previously and is important evidence for the paradoxical defecation pattern . it was also shown that the patients with rectoceles had paradoxical sphincter reaction . 
perianal abscess and fistula-in-ano in children . the authors present a retrospective review of 40 pediatric patients with perianal abscess and/or fistula-in-ano . the total patient population could be divided clinically into 2 broad groups . the first group consisted of 22 infants younger than 2 years of age , all of whom were males , and 10 of whom presented with recurrences after previous incision and drainage . of the 14 infants presenting with an abscess , in 12 ( 85.7 percent ) , a fistula-in-ano was discovered at surgery . in contrast , in the group of 18 children older than 2 years of age , there were 7 females and 11 males , and fistulas were identified in only 7 of 13 patients ( 54.8 percent ) who presented with abscesses . surgical treatment consisted of examination under anesthesia and a diligent search for a fistulous tract . abscesses were primarily saucerized and fistulotomy and cryptotomy of the confluent crypt was performed if a fistulous tract was identified . the only recurrences with this form of treatment occurred in the two immunocompromised patients . 
nitrite from inflammatory cells -- a cancer risk factor in ulcerative colitis ? elevated levels of luminal nitrite and a lowered luminal ph were found in 77 percent of patients with acute ulcerative colitis . no luminal nitrite was found in healthy control subjects . nitrites are a secretory product of activated macrophages and neutrophils of the lamina propria , whereas the lowered luminal ph is due to diminished bicarbonate formation by impaired colonocytes . a hypothesis is put forward that nitrites , lowered ph , and bacterial amines are conducive to formation of carcinogenic n-nitroso compounds , which reflect a cancer risk in patients with ulcerative colitis dependent on the type and extent of inflammatory cell activation as well as metabolic impairment of colonic epithelial cells . 
intestinal perforation due to cytomegalovirus infection in patients with aids . intestinal perforation due to cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection in patients with aids is the most common life-threatening condition requiring emergency celiotomy in these patients . the authors describe a patient with aids with intestinal perforation due to cmv infection , and review 14 additional cases reported in the english-language surgical literature . the diagnostic triad of pneumoperitoneum on x-ray , evidence or history of cmv infection , and aids occurred in 70 percent of patients . the most common site of intestinal perforation was the colon ( 53 percent ) , followed in frequency by the distal ileum ( 40 percent ) and appendix ( 7 percent ) ; perforation usually occurred between the distal ileum and splenic flexure of the colon . colonoscopy , rather than sigmoidoscopy , is recommended as a screening examination in patients with aids suspected of having colonic ulceration due to cmv infection . multiple biopsies of ulcerated tissue should be obtained . gross and microscopic analyses of involved intestinal tissue reveal the characteristic findings of ulceration and cmv infection . despite aggressive therapy , the operative mortality rate in patients with aids with intestinal perforation due to cmv infection was 54 percent and the overall mortality rate was 87 percent . postoperative complications occurred in most patients and consisted mainly of systemic sepsis and pneumonia caused by pneumocystis carinii infection . an increased awareness of this syndrome by physicians frequently called on to manage patients with aids is recommended . 
anal ulcerations due to cytomegalovirus in patients with aids . report of six cases . lesions due to cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) are frequent in the immunocompromised patient . this is particularly the case in patients with aids , where the colon and rectum are the regions most often involved . the authors report six cases of anal ulcerations due to cmv in patients with aids . these lesions , confirmed histologically , were either isolated or associated with other localizations . treatment is based on specific antiviral agents but resistance and recurrence can occur . the current report underlines the importance of histologic examination of anal lesions in hiv-infected subjects . 
sexually transmitted diseases of the colon , rectum , and anus . the challenge of the nineties . during the past two decades , an explosive growth in both the prevalence and types of sexually transmitted diseases has occurred . up to 55 percent of homosexual men with anorectal complaints have gonorrhea ; 80 percent of the patients with syphilis are homosexuals . chlamydia is found in 15 percent of asymptomatic homosexual men , and up to one third of homosexuals have active anorectal herpes simplex virus . in addition , a host of parasites , bacterial , viral , and protozoan are all rampant in the homosexual population . furthermore , the global epidemic of aids has produced a plethora of colorectal manifestations . acute cytomegalovirus ileocolitis is the most common indication for emergency abdominal surgery in the homosexual aids population . along with cryptosporidia and isospora , the patient may present to the colorectal surgeon with bloody diarrhea and weight loss before the diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) disease . other patients may present with colorectal kaposi 's sarcoma or anorectal lymphoma , and consequently will be found to have seropositivity for hiv . however , in addition to these protean manifestations , one third of patients with aids consult the colorectal surgeon with either condylomata acuminata , anorectal sepsis , or proctitis before the diagnosis of hiv disease . although aggressive anorectal surgery is associated with reasonable surgical results in some asymptomatic hiv positive patients , the same procedures in aids ( symptomatic hiv positive ) patients will often be met with disastrous results . it is incumbent upon the surgeon , therefore , to recognize the manifestations of hiv disease and diagnose these conditions accordingly . 
pearson 's marrow-pancreas syndrome . a multisystem mitochondrial disorder in infancy . pearson 's marrow-pancreas syndrome ( mckusick no . 26056 ) is a fatal disorder of hitherto unknown etiology involving the hematopoietic system , exocrine pancreas , liver , and kidneys . the observation of high lactate/pyruvate molar ratios in plasma and abnormal oxidative phosphorylation in lymphocytes led us to postulate that pearson 's syndrome belongs to the group of mitochondrial cytopathies . since rearrangements of the mitochondrial genome between direct dna repeats were consistently found in all tissues tested , our results show that this disease is in fact a multisystem mitochondrial disorder , as suggested by the clinical course of the patients . based on these observations , we would suggest giving consideration to the hypothesis of a defect of oxidative phosphorylation in elucidating the origin of other syndromes , especially those associated with an abnormal oxidoreduction status in plasma . 
extracellular matrix gene expression increases preferentially in rat lipocytes and sinusoidal endothelial cells during hepatic fibrosis in vivo . whether parenchymal or nonparenchymal liver cells play a predominant role in the pathophysiology of hepatic fibrosis has not been firmly established in vivo . we have addressed this question by quantitating the relative abundance of specific mrnas for collagen types i , iii , and iv , and laminin in purified populations of hepatocytes , sinusoidal endothelial cells , and lipocytes from normal and fibrotic rat liver . in normal liver , type i collagen gene expression was minimal in all cell types ; mrna for types iii and iv collagen were apparent in endothelial cells and lipocytes , but not in hepatocytes . laminin mrna was present in all cell types . induction of fibrogenesis by either bile duct ligation or carbon tetrachloride administration was associated with a substantial increase in mrna for types i and iii collagen in nonparenchymal cells . lipocytes from fibrotic animals exhibited a greater than 30-fold increase in type i collagen mrna relative to normal lipocytes , and greater than 40-fold relative to hepatocytes . type iii collagen mrna reached 5 times that in normal lipocytes and greater than 120 times that in hepatocytes . endothelial cells exhibited an isolated increase in type i collagen mrna , reaching five times that in normal liver . type iv collagen and laminin gene expression were not significantly increased in nonparenchymal cells during fibrogenesis ; in fact , mrna for type iv collagen and laminin decreased by up to 50 % in endothelial cells . despite the pronounced changes that occurred in matrix gene expression in nonparenchymal cells during fibrogenesis , no change was noted in hepatocytes . we conclude that nonparenchymal liver cells , particularly lipocytes , are important effectors of hepatic fibrosis in vivo . 
adverse mortality experience of a southwestern american indian community : overall death rates and underlying causes of death in pima indians . as part of an ongoing epidemiologic study , the death rate and causes of death during 1975 through 1984 were determined in pima indians who resided in the gila river indian community ( gric ) in 1965 and later . death certificates were available for 677 of the 681 deaths . in 78 % of the deaths , the underlying cause recorded on the death certificate agreed with the cause determined after review of all available relevant records . the age - and sex-adjusted average annual death rate for the gric population ( 1639/100 ,000 ) was 1.9 times ( 95 % ci 1.7-2 .0 ) the 1980 rate for the u.s. all races ( 878/100 ,000 ) . in pima males , whose death rate was substantially higher than that of pima females , the age-adjusted death rate was 2.3 times that in u.s. males , all races . moreover among males 25-34 years of age , the pima death rate was 6.6 times that for the u.s. all races . diseases of the heart and malignant neoplasms caused 59 % of u.s. deaths in 1980 , but only 19 % of gric deaths . by contrast , the age - and sex-adjusted mortality rate in the gric pima was 5.9 times the rate of the u.s. all races for accidents , 6.5 times for cirrhosis , 7.4 times for homicide , 4.3 times for suicide , and 11.9 times for diabetes . tuberculosis and coccidioidomycosis were important causes of death in the pima , for whom infectious diseases was the tenth leading cause of death . the findings indicate that programs to improve the adverse mortality experience of the gric population should emphasize factors related to fatal accidents , alcoholic cirrhosis , homicide , suicide , diabetes mellitus , and infectious diseases . young pimas , especially the males , should be the primary focus of such preventive efforts . these findings and recommendations probably apply to many native american populations . 
pharmacology of pravadoline : a new analgesic agent . pravadoline is a new chemical entity with analgesic activity in humans . this report describes the pharmacology of pravadoline and compares the activity of pravadoline with that of two major classes of analgesics , the opioids and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) . like the nsaids , pravadoline inhibited the synthesis of prostaglandins ( pgs ) in mouse brain both in vitro ( ic50 , 4.9 microm ) and ex vivo ( ed50 , 20 mg/kg p.o. ) and displayed antinociceptive activity in rodents subjected to a variety of chemical , thermal and mechanical nociceptive stimuli . administration of pravadoline prevented the writhing response induced by i.p. administration of acetylcholine ( ed50 , 41 mg/kg p.o. ) or pge2 ( ed50 , 24 mg/kg p.o. ) and prolonged the response latency induced by tail immersion in hot water at a temperature of 55 degrees c ( minimum effective dose , 100 mg/kg s.c. ) . in the rat , treatment with pravadoline prevented acetic acid-induced writhing ( ed50 , 15 mg/kg p.o. ) , brewer 's yeast-induced hyperalgesia ( randall-selitto test ) ( minimum effective dose , 1 mg/kg p.o. ) , the nociceptive response induced by paw flexion in the adjuvant-arthritic rat ( ed50 , 41 mg/kg p.o. ) and bradykinin-induced head and forepaw flexion ( ed50 , 78 mg/kg , p.o. ) . the antinociceptive activity of pravadoline can not be explained by an opioid mechanism , because pravadoline-induced antinociception was not antagonized by naloxone ( 1 mg/kg s.c. ) and pravadoline did not bind to opioid receptors at concentrations up to 10 microm . however , like the opioid analgesics , pravadoline diminished the electrically induced twitch response of mouse vas deferens preparations , but , in contrast to opioids , this action of pravadoline was not attenuated by naloxone . the possibility is discussed that this effect of pravadoline upon isolated tissues may contribute to its antinociceptive activity . in contrast to nsaids , pravadoline was more potent ex vivo as an inhibitor of the formation of pgs in brain vs. stomach . in addition , pravadoline failed to produce gastrointestinal lesions when administered p.o. to rats or mice , and did not possess significant anti-inflammatory activity at antinociceptive doses . also unlike nsaids , pravadoline inhibited rat gastrointestinal transit when administered at doses similar to those which were antinociceptive . the overall pharmacologic profile of pravadoline suggests that the compound may be capable of managing more diverse or more severe pain than is achieved by anti-inflammatory analgesics , without producing side effects commonly associated with either the opioid or the nonopioid analgesics . 
effect of the leukotriene b4 receptor antagonist sc-41930 on colonic inflammation in rat , guinea pig and rabbit . inflammatory bowel disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract that includes ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease . leukotriene b4 is thought to be a prominent proinflammatory mediator in these diseases , in that leukotriene b4 levels are increased in the colonic mucosa of inflammatory bowel disease patients and there is increased polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration of these tissues . we evaluated the efficacy of 7 - [ 3 - ( 4-acetyl-3-methoxy-2-propylphenoxy ) -3,4 - dihydro-8-propyl -2 h-1-benzopyran-2-carboxylic acid ( sc-41930 ) , a potent , orally active leukotriene b4 receptor antagonist , in a model of inflammatory bowel disease . colonic mucosal inflammation was induced in rats , guinea pig and rabbits by rectal instillation of a dilute solution of acetic acid . twenty-four hours later , mucosal levels of myeloperoxidase ( a marker enzyme for neutrophil infiltration ) and extravasation of i.v. administered evans blue dye ( a marker of vascular disruption and increased permeability ) were measured . tissues were also evaluated histologically . the animals received either sc-41930 or vehicle , intrarectally , 30 min after or 1 hr before and 1 hr after the acetic acid . when given 30 min after acetic acid instillation sc-41930 prevented the rise in myeloperoxidase and dye extravasation observed in the acetic acid inflammed tissue . the sc-41930-treated tissues were less edematous and had fewer neutrophils within the subepithelial space . median effective dose ( ed50 ) values for vascular protection were approximately 20 mg/kg for both rat and guinea pig . ed50 values for inhibition of granulocyte accumulation were 20 mg/kg for rat , 24 mg/kg for guinea pig and 30 mg/kg for rabbit . these data indicate that sc-41930 is effective locally to prevent acute colonic inflammation . 
mucocele of the cystic duct remnant in eight liver transplant recipients : findings at cholangiography , ct , and us . the case histories and radiologic studies of eight liver transplant recipients who developed a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant were retrospectively evaluated . all patients had clinical and/or laboratory evidence of biliary obstruction or cholangitis from 2 weeks to 3.3 years following transplantation . cholangiographic , ultrasound ( us ) , and computed tomography ( ct ) images were available for review in eight , five , and four patients , respectively . cholangiograms demonstrated an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct in seven of eight patients . us and ct showed fairly well - to well-defined round fluid collections adjacent to the common hepatic duct in three and two patients , respectively . the findings of this study suggest that the detection at cholangiography of an extrinsic mass compressing the common hepatic duct appears to be specific for a mucocele of the allograft cystic duct remnant . ct and us images may offer confirmatory evidence . 
colonic stenoses : use of oral barium when retrograde flow is completely obstructed on barium enema studies . forty patients with complete obstruction to retrograde barium flow on barium enema examinations , without clinical or radiographic evidence of obstruction , were studied further with orally administered barium in the same session . all patients had undergone aborted double-contrast barium enema studies and had received antispasmodics intramuscularly before the examination . the authors describe the technique , as well as the clinical and radiologic findings , that allows the safe ingestion of oral barium in patients with stenotic lesions of the colon . in all patients , oral barium passed through the small bowel and the stenotic site in an average of 148 minutes , with no complications . in seven patients , there were synchronous lesions in the colon and small bowel , and the findings were determined better with oral barium studies in 19 patients . if a barium enema study is done and retrograde passage of barium is obstructed by a lesion in the left side of the colon , additional diagnostic information can be obtained by giving the patients oral barium . this practice is safe if precise criteria are applied . 
feasibility of digital teleradiology for imaging evaluation of patients with acute right upper quadrant abdominal pain . to assess the utility of a commercially available digital teleradiology system in evaluating patients with acute pain in the right upper quadrant , hard-copy images from 100 examinations ( 50 hepatobiliary scintigrams and 50 sonograms of the right upper quadrant ) were digitized , transmitted via standard telephone lines , and viewed remotely on a video monitor . video and hard-copy interpretations were then compared for degree of concordance . for the scintigraphic studies , hard-copy and video images were equal in demonstrating gallbladder and bile duct activity . video images failed to depict the presence of bowel activity in one case . gallstones were depicted equally well on hard-copy and video sonographic images . the video interpreters overestimated the presence of abnormal hepatic parenchyma and overlooked one case of right hydronephrosis . the video interpretations of the scintigrams and sonograms showed an overall error rate of 4 % , comparable to the rate obtained when radiographs are interpreted remotely with digital teleradiology systems . 
extracorporeal cholecystolithotripsy without oral chemolitholysis . one hundred thirty-six patients completed extracorporeal biliary lithotripsy ( ebl ) for symptomatic cholecystolithiasis . sonographic evidence of complete clearance of all stone fragments was the only criterion for treatment success , which occurred in 32 of the 71 patients ( 45 % ) followed up for 24 weeks and in 36 of the 59 patients ( 61 % ) followed up for 52 weeks . the authors ' protocol varied from protocols of other researchers primarily in that no adjuvant chemolitholysis was used . however , the number of treatment sessions and total number of shock waves ( a maximum of 4,000 shock waves per treatment session , 12,000 shock waves in a patient demonstrating no significant fragmentation , and 20,000 shock waves in a patient whose stones responded well to fragmentation ) was higher than those in other reports . the results of treatment and complication rates in this study are comparable with those at centers using both shock-wave lithotripsy and chemotherapy . the authors conclude that ebl is developing into an important alternative to surgery , which was obviated in all patients with complete clearance of fragments from the gallbladder . 
hypertrophic pyloric stenosis : volumetric measurement of nasogastric aspirate to determine the imaging modality the authors postulated that volumetric measurement of residual gastric aspirate in neonates and infants with nonbilious projectile vomiting could enable differentiation between patients with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis ( hps ) and those with gastroesophageal reflux ( ger ) and help to determine whether ultrasound ( us ) or fluoroscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract would best confirm the diagnosis . in the 38 patients ( all but two of whom had been fasting for 3-4 hours ) , 10 ml or more of nasogastric aspirate was considered indicative of obstruction . hps occurred in 91.7 % of patients with 10 ml of aspirate or more , whereas ger occurred in 85.7 % of patients with less than 10 ml . the differences between the two groups were statistically significant . solely on the basis of residual volume ( greater than or equal to 10 ml ) , the cause of vomiting could be differentiated , prior to standard radiologic studies , 89.4 % of the time . it is concluded that patients with projectile vomiting who have 10 ml or more of residual aspirate in the stomach should undergo us for confirmation of hps ; those with less than 10 ml should undergo fluoroscopy for confirmation of ger . 
hilar malignancy : treatment with an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary stent . an expandable metallic transhepatic biliary endoprosthesis was used to treat 20 patients with hilar malignancy and isolated right and left intrahepatic ducts . in 12 patients , only one intrahepatic ductal system was drained ; in eight patients , both systems were drained . in five patients , both systems were drained through a single transhepatic track by arrangement of two stents in a t configuration . the initial technical success rate in placing the stents and achieving internal drainage was 100 % . complications necessitating further intervention occurred in two of the 20 patients . short-term clinical follow-up was available for 19 of the 20 patients . two months after stent insertion , two patients complained of persistent jaundice , two patients died without jaundice , and 15 patients were free of symptoms of biliary obstruction . a variety of geometric configurations are possible with this endoprosthesis . the relative merits of these stent arrangements are discussed , and a new technique for placing the stents in a t configuration is described . 
emergency portosystemic shunt in patients with variceal bleeding . thirty-five patients for whom emergency sclerotherapy or conservative treatment , or both , failed to arrest variceal bleeding , or who had early rebleeding and required emergency portosystemic shunts ( epss ) were studied . epss permanently controlled the variceal bleeding in all but one patient . in this patient , the shunt was patent as demonstrated by angiography . esophageal varices disappeared in 18 patients and were reduced in 14 . three patients died before the endoscopic examination could be performed . the causes of death were hepatic failure in two and bleeding ulcerations of the gastric fundus in the other patient . one patient was classified in child 's category b and two in child 's category c. thirty-two patients submitted to epss and were discharged alive . twelve of these patients subsequently died , at an average of 11.2 months after undergoing the shunt procedure . four of 12 patients died of hepatic failure ; two patients died of hepatomas ; two , other neoplasia ; three , hemorrhaging duodenal ulcers , and one patient , renal failure . analysis of actuarial survival rates showed that the five year survival rate was 43 per cent . the long term survival rates were fewer for patients with child 's category c than for those with combined child 's categories a and b ( five year survival rates were 21 versus 55 per cent ; p less than 0.05 ) . during the follow-up period , none of the patients had variceal bleeding . chronic encephalopathy developed in six , which was mild in three , moderate in one instance and severe in two . it developed soon after epss , with onset in the first month after discharge in three . thus , when conservative treatment fails to arrest variceal bleeding , epss should be performed to guarantee definitive control of hemorrhage and prolong the survival period . 
neoplastic changes in the stomach after gastrectomy . partial gastric resection for benign ulcer disease has been associated with an increased incidence of mucosal dysplasia and invasive adenocarcinoma , particularly 15 to 20 years after resection . these remnant carcinomas are particularly virulent with little hope of resection or cure once symptoms occur . using a planned protocol of routine endoscopic surveillance with biopsy , the goal was to identify early markers of neoplasia , that is , dysplasia , and a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the gastric remnant , while both resection and cure were possible . between july 1980 and august 1988 , yearly flexible gastroscopic examination and random biopsy have been performed on 163 patients at least ten years after gastrectomy for benign ulcer disease . all biopsy results were interpreted for findings of dysplasia and early gastric adenocarcinoma . results of this ongoing screening program revealed dysplasia of the gastric remnant in nine patients with eventual findings of adenocarcinoma in four of this group . these patients underwent total gastrectomy with findings of limited disease . five patients with mucosal dysplasia continue to be observed at six month intervals . three additional gastric carcinomas were found on initial gastroscopic screening , while one patient had adenocarcinoma diagnosed during a third yearly gastroscopic examination . these eight asymptomatic patients with adenocarcinoma in the gastric remnant had a postgastrectomy interval which ranged from 15 to 29 years ( mean of 26.5 years ) . the results of this study support the concept of neoplastic change in the gastric remnant as a function of time from initial gastric resection . findings of dysplasia on random biopsy indicate a greater likelihood of development of carcinoma of the gastric remnant and identify a subset of patients requiring aggressive endoscopic surveillance . 
long term survival and severe rebleeding after variceal sclerotherapy . of 197 consecutive patients with cirrhosis admitted because of bleeding from esophageal varices , 133 were included in a prospective study of elective sclerotherapy . we evaluated the incidence of extensive rebleeding and mortality rate . the period of study was 54 months and the mean follow-up period was 21 months . forty-one patients had severe rebleeding and a majority of the episodes occurred during the first year . only four patients had more than five sessions of sclerosis when rebleeding occurred . the probability rate for patients to be free of severe rebleeding after 48 months , according to pugh 's classification , was 88 per cent for those with grade a , 50 percent for grade b and 43 percent for grade c. the over-all mortality rate was 38.8 per cent ( 53 patients ) , with the highest rate noted during the first year . the mortality rate of patients with severe rebleeding was much higher than that of those who did not rebleed . kaplan-meier survival analysis at four years was 52 per cent , and survival rates in relation to pugh 's classification were 73 per cent for a , 53 per cent for b and 34 per cent for c. differences between the three groups were statistically significant . therefore , because of the high mortality rate associated with patients with cirrhosis and extensive rebleeding during the first year , it is important to achieve , as soon as possible , eradication of esophageal varices . 
the hazards of surgical glove dusting powders . surgical contaminants of many kinds , including glove powder , constitute a source of formation of granulomas . this is particularly well-documented in the peritoneal cavity ( " starch peritonitis " ) , but has been documented in most anatomic sites . the production of starch-free gloves should remove this hazard , but the surgeon should remain aware that most particulate substances introduced into the body inevitably set up an inflammatory response . 
gallstones , cholecystitis and diabetes [ published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 jul ; 173 ( 1 ) :72 ] findings from studies showing an increased incidence of gallstones in diabetic patients do not control for other variables , such as obesity . there is no proof that diabetic patients have more gallstones . gallstones do not cause diabetes mellitus . the principal gallbladder pathologic feature in diabetic patients is a functional deficit of uncertain etiologic factors , creating a large , flaccid , poorly emptying organ . bile acid and lipid composition are usually increased in diabetic patients . cholecystitis seems to be a more serious disease in diabetic patients , with worse infectious sequelae and more rapid disease progression . this conclusion has not been examined statistically . even with modern care , the complication rate for operations upon the biliary tract in patients with diabetes is increased . those with diabetes are generally older than other patients requiring cholecystectomy . systemic changes of aging partly explain increased morbidity and mortality . diabetic patients with symptomatic gallbladder disease usually require operation . risk of cholecystectomy in diabetic patients is similar to that in nondiabetics . prophylactic cholecystectomy for diabetic patients with " silent " gallstones was formerly recommended because of an apparent high risk of cholecystitis . until the natural history of gallstones in those with diabetes has been defined , such patients should be considered in danger of serious illness . the risk of acute cholecystitis in diabetic patients with stones is probably significant enough to warrant the performance of early cholecystectomy . 
pathogenesis and treatment of intra-abdominal infection . intra-abdominal infection is considered potentially life-threatening . such infection is frequently secondary to perforated viscera , trauma or inflammatory disease . simple abscesses may be drained percutaneously with roentgenologic guidance ; complex abscesses often require open surgical drainage . secondary peritonitis is usually polymicrobial ; broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy effective against aerobic and anaerobic gram-negative bacteria , as well as gram-positive organisms , is essential . newer antibiotics , administered either singly or in combination , have been used successfully to treat intra-abdominal infection while avoiding the toxicity of aminoglycosides . 
a case of lisinopril-induced lithium toxicity we describe a patient who developed lithium toxicity when lisinopril was substituted for clonidine . possible mechanisms of angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor-induced lithium toxicity are discussed . aggressive serum lithium concentration monitoring and a reduction in the dose of lithium is advised when using ace inhibitors because of disturbances and shifts in fluid and electrolyte balance . 
genital and anal conditions confused with child sexual abuse trauma . examination of a child with genital or anal disease may give rise to suspicion of sexual abuse . dermatologic , traumatic , infectious , and congenital disorders may be confused with sexual abuse . seven children referred to us are representative of such confusion . 
a pitfall in azygos vein cannulation in cirrhotic patients : mistaken cannulation of the mammary vein . azygos venous flow can be measured by a thermodilution catheter in patients with cirrhosis . this is a useful technique since azygos flow is thought to reflect the superior portosystemic collateral flow in these patients . the authors report 3 cases in which mistaken internal mammary vein cannulation mimicked azygos vein cannulation in the supine fluoroscopic view . a lateral fluoroscopic view confirmed internal mammary cannulation . they suggest that if the azygos arch is unpronounced or flow measurements are unexpectedly low in patients with portal hypertension due to cirrhosis , a lateral view be performed to rule out internal mammary vein cannulation . 
lymphomatoid granulomatosis presenting as ulcerodestructive gastrointestinal tract lesions in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection . a new association . we describe cases of severe odynophagia , extensive oral ulcerations , and bowel perforation in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection that were caused by lymphomatoid granulomatosis . such presentations in human immunodeficiency virus-infected individuals are usually ascribed to other causes and may be incorrectly treated on an empiric basis . in addition , deep tissue specimens obtained at the margin of ulcerative lesions are often necessary for definitive diagnosis . we review our limited treatment experience with zidovudine , interferon alfa , and h2 blockers in our patients . based on the markedly increased frequency in which lymphomatoid granulomatosis is being diagnosed at our institution in the post-human immunodeficiency virus era , we postulated an association between these two entities . 
amelioration of cholinergic-induced pancreatitis with a selective cholecystokinin receptor antagonist . acute edematous pancreatitis follows excessive cholinergic stimulation in patients exposed to anticholinesterase-containing insecticides . we describe the role of cholecystokinin and the benefits of cholecystokinin receptor blockade in this form of pancreatitis . a cholinergic mimetic ( carbachol ) was administered to rats weighing 300 to 350 g and produced a form of edematous pancreatitis that mimics that seen in humans . animals received carbachol intraperitoneally , either alone ( 250 micrograms/kg of body weight ) or with cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist devazepide ( 3 mg/kg of body weight ) and were killed 4 hours later . carbachol administration resulted in a 19 % increase in pancreatic weight , a fourfold increase in serum amylase levels , and a 14-fold increase in serum lipase levels . plasma cholecystokinin levels , however , were not altered . devazepide administered prior to cholinergic hyperstimulation blocked pancreatic weight increase and reduced elevations in serum amylase levels twofold and lipase levels fourfold . although cholecystokinin levels are not elevated in this model of pancreatitis , blockade of even low , background concentrations of this regulatory peptide is beneficial . 
percutaneous catheter drainage of infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections . operative drainage is the cornerstone of therapy for pancreatic abscess . recently it has been suggested that successful percutaneous catheter drainage of infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections may serve as definitive therapy . we undertook therapeutic , computed tomography-directed percutaneous drainage in a selected group of 29 patients with infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections . twenty-three patients ( 79 % ) were successfully treated with percutaneous drainage . of six patients ( 21 % ) representing failures of percutaneous drainage , four died and two recovered after operative drainage . the four patients who died had a mean apache ( acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ) ii score of 23 and five of ranson 's prognostic signs . ranson 's signs and apache ii scores were predictive of success and mortality . we conclude that in selected patients , infected pancreatic and peripancreatic fluid collections can be treated definitively with therapeutic percutaneous catheter drainage . based on this experience , recommendations regarding patient selection are included . 
does somatostatin analogue prevent experimental acute pancreatitis ? because somatostatin is a potent inhibitor of pancreatic secretion , we hypothesized that pretreatment with somatostatin analogue octreotide ( sms 201-995 ) might prevent cerulein-induced edematous pancreatitis . we studied 18 rats prepared with jugular vein catheters . the following agents were administered intravenously to groups of four rats for 6 hours : 1 ml/h ( control ) crystalloid solution ; 1-microgram/kg bolus then 1 microgram/kg per hour of octreotide ; and 5 micrograms/kg per hour of cerulein ; also , in a fourth group of six rats , octreotide and cerulein were administered simultaneously . at the end of experiments , blood was drawn for plasma amylase determinations ; rats were killed and pancreata were examined . supramaximal cerulein administration to conscious rats induced hyperamylasemia and edematous pancreatitis , confirming previous observations ; in both groups of rats receiving cerulein , there was prominent interstitial edema , acinar vacuolization , and mild-to-moderate acute inflammation . while octreotide pretreatment of rats with cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis was associated with a lesser increase of wet pancreas weight and plasma amylase concentration , there was little overall benefit of octreotide pretreatment in this form of experimental acute pancreatitis . 
calcium and calcium binding in human gallstone disease . precipitation of calcium salts from bile is important in pigment gallstone formation and may serve as a nidus for cholesterol precipitation . we compared gallbladder bile from patients with symptomatic gallstone disease ( 40 with cholesterol gallstones and 12 with pigment gallstones ) with bile from 10 patients undergoing surgery for non-biliary tract disease . bile from patients with gallstone disease was less concentrated , with decreased sodium , bile salt , and phospholipid concentrations , but elevated biliary calcium concentrations were not observed . the relationship between free ionized calcium and total calcium was similar in all groups , indicating no difference in calcium binding by gallstone-containing bile . we can not exclude elevated biliary calcium level as a factor in gallstone pathogenesis , as it could be a transient event . the importance of calcium precipitation was supported by our finding that more than half of the samples were saturated or supersaturated with at least one calcium salt , calcium carbonate . 
surgical aspects of sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis . sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis ( sep ) is associated with the administration of beta-blocking agents as well as continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . the predisposing factors in the latter group are recurrent peritonitis , presence of acetate in the dialysate , and antiseptics used during bag exchanges . we report a case of sep following chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and review the literature on this benign yet potentially lethal condition . sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis frequently leads to intestinal obstruction , small-bowel necrosis , enterocutaneous fistulas , and malnutrition . there is a high incidence of anastomotic failure when a resection and primary intestinal anastomosis is performed in patients with sep . although sep is not commonly reported in the surgical literature , its importance to surgeons is indicated by the fact that the overall mortality rate is close to 60 % in patients with sep who develop surgical complications . 
ticlopidine treatment reduces the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy . the timad study group . the ticlopidine microangiopathy of diabetes study ( timad ) , a randomized , double-masked , placebo-controlled trial , assessed the effect of this antiplatelet agent ( ticlopidine hydrochloride ) in reducing the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy in 435 patients followed up for 3 years . the mean yearly increase in definite microaneurysms on fluorescein angiograms was significantly higher ( p = .03 ) in the placebo group ( 1.44 + / - 4.67 ) than in the ticlopidine group ( 0.48 + / - 5.79 ) . significance was limited to primary analysis using a quality angiographic coefficient for definite microaneurysms in patients with at least three readable angiograms over a 3-year period . ticlopidine was significantly beneficial to insulin-treated diabetic patients , inducing a sevenfold reduction of the yearly microaneurysm progression ( 0.23 + / - 6.66 ) compared with the placebo ( 1.57 + / - 5.29 ) ( p = .03 ) . among insulin-treated diabetic patients , fewer had development of new vessels in the ticlopidine group than in the placebo group , at borderline statistical significance ( p = .056 ) . overall retinopathy progression was significantly less severe in the ticlopidine group ( p = .04 ) . adverse reactions associated with ticlopidine included neutropenia ( severe in one patient ) with no clinical complications , diarrhea , or rash . this study demonstrated that ticlopidine slows down the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy . 
piroxicam decreases postirradiation colonic neoplasia in the rat . this study evaluated the effects of the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agent piroxicam on chronic radiation proctitis in the rat . forty female wistar rats received a 2250-cgy dose of irradiation to the distal 2 cm of the colon . twenty received piroxicam 8.0 mg/kg orally 30 minutes before exposure and 24 hours after exposure ; 20 rats served as irradiated controls . all animals were evaluated by colonoscopy 1 and 3 weeks postexposure and every third week until death or killing at 1 year . at killing , colons were removed for light microscopic examination . one year postirradiation results showed no differences in mortality , vascular changes , acute inflammation , colitis cystica profunda , or rectal stricture between the control and piroxicam-treated groups . however , at 1 year postirradiation the control group demonstrated neoplasia in 15 of 19 animals compared with eight of 20 animals in the piroxicam-treated group . the first endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasm occurred at 15 weeks postirradiation in one control irradiated rat whereas the first evidence of endoscopic neoplasm in the piroxicam-treated group did not occur until 36 weeks postirradiation . histologic examination documented a tendency toward a greater presence of adenocarcinomas in the control group compared with the piroxicam-treated group . the authors conclude that piroxicam treatment significantly decreased the incidence of colonic neoplasia in general as well as delayed the endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasia in rats after pelvic irradiation . 
clinicopathologic features of hepatocellular carcinoma in young patients . to investigate clinicopathologic characteristics of hepatocellular carcinoma ( hcc ) in young adults , excised tumors from 21 patients younger than 45 years ( young group ) were compared with findings in tumors from 204 patients older than 45 ( old group ) . in the young group hcc showed ( 1 ) a high incidence of positive hepatitis b virus surface antigen ( hbsag ) ( young 71.4 % versus old 20.1 % ) ; ( 2 ) relatively well-preserved hepatocellular function ( indocyanine green test ; young 10.7 + / - 8.8 % versus old 20.6 + / - 10.8 % ) ; ( 3 ) low incidence of histologically verified concomitant cirrhosis ( young 52.4 % versus old 78.4 % ) ; and ( 4 ) a more advanced stage of the disease in tnm classification ( stage iii ; young 52.4 % versus old 18.1 % ) . with respect to survival rates achieved by surgery , there was no statistically significant difference between the two groups . thus , hepatitis b virus may relate to the occurrence of hcc in the young patients . despite the advanced stage in the young group , survival rate after surgery was comparable with that achieved in the old group . these observations mean that a close periodic surveillance of young adults with a positive hbsag is required to detect hcc at an early stage . treatment of patients with hbsag using interferon or vidarabine and hepatitis b vaccine should be made to convert hbsag to negative in these individuals . 
swallowing disorders in patients with prolonged orotracheal intubation or tracheostomy tubes . eleven patients were tested for swallowing dysfunction after prolonged orotracheal intubation . ten had a tracheostomy tube . mean duration of orotracheal intubation was 19.9 days , mean age 65 yr , and no patient had a concomitant neurologic deficit . all patients had a modified barium swallow with videofluoroscopy . all patients had at least one defect of 11 defects characterized . there was a mean of six defects/patient . the most common defects were delayed triggering of the swallow response ( present in all patients ) and pharyngeal pooling of contrast material ( n = 9 ) . follow-up videofluoroscopy was performed in five patients ( all had improved ) with mean defects decreasing from 6.1 to 2.8 / patient . with one exception , no patient had any defect that was worse than mild in severity . we concluded that prolonged orotracheal intubation with or without tracheostomy may cause prolonged and severe swallowing dysfunction . the deficits improve with time . the presence of a gag reflex does not confer protection against aspiration of pharyngeal contrast . 
melanosis of the esophagus . an endoscopic , histochemical , and ultrastructural study . endoscopic , histological , and ultrastructural features of 21 cases of esophageal melanosis are described . these cases were detected during 1000 consecutive routine upper gastrointestinal endoscopies . staining characteristics and ultrastructure of the pigment contained in the endoscopically visible lesions were found to be similar to those of true melanin . 
enteric neuronal autoantibodies in pseudoobstruction with small-cell lung carcinoma . severe gastrointestinal dysmotility is a newly recognized paraneoplastic syndrome that occurs with small-cell lung carcinoma . thirty-four patients with small-cell carcinoma , of whom 5 had chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction and 29 had no digestive symptoms , were studied serologically . four of the 5 patients with gut dysmotility had immunoglobulin g antibodies reactive with neurons of the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of jejunum and stomach in an indirect immunofluorescence assay . antibodies of this type were not found in any of the 29 patients who had no gut dysmotility , nor were they found in patients with chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudoobstruction ( n = 8 ) , ovarian cancer ( n = 20 ) , or epilepsy ( n = 4 ) or in normal subjects ( n = 9 ) . in 4 of the patients with paraneoplastic pseudoobstruction , antibodies in highly diluted serum ( 1:4000 -1:8000 ) bound selectively to nuclei and cytoplasm of neuronal elements in the gut . this novel autoantibody activity suggests that intestinal pseudoobstruction occurring in patients with small-cell carcinoma may have an autoimmune basis . from a clinical standpoint , serological testing offers a simple means for determining which patients with gut dysmotility syndromes may have associated small-cell carcinoma , thereby enabling earlier diagnosis and treatment of the tumor . 
geographic variation of inflammatory bowel disease within the united states . one approach to learn about possible environmental risks in inflammatory bowel disease relates to studying its geographic pattern of occurrence . the geographic variation of inflammatory bowel disease within the united states was analyzed using the accumulated 17.5 million hospital discharges of all u.s. medicare beneficiaries during two consecutive years . to validate the geographic pattern shown by the medicare data , hospitalization was compared with mortality from inflammatory bowel disease among different states . mortality and hospitalization statistics both suggested that the occurrence of inflammatory bowel disease was determined by environmental factors that had a marked geographic variation within the united states . both crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis appeared to be more frequent in northern parts of the united states than in southern and in urban more than rural parts . these trends were observed for men and women and for blacks and whites alike . similar geographic patterns of crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis suggested the influence of one or more identical risk factors for both diseases . 
expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules by mucosal mononuclear phagocytes in inflammatory bowel disease . leukocyte adhesion molecules are important in cell-cell interactions of the immune system . lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 ( cluster designation 11a ) mediates interactions between t cells and mononuclear phagocytes through its ligand , the intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( cd54 ) , whereas complement receptors 3 ( cd 11b ) and 4 ( cd11c ) are involved in complement-mediated phagocytosis . expression of cd11 molecules and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 was studied in colonic biopsy specimens from 20 patients with inflammatory bowel disease and 10 normal controls . in normal colon , few mononuclear phagocytes expressed lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 at high densities . the major adhesion molecule was cd11c . thus , the largest population of normal colonic mononuclear phagocytes was represented by quiescent , resident macrophages with likely phagocytic function . in inflammatory bowel disease , mononuclear phagocytes showed only a slight increase in cd11a expression and no significant change in expression of cd11b and cd11c . by contrast , the percentage of mononuclear phagocytes expressing intercellular adhesion molecule 1 was increased from 6.9 % + / - 3.9 % in controls to 69.2 % + / - 12.8 % in ulcerative colitis ( p less than 0.001 ) and to 45.7 % + / - 22.8 % in crohn 's disease ( p less than 0.01 ) , showing a close relationship with histological activity . the increased expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 in inflammatory bowel disease indicates a state of immunological activation induced by local release of inflammatory cytokines . such induction of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 on mononuclear phagocytes may be important in the maintenance of chronic inflammation by facilitating interactions with t cells and t-cell antigen recognition . 
prevalence of spontaneous hepatofugal portal flow in liver cirrhosis . clinical and endoscopic correlation in 228 patients . the prevalence of spontaneous reversal of flow in the portal venous system was non invasively evaluated by doppler ultrasound in 228 patients with liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension . reversed flow was detected in the portal vein in 7 patients ( 3.1 % ) , in the splenic vein in 7 patients ( 3.1 % ) , and in the superior mesenteric vein in 5 patients ( 2.1 % ) , with an overall prevalence of 8.3 % ( 19/228 ) . this prevalence did not differ in relation to the etiology of liver cirrhosis , whereas hepatofugal flow was found in more patients classified as child 's c ( 15.4 % ) and b ( 12.5 % ) than those classified as child 's a ( 2.7 % ) ( p less than 0.02 ) and was associated with a higher frequency of hepatic encephalopathy ( 21 % vs. 7.2 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . endoscopic evaluation of esophageal varices did not reveal any correlation between the presence and size of varices and hepatofugal flow , whereas red signs were detected more frequently in patients with this hemodynamic pattern ( 42.1 % vs. 24.4 % ; ns ) . the rate of previous variceal bleeding was not significantly different in patients with and without hepatofugal flow ( 30.8 % vs. 24.4 % ; ns ) . conversely , the prospective evaluation of 15 patients with hepatofugal flow and 29 matched patients with hepatopetal flow , derived from the group of 228 patients , followed up for a period of 12-18 months , showed that variceal bleeding occurred in 9 of 29 patients with hepatopetal flow and in none of the 15 patients with hepatofugal flow ( p less than 0.02 ) . however , no statistical difference was found in the survival rates . this study indicates that the actual prevalence of reversed flow in the portal , splenic , and superior mesenteric veins in a nonselected cirrhotic population is 8.3 % . from a clinical point of view , the data suggest that this finding might be considered an important prognostic factor because , while occurring in cirrhotic patients with more severe functional impairment , it might play a protective role against the risk of bleeding . 
detection and direct sequencing of hepatitis b virus genome by dna amplification method . hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) dna was detected with amplification by the polymerase chain reaction method . cloned hbv dna equivalent to one virus genome ( 3 x 10 ( -6 ) pg ) was detectable by ethidium bromide staining after 50 cycles of polymerase chain reaction . by applying this method , presence of hbv dna was studied in 23 hepatitis b surface antigen ( hbsag ) - positive and 11 hbsag-negative sera from patients with chronic liver disease . hepatitis b virus dna was positive in 8 of 8 hepatitis b e antigen ( hbeag ) - positive , in 2 of 2 hbeag - and anti-hbe-negative , and in 12 of 13 anti-hbe-positive sera . hepatitis b virus dna was undetectable in all hbsag-negative sera even with amplification . to confirm specificity , the amplified product was directly sequenced . sequences around 122nd and 160th codon of hbs gene , which determines subtypes d/y and w/r , respectively , were analyzed . the results were compatible with recent reports regarding the relation between hbv subtypes and hbv dna sequence at those codons . hepatitis b virus dna could be detected at the level of one virion by gene amplification method , and its sequence could be determined by direct sequencing in a few days . 
effects of short-term pancreatic duct obstruction in rats . the short-term effects of rat pancreatic duct obstruction were evaluated and compared with those recently reported to follow obstruction of the rabbit pancreatic duct . in both species pancreatic edema and hyperamylasemia are noted , and the lysosomal hydrolase cathepsin b is redistributed from the lysosome-enriched to the zymogen granule-enriched subcellular fraction . theoretically , this redistribution phenomenon might lead to digestive enzyme activation because cathepsin b is known to be capable of activating trypsinogen . the hyperamylasemia and pancreatic edema ( but not the cathepsin b redistribution ) that follow rat pancreatic duct obstruction were increased by infusion of a submaximally stimulating dose of the cholecystokinin analogue cerulein . administration of the cholecystokinin-receptor antagonist l-364 ,718 reduced the hyperamylasemia but did not alter the pancreatic edema or cathepsin b redistribution . these observations indicate that cholecystokinin may modulate some but not all of the effects of duct obstruction . secretin administration increased the degree of pancreatic edema and had no demonstrable protective effect . the rat duct-obstruction model described in this report may prove particularly useful in future studies designed to clarify the early events underlying the development of acute pancreatitis . 
conjugates of ursodeoxycholate protect against cholestasis and hepatocellular necrosis caused by more hydrophobic bile salts . in vivo studies in the rat . the protective effect of ursodeoxycholate conjugates against bile salt hepatotoxicity was studied in chronic bile fistula rats . taurochenodeoxycholate or taurodeoxycholate , infused intraduodenally at 24 or 16 mumols/100 g rat per hour , respectively , caused cholestasis and severe hepatocellular necrosis within 8 hours . in contrast , tauroursodeoxycholate or taurocholate at 48 mumols/100 g rat per hour were choleretic . tauroursodeoxycholate was not hepatotoxic , whereas taurocholate produced moderate hepatocellular necrosis . simultaneous infusion of tauroursodeoxycholate to rats receiving taurochenoxycholate or taurodeoxycholate preserved bile flow and ameliorated hepatic injury in a dose-dependent manner . tauroursodeoxycholate protected equally by intravenous and intraduodenal routes . intravenous glycoursodeoxycholate also was protective . the hydrophobicity index of infused bile salts correlated well with their toxicity . concurrent administration of ursodeoxycholate conjugates did not reduce biliary recovery of intraduodenally infused [ 24-14c ] - taurocholate . biliary alkaline phosphatase secretion was stimulated by infusion of taurocholate , taurodeoxycholate , or taurochenodeoxycholate ; simultaneous infusion of ursodeoxycholate conjugates failed to prevent this increase . we conclude that ursodeoxycholate counteracts hepatoxicity of more hydrophobic bile salts via a direct effect at the level of the liver . 
physicochemical determinants of in vitro shock-wave biliary lithotripsy . human gallstones were studied by visual inspection , computerized tomographic imaging , and chemical analysis to assess physicochemical characteristics that may determine the outcome of in vitro shock-wave fragmentation . eighty-five stones ( mean diameter : 13.2 + / - 5 mm ) were each collected from different patients . fifty-five ( 65 % ) calculi were angular and 30 ( 35 % ) round or oval-shaped . three easily obtained measures were derived from each stone 's optimal computerized tomographic image including the mean stone density , a measure corresponding to the standard deviation of the mean stone density value which we termed the stone density distribution index and which may reflect the physicochemical heterogeneity of a given gallstone , as well as the density range . after the administration of 2500 shock waves using an electrohydraulic generator , fragmentation was noted in 68 calculi ( 80 % ) and was satisfactory in 27 ( 32 % ) ( where the largest resulting fragment diameters were all less than or equal to 5 mm ) . strong determinants of satisfactory fragmentation on multivariate analysis included a stone diameter of less than or equal to 15 mm , the presence of an angular stone shape , and a stone density distribution index of greater than or equal to 60 hounsfield units . the other parameters did not independently determine satisfactory fragmentation . prospective clinical trials are needed to assess whether these findings result in a better prediction of the success of extracorporeal biliary lithotripsy and a broadening of its indications . 
intrahepatic cholesterol stones : a rationale for dissolution therapy . a case of primary cholesterol hepatolithiasis is reported . stone composition was documented by infrared spectroscopy , and the presence of cholesterol saturated bile was demonstrated using standard biochemical techniques . the patient was treated with operative stone extraction , choledochoscopy , biliary enteric anastomosis , and oral dissolution therapy . the administration of oral dissolution agents has altered the composition of the patient 's bile and may prevent further stone formation . we advocate the use of both stone and biliary biochemical analysis for patients with primary hepatolithiasis to facilitate optimal therapy . 
insulin resistance in noncirrhotic idiopathic portal hypertension . to explore further the pathogenesis of glucose intolerance and insulin resistance observed in patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension , we studied a 35-year-old woman with presinusoidal portal hypertension without cirrhosis due to nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver . after oral glucose ingestion , glucose tolerance remained normal ; however , this occurred at the expense of a markedly hyperinsulinemic plasma response , suggesting the presence of insulin resistance . to examine this question more directly , we performed a stepwise euglycemic insulin clamp study in combination with an infusion of [ 6-3h ] glucose and [ 1-14c ] palmitate and indirect calorimetry . the ability of insulin to promote total body ( primarily muscle ) glucose uptake was markedly impaired , whereas its effect to suppress hepatic glucose production was normal compared with results obtained in nine healthy subjects . moreover , insulin failed to normally suppress plasma free fatty acid turnover and oxidation in this patient . this informative case demonstrates that portal hypertension alone , without hepatic dysfunction from cirrhosis , is associated with impaired insulin-mediated glucose and plasma free fatty acid metabolism and may also play a predominant role in the development of insulin resistance in many cirrhotic patients . 
persistent hepatitis b virus following interferon alfa therapy and liver transplantation . a 44-year-old man with chronic hepatitis b virus infection and cirrhosis was treated with recombinant human interferon alfa for 67 days immediately before orthotopic liver transplantation and immunoprophylaxis with hyperimmune globulin to hepatitis b virus in the peritransplant period . dot blots for hepatitis b virus dna demonstrated marked reduction in viremia after 41 days of interferon alfa treatment . southern analysis for hepatitis b virus in liver showed a pronounced decrement in actively replicating forms in the explant , although hepatic infection was still detectable . after liver transplantation , tests for serum hepatitis b virus dna and hepatitis b surface antigen remained negative . the patient died 32 days after transplantation of causes unrelated to hepatitis b virus . dna isolated from liver and other visceral organs at autopsy showed infection of the engrafted liver and the persistence of monomeric relaxed circular forms of hepatitis b virus dna in pancreas , kidney , and spleen . thus , graft reinfection occurred despite aggressive antiviral therapy and immunoprophylaxis combined with liver transplantation . existing viral serological markers appear insufficiently sensitive to assess residual infectivity . 
hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas in a patient with hepatitis a. hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas were found in a 30-year-old patient with serologically confirmed hepatitis a. other causes associated with the presence of fibrin-ring granulomas in the liver , such as hodgkin 's and non-hodgkin 's lymphoma , cytomegalovirus infection , visceral leishmaniasis , and consumption of allopurinol , were ruled out . it is suggested that hepatitis a must be included in the differential diagnosis of a patient with hepatic fibrin-ring granulomas . 
light microscopic diagnosis of human microsporidiosis and variable response to octreotide . microsporida are protozoan parasites that have recently been identified as a cause of human disease in immunocompromised patients . because of their small size , they have been recognized primarily by electron microscopy . this has limited the study of their prevalence , incidence , and association with large-volume diarrhea . the present report describes two cases of enterocytozoon bieneusi infection of the small intestine in patients with intractable diarrhea in whom the diagnosis was made by light microscopy and confirmed by electron microscopy . both patients were treated with octreotide , and one had a good response . 
expression of class ii molecules on intestinal epithelial cells in humans . differences between normal and inflammatory bowel disease . expression of class ii antigens on human intestinal epithelial cells was assessed using a sensitive avidinbiotin-peroxidase technique . hla-dr was present predominantly in the normal small bowel with diminished but evident expression in the colon . hla-dp staining was less prominent , and hla-dq was absent . in inflammatory bowel disease the expression of both hla-dr and hla-dp was increased , but that for hla-dq remained absent , suggesting an inherent defect in the ability of intestinal epithelial cells to express hla-dq . in related experiments , an interferon gamma-treated malignant epithelial cell line t84 also failed to stain for hla-dq and hla-dp despite the presence of hla-dr . isolated rnas for all three subclasses of hla-d were detectable by slot-blot analysis , suggesting that the lack of hla-dq expression relates to posttranscriptional defects in intestinal epithelium . these and other differences with conventional class ii antigen-positive accessory cells ( macrophages/b cells ) may help to explain the unique properties of intestinal epithelial cells as antigen-presenting cells . 
injection or heat probe for bleeding ulcer . a prospective randomized trial was performed to compare the efficacy of endoscopic epinephrine injection and heat probe treatment in actively bleeding peptic ulcers . emergency endoscopy in 1758 patients over an 18-month period identified 132 patients with active ulcer bleeding . they were randomized to receive either endoscopic epinephrine injection or heat probe treatment . after endoscopy , the patients were transferred to the surgical gastroenterology ward and were managed by surgeons unaware of the treatment option . bleeding was initially controlled in 96 % by epinephrine injection and in 83 % by heat probe ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was no significant difference in outcome as measured by transfusion requirement ( 4.5 units vs. 3.8 units ) , emergency surgery ( 20 % vs. 22 % ) , hospital stay ( 8 days vs. 7 days ) , and mortality ( 2 vs. 4 ) between the injection group and the heat probe group . two patients in the heat probe group experienced perforation . we conclude that both endoscopic epinephrine injection and heat probe treatment are effective in stopping bleeding from actively bleeding ulcers . epinephrine injection is technically easier to perform and has a higher initial success rate . 
screening colonoscopy in asymptomatic average-risk persons with negative fecal occult blood tests . colonoscopy was performed on 210 asymptomatic average-risk persons , aged 50-75 years , who had negative fecal occult blood test results . colonoscopy was complete to the cecum in 209 subjects . fifty-three subjects ( 25 % ) had adenomas and two had cancer . all of the adenomas greater than or equal to 1 cm in size and both cancers occurred in subjects aged greater than or equal to 60 years . fifty-one percent of subjects with adenomas and one with cancer had no neoplasms distal to the sigmoid-descending colon junction . one subject had a major postpolypectomy hemorrhage that stopped spontaneously . screening colonoscopy , therefore , has a high yield for detection of neoplasms in asymptomatic average-risk persons aged greater than or equal to 60 years with negative fecal occult blood test results . the yield is low in persons aged 50-54 years and intermediate in persons aged 55-59 years . 
airway responsiveness to inhaled methacholine in patients with irritable bowel syndrome . we examined whether patients with irritable bowel syndrome have increased airway responsiveness by measuring forced expiratory volumes in 1 second ( fev1 ) after inhalation of increasing concentrations of methacholine . responses obtained in 11 ibs patients were compared with those obtained in 11 normal subjects and in 11 subjects with organic disease of the gut or its related organs . all subjects were selected so that other factors that might contribute to increased airway responsiveness were excluded . the methacholine concentration that caused a 20 % fall in the fev1 ( pc20 ) , as well as the reduction in fev1 induced by each methacholine concentration , were used to assess airway responsiveness . the geometric mean pc20 was 197.6 mg/ml ( % sem , 1.15 ) for normal subjects , 83.9 mg/ml ( % sem , 1.51 ) for subjects with organic bowel disease ( p = 0.012 ) , and only 12.8 mg/ml ( % sem , 1.74 ) for ibs patients ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the 22.5 % + / - 2.5 % decrease in fev1 induced by 64 mg/ml of methacholine in ibs patients was significantly greater than that of 12.3 % + / - 1.5 % observed in healthy subjects ( p = 0.003 ) . in contrast , the 15.7 % + / - 2.0 % decrease in fev1 observed in patients with organic disease was not different from that seen in normal subjects ( p = 0.189 ) . we conclude that ibs is associated with increased airway responsiveness following challenge with methacholine . 
plasma vasoactive intestinal polypeptide concentration determination in patients with diarrhea . determination of plasma levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide ( vip ) has been used for screening patients with chronic diarrhea to identify potential neuroendocrine tumors . this 6-year blinded study from 1981 to 1986 examines the causes of elevated vip levels in patients . in healthy volunteers ( n = 144 ) , vip concentrations ranged from 14 to 76 pg/ml ( mean + / - se , 28 + / - 12 ) , whereas in chronic renal failure , 4 of 34 patients or 12 % [ serum creatinine 4.5 - 9.0 mg/dl ( 397-795 mumols/l ) ] had an elevation to greater than 100 pg/ml . no patient with idiopathic hepatic cirrhosis ( n = 12 ) had elevation of serum concentration of this peptide . among 588 consecutive unselected patients undergoing evaluation for chronic diarrhea ( n = 362 ; 62 % ) or possible neuroendocrine tumor ( n = 214 ; 36 % ) , 23 patients ( 3.9 % ) had concentrations greater than 76 pg/ml . in this group , 5 patients had functioning ( vip , 160-5975 pg/ml ) and 5 had nonfunctioning ( vip , 80-120 pg/ml ) pancreatic islet cell carcinomas : all 10 patients had hepatic metastases . other known cases of elevated levels of vip , ranging from 80 to 340 pg/ml , included other neurogenic tumors ( n = 3 ) , small - bowel resection ( n = 2 ) , inflammatory bowel disease ( n = 2 ) , chronic renal failure ( n = 1 ) , and prolonged fasting ( n = 1 ) . patients with diarrhea in which vip-secreting tumors were identified had plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide concentrations greater than 140 pg/ml . in patients with chronic diarrhea , determination of plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide levels did identify tumors secreting this peptide , but the results from this referral institution did not show identification of these tumors early in their clinical course . 
pathogenesis and therapy of peptic ulcer disease . the epithelial cells of the stomach and duodenum are normally protected from the damaging effects of acid and pepsin by a balancing mechanism of mucosal resistance . if an imbalance occurs , peptic ulcer may result . traditional teaching has emphasized the importance of acid ( and pepsin ) as the cause of this imbalance ; however , it is clear that acid and pepsin are not the only important factors in the pathogenesis of peptic ulcer . more recent investigative efforts have been directed at what constitutes mucosal resistance and how it can be disrupted to produce , in the presence of gastric acid , a peptic ulcer . depletion of endogenous prostaglandins and helicobacter pylori gastritis have emerged as prominent theories . as evidence exists both to support and refute these theories in humans , any definitive conclusions can not be made at this time . the acute management of peptic ulcer disease is directed at relieving pain , accelerating ulcer healing , and preventing complications . peptic ulcers can be healed with antisecretory agents ( i.e. , h2-receptor antagonists , omeprazole ) , antacids , prostaglandins , and sucralfate . because they are effective , safe , and convenient , the h2-receptor antagonists are the most widely used agents for the management of peptic ulcer disease . because the h2-receptor antagonist agents are equally effective in their indicated uses and are equally safe based on scientifically valid data , selection should be based primarily on cost . omeprazole is the newest antisecretory agent : a single morning dose of 20 mg suppresses acid secretion for 24 h. the agent offers little advantage over h2-receptor antagonists for the majority of patients with peptic ulcer . 
nsaid-induced gastrointestinal damage . a critical review of prophylaxis and therapy . nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) cause acute diffuse injury to the gastroduodenal mucosa , and also cause chronic focal ulcers that may bleed or perforate without warning symptoms . acute and chronic lesions are distinct , are pathogenetically different , respond differently to drugs , and require different management strategies . the principal rationale for antiulcer therapy in nsaid users is to prevent or reduce potentially fatal outcomes ; to date no evaluated drug meets this criterion for efficacy . antacids and h2-receptor antagonists , based on open uncontrolled studies , appear to heal both gastric and duodenal ulcers , and maintain them healed during continued nsaid use ; larger gastric ulcers show delayed healing with conventional doses of h2-receptor antagonists during nsaid therapy . no such delay occurs with omeprazole therapy . the suggests that if nsaid-associated gastric ulcers are treated with h2-receptor antagonists , larger doses should be given for longer periods . in patients with no pre-existing ulcer disease , h2-receptor antagonists given prophylactically prevent duodenal but not gastric ulcers ; sucralfate does the same . in individuals without peptic ulcer disease taking nsaids , misoprostol , given as prophylaxis , reduces the development of gastric ulcers ; its beneficial effects on ulcer healing or symptoms during continued nsaid therapy , or its ability to prevent duodenal ulcers or ulcer complications , are not established . because of diarrhea , the 400 micrograms/day dosage is recommended , especially in the elderly . 
gastroesophageal reflux disease : an update on management . gastroesophageal reflux is commonplace ; all humans experience it . for many patients , gastroesophageal reflux disease ( gerd ) is a manageable condition . for others , gerd can progress to severe symptoms , inflammation , and disruption of the mucosal lining . effective therapy calls for a clear understanding of the pathogenesis of gerd . the final common denominator to gerd is a lower esophageal sphincter mechanism that relaxes or is incompetent and allows gastroesophageal reflux to occur . key factors associated with gerd are ( a ) gastric content , ( b ) potency of refluxate , ( c ) esophageal clearance , ( d ) tissue resistance , and ( e ) disruption of the anatomic hiatus . gerd is generally a chronic condition characterized by recurrent symptoms . treatment goals for the gerd patient need to be defined : is therapy directed toward eliminating the symptoms or is therapy designed to eliminate gastroesophageal reflux ? unfortunately , effective therapy for gerd usually does not affect the mechanism ( s ) underlying the problem . the broad goals of therapy in gerd are to decrease gastroesophageal reflux and neutralize it , to enhance esophageal clearance , and to protect esophageal mucosa . the therapeutic modalities related to each of these situations are numerous and overlap , but treatment strategies for managing the gerd patient can be used in clinical " stages " or as the clinical situation dictates . h2-receptor antagonist therapy has become the " keystone " in management of gerd . unfortunately , not all gerd patients respond to conventional h2-receptor antagonist dosage treatment ; high-dose h2-receptor antagonist therapy recently has been demonstrated to be more effective in a greater number of gerd patients with severe esophagitis . 
cimetidine 800 mg twice daily for healing erosions and ulcers in gastroesophageal reflux disease . although h2-receptor antagonists have been the mainstay of therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease ( gerd ) , none of these agents has been approved by the fda as effective in healing lesions . since proton pump inhibitors may be associated with long-term disadvantages , a healing regimen with cimetidine would be useful clinically . this multicenter , randomized , double-blind study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of cimetidine 800 mg b.i.d. in healing lesions and in providing symptomatic relief in patients with ulcerative or erosive esophagitis . patients with greater than or equal to 8 heartburn episodes during a 1-week screening period , reflux confirmed by esophageal ph monitoring , and esophageal ulcers or erosions confirmed by endoscopy were randomized to treatment with placebo or cimetidine for 12 weeks . cimetidine provided significantly greater ( p less than 0.01 ) improvement ( 74 % vs. 51 % ) and complete healing ( 67 % vs. 36 % ) of esophageal lesions than did placebo . in these patients with erosive or ulcerative esophagitis , the median time to achieve 24 h without heartburn was 13 days with cimetidine and 30 days with placebo ( p = 0.01 ) . the mean heartburn severity score in the cimetidine group decreased rapidly during the first week and was consistently lower than in the placebo group . cimetidine , 800 mg twice daily , is effective in promoting healing of esophageal ulcers and erosions and in providing heartburn relief in patients with symptomatic erosive/ulcerative gerd . 
stress-related mucosal damage : review of drug therapy . the increased awareness of stress-related mucosal damage ( srmd ) that accompanied the widespread use of fiberoptic endoscopy and the increased incidence of srmd that accompanied the advances in caring for critically ill patients resulted in the recognition that the majority of patients in the intensive care unit ( icu ) setting wil develop mucosal damage . complications of gastrointestinal hemorrhage in these patients may contribute significantly to their morbidity and mortality , and the consequences of this bleeding may be more severe than the underlying predisposing conditions . because of the importance of gastric acid in the pathogenesis of srmd , therapy has focused on reduction of the intraluminal acid concentration . acid neutralization , while effective , is laborious and associated with side effects . h2-receptor antagonists have been used successfully in the prophylaxis and treatment of srmd and offer the potential for an effective parenteral as well as oral agent . they obviate the need for frequent antacid administration and eliminate some of the troubles and side effects that accompany an intensive antacid regimen . of the available h2-receptor antagonists , cimetidine has been the most thoroughly evaluated . it is equivalent to antacids in the prevention of overt bleeding and offers the advantage of dosing flexibility , ease of administration , and a remarkable safety profile . cimetidine has also been shown to be effective when administered by intermittent bolus infusions given every 8 , 6 , or 4 h or by primed continuous infusion , which has proven to be the most successful method of controlling intragastric ph. 
should safety concerns with available ulcer treatment influence drug selection ? with the identification of the parietal cell receptors for gastric acid secretion coupled with the introduction of cimetidine in 1977 , treatment of acid-peptic diseases was transformed from empiric therapy to an approach based on a clearer understanding of human physiology . today , physicians are confronted with an array of antiulcer agents that differ within their drug class ( e.g. , the h2-receptor antagonists ) as well as in their mechanisms of action ( e.g. , neutralize acid , alter mucosal defensive factors , or suppress acid secretion ) . with minor exceptions , the clinical efficacy of the available antiulcer drugs can be regarded as comparable . thus , the safety profile becomes the next consideration when choosing among similarly effective drug products . of the available antiulcer agents , the h2-receptor antagonists as a class have an excellent safety profile , as indicated by more than 25 years of cumulative clinical experience and postmarketing surveillance . important safety issues with currently available antiulcer drugs , i.e. , h2-receptor antagonists , sucralfate , prostaglandin e analogues , and the newest antiulcer agent , omeprazole , are reviewed to place them into perspective for the clinician . 
the clinical importance of drug interactions with antiulcer therapy . the overall safety of a given drug is determined by its toxicity , side effects , and drug-drug interactions . thus , a clarification of the mechanisms , importance , and clinical implications of any drug-drug interaction with antiulcer therapy is critical to the use of antiulcer medications . drug-drug interactions may occur as a result of changes in absorption , metabolism , distribution , or excretion . fortunately , drug distribution or protein binding is unchanged by antiulcer therapy . antiulcer drugs may affect absorption by several mechanisms . ionized medications may bind to the divalent cations of antacids and sucralfate to result in poorly absorbed complexes . reduced gastric acid may decrease the absorption of medications that are weak bases while enhancing the absorption of weak acids . drug absorption may be impaired by delayed gastric emptying . several h2-receptor antagonists , including cimetidine and to a lesser extent ranitidine , and the proton pump inhibitor , omeprazole , may reduce the hepatic degradation of drugs metabolized by the cytochrome p450 system . the degree to which such agents alter drug metabolism is determined by the patient 's age , genetics , duration of therapy , degree of cytochrome p450 binding , and the regimen . because the clinical importance of this interaction can not always be predicted , caution is recommended whenever drugs metabolized by this system are used concurrently . development of an understanding of the ways in which drug metabolism interactions occur may lead to more effective and safe use of these medications . 
the gastrin hypothesis . implications for antisecretory drug selection . newer potent and long-acting inhibitors of acid secretion , such as the proton pump inhibitor omeprazole , are becoming available for general use . these drugs promise to control acid-peptic disease effectively in patients who do not respond adequately to conventional short-acting h2-receptor antagonists . the safety of chronic administration of these drugs has come into question , however . lifelong profound inhibition of acid secretion in rats induced by superpotent inhibitors of acid secretion or subtotal fundectomy is associated with the development of carcinoid tumors of enterochromaffin-like ( ecl ) cells in the gastric corpus . available evidence supports a role of gastrin , which becomes chronically elevated in animals subjected to prolonged and profound hypochlorhydria . in humans , hypergastrinemic states such as zollinger-ellison syndrome and atrophic gastritis are associated with an increased risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors . such observations have raised concern that humans may also be susceptible to carcinoid tumor formation in response to potent inhibitors of acid secretion . to date , however , no cases of carcinoid tumor have been attributed to the use of omeprazole in humans . if achlorhydric doses are not used , significant hypergastrinemia can be avoided while effectiveness of treatment is maintained . such measures should minimize any risk of ecl-cell carcinoid tumors in humans taking potent long-term antisecretory drugs . 
requirement of endogenous tumor necrosis factor/cachectin for recovery from experimental peritonitis . by intrasplenic immunization we raised a rat mab ( mab v1q ; igg2a , kappa ) with a potent neutralizing activity against natural mouse tnf ( 1 microgram/ml mab v1q/100 u/ml tnf ) . mab v1q was used to study the role of endogenous tnf in experimental peritonitis induced by sublethal cecal ligation and puncture . mab v1q persisted for over 5 days in the serum of mice injected with 100 micrograms of the antibody and , therefore , proved useful for in vivo experiments . as little as 20 micrograms mab v1q/mouse prevented lethal shock of the animals by 400 micrograms lps/mouse . in sublethal cecal ligation and puncture i.p. injection of mab v1q directly and up to 8 h after induction of experimental peritonitis lead to death of the animals within 1 to 3 days . the lethal effect of mab v1q was compensated by injection of recombinant mouse tnf . similar mab v1q effects as in immunocompetent mice were shown in severe combined immune deficiency mice deficient of mature functional b and t cells . taken together , these data suggest that during the early phase of peritonitis endogenous tnf may stimulate nonlymphoid cells such as granulocytes , macrophages , platelets , and fibroblasts to ingest bacteria and to localize inflammation , respectively . these beneficial effects of tnf may determine survival . thus , our data may have implications for the therapeutic management of a beginning peritonitis . 
glutathione s-transferase . novel vaccine against fasciola hepatica infection in sheep . the potential of gst as a vaccine candidate against liver fluke infection in ruminants was studied by vaccinating sheep ( n = 9 ) with gst purified from adult worms of fasciola hepatica and challenging with 500 f. hepatica metacercariae . the immunization induced a high antibody response to gst in contrast to the poor or undetectable response to this ag observed in naturally infected sheep . throughout the trial , the progress of the fluke infection was monitored by measuring rbc hemoglobin levels , the extent of liver damage and the fecal egg output in the sheep . this analysis indicated that a subpopulation ( n = 4 ) of the gst vaccinated animals exhibited no anemia , reduced liver damage and a lower mean fecal egg count relative to the infected control group suggesting a lower fluke burden in these animals . worm burdens in the livers of the gst vaccine group ( 107 + / - 22 ) were 57 % lower than in the infected control group ( 250 + / - 25 ) . the subpopulation of the gst vaccine group demonstrated a 78 % reduction in mean worm burdens relative to the control group . these results show that gst of adult f. hepatica is a novel ag that can significantly protect sheep against liver fluke infection . the results suggest that the immune response to gst is directed to the juvenile worm reducing the number of worms that can establish in the liver of the vaccinated animals . 
liver disease in alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency : prognostic indicators . we reviewed the clinical presentation , subsequent course , and outcome of 98 patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency seen at our institution during the past 20 years to obtain answers to the following questions : ( 1 ) what prognostic factors aid in determining the course of liver disease in affected patients ? ( 2 ) when is the appropriate time for referral to a liver transplant center ? ( 3 ) does breast-feeding prevent chronic liver disease ? ( 4 ) what is the incidence of severe liver disease in family members ? our analysis revealed that the initial values of alanine aminotransferase , prothrombin time , and trypsin inhibitory capacity may have prognostic value . during clinical follow-up the recurrence or persistence of hyperbilirubinemia along with deteriorating results of coagulation studies indicated the need for liver transplantation because of imminent poor outcome . girls had a worse prognosis than boys . initial breast-feeding versus feeding of commercial formulas did not influence overall overcome . the incidence of significant liver disease among " at risk " siblings was 21 % ( 3/14 ) ; if one assumes mendelian inheritance from heterozygous parents , the overall risk for siblings in our families was 5 % . 
effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation on survival of infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia . to determine the effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) on the survival of infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia , we undertook a retrospective review of 31 infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia treated at children 's national medical center . infants were categorized by means of the bohn quadrant analysis to determine the impact of ecmo on infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and a " poor prognosis . " all infants assigned to the bohn 100 % mortality quadrant required ecmo . the survival rate in this group was 86 % ( 6/7 ) when assessed preoperatively and 67 % ( 6/9 ) when assessed postoperatively . comparison of the change occurring in ventilation index and arterial carbon dioxide pressure demonstrated that after repair the clinical condition of 48 % of infants deteriorated , 40 % improved , and 12 % remained unchanged . of the 12 infants whose condition was worse after surgery , 11 eventually required ecmo . our review demonstrates that ecmo improved survival significantly in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia who had a " poor prognosis " by the criteria of bohn et al . we recommend consideration of ecmo for all infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia for whom maximal medical therapy has failed . 
prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine added to a metoclopramide antiemetic regimen . a controlled comparison . cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting occurs both acutely and over a prolonged period of time . these symptoms may be incapacitating and are frequently given as a reason to discontinue therapy . we compared prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine when added to a standardized metoclopramide antiemetic regimen . twenty-seven patients receiving cisplatin at 100 mg/m2 were randomly assigned to one of the two treatment arms . patients were observed during chemotherapy and answered a standard questionnaire 24-26 hours later . among similar treatment groups no differences were seen regarding the number of emetic events , level of nausea , degree of sedation or overall acceptability of one treatment arm or another . while not superior to prochlorperazine , transdermal scopolamine is a useful antiemetic agent and can be combined with metoclopramide in an attempt to reduce cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting . further evaluation of this approach is needed . 
laparoscopic tubal sterilization . the potential for thermal bowel injury . one of the most severe complications of laparoscopic tubal sterilization is bowel burns , although they often go undetected at the time of laparoscopy . controversy remains over whether these injuries are caused directly by operator error or indirectly from a hot oviduct 's or instrument 's inadvertently touching and burning the intestine . a study was performed to determine the potential for direct or indirect bowel burns using bipolar electrocoagulation in rabbits . the results indicate that neither a hot tube nor hot ( recently used ) forceps could cause injuries to the serosal surface of the intestine . that was true both of immediate injury and after one to five days of recovery . it was observed that the hot uterine tube caused significant bowel adhesions by five days after the procedure . direct electrocoagulation of the bowel using 40 w for three seconds caused a minor , noticeable blanch on the bowel that was not detectable with gross or histologic means after one day of recovery . a direct bowel injury did result when 80 w was used for three seconds ; the bowel became perforated after one day . these findings indicate that it is unlikely that one can produce a bowel burn indirectly from a hot uterine tube or instrument and that only a direct insult to the bowel appears to cause an injury . however , adhesions could be a complication of the procedure and should be considered . 
diagnostic significance of carcinoembryonic antigen in the differential diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma . the histologic and cytologic distinction of malignant mesothelioma from carcinomas metastatic to the pleura or peritoneum is often problematic . for this reason immunologic methods are being increasingly used as diagnostic adjuncts . this review summarizes 40 studies on the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen in mesotheliomas and in lung and other carcinomas involving the pleura or peritoneum . carcinoembryonic antigen was identified immunohistochemically in 11 % of mesotheliomas and in 84 % of carcinomas examined and immunocytochemically ( in serous effusions ) in 4 % and 58 % , respectively . in serum and in pleural or ascitic fluid , significantly elevated levels of carcinoembryonic antigen are commonly associated with ( lung ) carcinomas but rarely with mesotheliomas . thus , together with identification of the antigen in serum , pleural fluid , or ascitic fluid , immunohistochemical and immunocytochemical techniques for detecting carcinoembryonic antigen provide a valuable aid for distinguishing malignant mesothelioma from metastatic carcinomas . 
genital herpes simplex virus infections . there has been a dramatic increase in patient visits to physicians for evaluation and treatment of genital herpes infections . this has resulted in part from an increase in genital herpes infections , particularly severe , first-episode genital herpes infections in adults without prior hsv-1 infection . virus culture remains the most sensitive and specific method for diagnosis , and use of viral cultures is encouraged . type-specific antibody tests have been employed in studies documenting the role of asymptomatic shedding of hsv in transmission of genital infections , the role of genital hsv in transmission of hiv , the predominance of asymptomatic and unrecognized infections in those infected with hsv-2 , and the presence of past asymptomatic or unrecognized acquisition of hsv-2 in 25 % of persons presenting with first-episode genital herpes . unfortunately , commercially available serologic tests do not reliably differentiate between antibody to hsv-1 and hsv-2 . recent studies suggest that the annual risk of transmission from a sexual partner with genital herpes is about 10 % in heterosexual couples . currently , promotion of " safe sex " is the only available approach for prevention of transmission . however , ongoing research is focused on the development of an effective vaccine . acyclovir should be used routinely in persons with first-episode genital herpes , but careful evaluation is needed in persons with recurrent genital herpes to determine whether episodic or suppressive treatment is indicated . acyclovir should also be used routinely for episodic or suppressive treatment of hsv infections in persons with aids . additional antiviral agents are needed for more effective suppressive therapy and for treatment of acv-resistant hsv infections in the immunocompromised host . 
the emergence of hepatitis b as a sexually transmitted disease . in the united states , approximately 300,000 cases of hepatitis b virus infection occur annually , and heterosexual activity is one of the most commonly reported risk factors for acquiring disease . until the number of infections transmitted through heterosexual contact can be reduced through hepatitis b vaccination , there is little chance of controlling this infection . 
sexually transmitted arthritis syndromes . sexually transmitted infections may provoke a wide variety of rheumatic lesions . disseminated n. gonorrhoeae infection leads to septic arthritis , which may be rapidly destructive but which responds promptly to appropriate antibiotic therapy . in contrast , both gonococcal and nongonococcal infections may lead to aseptic " reactive " arthritis or reiter 's syndrome . inheritance of hla b27 confers a relative risk of 30 to 50 times for the development of this condition . the demonstration of c. trachomatis antigen in joint material from a minority of patients suggests that direct interaction between microbial components and class i hla antigens in the joint may be central to the pathogenesis of this disease . arthralgia and arthritis occur in up to 50 % of individuals in the prodrome of hepatitis b infection . joint symptoms may be accompanied by urticarial or cutaneous vasculitic lesions , especially on the legs ; both features resolve with the onset of jaundice . hepatitis b infection is also a major cause of necrotizing vasculitis , which may or may not be associated with overt hepatitis . seronegative arthritis , including reiter 's syndrome , psoriatic arthritis , and undifferentiated arthritis , a sjogren 's - like syndrome , vasculitis , and myopathies have been described in association with hiv infection . it is clear that synovitis occurs in those patients despite the fact that hiv is present in immune cells within the joint during inflammatory arthritis and that both antigen presentation and lymphocyte responsiveness within the joint are impaired . nevertheless , synovitis may occur in the presence of marked cd4-positive lymphocyte depletion . rheumatic syndromes , including arthralgia , inflammatory arthritis , and neuropathic arthritis , may occur during any stage of congenital or acquired syphilis . syphilitic synovitis responds well to antibiotic therapy , but neuropathic lesions can not be treated effectively . septic arthritis has rarely been described as a complication of disseminated mycoplasma or urea-plasma infections , and joint lesions sometimes associated with erythema nodosum have also been reported in lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale . 
sexually transmitted causes of gastrointestinal symptoms in homosexual men . the possible etiologic agents that may cause gastrointestinal complaints in homosexually active men are multiple , and their diagnosis is complex . this article presents a logical approach to the work-up and diagnosis of gastrointestinal complaints in homosexually active men and to discuss their treatment and disease intervention . 
acute axonal polyneuropathy associated with anti-gm1 antibodies following campylobacter enteritis . we report 2 patients with guillain-barre syndrome ( gbs ) following campylobacter jejuni enteritis . electrophysiologic studies indicated that the predominant process was axonal degeneration of motor nerves , and clinical recovery was poor . serum testing by thin-layer chromatography and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed that the sera from both patients contained high titers of igg antibody against gm1 ganglioside . these cases may represent a subgroup of gbs as acute axonal polyneuropathy following c jejuni enteritis associated with anti-gm1 antibodies . 
pathogenesis of gallstones . the many developments in nonoperative methods for the treatment of gallstone disease underscore the importance of understanding the pathogenesis of these stones . elucidation of the factors responsible for nucleation of crystals and the mechanism by which it occurs would appear to be the challenge if we are to define the cascade of events that results in gallstone formation . 
gallstone dissolution . many methods are available for gallstone dissolution , including oral bile salts ; cholesterol solvents such as mono-octanoin or methyl tert-butyl either ; and calcium or pigment solvents such as edta and polysorbate . which of these approaches will be appropriate for an individual patient depends on the type of stones ; whether they are in the gallbladder or the bile ducts ; whether access to the biliary tree is available ; the patient 's age and general medical condition ; and the availability of necessary expertise . in the us , both chenodeoxycholate and ursodeoxycholate are now available . ursodeoxycholate is more expensive but appears to produce fewer side effects and may be more efficacious . these agents are most effective in thin women with small floating , radiolucent cholesterol stones in a functioning gallbladder . only about half of the small subset of patients will experience partial or complete dissolution of stones within a year . stone recurrence and the potential toxicity of long-term therapy are problems with this approach . therefore , for most patients , cholecystectomy , either in the traditional fashion or using a laparoscopic approach ( see article later in this issue by gadacz et al ) , is the most cost-effective and perhaps the safest option . intragallbladder instillation of methyl tert-butyl ether probably will be applicable only to a small subset of patients , and treatment is likely to be followed by a high recurrence rate . in patients with retained common duct cholesterol stones and access to the biliary tree , mono-octanoin therapy is advantageous in that it can be initiated as soon as cholangiography demonstrates no extravasation . in properly selected patients , a 90 % success rate with this technique can be expected within 7 days . 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy for biliary stones . extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy is a noninvasive technique for treatment of patients with gallbladder and bile duct stones . selected patients with gallbladder stones can be treated on an outpatient basis without general anesthesia and may return to full activity within 1 or 2 days . stone-free rates of 40 % to 60 % at 6 months have been achieved in most reported series with minimal morbidity . bile duct stone lithotripsy has achieved stone clearance in 80 % of patients in whom conventional methods were unsuccessful and therefore constitutes a valuable second-line treatment for these patients . 
surgery for acute and chronic cholecystitis . cholecystostomy and cholecystectomy remain appropriate and effective therapy for acute and chronic cholecystitis . cholecystectomy is the gold standard against which all alternative methods of treatment of inflammatory biliary stone disease should be judged . the pathogenesis , diagnosis , and surgical treatment of acute and chronic cholecystitis have been described . techniques of cholecystostomy , cholecystectomy , and intraoperative cholangiography used by the author have been given . our results and those generally described in the literature indicate that the overall mortality rate for cholecystectomy , in all age groups , is approximately 0.5 % . this rate increases slightly in patients with acute cholecystitis and in those over the age of 65 years . cholecystectomy remains the most effective and the definitive treatment for acute and chronic cholecystitis . 
gallstone pancreatitis . gallstone pancreatitis is caused by transient obstruction of the ampulla of vater by a migrating gallstone . intraglandular activation of pancreatic enzymes occurs ( by an unclear mechanism ) , and their entry into the circulation causes most of the local and systemic events of pancreatitis . the diagnosis is based on history and physical examination , an elevation of serum amylase above 1000 iu/l , and ultrasound and ct scans . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography can be used in less certain cases to confirm the presence of common bile duct stones . because of the absence of an agent that can abort progression of the disease , therapy should consist of adequate resuscitation , nutritional support , and careful monitoring to detect early complications . in patients with mild pancreatitis , surgery usually can be performed within 48 or 72 hours of admission or as soon as symptoms and amylase levels return to normal . for patients with severe disease , endoscopic sphincterotomy is emerging as the therapeutic modality of choice . elective treatment of the associated biliary disease should be performed during the same hospitalization after the acute phase of the disease has subsided . 
acute cholangitis . cholangitis is an infection of the biliary ductal system that results from the combination of bactibilia and biliary obstruction . choledocholithiasis has been the leading cause of cholangitis . however , in recent years , especially at tertiary referral centers , nonoperative biliary manipulations , often in patients with unresectable malignancies , have become the most common cause of cholangitis . as a result , the complete triad of fever and chills , jaundice , and abdominal pain , as originally described by charcot , is now seen less frequently . most patients still have leukocytosis and abnormal liver function tests , but many patients with indwelling tubes may develop cholangitis without significant jaundice . e. coli , klebsiella species , and the enterococci remain the most frequently isolated organisms , and anaerobes including bacteroides fragilis are recovered in 15 % to 30 % of patients . however , enterobacter and pseudomonas species , as well as yeasts , are now being isolated more frequently from patients with indwelling tubes , who often have been treated previously with antibiotics . computed cholangiography usually is necessary to determine the cause and site of biliary obstruction . in the majority of patients with cholangitis , cholangiography can be delayed until the patient has been afebrile for a minimum of 24 to 48 hours . initial therapy includes bowel rest , intravenous fluids , and antibiotics . many antibiotic regimens are now available to cover the gram-negative aerobes , the enterococcus , and the anaerobes that are likely to be causing the biliary infection . the combination of a penicillin and an aminoglycoside has been the gold standard . however , recent studies suggest that the newer broad-spectrum penicillins provide adequate therapy for these patients . only a small percentage ( 5 % -10 % ) of patients with toxic cholangitis require emergency biliary decompression . the choice of percutaneous or endoscopic drainage should be made on the basis of the presumed site and cause of obstruction as well as local expertise . the nature of the biliary obstruction may be the most important determinant of outcome . at present , patients with end-stage malignant obstruction account for most of the deaths , whereas approximately 95 % of patients survive an episode of cholangitis . 
nonoperative management of bile duct stones . the treatment of choice for most retained bile duct stones is by nonoperative means . if a t-tube is in place , percutaneous techniques via the t-tract are indicated . percutaneous access via puncture of a roux-en-y loop is also practical . in the absence of a t-tube , retrograde endoscopic techniques should be used . both techniques are very effective and safe . stones in the intrahepatic and extrahepatic ducts also can be treated nonoperatively . endoscopic sphincterotomy has a role in the treatment of selected patients with gallstone pancreatitis , acute cholangitis , and choledocholithiasis with in situ gallbladders . in difficult cases , endoscopic and percutaneous techniques are employed in combination . 
surgical management of bile duct stones . the biliary surgeon in the 1990s must be familiar with all of the available techniques for the treatment of bile duct stones . experience and judgment are important in the successful management of the individual patient with intrahepatic or extrahepatic stones . knowledge of the nonsurgical methods of stone removal is important in the decision-making process . however , the biliary surgeon must resist the temptation to do less than a thorough removal of all stones at the operation lest the patient be subjected to additional procedures , which carry their own risks of morbidity and death . the goal should be to clear the stones from the biliary system with the fewest procedures offering the lowest morbidity and mortality risks to the patient . 
stenosis of the sphincter of oddi . " stenosing papillitis " is a descriptive term for an anatomic deformity of the papilla of vater that is characterized by narrowing of the lower end of the bile duct and the proximal end of the duct of wirsung . the defect is secondary to inflammation and fibrosis from the chronic passage of gallstones , episodes of acute pancreatitis , chronic pancreatitis , sclerosing cholangitis , peptic ulcer disease , and cholesterolosis . patients with papillary stenosis from gallstones may present with episodes of severe upper-abdominal pain several years after cholecystectomy . the pain is often incapacitating , and patients are often addicted to narcotic analgesics . the work-up includes abdominal ultrasonography and ct scanning and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography even though the findings usually are normal . liver and pancreatic enzymes are not frequently elevated with the painful episodes . transendoscopic manometry may reveal elevated pressures within the papillary portion of the distal bile duct . some patients are relieved of their pain by transduodenal sphincteroplasty and transampullary septectomy , thereby ablating the sphincter of oddi around the bile and pancreatic ducts and enlarging their openings . 
primary sclerosing cholangitis . primary sclerosing cholangitis is a rare disease of unknown etiology . sclerosis of the bile ducts may actually be the final result of multiple factors such as autoimmune , bacterial , congenital , drug , or viral injury . the most commonly associated diseases are ulcerative colitis and chronic pancreatitis . except in the earliest stages of the disease , liver histologic findings are not specific . most patients present with jaundice , pain , and pruritus , although an increasing number of asymptomatic patients with inflammatory bowel disease and abnormal liver function are being identified . cholangiography is key to the diagnosis and is usually pathognomonic except in the unusual case where primary sclerosing cholangitis is confused with cholangiocarcinoma . many forms of medical therapy have been tried , including antibiotics , azathioprine , cholestyramine , colchicine , cyclosporine , d-penicillamine , steroids , and ursodeoxycholic acid . to date , none of these medications has been proved to alter the course of this disease . recent reports of ursodeoxycholic acid trials have been encouraging , but long-term results of ongoing randomized trials have yet to be published . in recent years , balloon dilatation of biliary strictures has been accomplished via endoscopic and percutaneous transhepatic approaches . however , in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis , these nonoperative manipulations must be done repeatedly , may entail multiple general anesthetics , and are difficult to perform . we believe that a direct surgical approach to the biliary tree with long-term transhepatic stenting is indicated in selected patients with severe hilar or extrahepatic stricturing , persistent jaundice or recurrent cholangitis , and no evidence of cirrhosis . hepatic transplantation should be reserved for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis who have well-established cirrhosis and have not responded to other therapeutic measures . 
congenital biliary tract disease . jaundice in the pediatric patient requires prompt and directed evaluation . this dictum is highlighted in infants with biliary atresia , in whom the progressive sclerosing process results in complete obliteration of patent but microscopic hilar biliary structures by 4 months of age . kasai 's operation , if done before that time , will re-establish bile drainage in 90 % of infants . one fourth to one third of patients achieve long-term jaundice-free survival . complications of cholangitis , portal hypertension , and fat malabsorption are experienced by many patients . in children with early or late operative failure , liver replacement now offers legitimate hope for extended survival . choledochal cyst is a conglomerate of pancreaticobiliary anomalies consisting of a choledochal cyst , a common-channel-type pancreaticobiliary junction , intrahepatic cystic disease , and partial obstruction of the distal common bile duct . many patients have one or more of these malformations . it is now widely accepted that the preferred treatment of choledochal cyst is total excision of the diseased biliary duct with reconstruction by roux-en-y choledochojejunostomy . " internal " excision avoids injury to other structures in the hepatoduodenal ligament , particularly if pericystic inflammation is present . congenital perforation of the common bile duct responds in most cases to simple peritoneal drainage of the perforation . retention of the tube cholecystostomy is useful for subsequent cholangiographic follow-up . tube cholecystostomy may also be useful for irrigation of the biliary tract in infants with inspissated bile syndrome . 
carcinoma of the gallbladder . gallbladder cancer remains difficult to diagnose preoperatively . however , recent work suggests that ultrasound may be effective . gallbladder cancer remains highly lethal despite aggressive therapy . extension of the disease beyond the mucosa predicts a poor chance of long-term survival . 
acute urinary retention in a child with appendiceal abscess : diagnostic dilemma . rarely do children with appendiceal abscess present with acute urinary retention as the only sign or symptom . this presentation may delay diagnosis and definitive therapy , thereby causing additional morbidity and possible mortality . we report the eighth case of acute urinary retention in a child associated with an appendiceal abscess . 
persistent mullerian duct syndrome . persistent mullerian syndrome is rare . a case of phenotypically normal male with persistent mullerian structures that consisted of a bicornuate uterus , fallopian tubes , and upper third of the vagina is reported . these unusual structures were found in association with bilateral cryptorchidism and a right inguinal hernia , and were diagnosed while repairing the hernia in the neonatal period . the uterus and fallopian tubes were removed via laparotomy when the child was eighteen months old ; at the same time a bilateral orchiopexy was performed . to avoid damage to the vas deferens , which lay in closely to the mullerian structures and could not be separated from the vaginal wall , a small segment of the upper third of the vagina was retained . the testicles , although normal on pathologic examination , have shown poor response to hormonal stimulation with human chorionic gonadotropin . long-term follow-up for these patients is necessary because they have an increased risk of testicular tumors developing . 
asymptomatic rhabdomyolysis of unknown etiology . a 7-year-old boy developed rhabdomyolysis with a peak creatine phosphokinase level of 261,400 iu/l after his appendectomy . these abnormalities occurred following a 2-3-day illness consisting of upper respiratory tract symptoms , fever , and abdominal pain mimicking acute appendicitis . at the time of operation , a normal appendix was removed , and mesenteric lymphadenitis was noted . the myoglobinuria and elevation of creatine phosphokinase were transient , and the patient remained asymptomatic . we review various causes of right lower quadrant pain and rhabdomyolysis and address the roles of malignant hyperthermia and infectious agents . the possible cause of the phenomena observed in this patient is discussed . 
penetration of the pericardium by a gastric ulcer -- survival after pericardiocentesis . elderly patients often have unusual manifestations of common illnesses . we describe a geriatric patient having a pneumopericardium from pericardial penetration by a gastric ulcer . benign gastric ulceration causing perforation of the pericardium or other cardiac structures was recognized as early as 1854 ; however , until 1964 , the condition was invariably fatal . our patient survived the episode after early pericardiocentesis and medical treatment . aspects of this uncommon clinical entity and a brief review of the literature are described . 
cimetidine suppresses chemically induced experimental hepatic porphyria . the ability of cimetidine to reduce the activity of hepatic aminolevulinic acid synthase ( ala-s ) was examined in allylisopropyl acetamide ( aia ) treated porphyric adult rats . a dose of 20 mg cimetidine/100 gm body weight resulted in a 50 % decrease in the aia-induced hepatic ala-s activity compared to rats treated with aia alone . heme oxygenase activity was decreased 25 % compared to rats treated with aia alone . the effects of aia and cimetidine on cytochrome p-450 were not additive , suggesting competition for a common site of interaction . the results suggest that cimetidine may prove to be useful in treating porphyria in humans . 
treatment of chronic liver disease caused by 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase deficiency with chenodeoxycholic acid . deficiency of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase , the second enzyme in the sequence that catalyses the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol , leads to chronic liver disease in childhood as well as to malabsorption of fat and fat soluble vitamins . a 4 year old boy with this condition has been successfully treated by oral administration of a bile acid -- chenodeoxycholic acid . he had been jaundiced since birth , grew poorly because of rickets , and had severe pruritus . plasma transaminase activities were persistently raised . chenodeoxycholic acid 125 mg twice daily for two months , and then 125 mg daily , cured his jaundice and pruritus , returned his transaminase activities to normal , and eliminated the need for calcitriol for prevention of rickets . on this treatment he has so far remained well for two years . a diagnosis of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase deficiency should be considered in any child with unexplained chronic hepatitis or cirrhosis , especially if the liver disease is accompanied by a clinically obvious malabsorption of fat soluble vitamins . a simple colorimetric test of the urine confirms the diagnosis and effective treatment can be started . 
normal small bowel biopsy followed by coeliac disease . we report four patients ( two children , one adolescent , and one adult ) having normal small bowel mucosa shown on a biopsy specimen taken before the initial diagnosis of coeliac disease was made . the first biopsy was undertaken in two cases because of suspected malabsorption , in the third because of suspected dermatitis herpetiformis , and in the fourth as part of a coeliac disease family study . after a further 2.6 to 9 years on a diet containing gluten , small bowel villous atrophy with crypt hyperplasia compatible with coeliac disease was found on a second biopsy specimen . the hla type of the patients was that typical for coeliac disease ; all were dr3 positive . within the families three other patients with coeliac disease have been diagnosed , two earlier and one at the time the first biopsy was undertaken . four other hla-dr3 positive haploidentical first degree relatives were found and had biopsies . all four had normal small bowel villous architecture , one had an increased intraepithelial cell count , and another was positive for reticulin and endomysium antibodies . coeliac disease may exist latent in patients having normal mucosa when eating a normal diet containing gluten . 
helicobacter pylori and associated duodenal ulcer . twenty three children with coexistent duodenal ulcer and helicobacter pylori infection were treated with either two weeks of amoxycillin ( 25 mg/kg/day ) in addition to six weeks of cimetidine , or cimetidine alone . endoscopy with antral and duodenal biopsies for urease test , microaerophilic culture , and histological studies were performed at entry , six weeks , 12 weeks , and at six months . children with persistent h pylori infection at six weeks were given a further two weeks ' course of amoxycillin . h pylori persisted in all children not receiving amoxycillin treatment but cleared in six of the 13 children ( 46 % ) treated with amoxycillin . with failure of h pylori clearance at six months , only two out of six ( 33 % ) ulcers had healed and 50 % of patients had experienced ulcer recurrence . in contrast , when h pylori remained cleared all ulcers healed and no ulcer recurred . persistent h pylori infection was associated with persistent gastritis and duodenitis despite endoscopic evidence of ulcer healing . detection and eradication of h pylori deserves particular attention in the routine management of duodenal ulceration in children . 
severe hypertension after liver transplantation in alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency . five children with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency and terminal liver disease received liver grafts ; all five became hypertensive and four developed hypertensive encephalopathy . there was evidence of renal disease preoperatively and renal biopsy specimens showed variable glomerulonephritic histology with iga nephropathy in one , mesangial-proliferative changes in two , and mesangio-capillary glomerulonephritis type i in two . four hypertensive episodes were preceded by a fall in creatinine clearance . the association of glomerulonephritis with alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency in children is more common than has been recognised . affected patients are prone to severe hypertension of probable renal origin after liver transplantation and the renal lesion may affect long term prognosis . 
perianal appearances associated with constipation . the perianal appearances were studied prospectively of 136 constipated children ( mean age 3.9 years , 67 boys , 69 girls ) . anal dilatation , fissures , tags , warts , perianal oedema , redness , blueness , and veins were recorded . it was noted whether dilatation occurred immediately or at 30 and 60 seconds with the buttocks minimally separated , and on subsequent firm lateral traction of the buttocks . the degree of faecal loading was assessed in all children . anal dilatation was found in 24 ( 18 % ) and first appeared on lateral traction in eight ( 6 % ) . in three quarters of the children with dilatation faecal loading or perianal signs were present . fissures were found in 35 ( 26 % ) children and tags in seven ( 5 % ) . perianal redness was more likely to be associated with fissures , and blueness with dilatation . we conclude that there are no pathognomonic perianal signs in childhood constipation and that the technique of anal examination should be standardised . 
reproducibility of 24 hour oesophageal ph studies in infants . thirteen infants who had undergone 24 hour oesophageal ph monitoring to diagnose gastro-oesophageal reflux had a second study carried out to see if the results were reproducible . the studies were done without restricting the babies ' activities . appreciable differences were found , the percentage of the total time during which the ph was less than 4 varying by up to 3.7-fold between the two tests . the differences were largely the result of biological rather than technical variability . from these results estimates were made of the reliability of a single diagnostic study and the size of changes that would be necessary to show the effect of treatment . these findings have a considerable impact on the diagnosis of abnormal gastro-oesophageal reflux and its response to treatment whether using 24 hour ph monitoring or any other method of measurement . 
bronchial asthma and acid reflux into the distal and proximal oesophagus . the prevalence of pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux in children and adolescents with asthma was studied by 24 hour two level oesophageal ph monitoring in 42 subjects aged 9-20 years with moderate or severe bronchial asthma . the importance of oesophagobronchial nerve reflexes and of aspiration of gastric acid as triggers in asthma was assessed by studying whether episodes of reflux into the distal and into the proximal oesophagus were followed by asthma attacks . twenty-one subjects ( 50 % ) had a pathological total reflux time in the distal oesophagus and six ( 16 % ) in the proximal oesophagus . nine patients had pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux into the distal oesophagus together with symptoms of asthma during the day on which the recording took place . in three of them the episodes of asthma symptoms were significantly correlated with preceding episodes of reflux into the distal oesophagus , and in one subject to reflux into the proximal oesophagus . we conclude that pathological gastro-oesophageal reflux is common in children and adolescents with asthma , but it seems to provoke symptoms of asthma in only a few . symptoms of asthma were more often elicited by exposure of the distal oesophagus to gastric acid , possibly by a vagal reflex , than by aspiration of gastric juice . 
crohn 's disease of the lung two years after developing colonic crohn 's disease , a 17 year old boy presented with focal pulmonary consolidation . a lung biopsy specimen showed areas of non-caseating epithelioid granuloma . although some respiratory abnormalities appear to be associated with inflammatory bowel disease , granulomatous disease affecting the lung has not previously been reported in a child . 
treatment of severe acne with isotretinoin in patients with inflammatory bowel disease . four patients with inflammatory bowel disease and severe cystic acne were treated with isotretinoin . two patients had a successful course of treatment without any gastrointestinal side-effects . one patient had two episodes of profuse rectal bleeding that were probably related to pre-existing haemorrhoids . the fourth patient had a flare-up of his crohn 's disease after starting isotretinoin . 
aerobic work capacity in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome objective -- to determine the aerobic work capacity of patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome and compare it with that of two control groups , and to assess the patients ' perception of their level of activity before and during illness . design -- a symptom limited exercise treadmill test with on line gas analysis and blood sampling was used . subjects were assessed by one investigator , who was blind to the group which they were in . setting -- department of medicine , royal victoria hospital , belfast . subjects -- 13 patients ( 10 women , three men ) who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for chronic fatigue syndrome . two control groups of similar age , sex , and body weight : 13 normal subjects ( 10 women , three men ) and seven patients ( five women , two men ) with the irritable bowel syndrome . main outcome measures -- aerobic work capacity as assessed by several variables such as length of time on treadmill , heart rate , and biochemical measurements ; borg score ; and visual analogue scores of perceived level of physical activity . results -- the patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome had a reduced exercise capacity compared with that of the other subjects , spending a significantly shorter time on the treadmill . they had a significantly higher heart rate at submaximal levels of exertion and at stage iii exertion had significantly higher blood lactate concentrations . using a borg score , they showed a significantly altered perception of their degree of physical exertion with a mean score of 8.2 compared with 6.6 and 5.3 for the normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome respectively . using a visual analogue scale they indicated that they had a greater capacity for activity before illness than had the patients with the irritable bowel syndrome , but the scores were not significantly different between the two groups . both groups of patients indicated reduced activity at the time of testing . normal controls and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome aspired to a greater level of activity than their current level , but the patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome aspired to a level similar to that which they had had before their illness . conclusions -- patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome have reduced aerobic work capacity compared with normal subjects and patients with the irritable bowel syndrome . they also have an altered perception of their degree of exertion and their premorbid level of physical activity . 
serial prothrombin time as prognostic indicator in paracetamol induced fulminant hepatic failure . objective -- to find out whether changes in the daily prothrombin time are of prognostic importance in patients with paracetamol induced fulminant hepatic failure . design -- retrospective study . setting -- the liver unit , king 's college hospital , london . patients -- 150 consecutive patients with paracetamol induced fulminant hepatic failure admitted between october 1986 and february 1989 . main outcome measure -- death . results -- of the 150 patients , 72 ( 48 % ) died . in all , 34 of the 37 ( 92 % ) patients with a peak prothrombin time of greater than or equal to 180 seconds died as did 20 of the 41 ( 49 % ) with a time of 130-179 seconds , nine of the 25 ( 36 % ) with a time of 90-129 seconds , and nine of the 47 ( 19 % ) with a time of less than 90 seconds . of the 42 patients with a continuing rise in prothrombin time between days 3 and 4 after overdose , 39 died ( 93 % ) compared with 21 of the 96 ( 22 % ) in whom the prothrombin time fell . conclusions -- these data indicate that a continued increase in prothrombin time on day 4 after overdose and a peak prothrombin time of greater than or equal to 180 seconds identify at an early stage those patients with a less than 8 % chance of survival . liver transplantation should be considered in patients meeting either of these criteria . 
response to treatment of detrusor instability in relation to psychoneurotic status . a total of 53 females who entered a double-blind crossover trial of oxybutynin and placebo for idiopathic detrusor instability were questioned about life events and associated medical disorders and were given a psychometric test . their response to treatment was studied in relation to these factors . it was found that 11 % of patients had nocturnal enuresis beyond age 8 and 25 % had irritable bowel syndrome : their response to treatment was generally poor . life events were not consistently related to treatment response . the mean psychoneurotic score of " poor responders " ( 43.7 ) was similar to that of female psychoneurotic out-patients ( 47.7 ) , although one-third of poor responders were normal . patients who responded well to simple anticholinergic treatment had a mean score ( 30.7 ) , which was similar to that of normal urban females ( 33.5 ) . most good responders and one-third of poor responders showed little evidence of psychoneuroticism : a further search for neurophysiological abnormality in idiopathic detrusor instability is needed . 
helicobacter pylori and gastric carcinoma . serum antibody prevalence in populations with contrasting cancer risks . this investigation examined the correlation between helicobacter pylori ( hp ) infection , as reflected in immunoglobulin g serum antibodies , and the risk of gastric cancer . serum samples were obtained from populations with contrasting gastric cancer risks . the highest prevalence of hp infection , 93 % , was observed in the adult population at highest gastric cancer risk , the residents of pasto , colombia . in the lower risk colombian city of cali , a 63 % overall prevalence rate was found . both children and adults were sampled in new orleans , louisiana , where gastric cancer rates are high for blacks but not for whites . the prevalence of hp infection was significantly higher in black than in white adults , 70 % versus 43 % , p = 0.0001 . a higher prevalence was also detected in black compared with white children , 49 % versus 32 % , p = 0.01 ; however , an even greater disparity was noted when comparing children from two hospitals , regardless of race , which serve different socioeconomic groups . a prevalence rate of 54 % was found at charity hospital compared with 24 % ( p = 0.0001 ) at children 's hospital . our findings indicate that socioeconomic conditions , known to influence gastric cancer risk , are also important determinants of hp infection . 
xipamide disposition in liver cirrhosis . the pharmacokinetics of the sulfonamide-type diuretic xipamide was studied in patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites and compared with healthy control subjects . after oral administration of 40 mg xipamide , the diuretic was rapidly distributed in the blood and the ascites . the ratio of the area under the concentration-time curve ( auc ) of plasma and ascitic fluid was 7:2 , as was the protein content in the respective compartments . the auc in plasma of cirrhotic patients was significantly greater than in control subjects ( p less than 0.001 ) . the most striking finding was the increase of the amount ( ae ) of parent drug and main metabolite excreted into the urine ( p less than 0.001 ) . the renal clearance of xipamide was only moderately reduced in patients with liver cirrhosis . both auc and ae were positively correlated to the plasma concentration of direct bilirubin of the patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . we concluded that nonrenal drug clearance in patients with liver cirrhosis was reduced as a result of the blockade of hepatobiliary excretion during cholestatic conditions . 
approaches to the patient with aspiration and swallowing disabilities . aspiration , or soiling of the tracheobronchial tree , can produce life-threatening pulmonary disease . intermittent or persistent aspiration may cause symptoms including cough , intermittent fever , recurrent tracheobronchitis , atelectasis , pneumonia , and/or empyema . the pulmonary disease may be associated with weight loss , cachexia , and dehydration . in many cases the aspiration is caused by laryngeal dysfunction , allowing pulmonary contamination by swallowed material . in other cases the aspiration is caused by a dysfunction of the oral , pharyngeal , or esophageal phases of swallowing . in some cases the aspiration is caused by a combination of laryngeal and swallowing dysfunction . geriatric patients are more likely to experience aspiration , since muscle weakness causing mechanical disability and neurologic impairment are more common in this age group . therefore , with the ever-increasing aging of our population , these disabilities will be on the rise , with an associated increase in pulmonary disease and death . the approach to evaluation and management of these disorders must be based on an understanding of the underlying functional impairment . 
esophageal motility in an adult with a congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistula . congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistulas ( tef ) are rare . long-standing respiratory symptoms are the most common presenting complaints . patients with these fistulas have a congenital esophageal motor abnormality characterized by uncoordinated , low-amplitude peristalsis of the esophageal body ; both low and normal lower esophageal sphincter pressures have been described . these findings persist despite fistula repair . a case history of an adult patient with congenital tef is presented and the literature is reviewed . this patient is unusual in that esophageal symptoms ( dysphagia ) were more prominent than the usual respiratory symptoms . 
effects of a multidisciplinary management program on neurologically impaired patients with dysphagia . dysphagia is a major problem in patients with neurologic disorders . aspiration pneumonia and impaired nutritional status are consequences of dysphagia that result in high morbidity and mortality rates . assessment and treatment of the dysphagic patient by a multidisciplinary team have been advocated but to date the effects of such an approach have not been demonstrated quantitatively . this prospective study was conducted to determine if a dysphagia program would improve patients ' caloric intake and body weight , decrease the instances of aspiration pneumonia , or improve patients ' feeding ability . patients were referred from a 26 bed neurology/neurosurgery unit . a time series design was utilized . the control group consisted of 15 patients ( mean age = 46.1 years ) , managed according to the existing ward routine . subsequently , nursing staff attended a dysphagia training program . following this , the treated group of 16 patients , ( mean age = 49.3 years ) was assessed by the dysphagia team , using bedside and videofluoroscopic examinations to determine the specific swallowing disorder . an individualized treatment program was designed for each patient . the groups were compared on the basis of deviation from their baseline weight , deviation from ideal energy intake , and the incidence of aspiration pneumonia . statistical analysis revealed that the groups were comparable in age , number of days on the study , and glasgow coma scale score ; and that a significant weight gain and increase in caloric intake occurred in the treated group . no incidence of aspiration pneumonia was reported in either group . we speculate that this may have been influenced by the meticulousness of the care delivered in an acute unit as well as greater attention to prevention given in both groups . 
motility changes in primary achalasia following pneumatic dilatation . the changes in esophageal motility after pneumatic dilatation were evaluated prospectively in 51 patients with achalasia . the patients were evaluated for a median of 14 months . pneumatic dilatation led to a clinical improvement in 41 patients . on manometric evaluation , a significant decrease in lower esophageal sphincter pressure was observed ( 28.4 + / - 14.9 mmhg vs. 13.5 + / - 7.2 mmhg ; p = 0.001 ) ; the resting pressure of the esophageal body dropped from 4.8 + / - 4.2 mmhg above gastric baseline to 0.1 + / - 3.9 mmhg below gastric baseline . after therapy , peristaltic activity was present in 10/51 ( 20 % ) patients ; in 1 case , complete relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter was recorded . treatment-induced motility changes could not be predicted by clinical history or the lower esophageal sphincter pressure before or after therapy . however , the resting pressure of the esophageal body before and after therapy was significantly lower in these patients in whom peristalsis recurred after therapy than in patients with an unchanged motility pattern . the reappearance of peristaltic activity after pneumatic dilatation was unrelated to lower esophageal sphincter pressure . in conclusion , motility disturbances of the esophageal body in patients with achalasia do not simply reflect the functional obstruction of the lower esophageal sphincter . these findings support the hypothesis that achalasia is not a distinct motility disturbance but should be regarded as part of a broad spectrum of different interrelated esophageal motility disorders . 
breast-feeding and diarrheal morbidity . this study used a unique longitudinal survey of more than 3000 mother-infant pairs observed from pregnancy through infancy . the sample is representative of infants from the cebu region of the philippines . the sequencing of breast-feeding and diarrheal morbidity events was carefully examined in a longitudinal analysis which allowed for the examination of age-specific effects of feeding patterns . because the work controlled for a wide range of environmental causes of diarrhea , the results can be generalized to other populations with some confidence . the addition to the breast-milk diet of even water , teas , and other nonnutritive liquids doubled or tripled the likelihood of diarrhea . supplementation of breast-feeding with additional nutritive foods or liquids further increased significantly the risk of diarrhea ; most benefits of breast-feeding alone or in combination with nutritive foods/liquids became small during the second half of infancy . benefits of breast-feeding were slightly greater in urban environments . 
high-fat semielemental diet in the treatment of protracted diarrhea of infancy . the capacity for greater fat absorption relative to carbohydrate absorption in protracted diarrhea of infancy was studied in a developed and a developing country ( buffalo , ny , and bangkok , thailand ) . fifty patients with protracted diarrhea in the first year of life ( defined as liquid stools of more than 20 ml/kg per day with more than a 14-day duration ) were randomly assigned to receive either a standard semielemental diet ( pregestimil ) or a high-fat semielemental diet that contained 40 % more fat . the increased fat was largely in the form of medium-chain triglycerides , with the new diet providing 60 % of the fat as medium-chain triglycerides compared with 40 % in the standard diet . tolerance to both diets was good in both studies . both groups showed adequate weight gain and an improvement in anthropometric and biochemical parameters . the patients receiving the high-fat diet showed no initial weight loss , however , and their weight gain was initiated earlier . cumulative weight gain was also higher in the group receiving the high-fat semielemental diet . fecal fat analyses were performed after 1 week of therapy . there was no difference observed in the coefficient of fat absorption between the groups receiving the two formulas , indicating that infants with protracted diarrhea may be able to tolerate a higher fat intake than is normally provided . as carbohydrate intolerance is known to be a complicating factor when using semielemental enteral feeds for infants with protracted diarrhea , a higher-fat semielemental diet may be the most appropriate way to provide adequate caloric intake . 
angiodysplasia : characterization , diagnosis , and advances in treatment . gastrointestinal bleeding accounts for 2 % of all adult hospital admissions each year . angiodysplasia is one of the most frequently reported causes of lower gastrointestinal bleeding . in 80 % of patients with bleeding angiodysplasia , the bleeding will stop spontaneously , but will often recur . although angiography may detect bleeding in 86 % of actively bleeding patients , the bleeding rate must be at least 0.5 ml/min . the treatment of choice for control of bleeding has been resection of the suspected segment of bowel , but this procedure is associated with a 10 % rebleeding rate and 7 % to 8 % mortality . superselective catheterization with infusion of vasoconstrictors has been used to control bleeding , but effects are short-lived . superselective embolization occludes an offending vessel , but is difficult to perform accurately and is associated with risk of infarction . laser photocoagulation controls bleeding in 84 % of patients , with a 6 % complication rate . this method of controlling bleeding offers distinct advantages , especially for the hemodynamically unstable patient . except for cases in which surgical resection is indicated , nd : yag laser photocoagulation is the safest , least invasive , and probably most effective means of treating angiodysplasia . 
complete jejunoileal necrosis due to torsion of the superior mesenteric artery . we have reported a case of small-bowel volvulus in which complete jejunoileal necrosis resulted from torsion of the superior mesenteric artery . this case was unusual not only because of the extent of necrosis but also because primary small-bowel volvulus is rare in adults . despite nearly total small-bowel resection , the patient continues to do well 6 months postoperatively . 
helicobacter pylori infection : a simplified diagnostic approach . we evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic finding of nodular antritis and rapid urease test ( rut ) in order to simplify the approach to the diagnosis of helicobacter pylori ( h. pylori ) infection . forty-four consecutive patients ( mean age 7.9 yr , range 6-13 yr ) referred because of recurrent abdominal pain as the main symptom , were prospectively investigated for the presence of h. pylori . h. pylori positivity or negativity was defined as the concordance of two of the following tests : rut , microbiologic culture , and histologic examination on bioptic samples . rut sensitivity was 100 % , whereas specificity was 87.5 % . the presence of nodular antritis had a sensitivity of 96.4 % and specificity of 87.5 % in h. pylori infection diagnosis . the predictivity value of combined rut and nodular antritis , whether positive or negative , was 100 % . only in case of discordance do we suggest the utilization of other expensive tools for diagnosis of h. pylori infection . 
helicobacter pylori infection in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome . a controlled study was conducted on patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection referred for upper endoscopy to evaluate the prevalence of helicobacter pylori ( h. pylori ) infection . four different stains and culture for h. pylori were performed on biopsy specimens from the gastric antrum . sixteen ( 40 % ) of 40 patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) or aids-related complex ( arc ) were diagnosed to be infected with h. pylori versus 14 ( 39 % ) of 36 age-matched control patients . eight of 15 aids/arc patients without aids-related esophagogastroduodenal findings ( 53 % ) were infected with h. pylori versus 8/25 ( 32 % ) with endoscopic findings typical of aids . no invasion of the lamina propria by h. pylori was noted in any patient . active chronic gastritis was present in 60 % of aids/arc patients and 61 % of controls . fifty-eight and 59 % , respectively , of active chronic gastritis cases were infected with h. pylori . all the h. pylori infections , except one , were found in patients with chronic gastritis . in aids/arc patients , h. pylori infection and active chronic gastritis are as common as in other patients referred for upper endoscopy . they may play a pathogenic role , especially when endoscopic aids-related findings are lacking . cell-mediated immune deficiency does not appear to increase the risk of infection with h. pylori . 
incidence and prevalence of ulcerative colitis in the upper galilee , northern israel , 1967-1986 . an epidemiological study of ulcerative colitis was performed in the upper galilee , israel , over a 20-yr period ( 1967-1986 ) . the average annual incidence of ulcerative colitis was 2.23 per 100,000 population , and the prevalence on december 31 , 1986 , was 44.58 per 100,000 . considering the fact that strict steps were taken to include only definite cases , these figures are probably an underestimation . an increase of the average annual incidence from 0.88 in the period 1967-1976 to 3.79 in 1977-1986 was found . when the data were stratified according to ethnic groups , the highest average annual incidence and the highest point prevalence was found in israeli-born jews ( 6.9 and 138.2 per 100,000 population , respectively ) . when jewish residence patterns were compared , the highest average annual incidence and point prevalence were found among kibbutz members ( 5.52 and 110.39 , respectively ) , and the lowest ( 1.94 and 38.76 ) among moshav inhabitants . there were 10 arab patients with an average annual incidence of 0.96 and a point prevalence of 19.27 . there were 25 women and 28 men ( female : male ratio of 0.89 ) . among the jews , the female : male ratio was 1.04 . peak incidence was found in the 25 - to 34-yr-old range . no second peak was noticed . anemia was demonstrated in 66.6 % of the women and 27.5 % of the men in our study . we suggest that the increase in uc incidence and prevalence in israeli and asia/africa-born jew and in arabs in the upper galilee points toward environmental factors in the etiology of this disease . 
failure of hepatitis b immunization in liver transplant recipients : results of a prospective trial . twenty patients with advanced liver disease , in need of transplantation , were given three injections of 20 micrograms and three injections of 40 micrograms hepatitis b vaccine to see if an antibody response could be obtained . only 20 % of patients developed measurable anti-hbs . one who failed to develop anti-hbs developed chronic hepatitis b after exposure to her infected sexual partner . type of liver disease in the native liver , age , sex , sexual preference , timing of immunization ( before or after transplantation ) , and dosage of hepatitis b vaccine did not seem to explain the lack of immunologic response to hepatitis b vaccine . it is presumed that immunosuppression , both from the underlying disease and from immunosuppressive medications , best explains our findings . liver transplantation patients infrequently benefit from hepatitis b vaccine . it is possible that other vaccines given to prevent viral and bacterial illness may also fail to elicit immunologic response in such patients . 
increasing prevalence of gallstones in male veterans with alcoholic cirrhosis . cases of alcoholic cirrhosis identified at necropsy were studied for the prevalence and type of gallstones , compared with age - and race-matched autopsy controls . data were examined from 1970-1977 and 1980-1987 . in the early sample of 460 cirrhotic patients , 33 % had gallstone disease , contrasted with 12 % in the controls . in the 1980s , among 299 patients , 46 % had gallstone disease , whereas it was present in 13 % of the controls . the prevalence of stones was significantly greater in the patients than in the controls for both time periods and , among the patients , was significantly greater in the 1980s than in the 1970s ( p less than 0.05 ) . a comparison of cirrhotic patients with and without gallstones indicated a significantly higher incidence of ascites in the patients with gallstones . the gallstones in cirrhotics were more frequently pigmented than in the controls in both time periods . in 100 living patients with advanced cirrhosis studied by sonography during 1987 and 1989 , the prevalence of gallstones was 43 % , almost the same as the autopsy sample from 1980-1987 . in these cirrhotics , ascites , encephalopathy , and varices were more prevalent in the patients with stones than those without . we conclude that pigmented gallstones are increasing in cirrhosis of the liver related to the severity of the liver disease . 
plasma fatty acid profile in advanced cirrhosis : unsaturation deficit of lipid fractions . fatty acid ( fa ) profile of plasma total lipids , phospholipids ( pl ) , cholesteryl esters ( ce ) , and triglycerides ( tg ) were measured in 101 patients with advanced liver cirrhosis and in 44 age - and sex-matched healthy controls . plasma levels of lipidic phosphorus , esterified cholesterol , and tg also were measured , and the unsaturation index ( ui ) was calculated for each fraction . total plasma concentrations of saturated fa , linoleate , and polyunsaturated fa ( pufa ) were lower in cirrhotics than in controls . this profile was also found in plasma levels of pl - and ce-associated fa . no detectable amounts of c20 :3 n9 were found in cirrhotic patients . percent fa distribution of lipid fractions showed a lower percentage of linoleate and pufa and a higher relative amount of saturated and monoenoic fa in cirrhotics than in controls . as a consequence , the ui of pl and ce was diminished in liver cirrhosis . linoleate and pufa deficiency was more marked in ce than in pl , as shown by the number of patients with values below the 5th percentile of the control group , suggesting an attempt to maintain the unsaturation of pl as the most important component of cell membranes . hepatic failure , poor essential fa intake , and malnutrition are some of the possible etiologic factors for pufa deficiency in cirrhosis . their relative contribution to plasma fa abnormalities , as well as the clinical and pathophysiological consequences of pufa deficit in cirrhotic patients , requires further investigation . 
comparison of two ascitic fluid culture methods in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . the conventional method of ascitic fluid culture detects bacteria in only 50 % of cirrhotic patients with neutrocytic ascites and suspected spontaneous bacterial peritonitis ( sbp ) . we have prospectively compared two ascites culture methods in cirrhotic patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis : 1 ) conventional ( on chocolate agar , blood agar , mac conkay agar , and thioglycolate broth ) , and 2 ) modified [ inoculation of 10 ml of ascites in a tryptic soy broth ( tsb ) blood culture bottle at the patient 's bedside ] . in a 21-month period , 70 episodes of sbp were diagnosed according to our criteria in 60 cirrhotic patients . both culture methods were performed simultaneously . the conventional grew bacteria in 40 episodes ( 57 % ) , whereas the modified grew bacteria in 54 episodes ( 77 % ) , a significantly higher sensitivity ( p = 0.0001 ) . in 16 cases ( 23 % ) , ascitic culture was negative by both methods . the mortality rate was higher among patients with culture-positive sbp than those with culture-negative sbp ( 46 % vs 37 % ) , but did not reach statistical significance . we conclude that ascitic fluid inoculated into a tsb blood culture bottle at the patient 's bedside should be used routinely for ascites culture in cirrhotic patients . 
hemodynamic changes in splenic blood flow during and after distal splenorenal shunt . the purpose of this study was to examine the hemodynamic changes of the spleen and the subsequent influence on the numbers of blood cells both during and 1 month after distal splenorenal shunt ( dsrs ) with splenopancreatic disconnection in 20 patients with portal hypertension . the intraoperative splenic blood flow , measured with an electromagnetic flowmeter , significantly increased after shunt insertion : the mean percentage increases within the splenic vein and artery were 60 % ( p less than 0.01 ) and 37 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , respectively . the splenic venous blood flow , measured with a pulsed doppler flowmeter , had not changed significantly 1 month postoperatively ( 676 + / - 501 to 540 + / - 306 ml/min ) . the wbc and platelet counts significantly ( p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01 , respectively ) increased 1 month postoperatively , whereas there was a small , but significant ( p less than 0.05 ) , decrease in rbc count . we concluded that splenic blood flow increases immediately after dsrs with splenopancreatic disconnection , but this increase may be only short term . the influence of the postoperative hemodynamic changes on blood cell count is uncertain . 
peritoneal mesothelioma : an unusual cause of esophageal achalasia . secondary esophageal achalasia due to malignancy is a rare condition ; only 53 such cases have been reported to date . sixty-two percent of the cases were due to gastric adenocarcinoma . mesothelioma of the peritoneum is an uncommon neoplasm . the usual presenting symptoms are abdominal pain , abdominal mass , or abdominal distention . the patient we are reporting had peritoneal mesothelioma which presented with dysphagia and weight loss , in addition to the radiological and manometric picture of achalasia . secondary achalasia was suspected clinically , and was confirmed by computed tomography and laparotomy . the diagnosis of peritoneal mesothelioma was made only by histopathological examination . we are not aware of any other report documenting the association of peritoneal mesothelioma and achalasia . 
primary adrenal insufficiency : a new cause of reversible gastric stasis . primary adrenal insufficiency is known to cause a wide spectrum of sometimes severe upper gastrointestinal symptoms ; however , it has not previously been shown to be the cause of reversible gastric stasis . we have documented such a case in which the symptoms and physiologic abnormalities associated with gastric stasis were reversed by steroid replacement . a follow-up radionuclide gastric-emptying study after physiologic steroid replacement showed complete normalization of gastric emptying . although gastric stasis has long been suspected of being present with primary adrenal insufficiency , this represents the first case in which it has been documented , and so should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with chronic nausea and vomiting . 
reversal of chronic hepatic encephalopathy by colonic exclusion : poor correlation with blood gaba levels . previous studies have suggested that the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) is a key factor in the syndrome of portasystemic encephalopathy . we report the case of a patient with medically intractable portasytemic encephalopathy after portacaval shunt who had marked clinical improvement after creation of an end ileostomy . plasma gaba and serum ammonia levels were measured before and after ileostomy . although the clinical syndrome and the eeg improved markedly after the ileostomy , the plasma gaba levels remained markedly elevated . preoperative and postoperative gaba levels were 865 and 633 pmol/ml , respectively ( nl = 100-180 pmol/ml ) . our findings confirm previous reports of the efficacy of colonic exclusion in patients with intractable portasystemic encephalopathy . however , our results conflict with the hypothesis that gaba itself is the key mediator of the syndrome . 
maternal feeding behavior and child acceptance of food during diarrhea , convalescence , and health in the central sierra of peru . feeding patterns by mothers and child acceptance of food were measured in a peruvian village to determine changes on days when children had diarrhea as compared to days of convalescence and health . morbidity surveillance identified 40 children , aged 4-36 months , with diarrhea . children were followed using twelve-hour in-home structured observations during two to four days each of diarrhea , convalescence , and health . using scales of maternal encouragement to eat and child acceptance of food and cumulative logistic regression analyses , maternal encouragement to eat decreased significantly during convalescence compared to diarrheal days ( or : 0.54 , 90 % ci : 0.35 , 0.82 ) and health compared to diarrhea ( or : 0.65 , 90 % ci : 0.46 , 0.93 ) . in contrast , child acceptance of food increased during health compared to diarrhea ( or : 1.55 , 90 % ci : 1.02 , 2.35 ) . results illustrate the importance of carefully examining the behavioral aspects of nutritional intake . decreases in intake during diarrhea are due to anorexia and not withdrawal of food by mothers . in response to reductions in child appetite during illness , mothers are more likely to encourage children to eat , while they tend to become more passive feeders after the diarrhea has stopped . program efforts should focus on messages to feed children more actively especially after diarrhea episodes , when appetite levels increase . 
the course of the hiv epidemic among intravenous drug users in amsterdam , the netherlands . to determine if behavioral changes in intravenous drug users in amsterdam have retarded the hiv ( human immunodeficiency virus ) epidemic in this group in recent years , we report that : hiv-antibody seroprevalence in annual samples of injectors has been constant over the years 1986-89 ; hiv-antibody incidence in a cohort of injectors appears to have decreased from 1986 to 1987 and stabilized after that until 1989 ; acute hepatitis b incidence in all drug users in amsterdam declined rapidly between 1985-89 . it is concluded that changes in drug use behavior so far appear to have resulted in a stabilization of the epidemic among injectors , at a level with a still disturbingly high incidence rate of 5-6 per 100 person-years . 
antibiotic use among children in an urban brazilian slum : a risk factor for diarrhea ? [ published erratum appears in am j public health 1991 apr ; 81 ( 4 ) :417 ] among a cohort of children in a poor urban setting in brazil , the relative risk for the occurrence of a new episode of diarrhea in the two weeks following antibiotic use vs all other weeks was 1.44 ( 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) = 1.33 , 2.45 ) . among children ever [ corrected ] exposed to antibiotics , the odds ratio was 1.34 ( 95 % ci = 0.84 , 2.16 ) after stratifying by individual child and controlling for previous diarrhea . further research is needed to confirm whether antibiotics are a risk factor for diarrhea in such settings . 
surgical complications of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . surgical experience with 260 consecutive patients with chronic renal failure receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) at one medical center from 1980 to 1989 is reviewed . patients received capd for a mean of 24.2 months ( range : 3 days to 91 months ) . catheter longevity consistently improved in all but 1 year from 1984 to 1989 , as did exit-site and tunnel infections . of 311 catheters inserted , 151 ( 49 % ) required removal , of which 111 ( 74 % ) were attributed to peritonitis . cumulative patient survival was 80 % , 60 % , and 53 % at 1 , 2 , and 3 years , respectively . diabetic patients had statistically significant lower survival rates . additional complications including catheter leakage , catheter malposition , catheter obstruction , and abdominal wall hernias were negligible . although capd is not free from serious complications , our data show remarkable improvement since 1980 in catheter longevity , hospital stay , and infection rates . 
acute appendicitis in the pregnant patient . acute appendicitis is the most common surgical problem in pregnancy requiring emergent intervention . to establish a contemporary patient profile and formulate an effective management strategy , a retrospective review was conducted of 84 pregnant patients who underwent laparotomy with a preoperative diagnosis of acute appendicitis . gestational stage at presentation included the first trimester in 27 patients ( 32 % ) , the second trimester in 37 patients ( 44 % ) , the third trimester in 13 patients ( 16 % ) , and the puerperium in 7 patients ( 8 % ) . fifty-four patients ( 64 % ) had pathologically proven acute appendicitis ; the incidence did not vary by trimester . other intra-abdominal conditions were detected in 15 patients ( 18 % ) . there were no significant differences between patients with positive and negative laparotomies ( or among trimesters ) regarding frequency of presenting symptoms and signs or laboratory results . operation occurred within 24 hours of symptom onset in 19 of 54 ( 35 % ) instances of proven acute appendicitis . perforation occurred in 23 of 54 patients ( 43 % ) , all of whom had symptoms exceeding 24 hours ( p less than 0.0005 ) . five instances of perinatal death and one case of extreme perinatal morbidity were associated with negative laparotomies ; only one of these was attributed to operation itself . no adverse long-term maternal morbidity or mortality occurred . wound infection developed in seven cases of acute appendicitis ( six perforated ) and two negative explorations . we conclude that ( 1 ) gestational physiologic changes obscure the accurate diagnosis of acute appendicitis ; ( 2 ) the natural history of acute appendicitis is not affected by trimester of presentation ; and ( 3 ) adverse sequelae of acute appendicitis are obviated by prompt operative exploration and prevention of appendiceal perforation . 
current status of duplex doppler ultrasound in the examination of the abdominal vasculature . duplex doppler ultrasound has come to play a central role in the diagnosis of a broad spectrum of vascular diseases such as carotid artery occlusive disease and deep vein thrombosis . the role of duplex doppler in the evaluation of intra-abdominal vascular disease remains unclear . this article summarizes the current status of duplex scanning in the investigation of the mesenteric arteries , the renal arteries , and the portal venous system . the examination is technically demanding , operator-dependent , time-consuming , and frequently unsatisfactory due to bowel gas , obesity , complex anatomy , or postoperative alterations in the normal anatomic patterns . its advantages reside primarily in the absence of toxicity and in the generation of physiologic as well as anatomic information . in centers with the proper instrumentation and a skilled technician , duplex examination can be useful in the diagnosis and management of abdominal vascular disease and avoids the inherent dangers of contrast angiography . 
choledochotomy for calculous disease in the elderly . to determine the risk of operations on the biliary tract in the elderly , we retrospectively examined 56 patients 80 years of age or older undergoing choledochotomy for calculous disease and compared their outcomes with those of a contemporary group of 257 patients undergoing similar surgery . thirty of 56 elderly patients ( 54 % ) required urgent surgery for acute cholangitis , acute cholecystitis , or obstructive jaundice ( serum bilirubin greater than 5 mg/dl ) , compared with 97 of 257 younger patients ( 38 % ) ( p = 0.029 ) . mortality in elderly patients was significantly higher ( 5 of 56 ) than in younger ( 6 of 257 ) patients ( p = 0.015 ) . in three of the five patients who died , urgent surgery was performed for obstructive jaundice , reflecting the higher mortality experienced by jaundiced patients in the entire series ( 9.4 % ) . biliary cultures grew organisms in 25 of 27 elderly patients ( 93 % ) . this is in contrast to findings of bactibilia in 62 of 118 patients ( 53 % ) under the age of 80 ( p = 0.001 ) . similarly , preoperative blood cultures were positive more often in elderly ( 63 % ) than in younger patients ( 26 % ) ( p = 0.007 ) . mean postoperative hospital recovery was longer in the elderly group ( 16.2 + / - 8.5 days ) than in the younger group ( 12.2 + / - 9.3 days ) ( p = 0.002 ) . in conclusion , elderly patients , particularly those with obstructive jaundice , are at higher risk for complicated biliary tract disease necessitating choledochotomy . they appear to be more susceptible to bactibilia and bacteremia , and require longer hospital recovery than younger patients . 
when is polypectomy sufficient treatment for colorectal cancer in a polyp ? eighty-seven patients with a carcinoma in a polyp were reviewed over a 12-year period . ten histologic criteria were analyzed for an association with the presence of residual carcinoma . four factors were identified as having prognostic value : size greater than 1.5 cm , sessility , cancer of at least 50 % of the adenoma volume , and invasive carcinoma . polypectomy alone is adequate treatment unless the carcinoma invades deeper to the muscularis mucosa and is associated with one or more of these characteristics . 
aggravation of myasthenia gravis by erythromycin . erythromycin is not currently recognized as causing clinical aggravation of myasthenia gravis . we report the case of a patient who experienced exacerbations of myasthenia gravis subsequent to each of several doses of intravenous erythromycin . we suggest that erythromycin can cause clinical worsening in patients with disease of the neuromuscular junction . 
hepatic cyst associated with peutz-jeghers syndrome . a solitary hepatic cyst , associated with peutz-jeghers syndrome , is described . to our knowledge , this association has not been previously reported . a developmental anomaly or hamartomatous nature of this lesion is suggested . knowledge of this association may be helpful in the clinical diagnosis of this benign entity . 
cholangiocarcinoma in association with multiple biliary microhamartomas . the rarity of cholangiocarcinoma occurring in von meyenburg complexes is well appreciated . we describe the case of a 35-year-old man found to have cholangiocarcinoma in association with multiple biliary microhamartomas of the liver . areas of ductal proliferation and atypia within the bile duct hamartomas suggest malignant transformation to cholangiocarcinoma . 
palliative treatment of bile duct tumoral compression by an endoprosthesis : clinical results . the palliative therapy of stenoses of the biliary tract is a difficult choice . because percutaneous or endoscopic drainage methods are fraught with complications , an endoprosthesis for surgical intubation of the biliary tract has been developed . thirty patients were treated by this method . after choledochotomy , the endoprosthesis is positioned surgically above the sphincter of oddi , thereby avoiding ascending cholangitis . twenty-nine patients ( 13 with gallbladder cancer , 11 with cholangiocarcinomas , 5 with metastases ) presented with neoplastic compression , and one patient had an early postoperative stricture with loss of substance after right hepatectomy for hepatic metastases . the operative mortality was 3.3 % ( one pulmonary complication ) . resolution of jaundice was obtained in all but two patients , and pruritus always resolved . the mean survival time for the patients with cholangiocarcinoma was 12.2 months and 6.33 months for those with gallbladder cancer . indices of satisfaction ( bismuth 's method ) were 71 % ( gallbladder cancer ) , 93.5 % ( hilar cholangiocarcinoma ) , and 92 % ( metastatic compressions ) . this new type of surgical endoprosthesis is an alternative in the palliative treatment of neoplastic hilar compression because it is well tolerated , has a low rate of operative mortality or morbidity , and affords an acceptable quality of life for the patients . 
( a ) typical symptoms during single needle dialysis . in 5 elderly patients , an abnormally high occurrence of some symptoms was noted during dialysis . all patients were dialyzed with biocompatible membranes , bicarbonate dialysate , and a blood flow of 250 to 300 ml/min by a single needle system , on a fistula 14 gauge catheter-needle . these symptoms were : 1 ) " angina , " resistant to o2 and nitrates , with biochemical stigmata of infarction , but without electrocardiogram ( ecg ) localization ; 2 ) intractable persistent hypotension , not hypovolemic , lasting 1 or 2 days ; 3 ) esophagal spasms , with inability to swallow solid food . because we knew that these symptoms were compatible with hemolysis ( biochemically proven by the increase in serum ldh during dialysis and by a fall in haptoglobin ) due to red cell fragmentation ( rcf ) , we switched these patients from fistula dialysis ( a ) to central catheter dialysis ( b ) , with the same apperture , blood flow , etc . the total number of sessions of a versus b were 512 and 891 ; the mean ldh ratios ( serum ldh postdialysis divided by predialysis ) were 1.8 and 1.0 ( = no rcf ) ; angina events were 132 ( 26 % ) for a , and 25 ( 3 % ) for b ; persistent hypotension was seen 37 ( 7 % ) times in a and 5 ( 0.6 % ) times in b ; esophagal spasms were noted 65 ( 13 % ) times for a , and 0 times for b. this clinical improvement was so overwhelming that 3 patients refused to be dialyzed again using their well functioning fistulae . this study also proved the need for a better designed and manufactured peripheral dialysis catheter-needle . 
peritoneal macrophage beta-2 microglobulin production and bacterial peritonitis in capd patients . to evaluate the role of bacterial peritonitis in peritoneal macrophage ( pm ) beta-2 microglobulin ( b2m ) production , and its relationship with pm interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) and leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) release , the authors studied 20 capd patients ( 10 with peritonitis ) : 1 . in vivo plasma and peritoneal dialysis effluent ( pde ) b2m , il-1 , and ltb4 levels ; 2 . in vitro b2m , il-1 , and ltb4 release by pm . values were compared with those seen in the plasma or with peripheral blood monocytes of 30 hemodialysis ( hd ) patients ( 10 treated with cuprophan [ cu ] ; 10 with polyacrylonitrile [ pan ] ; and 10 with cellulose acetate [ ca ] ) . results showed that in capd patients with bacterial peritonitis b2m , il-1 and ltb4 concentrations in the pde were significantly higher than those seen in capd patients without peritonitis , or in the plasma of hd patients treated with pan or ca , but were similar to those seen in hd patients treated with cu . at the same time , in vitro pm from capd patients with bacterial peritonitis produced more b2m , il-1 , and ltb4 , than did pm from capd patients without peritonitis , or peripheral blood monocytes from hd patients treated with pan or ca . the authors conclude that in capd patients , bacterial peritonitis is able to induce pm b2m production , probably via a cytokine mediated process , which may be analogous to what occurs with peripheral blood monocytes of hd patients treated with cu . 
a prospective randomized evaluation of chronic peritoneal catheters . insertion site and intraperitoneal segment . the insertion site ( midline or through the lateral rectus muscle ) and type of chronic dialysis catheter ( straight or spiral intraperitoneal segment ) were evaluated in a prospective randomized trial . dialysis catheter complications and catheter survival were the endpoints of evaluation . eighty-five first catheters were evaluated . neither race , gender , renal diagnosis , type of catheter , nor insertion site was a determinant of dialysis catheter survival . overall median catheter survival was 308 days . there were 40 catheter complications ( 70 % , n = 28 ) that occurred during the first 61 days following insertion . median time to the first complication occurring within the first 61 days was 3 days . late catheter removals were due to peritonitis episodes that failed to resolve . complications are frequent with peritoneal dialysis catheters , and care of the peritoneal dialysis catheters requires constant vigilance . 
complications of tenckhoff catheters post removal . complications due to tenckhoff catheters can occur at prolonged intervals after their removal . from january 1979 to october 1989 , 431 patients at our center began continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) , 278 of whom subsequently transferred to another form of renal replacement therapy . we identified 12 patients ( 4.3 % or 12/278 ) with post removal catheter complications . there were 14 post removal complications , two each in two patients , and one in each of 12 others . the mean time to complication was 541 + / - 143 days ( 27-2 ,040 ) . in 71 % ( 10/14 ) of the complications , an abscess was found at the site of the previously removed tenckhoff catheter . in 29 % ( 4/14 ) of the complications , foreign body material consistent with a retained cuff was recovered . documentation at the time of tenckhoff catheter removal should include a statement regarding the presence of the tenckhoff catheter cuffs , and patients with retained cuffs should be monitored closely for the development of abscesses or other complications . immunocompromised patients are at high risk for these complications . 
pancreatic ischaemia in experimental acute pancreatitis : mechanism , significance and therapy . much clinical and experimental evidence suggests that pancreatic ischaemia in the early phase of acute pancreatitis is important in the development of pancreatic necrosis . while depletion of intravascular volume has often been assumed to be the main circulatory defect , an additional disturbance of pancreatic microcirculation has been demonstrated experimentally . possible contributory mechanisms include chemical-induced vasoconstriction , direct injury of vessel wall , intravascular coagulation and increased endothelial permeability resulting in pancreatic oedema , haemoconcentration and impaired venous drainage . pancreatic ischaemia as a consequence of these local effects seems to be responsible for the transition of mild pancreatitis to parenchymal necrosis . in experimental models the beneficial effect of various drugs and of sympathetic blockade has been ascribed to an improvement in pancreatic perfusion . although effective volume therapy is generally accepted as the mainstay of conservative treatment in acute pancreatitis , the efficacy of different fluid preparations is still controversial , and simple fluid resuscitation has not been shown to prevent the development of parenchymal necrosis . the specific impairment of pancreatic microcirculation can not be prevented merely by replenishment of intravascular volume with crystalloids , albumin or plasma despite normalization of macrohaemodynamics . in contrast , partial replacement of blood by dextran preparations has been shown to increase pancreatic perfusion by improving blood fluidity . isovolaemic haemodilution in conjunction with conventional fluid therapy may provide a new and effective means of protecting the pancreas from secondary injury due to the early ischaemic phase of acute pancreatitis . 
impaired polymorphonuclear leucocyte function in patients undergoing hepatectomy : adenylate energy charge and superoxide anion production in relation to hepatic mitochondrial redox state . patients undergoing hepatectomy have an increased susceptibility to infection . we therefore studied the energy metabolism of the polymorphonuclear leucocyte ( pmn ) , focusing on energy charge and function , especially superoxide anion ( o2 - ) generation , in relation to the hepatic mitochondrial redox state . by labelling the pmn adenine nucleotide pool with radioactive adenine and by superoxide dismutase-inhibitable reduction of ferricytochrome c , the energy charge and o2 - production was measured in 18 patients with hepatoma ( non-cirrhotic , seven ; cirrhotic , 11 ) undergoing hepatectomy . their arterial ketone body ratios ( kbrs ) , reflecting the hepatic mitochondrial redox potential , were above 0.7 before operation . after surgery , the 18 patients were divided into two groups : group a , kbr greater than 0.7 , n = 10 ; and group b , kbr less than 0.7 , n = 8 . the energy charge and o2 - release in group b decreased significantly from preoperative values ( p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.01 respectively ) and when compared with group a ( p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01 respectively ) . these results suggest that impaired hepatic energy metabolism ( kbr less than 0.7 ) in hepatectomized patients leads to impaired energy charge and o2 - production in the pmns . 
effective intraperitoneal antiprotease therapy for taurocholate-induced pancreatitis in rats in canine pancreatitis , irreversible hypotension and death follow saturation of the antiprotease molecules in peritoneal exudate by activated proteolytic enzymes which are released from the pancreas . this study has examined , in rats with taurocholate-induced pancreatitis , the efficacy of removal of the peritoneal exudate by aspiration and a single lavage , followed by instillation of an exogenous antiprotease solution . instillation of human fresh frozen plasma , containing alpha 2-macroglobulin and alpha 1-antiprotease , was associated with the longest median survival . aprotinin , although possessing a much greater trypsin inhibitory capacity , just failed to significantly improve the median survival time compared with the control group . intraperitoneal antiprotease therapy is simple to perform , has a beneficial effect on survival time in this model and merits investigation in man . 
free radical inhibition and serial chemiluminescence in evolving experimental pancreatitis . oxygen free radical activity and inhibition were examined in experimental pancreatitis . twenty-five rats were randomized to five groups : controls received intravenous saline , to simulate pancreatitis one group received intravenous caerulein ( 5 micrograms kg-1 h-1 ) , and three groups received sodium taurocholate via the pancreatic duct ( 0.2 ml , 5 per cent ) , either alone , following allopurinol or immediately before superoxide dismutase . chemiluminescence ( a phenomenon based on the emission of light during chemical reactions and which is dependent on oxygen free radical activity ) was used as an index of oxygen free radical activity and was measured in tissue samples at 5-min intervals following induction of pancreatitis . the control mean ( s.e.m. ) serum amylase level 1 h after induction of pancreatitis was 635 ( 13 ) units . it was significantly elevated in caerulein-induced pancreatitis , 1833 ( 118 ) units ( p less than 0.05 ) and exceeded 3000 units in all taurocholate-infused animals . mean ( s.e.m. ) chemiluminescence ranged from 44 ( 8 ) mv 100 mg-1 at time zero to 404 ( 113 ) mv 100 mg-1 at 1 h in controls . in caerulein-induced pancreatitis mean ( s.e.m. ) chemiluminescence peaked at 20 min ( 1399 ( 239 ) mv 100 mg-1 , p less than 0.02 ) and in taurocholate-induced pancreatitis at 15 min ( 2316 ( 95 ) mv 100 mg-1 , p less than 0.004 ) . superoxide dismutase significantly reduced chemiluminescence and hyperamylasaemia in taurocholate groups . increasing oxygen free radical activity paralleled evolving pancreatitis . superoxide dismutase may have a therapeutic role in pancreatitis . 
prediction of outcome in acute pancreatitis : a comparative study of apache ii , clinical assessment and multiple factor scoring systems . the apache ii severity of disease classification system has been examined prospectively in 160 patients with acute pancreatitis . using clinical and simple laboratory data apache ii was able to provide useful discrimination between uncomplicated , complicated and fatal attacks within a few hours of admission . peak apache ii scores ( recorded during the first 3 days ) had a prognostic accuracy similar to the multiple factor scoring systems , but then incurred a similar delay . patients could be graded according to their risk of death or of developing a major complication ; no deaths occurred in patients with a peak apache ii score less than 10 . apache ii can be repeated daily , uncomplicated attacks demonstrating falling scores in association with clinical improvement , in contrast to the rising scores associated with clinical deterioration in those dying early . apache ii appears to reflect any continuing disease activity and may prove a useful means of monitoring the course of the illness and response to therapy . 
gallstone clearance : a randomized study of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and chemical dissolution following extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy it is not known whether gallstone fragments are cleared from the gallbladder without the use of oral dissolution therapy . to assess the efficacy of lithotripsy and dissolution therapy , alone or in combination , 35 patients were randomized to one of three treatment groups : lithotripsy alone , dissolution therapy alone or combined lithotripsy and dissolution therapy . all patients had symptomatic gallstones , functioning gallbladders and comparable stone profiles . lithotripsy was administered using a piezoelectric lithotripter . dissolution therapy consisted of combined bile acid and terpene . clearance was assessed at 6 months using ultrasound and oral cholecystography . patients with less than 50 per cent stone clearance at the end of 6 months were considered failures . the number of patients with total or partial clearance in the combined group ( 7/10 ) was significantly greater than those in the lithotripsy alone group ( 0/10 , p less than 0.002 ) . gallstone clearance following lithotripsy appears to be dependent upon dissolution therapy . 
gallbladder surgery following cholecystlithotripsy : suggested guidelines for treatment twenty-three of 229 symptomatic patients undergoing cholecystlithotripsy underwent surgical intervention : 22 of the patients had cholecystectomy performed ( five also undergoing choledochotomy ) and one patient had a cholecystostomy . of these 23 patients , five were lithotripsy failures , five developed acute pancreatitis , one had acute cholecystitis , and one had cholangitis . one patient had her gallbladder removed incidentally at the time of surgery for a bleeding gastric ulcer . ten patients underwent surgery for recurrent biliary pain , probably related to fragment passage via the cystic duct . we suggest that up to 16 of these 23 patients did not necessarily require cholecystectomy , i.e. five patients with pancreatitis , one patient with cholangitis and ten patients with recurrent biliary colic . conservative and/or endoscopic management may be successful in the first instance to allow further treatment with lithotripsy in the majority of patients . if , however , the expertise to perform endoscopic sphincterotomy is not available or the patient declines further lithotripsy , then resort to surgery may be necessary . we propose that it is the responsibility of the management team in charge of the lithotripsy unit to inform both the patient and the referring clinicians of the possible side-effects and outcome of treatment in an attempt to avoid unnecessary surgical procedures . 
surgical presentation of kawasaki disease ( mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ) . five patients with kawasaki disease ( mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome ) are reported whose varied presentations included acute abdominal pain , peripheral arterial aneurysms , digital gangrene and sterile pyuria and whose presenting pathology ranged from hydrops of the gallbladder to enteric pseudo-obstruction . as the complications of the disease can usually be managed without resort to surgery , which is associated with a mortality rate of up to 25 per cent , the recognition of kawasaki disease will prevent hazardous and unnecessary laparotomy . 
intraluminal pressure adjacent to left colonic anastomoses . a cumulative total of 89 h of pressure data was acquired from both sides of a left colonic anastomosis in 15 patients over a median period of 7 postoperative study days . patients had a colonic ileus lasting 3-10 days and during this proximal and distal inactivity the intraluminal pressure remained within 6 mmhg of atmospheric pressure . after recovery of activity , pressures proximal to the anastomosis in excess of 10 mmhg occurred during less than 1 per cent of the recording time . distal peak pressures were significantly elevated with respect to the proximal site ( p less than 0.001 ) . two-thirds of the distal pressures recorded were between 10 and 20 mmhg and 98 per cent were less than 50 mmhg ; the peak distal pressure was 90 mmhg . four patients had distal repetitive tonic contractions creating a pressure difference across the anastomosis with a mean of 20 mmhg and a peak of 45 mmhg . each contraction persisted for 15-20 min . intraluminal pressures are unlikely to play a role in anastomotic dehiscence . 
duodenogastric reflux and gastric histology after cholecystectomy with or without sphincteroplasty . sixteen patients who had undergone cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty , 14 cholecystectomized patients and ten control patients were studied to evaluate whether differences existed in duodenogastric reflux and whether these were related to morphological damage of the gastric mucosa . duodenogastric bile reflux during fasting was evaluated by measuring the concentration of total bile acids ( by an enzymatic method ) and single bile acids in the gastric juice by high performance liquid chromatography . the damage was evaluated histologically by systematic endoscopic biopsy of the antrum and body of the stomach . there was a statistically significant difference in fasting bile reflux between the three groups ( kruskal-wallis test , p less than 0.001 ) , and the group that underwent cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty had a significantly higher median value than the cholecystectomized group ( p less than 0.05 ) and the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the distribution of chronic antral atrophic and superficial gastritis was different in the three groups ( chi 2 test , p less than 0.005 ) . chronic atrophic gastritis was associated with cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty ( p less than 0.01 ) , while chronic superficial gastritis was more frequent in cholecystectomized patients . these results suggest that there may be more duodenogastric reflux after cholecystectomy plus sphincteroplasty than after cholecystectomy alone , and that there may be a correlation between the amount of duodenogastric reflux and the severity of mucosal damage . 
success of a program of routine prenatal screening for hepatitis b surface antigen : the first 2 years . prenatal screening for hepatitis b surface antigen ( hbsag ) restricted to women with defined risk factors for chronic hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection fails to identify many carriers . a centralized program of routine hbsag screening for all pregnant women in alberta was introduced in 1985 . we collected and analysed data for the first 2 years of the program in edmonton to determine the frequency of risk factors for hbsag positivity , the proportion of multiparous hbsag-positive women not identified in previous pregnancies , the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of providing immunoprophylaxis to infants at risk of hbv infection and the degree of success in inducing adequate protection . a total of 149 women ( 158 pregnancies ) were found to be hbsag positive . risk factors were readily ascertainable for 85 % of the women ; the remaining 15 % would not have been identified through risk-selective screening . the most common risk factors were oriental ethnic origin , history of hepatitis , jaundice or multiple transfusions of blood or blood products , and occupational exposure to blood . although 86 % of the multiparous hbsag-positive women had risk factors , only 7 % had been identified in previous pregnancies . the alberta program appears to be cost-effective . we conclude that only routine prenatal screening will identify all infants at risk of perinatal hbv infection and that a comprehensive public health program involving central laboratories , private physicians and public health staff can be highly effective and efficient in protecting infants against hepatitis b. 
amyloidosis associated bleeding diatheses in the surgical patient . the coagulopathies associated with amyloidosis have not been widely appreciated . we encountered a patient with amyloidosis and mildly abnormal coagulation studies who presented for an emergency laparotomy for acute bowel obstruction . upon gentle manipulation of the bowel , an unexpected bleeding diathesis was manifested by the formation of several large haematomas resulting in a large amount of blood loss ( approximately 800 ml ) . numerous defects of platelet function and coagulation have been associated with amyloidosis , including abnormal platelet aggregation , increased vascular fragility , factor ix and x deficiencies , decreased levels of alpha-2-plasmin inhibitor , and increased levels of plasminogen . intraoperative therapy for our patient included the rapid administration of four units of fresh frozen plasma and ten units of platelet concentrate . a review of the pathology and therapeutic modalities for this potentially life-threatening complication is presented . 
the indian experience with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis . a study of 58 consecutive indian infants operated for congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis revealed an accentuated male predominance in the incidence of the disease and far less preoperative hemetemesis as compared to that in their western counterparts . ' pyloric tumor ' was palpable in 89 % of cases . only 34.5 % of these infants were first born . postoperative vomiting occurred in 13.8 % of patients and wound sepsis was not encountered . air contrast radiography confirmed the diagnosis in clinically doubtful cases . 
edrophonium provocative test in noncardiac chest pain . evaluation of testing techniques . edrophonium chloride is used frequently as a provocative agent in the assessment of noncardiac chest pain ( nccp ) . however , the optimum dose and most appropriate method of interpreting test results is controversial . we studied 150 consecutive nccp patients and 50 age-matched controls who alternately received either 80 micrograms/kg or 10 mg intravenous bolus doses of edrophonium preceded by saline placebo injections . distal esophageal pressures were measured before and after drug injection in response to ten 5-cc wet swallows . following 10 mg of edrophonium , 33 % of patients and 4 % of controls reported chest pain , while 29 % of patients and no controls receiving the 80 micrograms/kg dose complained of chest pain . amplitude changes after either dose were not significantly different for all comparisons , but the duration of response did distinguish the two doses in patients with chest pain . a significantly greater ( p = 0.01 ) increase in distal contraction duration occurred after 10 mg ( 74 + / - 12 % ; + / - se ) compared to 80 micrograms/kg dose ( 43 + / - 6 % ) . however , individual responses to the two doses overlapped considerably . if a positive test is redefined to include both chest pain and manometric changes that are significantly different from controls , the positivity rate changes drastically ; 33 % to 9 % in the 10-mg group and 30 % to 3 % in the 80-micrograms/kg group . side effects were similar between doses , but there was a significant ( p = 0.02 ) linear relationship between intensity of side effects and the edrophonium dose per kilogram of body weight . 
pyloric deformation from peptic disease . radiographic evidence for incompetence rather than obstruction . we have used double-contrast radiographic techniques to clarify what changes in the configuration and movements of the gastroduodenal junction result when peptic lesions involve the distal gastric segment between the proximal ( ppl ) and the distal pyloric muscle loop ( dpl ) . among 50 cases of pyloric ulceration diagnosed during a four-year study period , 18 cases fulfilled all study criteria . ulcers maintained a consistent location with regard to the muscular structures of the pylorus , and by affecting these structures , led to many strange deformations of the gastric outlet including permanent pseudodiverticula and reversal of pyloric angulation . the most common site for peptic lesions in the pyloric segment was the protuberance of the lesser curvature called the pyloric torus ; many torus lesions extended into and destroyed the dpl . this led to widening of the gastric outlet and radiographic evidence of increased duodenogastric reflux . pyloric closure was further impaired in this setting because the mucosa no longer prolapsed into the gastric outlet and did not occlude the pyloric lumen as it normally does . less common lesions involved the greater curvature and the ppl . in one patient , scarring of the ppl led to an antral web and gastric hyperperistalsis . this was the only patient who required operation for chronic gastric outlet obstruction . one-third of the 18 patients had reflux esophagitis in addition to peptic pyloric disease . in most patients without additional ulcerogenic risk factors , treatment with antisecretory agents led to the healing of ulcer craters . we conclude that the morphologic and functional changes of the gastric outlet caused by peptic lesions depend , in part , on the effect the ulcer has on the underlying pyloric musculature . 
antimony and glass ph electrodes can be used interchangeably in 24-hour studies of gastric acidity . antimony and glass ph electrodes show almost identical experimental errors in continuously measuring buffer solutions at constant temperature over 24 hr . these errors are lower than the nominal quantization error of the instruments and are not properly described by the 24-hr drift determination . the addition of food particles to the solutions can induce severe reading artifacts . the longer response time reported in vitro of antimony electrodes when moving from ph 1 to ph 7 ( 3.4 sec vs 0.8 sec with glass electrodes ) is irrelevant during in vivo ph-metry studies , because we found that the greatest absolute difference between raw fast acquired ( 4-6 sec ) consecutive ph readings of two commonly used devices was 0.7 ph units in circadian profiles obtained from 413 subjects with various clinical conditions . in our in vivo studies , gastric acidity was monitored continuously with two side-by-side minielectrodes , which were variously combined ( antimony-glass , a-g ; antimony-antimony a1-a2 ; glass-glass , g1-g2 ) and applied on groups of 27 subjects matched for clinical condition . the 24-hr ph means and the 24-hr [ h + ] means calculated from the acidity profiles obtained with the three electrode combinations , lie on the identity line in each group . using the bland-altman technique for assessing measurement agreement , the differences between the 24-hr ph means and the 24-hr [ h + ] means obtained with the three combined systems are similar ( p = .903 and p = 0.824 , respectively ) and their 95 % confidence limits are comprised within the range ( + / - ) of the reading error of the measuring systems ( namely , + / - 0.3 ph units and + / - 12 mmol/liter in terms of [ h + ] ) . 
cigarette smoking , gastric acidity and peptic ulceration . what are the relationships ? the influence of cigarette smoking on intragastric acidity was assessed in duodenal ulcer patients in symptomatic remission and in healthy volunteers in a retrospective study . continuous 24-hr ph recordings in 150 nonsmokers and 174 smokers receiving placebo treatment were compared . daytime intragastric acidity was higher in smokers with a median ph ( interquartile range ) of 1.56 ( 1.34-1 .80 ) than in nonsmokers , who had a median ph of 1.70 ( 1.45-1 .97 ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . there was no difference in 24-hr and nighttime median ph between the two groups . the small difference in daytime intragastric acidity in smokers and nonsmokers is unlikely to account for the increased prevalence of peptic ulcer disease in smokers . the analysis of smoking status in duodenal ulcer patients and healthy controls and males and females supports the general trend towards higher daytime acidity in smokers . again , no differences in ph during the 24-hr or night period were found between the groups . the epidemiological and clinical correlation between smoking and duodenal ulcer disease is not adequately explained by increased intragastric acidity . 
endoscopic comparison of cimetidine and sucralfate for prevention of naproxen-induced acute gastroduodenal injury . effect of scoring method . nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced gastroduodenal mucosal damage observed endoscopically is usually categorized as hemorrhages , erosions , or ulcerations . we undertook this study to determine whether the injury produced by a commonly prescribed nsaid , naproxen , could be reduced by cotherapy with sucralfate or cimetidine and to determine how dependent the differences in the degree of protection against mucosal injury measured were on the scoring system used . four groups of 20 healthy volunteers with endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosa received naproxen ( 500 mg twice a day ) plus cimetidine ( 300 mg four times a day or 400 mg twice a day ) , sucralfate ( 1 g four times a day ) , or placebo for seven days . after seven days of therapy , a second endoscopy was performed . separate scoring systems were used for the presence of hemorrhages , erosions , and a combination of both types of injury . there were significantly fewer mucosal hemorrhages present when naproxen and cimetidine were administered than when naproxen was administered with placebo or sucralfate ( placebo vs 300 mg cimetidine , p = 0.04 , and placebo vs 400 mg cimetidine , p = 0.006 , placebo vs sucralfate , p = 0.26 ) . both cimetidine dosages resulted in significantly fewer hemorrhages than were present following cotherapy of naproxen and sucralfate ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , there was no discernible difference in the mucosal injury between placebo and any drug or between any two active therapies when the injury was evaluated based on the presence of gastric erosions . 
primary peritoneal sarcoidosis . a 14-year-old male was admitted for the evaluation of tense exudative ascites . despite thorough evaluation , the diagnosis remained cryptic until peritoneoscopy revealed diffuse studding of the entire visualized peritoneum with multiple miliary nodules , and peritoneal biopsy demonstrated multiple noncaseating epithelioid granulomas . after other causes were excluded , a diagnosis of sarcoidosis was considered and confirmed with classic endobronchial findings at bronchoscopy . involvement of the peritoneum with sarcoidosis is rare and , to our knowledge , only one other case describes this as the initial manifestation of this disease . 
esophageal adenocarcinoma in a patient with surgically treated achalasia . although squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus occurs with increased incidence in primary achalasia , esophageal adenocarcinoma has been considered rare in this condition . we report a patient with long-standing achalasia in whom adenocarcinoma of the esophagus occurred many years after heller esophagomyotomy , presumably related to barrett 's esophagus complicating gastro-esophageal reflux disease . 
development of acute myelocytic leukemia in patients with crohn 's disease . in our hospital within one year two patients with crohn 's disease were seen who developed an acute myelocytic leukemia . a review of the literature reveals eight previously reported patients with both crohn 's disease and leukemia . six of the reported 10 patients have had acute myelocytic leukemia and , interestingly , three of them , including our two patients , have shown monocytic differentiation ( fab type m4 ) . it has been suggested that the relative risk of leukemia , especially acute myelocytic leukemia , is increased in patients suffering from ulcerative colitis . more data of patients with crohn 's disease and acute leukemia are needed to evaluate the possible association between these diseases . 
closure of refractory perineal crohn 's lesion . integration of hyperbaric oxygen into case management . a case is reported in which a comprehensive program of hyperbaric oxygen ( hbo ) , surgical debridement and reconstruction , and continuing medical management resulted in complete and sustained closure of an extensive perineal crohn 's lesion refractory to conventional medical and surgical management . it is emphasized that in this case healing occurred in the setting of previous removal of all diseased intestinal tissue and only with the combined use of all three treatment modalities . hbo may be a useful adjunct in the therapy of large nonhealing perineal lesions post-proctocolectomy in patients who are unresponsive to metronidazole or to immunosuppressant therapy or who experience limiting side effects from continued medical therapy . 
epstein-barr virus associated oesophageal ulcers in aids . epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) associated ulceration has not previously been included in the differential diagnosis of oesophageal ulcers in aids . we report five cases of oesophageal ulceration in homosexual men with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection in whom this was considered to be the most likely cause . dna in situ hybridisation studies showed ebv in biopsy material from three of four patients with oesophageal ulcers and in none of three controls . of other viruses studied , only human papillomavirus was present , and this was found in both patients and control subjects . these findings support the hypothesis that ebv is an aetiological factor in some cases of aids-associated oesophageal ulceration . 
relation of helicobacter pylori to the human gastric mucosa in chronic gastritis of the antrum . the spatial relations between bacteria and the affected tissues can indicate pathogenic mechanisms . this study was undertaken to define the spatial relation of helicobacter pylori to the human gastric mucosa . antibodies against gastric mucus and ruthenium red were used to stabilise the glycoprotein structure of the mucus and glycocalyces in antral biopsy specimens from eight patients infected with h pylori . the location of organisms and ultrastructural features were assessed using systematic scanning and transmission electron microscopy : 92 ( 2 ) % ( mean ( se ] of h pylori were in the pit mucus , and 7 ( 3 ) % were in the surface mucus ; 60 ( 12 ) % of h pylori were close to epithelial cells , with only 5 ( 2 ) % located near the epithelial intercellular junctions . fine filamentous strands extended between organisms and nearby epithelial cells , with few organisms in membrane to membrane contact . h pylori were not observed between , beneath , or within cells of the gastric mucosa . the preferred location of h pylori in the gastric antrum is within the pit mucus close to the epithelial cell surface , with no evidence that they have a direct toxic effect on the mucosa . 
paf-acether synthesis by helicobacter pylori . clinical studies suggest that helicobacter pylori may play a role in the pathogenesis of gastroduodenal ulcers in man but direct evidence of mucosal injury by this microorganism is still lacking . paf-acether ( paf ) causes a number of disorders including ischaemic bowel necrosis and gastroduodenal ulceration . since paf is produced by escherichia coli , we investigated whether it could be synthesised by h pylori . five h pylori isolates were collected from antral biopsy specimens from patients with gastritis and duodenal ulcer and cultured with selective antibiotics . colonies obtained from both blood agar and brucella broth medium were used . paf was determined by platelet aggregation assay after ethanolic extraction and subsequent purification by high performance liquid chromatography . paf was detected in h pylori in blood agar plates ( 680 ( 390 ) pg paf/1 x 10 ( 6 ) organisms ) but not in bacteria cultured on brucella broth medium . supplementation of the latter medium with lyso paf and acetyl-coa , two paf precursors present in high amounts in the mammalian intestine , induced paf production in three of five isolates . the platelet aggregating material extracted from h pylori exhibited biological and physiochemical characteristics identical to those of paf released from eukaryotic cells . these findings suggest that h pylori may add to the local production of paf in inflamed gastric mucosa . 
cathepsins d and e in normal , metaplastic , dysplastic , and carcinomatous gastric tissue : an immunohistochemical study . immunohistochemical distributions of cathepsins d and e were determined in normal mucosa , metaplastic , dysplastic , and cancerous lesions of the human stomach . cathepsins d and e were localised in the foveolar epithelium and parietal cells of the normal gastric mucosa , but their intracytoplasmic distributions were different - cathepsin e distribution was even and diffuse in the cytoplasm while cathepsin d was found in coarse intracytoplasmic granules . chronic inflammation and ulcer did not influence the distribution of these enzymes . no positive staining was obtained in the incomplete type of intestinal metaplasia , dysplasia , and well differentiated adenocarcinoma . tumour cells of signet ring cell carcinoma and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma cells , however , gave strong and diffuse stainings for cathepsins d and e in the cytoplasm . the results suggest that the distribution of cathepsins d and e is related to each specialised function of the foveolar epithelium and the parietal cells , and that their disappearance is associated with development of well differentiated adenocarcinoma from intestinal metaplasia . 
modulation of fluid absorption and the secretory response of rat jejunum to cholera toxin by dietary fat . to study the effects of dietary fat on jejunal water and ion absorption and on cholera toxin-induced secretion , 3 week old sprague dawley rats were fed isocaloric diets . forty per cent of the total calories were given as fat , as butter ( high saturated fat ) , olive oil ( high monounsaturated fat ) , or corn oil ( high polyunsaturated fat ) , with one group on low fat ( 10 % of calories ) standard laboratory diet as controls . during in vivo jejunal perfusion studies we found that ( i ) a polyunsaturated fat ( corn oil ) supplemented diet improves jejunal absorption of water and electrolytes and these changes are independent of the observed concentrations of luminal prostaglandins ; ( ii ) high dietary fat appreciably reduced the secretory response to cholera toxin , probably without fundamentally changing the mechanism by which cholera toxin induces secretion . we conclude that dietary fat composition altered the permeability and transport characteristics of the small intestine . this observation might have relevance to some human diarrhoeal disorders . 
crohn 's disease in the city of derby , 1951-85 . an epidemiological survey of crohn 's disease in the city of derby showed that the incidence of the condition increased from 0.7 / 10 ( 5 ) per year between 1951 and 1955 to 6.67 / 10 ( 5 ) per year between 1981 and 1985 but seemed to reach a plateau between 1976 and 1985 . large bowel crohn 's disease was more common in patients presenting aged 60-79 years than in those aged 20-39 years . the increase in incidence was not solely due to the detection of milder disease . there was no evidence that the asian ( indian subcontinent ) population of derby was resistant to the development of crohn 's disease . 
microspectrophotometric dna analysis in ulcerative colitis with special reference to its application in diagnosis of carcinoma and dysplasia . the deoxyribonucleic ( dna ) content was measured by microspectrophotometry in 100 specimens from 60 patients with ulcerative colitis , including six patients in whom the colitis was associated with carcinoma . some 23 of 30 ( 77 % ) specimens of dysplastic tissue showed aneuploidy or polyploidy , whereas 50 of 53 ( 94 % ) specimens of non-dysplastic tissue showed diploidy . the difference was statistically significant ( p less than 0.001 ) . polyploidy was often observed in non-dysplastic mucosa from patients who had carcinoma or dysplasia . in the non-dysplastic patients all samples of inflamed tissue showed diploidy . some 10 % of samples without inflammation , however , also showed polyploidy . a good correlation was found between the frequency of polyploid cells and the grade of dysplasia . microspectrophotometric measurement of dna content proved useful in the assessment and diagnosis of dysplasia in ulcerative colitis and could be considered for screening high risk patients . 
disposition of 5-aminosalicylic acid by olsalazine and three mesalazine preparations in patients with ulcerative colitis : comparison of intraluminal colonic concentrations , serum values , and urinary excretion . to compare the disposition of 5-aminosalicylic acid ( 5-asa ) and its acetylated metabolite during treatment with olsalazine and mesalazine , 14 patients with inactive ulcerative colitis were randomly assigned to olsalazine ( 1 g twice daily ) and the mesalazines , asacol ( 800 + 400 + 800 mg daily ) , pentasa ( 750 + 500 + 750 mg daily ) , and salofalk ( 750 + 500 + 750 mg daily ) in a crossover design trial so that all received each drug for seven days . intraluminal colonic concentrations of 5-asa were estimated after five days by the method of equilibrium in vivo dialysis of faeces . a predose serum sample and a 24 hour urine collection were obtained on day seven . the 5-asa and acetyl-5-aminosalicylic acid ( ac-5-asa ) values were determined by high performance liquid chromatography . olsalazine almost doubled the colonic concentrations ( mean 23.7 ( sem ) ( 1.9 ) mmol/l ) of its therapeutically active ingredient ( 5-asa ) compared with equimolar doses of pentasa ( 12.6 ( 2.2 ) mmol/l ; p less than 0.0003 ) and salofalk ( 15.0 ( 2.0 ) mmol/l ; p less than 0.003 ) . at the same time , olsalazine treatment was associated with lower serum concentrations and urinary excretions ( p less than 0.05 ) of 5-asa and ac-5-asa compared with the mesalazine preparations . the low systemic load of 5-asa provided by olsalazine reduces the potential risk of nephrotoxicity during long term treatment . 
role of upper gastrointestinal investigations in a screening study for colorectal neoplasia . should patients with positive faecal occult blood screening tests who are free of colorectal neoplasia undergo upper gastrointestinal investigation ? altogether 16,985 faecal occult blood tests were completed in a group of 18,818 asymptomatic patients ( 45-75 years ) offered screening at two yearly intervals . a total of 447 ( 2.6 % ) were positive and underwent large bowel investigations . no neoplastic disease was identified in 283 ( 63 % ) of them . fourteen ( 5 % ) also underwent gastroscopy for upper gastrointestinal symptoms , benign conditions were identified in five and a gastric carcinoma in one . no further investigations were instituted in the remaining 269 subjects who have now been followed up for a median period of 5 years ( 2-8 years ) . five have been referred for benign upper gastrointestinal conditions , but none for upper gastrointestinal malignancy . thirty one subjects have died - one from gastric cancer ( a patient who had undergone a previous partial gastrectomy for a duodenal ulcer and who had persistent upper gastrointestinal symptoms ) . the remaining deaths were unrelated to the upper gastrointestinal tract . nineteen people who have left the trial area have been monitored for the development of malignant disease ; none have presented with upper gastrointestinal malignancy . these data support the view that upper gastrointestinal investigations need not be performed routinely in this group of subjects , but may be reserved for those with relevant symptoms . 
incidence of large oesophageal varices in patients with cirrhosis : application to prophylaxis of first bleeding . because several studies have suggested that beta blockers are effective in the prophylaxis of first variceal bleeding in cirrhosis , screening for oesophageal varices might be appropriate . we prospectively studied 84 cirrhotic patients without obvious evidence of large oesophageal varices and previous bleeding during a mean follow up of 16 months . at entry to the study 41 patients had no oesophageal varices and in 43 these were grade 1 . the subsequent percentages of patients without large oesophageal varices were 74 % at one year and 52 % at two years . univariate analysis showed that a longer duration of cirrhosis ( p less than 0.05 ) and grade 1 oesophageal varices at entry ( p less than 0.001 ) were predictive factors for the occurrence of large oesophageal varices , whereas , multivariate analysis showed that the initial size of the oesophageal varices ( p less than 0.001 ) , a high initial child-pugh score , and a smaller improvement in child-pugh score during the study were independent risk factors . among patients with grades 0 and 1 oesophageal varices at the start of the study the proportions with large oesophageal varices at two years were 31 % and 70 % respectively . we have calculated that , accepting a maximum risk of first bleeding of 10 % without prophylactic treatment , a patient without oesophageal varices should be screened endoscopically every other year , while a patient with grade 1 disease should benefit from one annual upper gastrointestinal endoscopy . 
lipid peroxidation and hepatic antioxidants in alcoholic liver disease . the generation of hepatic liver peroxidation by free radicals has been proposed as a mechanism for ethanol induced hepatotoxicity . to investigate this hypothesis , lipid extracts from hepatic needle biopsy specimens from alcoholic subjects were examined for evidence of lipid peroxidation by measuring total conjugated dienes by derivative spectroscopy and , after hydrolysis of hepatic lipid extract and reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography , the molar ratio between a diene-conjugated linoleic acid isomer ( 18:2 ( 9,11 ) ) and the parent linoleic acid isomer ( 18:2 ( 9,12 ) ) . changes were related to hepatic histology , iron deposition , glutathione and vitamin e values . derivative spectroscopy minima suggestive of diene conjugation were identified at 233 and 242 nm and correlated weakly , suggesting these two minima may represent different classes of lipid dienes . there was a weak relation with inflammatory histological changes in the biopsy specimen but no correlation with hepatic iron grade , glutathione , or vitamin e lipid ratio . the proportion of 18:2 ( 9,11 ) linoleic acid in hepatic lipids correlated significantly with inflammatory histological features and inversely with hepatic glutathione . furthermore , hepatic glutathione was lower in biopsy specimens with greater iron staining . the ratio of vitamin e to lipid was not related to histological group , inflammation , or iron grade . these findings suggest that excess alcohol consumption leads to hepatic inflammation and lipid peroxidation . 
monitoring enzyme replacement treatment in exocrine pancreatic insufficiency using the cholesteryl octanoate breath test . the cholesteryl-14c-octanoate breath test was used to monitor the intraluminal enzymatic activity of pancreatin preparations in six patients with severe pancreatic insufficiency . conventional enzyme replacement , with cimetidine as an adjunct , was compared to supplementation with enteric coated microspheres . in healthy control subjects , 14co2 excretion rose rapidly and peaked at 90-120 minutes ; mean ( sd ) cumulative recovery at four hours was 51 ( 8 ) % . in patients with pancreatic insufficiency on no treatment mean ( sd ) cumulative recovery was only 6 ( 4 ) % . after pancreatin , with previous administration of cimetidine , it increased to 27 ( 11 ) % with a time course resembling that in controls . with 2 mm enteric coated microspheres , 14co2 excretion did not rise significantly before 120 minutes and cumulative recovery after four hours was 15 ( 11 ) % . in a control study , 2 mm radio-opaque microspheres did not empty from the stomach until two hours after ingestion . the results suggest that the cholesteryl octanoate breath test can be successfully used to monitor the intraluminal enzymatic activity after treatment with different forms of enzyme replacement in pancreatic insufficiency . in contrast to treatment with conventional pancreatin and cimetidine as an adjunct , 2 mm enteric coated microspheres did not show in vivo enzymatic activity until two hours after administration . 
stomal adenocarcinoma in crohn 's disease . malignant change occurring at the site of a stoma in two patients with proved crohn 's disease is described . patients with ulcerative colitis have an increased risk of colonic malignancy and crohn 's disease is also associated with both small and large bowel carcinoma . most previous reports of stomal carcinoma have been associated with ulcerative colitis although crohn 's disease seems to carry a greater risk of associated small bowel carcinomas . this is the first report of stomal carcinoma complicating crohn 's disease . epithelial dysplasia is associated with gastrointestinal carcinomas in both ulcerative colitis and crohn 's disease and a dysplasia-carcinoma sequence has been suggested as the origin of these tumours . in both our patients with stomal adenocarcinoma , dysplasia was identified in adjacent tissues , which suggests a similar mechanism . malignant change should be suspected if epithelial dysplasia is discovered in a biopsy specimen from the mucosa of an ileostomy in crohn 's disease , and this risk is increased if the dysplasia is of a high grade . 
squamous carcinoma in the liver . squamous carcinoma of the liver has only rarely been reported . we present a case which highlights not only the difficulties in diagnosis but also how it can closely mimic sclerosing cholangitis . 
metabolic studies of radioiodinated serum amyloid p component in normal subjects and patients with systemic amyloidosis . 125i-serum amyloid p component ( sap ) , injected intravenously into 10 normal subjects , remained predominantly intravascular with mean ( sd ) t1/2 ( half time ) in plasma of 24.5 ( 5.9 ) h. the fractional catabolic rate of 68 ( 19 ) % of the plasma pool per day was more rapid than other reported human plasma proteins . all radioactivity was excreted in the urine by 14 d. in 16 patients with monoclonal gammopathy or chronic inflammatory diseases , but without amyloidosis , 125i-sap metabolism was normal . however , among 45 patients with biopsy-proven systemic amyloidosis ( 25 , amyloid a type ; 20 , amyloid l type ) , 125i-sap was cleared from the plasma more rapidly , accumulated in the amyloid deposits , and persisted there . the t1/2 in amyloid , measured directly with 131i-sap , was 24 d. repeat studies after 6-18 mo were notably consistent in normals but changed significantly in amyloid patients , generally correlating with clinical signs of disease progression . measurements of 125i-sap turnover may thus be of value for diagnosis and monitoring of amyloidosis . analysis of sap metabolism in amyloidosis suggests that plasma sap is in dynamic equilibrium with a very large amyloid pool , and in two autopsies the total mass of sap in the amyloid deposits was 2,100 and 21,000 mg , respectively . 
carbohydrate malabsorption . its measurement and its contribution to diarrhea . the major purpose of this research was to gain insight into the effect of carbohydrate malabsorption on fecal water output . to do this we measured daily fecal output of total carbohydrate , reducing sugars , and organic acids ( a product of bacterial fermentation ) . normal subjects were studied in their native state and when diarrhea was induced by mechanisms that did and did not involve carbohydrate malabsorption . patients with malabsorption syndrome were also studied . we concluded that : ( a ) excretion of carbohydrate and its breakdown products can be expressed as a single number by converting organic acids to their monosaccharide equivalents . ( b ) diarrhea per se causes only a trivial increase in fecal carbohydrate excretion . ( c ) the molar output of osmotic moieties in feces due to unabsorbed carbohydrate can be determined by adding fecal reducing sugars to organic acids and their obligated cations . this expression parallels almost exactly the effect of increasing doses of lactulose ( a nonabsorbable sugar ) on fecal water output ; one excreted millimole obligates 3.5 g of stool water . this relationship can be used to predict the effect of carbohydrate malabsorption on stool water output in patients with diarrhea . ( d ) 12 of 19 patients with malabsorption syndrome due to various diseases had excessive fecal excretion of carbohydrate and its breakdown products ; of the diseases that cause malabsorption syndrome , combined small and large bowel resection is most likely to result in excessive fecal excretion of carbohydrate and monosaccharide equivalents . in 6 of these 19 patients carbohydrate malabsorption appeared to be the major cause of diarrhea . 
prevention of a false diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis by synovial lymphocyte responses . three cases are reported in which a diagnosis of sexually acquired reactive arthritis might have been made erroneously from the history , but the enteric origin of the reactive arthritis was evident from synovial lymphocyte responses . the importance of making the correct diagnosis and the avoidance of unwarranted spousal dysharmony is stressed . 
septic streptococcus milleri spondylodiscitis . we describe 2 patients presenting lumbar spondylitis due to streptococcus milleri . in both cases origin was related to preexistent intestinal pathology . surgical drainage of a collection of pus was necessary in one case . longterm antibiotic therapy led to full recovery . despite confused nomenclature streptococcus milleri must be considered a serious pathogen mainly associated with purulent infection with osteoarticular affinity . 
