pulmonary metastases from ameloblastoma of the mandible treated with cisplatin , adriamycin , and cyclophosphamide . a case of delayed pulmonary metastases from an ameloblastoma of the mandible , which occurred 20 years after surgical resection of the primary tumor but with no recurrence at the primary site , is reported . combination chemotherapy using cisplatin , adriamycin , and cyclophosphamide has produced a very good clinical and radiologically documented response in this case . 
treatment of the retained permanent molar . the effect of five different treatments for retained permanent molars was evaluated in 59 patients to develop a rational guideline for adequate therapy . the results showed that a prosthetic buildup is the proper treatment if retention develops after the growth spurt , because in these cases the extent of infraocclusion is slight and relatively stable . if retention develops before the growth spurt , immediate removal of the retained molar followed by orthodontic treatment is the way to maximal success . when retention develops during the growth spurt , the tooth affected has to be observed at 6-month intervals . in such a case , no active treatment is indicated if the neighboring teeth show no tilting and the extent of infraocclusion is minor and stable . in all other cases , the teeth affected have to be removed , followed by orthodontic closure of the edentulous space . finally , all patients must be screened regularly , because in this investigation , new cases of retention were observed relatively frequently . 
morbidity associated with incompletely erupted third molars in the line of mandibular fractures . a retrospective analysis of 105 mandibular fractures associated with incompletely erupted third molars was undertaken . it was found that there was no difference in the rates of complication if the teeth were retained or extracted , or if an open or closed reduction was performed . the combination of tooth retention with open reduction , however , shows a trend toward being the treatment most prone to postoperative complications . 
invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible presenting as a chronic osteomyelitis : report of a case . a case of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible initially thought to be chronic osteomyelitis is reviewed . discussion of the origin of the tumor and several imaging techniques used for differentiating maxillofacial infection from neoplasm are discussed . the difficulty of diagnosis of chronic painful maxillofacial lesions illustrates the need for a high degree of suspicion concerning any inflammatory lesion not responding to appropriate therapy . accurate diagnosis and treatment of such lesions most often necessitates microscopic examination . 
assessment of proplast-teflon disc replacements [ published erratum appears in j oral maxillofac surg 1991 feb ; 49 ( 2 ) :220 ] this retrospective study reports the findings in the follow-up of 31 temporomandibular joints in which proplast-teflon ( vitek inc , houston , tx ) replacements were used . among the problems noted were pain , malocclusion , restricted opening , and degenerative changes in the condyle and fossa . 
factors associated with soft - and hard-tissue compromise of endosseous implants . this prospective analysis identifies factors associated with endosseous implant removal as well as factors associated with implant morbidity resulting in nonscheduled patient visits . treatment of the latter conditions is discussed . the most important factors identified for implant success were surgery without compromise in technique , placing implants into sound bone , avoiding thin bone or implant dehiscence at the time of implant placement , avoiding premature implant exposure during the healing period , establishing a balanced restoration , and insuring appropriate follow-up hygiene care . in the posterior mandible , the presence of keratinized gingiva was strongly correlated with optimal soft - and hard-tissue health . 
detection of human papillomavirus-genomic dna in oral epithelial dysplasias , oral smokeless tobacco-associated leukoplakias , and epithelial malignancies . human papillomavirus ( hpv ) is an infectious agent that is increasingly associated with mucosal cancers , in particular cancer of the cervix . the present investigation was undertaken in an attempt to determine whether hpv could be easily detected in biopsies of oral tissues , specifically oral squamous cell carcinomas , oral epithelial dysplasias , smokeless tobacco keratoses , verrucous hyperplasia , and verrucous carcinoma . in situ dna hybridization methods were used to isolate specific hpv genomes . among 100 instances of benign leukoplakia , only 4 % of non-tobacco-related and 10 % of smokeless tobacco-related lesions harbored viral sequences . we were able to detect viral sequences in dysplastic lesions 3 % of the time . alternatively , 17 % and 20 % of the verrucous hyperplasias and verrucous carcinomas were positive for viral nucleic acids . six percent of the squamous cell carcinomas harbored hpv . on the basis of these findings , it is concluded that hpv of known genotype can be identified in oral premalignant and malignant neoplasms . 
contemporary management of a potentially lethal fetal anomaly : a successful perinatal approach to epignathus . prenatal diagnosis of epignathus ( a teratoma originating in the oropharynx ) has been reported previously . however , in many of these cases the neonates succumbed to acute respiratory distress secondary to airway obstruction at the time of birth . we describe a case of antepartum diagnosis of epignathus using ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging as complementary techniques . the ability to accurately define the fetal anomaly permitted us to plan a unique strategy for peripartum management . after cesarean delivery of the infant from the uterus , the umbilical cord was not clamped and the fetoplacental circulation was left undisturbed . a tracheostomy was then performed , after which the umbilical cord was clamped and the infant was stabilized . several hours later , a debulking procedure was performed in the operating room to remove the tumor from its attachment to the bony palate . both mother and infant did well postoperatively . the ability to plan and perform a controlled tracheostomy while the infant remained oxygenated and ventilated proved to be lifesaving in this case . 
capillary hemangioma of the maxilla . a report of two cases in which angiography and embolization were used . this article presents two clinical cases of capillary hemangiomas of the maxilla . such lesions are rare , as demonstrated by the review of the literature included in this article . the presentation , differential diagnosis , histopathology , management , and follow-up for each case are discussed . our rationale for approaching these types of lesions , as well as our opinion that microembolization should be considered as a first line approach to treatment , is presented . 
dental extraction for patients on oral anticoagulant therapy . dental extraction in patients receiving long-term oral anticoagulant therapy is a controversial issue . continuation of anticoagulation exposes the patient to serious hemorrhage , whereas cessation of therapy increases the risk of thromboembolism . forty patients treated by coumarin underwent 63 tooth extractions , without a change in the therapeutic protocol of anticoagulation . the biologic adhesive beriplast was used successfully to achieve local hemostasis at the site of the surgical wound . apart from one patient who had mild oozing , there were no incidences of postsurgical hemorrhage . 
oral squamous cell carcinoma arising in a patient with long-standing lichen planus . a case report . the risk of malignant transformation of oral lichen planus remains a controversial point . many previous reports have been discounted on the basis of inadequate information or lack of histologic confirmation of lichen planus . we report a well-documented case of long-standing cutaneous and oral lichen planus in which squamous cell carcinoma of the dorsal portion of the tongue occurred . there is an apparent difference in the sites of oral carcinomas in patients with lichen planus compared with the general population . this suggests that lichen planus increases the risk of oral cancer in affected sites . 
premature alveolar bone loss in erdheim-chester disease . erdheim-chester disease is a rare histiocytosis also known as lipoid granulomatosis . oral findings have not been reported previously to our knowledge . this case report documents evidence of oral sequelae of erdheim-chester disease . a patient whose course was followed for 10 years at the national institutes of health had premature alveolar bone resorption . he underwent full-mouth extraction at age 29 years because of severe periodontitis . histopathologic evidence of erdheim-chester disease was demonstrated in the periodontal soft tissues . in the ensuring years , accelerated resorption of the residual ridges precluded the use of conventional dentures . we recommend early preventive dental management for patients with erdheim-chester disease . 
dental abnormalities associated with familial expansile osteolysis : a clinical and radiographic study . familial expansile osteolysis is a rare and possibly unique form of hereditary bone dysplasia with dental manifestations that has affected 42 members of a northern ireland family for five generations . twenty-seven family members , aged 3 to 60 years , were examined clinically and radiographically , and it was found that cervical and/or apical root resorption is an early manifestation of the dysplasia . of the 20 family members with skeletal manifestations of familial expansile osteolysis , 16 showed root resorption . root resorption may therefore be a good prognosticator for later bone involvement . 
differences between florid osseous dysplasia and chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis . florid osseous dysplasia ( fod ) is confused in the literature with chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis . two cases of each condition are presented to demonstrate the differences between them . in fod , there are multiple lobulated sclerotic masses in several quadrants of the jaws , usually in black females . in some cases , the sclerotic masses are exposed to the oral cavity , resulting in a secondary osteomyelitis . periapical cemental dysplasia is often found in association with fod . chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis is a primary inflammatory condition of the mandible . patients have cyclic episodes of unilateral pain and swelling . the affected region of the mandible exhibits a diffuse opacity with poorly defined borders . although women are affected more often than men , black persons are not particularly susceptible . 
contiguous enlarged dental follicles with histologic features resembling the who type of odontogenic fibroma defective odontogenesis and/or retarded eruption of teeth can be associated with histologic features akin to odontogenic fibroma in the dental follicles . unerupted mandibular premolar and molar teeth of a 24-year-old man were surgically exposed , yet the teeth failed to erupt . about a year and a half later , radiographs indicated further enlargement of the follicle of the premolar , and both teeth were subsequently surgically removed . histologically , the follicles were composed of mature collagenous tissue among which epithelial islands and numerous clusters of calcified bodies were present . indirect immunofluorescence showed positive staining for type i and type iii collagen , which exhibited a sparse distribution , but not for the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen . the hamartomatous nature of the lesions is discussed with emphasis on their histologic resemblance to the who type of odontogenic fibroma . 
hyaline ring granuloma : a distinct oral entity . hyaline ring granuloma ( hrg ) is a distinct oral entity . in this study , 64 cases from the literature are analyzed and two new cases are reported . the lesions could be classified by location as central hyaline ring granuloma ( 42 % ) and peripheral hyaline ring granuloma ( 53 % ) . radiographically , a radiolucent area irregularly outlined by well-formed trabeculae of bone was found in central hrg , and a poorly defined erosion at the crest of the alveolar ridge was often found in peripheral hrg . occasionally , the lesion occurred in the connective tissue wall of cysts ( 5 % ) . the etiology of this condition is controversial , but most lesions were in edentulous areas and most patients had a history of tooth extraction or other trauma . the majority of cases ( 83 % ) occurred in the mandible , usually posterior to the premolar . the mean age of patients at diagnosis was 43 years , and the male/female ratio was 1.9:1 . pain was not a symptom , although local discomfort , such as recurrent swelling and tenderness , was noted in many cases . hyaline rings with giant cell inclusions are the significant features for histopathologic diagnosis . hrg is treated by curettage or surgical excision , care being taken to remove the entire lesion . the removal of a peripheral hrg in an edentulous jaw should be followed by careful smoothing of the bone surface , since the lesion tends to infiltrate and is not well demarcated . recurrence , probably due to incomplete excision , is uncommon . 
a dentist 's dilemma : nonsurgical endodontic therapy or periapical surgery for teeth with apparent pulpal pathosis and an associated periapical radiolucent lesion . first presented is a brief review of nonsurgical versus surgical treatment of radicular cysts . this is followed by a consideration of the use of radiographs for differential diagnosis of periapical radiolucent lesions . some of the nonendodontic local and systemic lesions that can occur periapically are then presented . next examined are the fallibilities of pulp vitality testing methods . the need for histopathologic examination of periapical lesions is the subject of the next discussion . the dentist 's dilemma is then examined : should teeth with apparent pulpal pathosis and an associated periapical radiolucent lesion have routine surgical treatment including biopsy or should they be treated nonsurgically and have periodic follow-ups ? a possible resolution of this dilemma is the final consideration . 
a clarification on endodontic flare-ups [ comment ] in an article on endodontic flare-ups by robert j. matusow , our research and publications are discussed . since we found what we consider to be distortions and misinterpretations of our work , it was decided to clarify the apparent discrepancies found in matusow 's article . 
the radiologic morphology of asymptomatic temporomandibular joints . a high frequency of remodeling changes was demonstrated radiographically in a series of 200 female patients with asymptomatic temporomandibular joints . fewer than 10 % of joints were completely radiologically " normal " . generally , there was an increasing incidence of changes with increasing age and for edentulous patients , but these relationships were by no means direct or mutually exclusive . 
the radiologic morphology of painful temporomandibular joints . a high frequency of remodeling changes was demonstrated radiographically in a series of patients having pain in the temporomandibular joint region . radiologic morphologic differences between painful and asymptomatic temporomandibular joints were in frequency rather than type . caution should be taken not to overestimate the significance of radiologic abnormality in patients with pain in the temporomandibular joint region . 
a comparative study of temporomandibular symptoms following mandibular advancement by bilateral sagittal split osteotomies : rigid versus nonrigid fixation . rigid fixation to attach proximal and distal segments during bony healing of osteotomy sites has become increasingly popular . the effects of rigid fixation on the temporomandibular joints have been questioned . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of rigid fixation after bilateral sagittal split osteotomies on temporomandibular dysfunction symptoms . forty patients who had mandibular advancement surgery were evaluated for temporomandibular joint dysfunction . twenty had received rigid fixation , and twenty had received nonrigid fixation . it was determined that there was no statistically significant difference in temporomandibular signs or symptoms between patients who were treated with rigid internal fixation for bilateral sagittal split osteotomies for mandibular advancement and those patients who were treated with nonrigid wire fixation . 
a retrospective evaluation of 301 tmj proplast-teflon implants . a retrospective review of 301 meniscectomies with proplast-teflon implants was performed . factors such as interincisal opening , occlusion , joint sounds , joint degeneration , and patient satisfaction were examined . the overall surgical success rate was 88.7 % , with an average follow-up period of 33 months . although many patients demonstrated significant condylar degeneration at 1-year follow-up , such change did not necessarily result in symptomatology or joint dysfunction . only 10 % of implants resulted in removal . surgical and postoperative procedures are contrasted with those of other clinicians experiencing lower success rates . 
temporomandibular joint dysfunction and selected health parameters in the elderly . little research has focused on temporomandibular joint dysfunction ( tmjd ) in the elderly . the present study describes relationships between tmjd and selected health parameters in a population of 75 - to 94-year-old roman catholic sisters ( nuns ) . mental , physical , and oral assessments made on 117 sisters identified 26 with tmjd . among all sisters , tmjd was not associated with age , education , mental impairments , hand coordination , handgrip strength , mobility , or use of walking aids . in 75 - to 84-year-old sisters , tmjd was positively associated with self-reported arthritis ( p = 0.12 ) , edentulism ( p = 0.09 ) , and the presence of complete dentures ( p = 0.05 ) , and negatively associated with the number of teeth present ( p = 0.05 ) , especially the posterior teeth . these associations were weaker in 85 - to 94-year-old sisters . this study suggests that tmjd is associated with the presence of complete dentures and a low number of teeth , especially the posterior teeth . 
a dentofacial deformity associated with incontinentia pigmenti : report of a case . a case of ip in a 16-year-old girl has been presented . this patient manifested classic ectodermal and mesodermal anomalies . we present this case to illustrate a rare etiologic factor in the development of dentofacial deformities that can be treated in the conventional manner . 
more unusual pigmentations of the gingiva . three unusual types of oral pigmentation are presented . the first is a brown orange pigmentation caused by the habit of using the bark of juglans regia for teeth cleaning . the second is a bright yellow pigmentation associated with the habit of chewing the seeds of cola nitida . the third is a generalized mousy brown pigmentation related to the habit of chewing the leaves of catha edulis . the purpose of this article is to describe the nature of these pigmentations and to present their clinical and histologic features . 
adult linear immunoglobulin a disease manifesting as desquamative gingivitis . desquamative gingivitis is a manifestation of various dermatoses , particularly lichen planus and mucous membrane pemphigoid . a rare example of adult linear immunoglobulin a disease manifesting as desquamative gingivitis is presented . although the initial clinical features were typical of desquamative gingivitis , the persistence of ulceration after dental extractions was unusual , and the management of the oral lesions proved difficult . the clinical , immunopathologic , and therapeutic aspects of linear immunoglobulin a dermatoses are reviewed . 
interferon activation of latent natural killer cells and alteration in kinetics of target cell lysis : clinical implications for oral precancerous lesions . reduced natural killer cell activity was observed in patients with oral leukoplakia and submucous fibrosis compared with normal control subjects . however , the number of target binding lymphocytes was found to be normal in these precancers . treatment of effector cells with interferon-alpha resulted in highly elevated active killer cell activity , although no change was observed in target binding lymphocyte counts . this finding could imply that precytotoxic cells that are activated by interferon exist in peripheral blood or that direct recruitment of a new cell population takes place . in addition , altered target lysis kinetics was observed , with interferon-activated killer cells demonstrating a tremendous lytic activation that is completed so quickly that a statistical kinetic analysis could not be accurately done . because natural killer cell activity is an important effector system in immunosurveillance against tumors , its modulation with interferon may be an exciting clinical possibility in the control of malignant transformation or oral precancers . 
immunohistochemical study of oral lesions of lichen planus : diagnostic and pathophysiologic aspects . the immunophenotype of lymphoid cells in the epithelium and lamina propria of the oral mucosa were examined in patients with lichen planus , nondysplastic leukoplakia , leukoplakia with lichen planus , and other unrelated lesions . in all groups t lymphocytes were predominant ; however , the t4/t8 lymphocyte ratio was higher with lichen planus than with other groups . this may be of diagnostic value in the histologic evaluation of oral lesions not typical of lichen planus . finally , a higher percentage of langerhans cells were observed in lichen planus . an immunologic pathogenesis of lichen planus is proposed . 
progressive osseous destruction as a complication of hiv-periodontitis . a pathologic condition is described , characterized by rampant necrosis of gingival mucosa , periodontium , and related osseous structures associated with systemic infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . it is believed that this condition is an extension beyond the normal clinical course of hiv-periodontitis ( hiv-p ) and manifests itself in three progressive stages : ( 1 ) hiv-associated gingivitis , ( 2 ) hiv-p , and ( 3 ) an extension of hiv-p to osseous necrosis . two cases of osseous destruction attending hiv-p are reported , one of which led to initial diagnosis of hiv infection . they represent the final stage of disease progression with localized necrosis of gingiva , periodontium , and alveolar bone . 
tyrosine-rich crystalloids in a polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma . a polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma with tyrosine-rich crystalloid deposits is reported . the literature is reviewed , and diagnostic and histogenetic implications of this finding are discussed . 
periapical lesions of mandibular bone : difficulties in early diagnostics . it is often difficult to establish a correct diagnosis on the basis of initial clinical and roentgenologic symptoms in mandibular bone disease . in this paper these problems are discussed , and some suggestions are made to overcome them . the discussion is based on cases of osteogenic sarcoma , histiocytic lymphoma , and chronic osteomyelitis . the patients were a boy and two middle-aged women , all of them with primary clinical symptoms of pain and swelling , diffuse roentgenologic changes in mandibular bone , uncertain response to treatment , and an unusual progress of the disease . 
microleakage associated with retrofilling of the apical two thirds with amalgam . in this investigation the effect of increasing the thickness of amalgam retrofilling on its sealing ability was studied and compared with the sealing ability of the laterally condensed gutta-percha with a sealer . the apical two thirds of the canals of 118 upper central incisors , filled with laterally condensed gutta-percha , were sealed with amalgam . amalgam retrofills were also used to seal the apices of the roots of six teeth that had no other filling in their canals . the effectiveness of both techniques was determined by their ability to inhibit the penetration of methylene blue dye for the periods of 24 hours , 1 week , and 1 , 3 , and 6 months . at 24 hours both materials showed comparable sealing ability . however , the sealing ability of laterally condensed gutta-percha was significantly better than that of amalgam from the 1-week period until the end of the study . the depth of marginal penetration around both materials increased with time . the amount of the dye penetration increased acutely around amalgam , whereas its increase around gutta-percha was more uniform . at the end of the study , specimens retrofilled with amalgam exhibited total dye penetration that exceeded the full thickness of amalgam ( 6 mm ) and spread into the root canal space . on the other hand , the mean value for marginal penetration of the dye around the laterally condensed gutta-percha was 2.6 mm at the end of the study . the present investigation proved beyond doubt that the use of any thickness of retrograde amalgam to seal the apex , with no other filling within the canal , invites failure . 
fine-detail panoramic radiography by free-focus radiography . a clinical demonstration of diagnostic radiographs . previous comprehensive clinical studies have shown that free-focus radiography ( ffr ) may be used to improve image detail and diagnostic value in panoramic radiography of the teeth and jaws . this study demonstrated the clinical image quality in fine-detail panoramic ffr surveys relative to conventional surveys made by rotational panoramic or intraoral radiography . cases of particular diagnostic interest with respect to common dental disease and changes in the jaws were included . the radiographic area of diagnostic interest depicted in ffr surveys generally resembled that of conventional dental radiographic surveys with the use of intraoral films rather then those of conventional rotational panoramic surveys . 
the effects of tartar-control toothpaste on the oral soft tissues . ninety-two dental and dental hygiene students completed a double-blind , controlled clinical trial . the purpose of the trial was to evaluate the effects of toothpastes , in varying concentrations of flavor and tartar-control agents . four formulations of toothpastes were assessed : ( a ) control-low flavor with no tartar control ; ( b ) medium flavoring with medium tartar control ; ( c ) high flavoring with medium tartar control ; and ( d ) medium flavoring with no tartar control . soft tissue reactions were assessed objectively and independently by three examiners . subjective perceptions about each toothpaste were gathered by a structured , open-ended questionnaire . the " tartar control " toothpastes , b and c , resulted in statistically significant ( p less than 0.005 ) higher rates of mucosal reactions ( e.g. , ulceration , sloughing , erythema , migratory glossitis ) than the " non-tartar control " toothpastes a and d. when the oral mucosal reaction rates were adjusted for multiple clinical observations within each subject at the same point in time there was no statistically significant ( p greater than 0.05 ) difference between male ( 0.25 ) and female ( 0.28 ) subjects . in this study population , the order of preference was observed as toothpaste a greater than d greater than b greater than c. the major reasons for disfavor were burning sensation in toothpastes c ( 2.4 % ) and b ( 4 % ) . 
prevalence of shovel-shaped incisors in saudi arabian dental patients . the prevalence of maxillary incisor shoveling was studied radiographically in 990 saudi patients . according to the radiomorphologic characteristics , a new classification was developed and shovel teeth were categorized . the findings of this study showed 9 % shovel-shaped incisors ; among those , 4 % were central incisors and 5 % were lateral incisors . frequency of dens invaginatus occurrence with the shovel-shaped incisors was also investigated . eight percent of shovel-shaped incisors showed presence of dens invaginatus . prevalence was found to be 4 % in central shovel-shaped incisors , whereas that in lateral shovel-shaped incisors was 11 % . 
geometrical planning for the correction of orbital hypertelorism . orbital hypertelorism may be associated with a variety of deformities affecting several elements of the craniofacial skeleton . shortness of the central portion of the face represented by a wide , short nose and anterior open bite is frequently combined with the exaggerated interorbital distance . with the mobilization of the two halves of the face it is possible to approximate the orbits , simultaneously elongating the center of the face and normalizing the maxillary alveolar ridge . a technique is described to plan the operation geometrically in order to predict accurately the skeletal correction , the change of the inclination of the eye slant , and the modification of the axis of the teeth . 
one-stage closure of the entire primary palate . timing of the closure of the anterior palate and alveolus is a subject of debate . late repair of this defect is complicated by high fistula formation and subjects the patient to the problems of palate fistula for extended periods of time . we have utilized a single procedure performed when the child is 3 months of age that completely closes the anterior hard palate and alveolus along with the cleft lip . our series consisted of 61 consecutive patients with unilateral clefts of the primary and secondary palate . mucosal turnover flaps from the vomer along with lateral nasal mucosal flaps provide the nasal lining . a buccal sulcus flap with a veau flap completes the oral repair . ninety-five percent ( 58 of 61 ) of the patients had complete and stable closure of their anterior palate and alveolus after 1 year . the incidence of fistula formation in our series ( 3 of 61 ) is much lower than that reported with the utilization of other protocols . excellent exposure of the anterior palate and alveolar defect during lip repair , early restoration of anatomic relationships , establishment of a good nostril floor and sill , and very low fistula formation are among the benefits of this procedure . the increase in operative time is considered minimal in light of aforementioned advantages . 
congenital lateral cleft palate : a new anomaly ? a case of atypical cleft palate abnormality that had not been identified before in a 9-year-old girl is presented . the cleft was localized laterally and in an oblique position at the soft palate . the patient had cleft palate repair . finally , she had acceptable soft palate movements and speech . 
oral findings in hiv-infected patients attending a department of internal medicine : the contribution of intraoral examination towards the clinical management of hiv disease the occurrence of oral mucosal lesions was studied in 70 consecutive human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients , including 35 patients with aids , who had been admitted to a department of internal medicine . lesions of the oral mucosa were observed in 52 patients ( 74 per cent ) . oral candidiasis ( 50 per cent ) , hairy leukoplakia ( 14 per cent ) , periodontal disease ( 13 per cent ) , and oral kaposi 's sarcoma ( 4 per cent ) were the most common lesions . oral mucosal lesions suggestive of hiv infection were present in ten of 12 patients of unknown hiv status in whom pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was suspected . close cooperation between the medical and dental professions is recommended since accurate intraoral examination can make a valuable contribution towards the clinical management of hiv-infected patients and may influence the cdc classification of this disease . 
the surgical treatment of noma . noma is a gangrenous stomatitis affecting children from developing countries . it may leave dreadful mutilations around the mouth , with amputation of the lips , cheek , nose , lids , maxilla , palate , or mandibula . reconstruction should take into account the size of the defect , the presence of trismus or constriction of the mandible , the age of the child , and the child 's general condition . during the last 3 years , eight patients were treated at the unit of plastic and reconstructive surgery of the hopital cantonal universitaire . except in one case , tracheostomy was avoided , thanks to intranasal intubation by fibroscopy . these children , aged 2 to 9 years , underwent 31 general anesthesias and complex reconstructive procedures , including latissimus dorsi musculocutaneous pedunculated and free flaps , cranial flaps with galea , cranial bone and skin grafts , and retroauricular temporal skin flaps . all patients were able to return to africa with dramatic functional and cosmetic improvements . however , satisfactory mouth opening and mandibular function were not always obtained . 
pharynx : value of oblique projections for radiographic examination . the utility of oblique views for augmenting standard posteroanterior and lateral double-contrast radiography of the pharynx was examined . over an 8-month period , two oblique views were added to the standard posteroanterior and lateral views of the pharynx during routine upper gastrointestinal studies in 102 patients divided into two groups . group 1 consisted of 81 patients without suspected pharyngeal or esophageal disease who demonstrated what was considered to be normal anatomy on all radiographic views . group 2 consisted of 21 patients who were known or suspected to have pathologic abnormality of the pharynx . the members of this latter group each demonstrated various abnormal pharyngeal anatomy on the standard views . in just over half of these cases the oblique projection contributed significant information not obtained with conventional views . therefore , the authors conclude that oblique images are a beneficial addition to the diagnostic evaluation of patients highly suspected of having pharyngeal disease . 
immunogenicity and protective effect against oral colonization by streptococcus mutans of synthetic peptides of a streptococcal surface protein antigen . streptococcus mutans is known to be a major causative organism of human dental caries . a surface protein ag with a molecular mass of 190 kda of s. mutans ( pac ) is receiving attention as an anticaries vaccine . we have recently determined the complete nucleotide sequence of the gene for pac . in this study , four peptides were synthesized on the basis of amino acid sequence of pac . among these peptides , pac ( 301-319 ) corresponding to the alanine-rich repeating amino acid region was the most strongly bound by polyclonal murine anti-rpac antibodies . the peptide partially inhibited the binding of polyclonal anti-rpac antibodies to rpac . the peptide induced the proliferation of t cells from balb/c mice immunized with rpac . subcutaneous immunization with pac ( 301-319 ) or rpac emulsified in cfa/ifa induced high serum igg responses to rpac and pac ( 301-319 ) . in addition , serum igg responses to a surface protein ag with a molecular mass of 210 kda of streptococcus sobrinus were elicited in mice immunized by s.c. injection with pac ( 301-319 ) or rpac . intranasal immunization with pac ( 301-319 ) coupled to cholera toxin b subunit ( ctb ) or with rpac and free ctb induced high serum igg responses to rpac . the immunization with pac ( 301-319 ) coupled to ctb or rpac and free ctb suppressed the colonization of murine teeth by s. mutans . these results suggest that intranasal immunization with the peptide or rpac may be effective for the prevention of dental caries . 
the human antibody response to streptococcal c5a peptidase . an elisa was developed to measure antibody , both igg and iga , against the streptococcal c5a peptidase ( scp ) , in human sera and saliva . generally , sera and saliva from young , uninfected children lacked antibody to scp . in contrast , most sera and saliva specimens from healthy adults had measurable levels of anti-scp igg and scp-specific secretory iga ( anti-scp siga ) . paired acute and convalescent sera from patients with streptococcal pharyngitis possessed significantly higher levels of anti-scp igg than did sera from healthy individuals . sera containing high concentrations of anti-scp immunoglobulin were capable of neutralizing scp activity . a survey of healthy adults and children also showed that the latter were significantly less likely to have anti-scp siga in their saliva . detection of this antibody in greater than 90 % of the saliva specimens obtained from children who had recently experienced streptococcal pharyngitis demonstrated that children can produce a secretory response . this is thought to be the first report of a secretory iga response in humans to a somatic antigen of streptococcus pyogenes . 
facial pain . this article presents differential diagnosis and treatment of facial pain . facial pain is classified in accordance with the recent work of the headache classification committee of the international headache society . the two major divisions are facial pain associated with disorders of the head and neck , including their parts , and disorders of cranial nerves , including their central connections . special attention is paid to the controversial topics of temporomandibular joint dysfunction and atypical facial pain . 
maintenance of condyle-proximal segment position in orthognathic surgery . twenty patients underwent bilateral sagittal ramus osteotomy for the correction of mandibular retrognathia . a condylar positioning device ( cpd ) was used intraoperatively in 10 patients to maintain preoperative condyle-proximal segment position , while the cpd was not used in the other 10 patients . postoperatively , the condyle-proximal segment positions in both groups were compared and evaluated for vertical , horizontal , and rotational changes . a significant improvement ( p less than .05 ) was observed in the vertical and horizontal condylar position in the group in which the cpd was used . however , there was no significant difference in proximal segment rotation . 
central odontogenic fibroma : clinicopathologic features of 19 cases and review of the literature . the odontogenic fibroma is a benign neoplasm infrequently reported in the literature ( 20 cases ) . nineteen additional examples are reported . this lesion occurs most frequently in the maxilla anterior to the molars and displays a striking female predilection . on occasion , it may be associated with an unerupted mandibular third molar . histomorphologically , it is not encapsulated . a spectrum of fibrous connective tissue stroma is present : from myxoid to densely hyalinized and from relatively acellular to cellular . calcification may or may not be present . it is distinguished by the presence of sparse cords and islands of inactive odontogenic epithelium . enucleation or surgical curettage is appropriate therapy and recurrence is low . as there appears to be no correlation of histologic pattern with clinical behavior , it seems unnecessary to try to separate the tumor into two variants . 
dysgeusia , gustatory sweating , and crocodile tears syndrome induced by a cerebellopontine angle meningioma . facial nerve involvement in cerebellopontine angle tumors , both during their development and after excision , may be expressed in irreversible dysfunction of the parasympathetic pathways . the exact location of the lesion along the efferent nerve fibers can be established through evaluation of the functional level of those organs supplied by the cholinergic motor secretory components . this report deals with a female patient in whom peripheral facial palsy developed shortly after removal of a right cerebellopontine angle meningioma . she had slight facial asymmetry and deafness in the right ear and complained of prandial flush and sweating of the right malar area . occult ipsilateral hyposalivation and hypolacrimation were diagnosed . in patients with seventh and ninth cranial nerve pathoses , evaluation of the end organs that are supplied by their associated autonomous nerve fibers is mandatory to prevent late ocular and oral sequelae . 
lack of evidence for link between intradental lesions and chronic renal failure . in at least three publications , radiographic intradental changes have been mentioned in connection with end-stage renal failure with and without renal osteodystrophy . the influence of immunosuppressive therapy has been suggested . in 63 patients with one or a combination of the above-mentioned criteria , no evidence was found on intradental radiolucencies or of extreme narrowing ( obliteration ) of the dental pulp cavity . 
dexamethasone as an adjunct in oropharyngeal obstruction in a patient with leukemia . incipient airway obstruction due to fulminating bacterial infection of pharyngeal tissues requires prompt and definitive intervention . a case is presented in which dexamethasone was a key adjunct to antibiotic therapy in averting this problem in a severely neutropenic patient with acute leukemia . 
gingival and cutaneous xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis . report of a case . the first comprehensive case report of intraoral xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis is detailed . the lesions were present along the free gingival margin and labial vestibule . crevicular fluid was noted to be tinged yellow . generalized cutaneous eruptions were also seen . the xanthomas were attributed to the underlying hyperlipoproteinemia . advanced progression of the hepatic disease necessitated a liver transplant . disappearance of both oral and skin lesions were subsequently observed . 
oral melanotic macules in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus . a group of 217 patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) were studied for 2 years , during which time pigmented lesions of the oral mucosa developed in 14 ( 6.4 % ) of them . the lesions were well circumscribed in some cases and diffuse in others . in some patients the macules enlarged or recurred after surgical excision . in two patients the macules appeared during the administration of zidovudine . clinical and laboratory evidence of adrenal insufficiency was not detected in any of the patients examined . the histologic appearances were those of melanotic macules . no ultrastructural alterations of the melanocytes were observed . two of these macules also contained epstein-barr virus , and in one case normal oral mucosa was examined and also contained epstein-barr virus in the epithelial cells . as a control group we examined 180 health care workers who did not belong to any risk category , and 30 intravenous drug abusers who tested seronegative to hiv . oral melanotic pigmentation was found in eight of the control subjects ( 3.6 % ) . the difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.3097 ) . our study shows that oral macules do not occur more frequently in hiv-infected patients . however , the clinical behavior of these lesions appears to be different during the course of hiv infection . in some hiv-infected patients the cause of the macules might relate to the administration of zidovudine and antifungal or antibacterial drugs . in others the cause remains unknown and could be due to multiple factors . 
subacute necrotizing sialadenitis . twelve cases of a heretofore unreported minor salivary gland disease have been reported . although an infectious cause is suspected for this self-limiting inflammatory process , the actual cause remains unknown . it typically presents as a unilateral , erythematous , nonuclerated but painful , solitary firm swelling of the posterior hard palate . patients are most often young white men who have spent several weeks in a new environment with a group of people living in close quarters such as military barracks . 
the potential of periodontal pocket formation associated with untreated accessory root canals . teeth that were to be extracted because of periodontic-endodontic involvement , in six patients , were treated by hemisection or root amputation . the roots were processed histologically . all cases showed the presence of accessory root canals with remnants of pulpal tissue , bacteria , and necrotic debris . it was demonstrated in the cases studied that residual necrotic tissue in untreated root canals can result in periradicular pathosis . we may speculate that if the inflammatory process persists and drainage results via the sulcus , in time , plaque and then concretions may develop . 
reactions of rat odontogenic tissues to heat . twenty-four wistar rats were anesthetized and 200 degrees c heat was applied for 4 minutes to each mandibular left first molar . eight of these rats were then killed at 2 , 8 , and 14 weeks . the subject and control teeth were radiographed and compared . they were then prepared for histologic evaluation and scored for levels of inflammation in both the pulpal and periradicular tissues . furcal , interproximal , and apical radiographic changes were found at all three time intervals . these changes involved progressively larger percentages of teeth at 8 and 14 weeks . histologically , complete necrosis and/or abscess formation were found in the coronal portions of all experimental pulps . with time , inflammatory changes increased in intensity and progressed through the radicular pulps , resulting in necrosis or calcific changes and , finally , inflammatory changes in the periradicular areas . the pathosis created by the application of heat was devoid of microorganisms as evaluated by the brown and brenn stain . 
a retrospective clinical study of endodontically treated mandibular incisors in a selected chinese population . clinical studies of incidences of the number of canals in human teeth should correlate with the percentages obtained in laboratory samples . in this study the incidence of two canals in the mandibular incisors was compared with figures obtained from in vitro extracted teeth , as well as from one clinical study . a very low percentage was obtained from the examination of clinical records , and this could be due to racial differences in the samples examined . 
cross-sectional tomography . a diagnostic technique for determining the buccolingual relationship of impacted mandibular third molars and the inferior alveolar neurovascular bundle . twenty-two patients with 31 impacted mandibular third molars were examined with a new , precise , cross-sectional tomographic technique to assess the radiographic size , shape , branching pattern , location , and degree of cortication of the mandibular canal , and the inclination of impacted mandibular third molars in the buccolingual plane . the mandibular canal , including bifid canals , was accurately identified in 30 cases ( 96.8 % ) . the cross-sectional appearance of the canal was an uncorticated , or partially corticated , radiolucent oval that measured on average ( + / - sd ) 2.9 + / - 0.7 x 2.5 + / - 0.6 mm in diameter . it was located more frequently ( 45.2 % ) on the buccal aspect of the impacted mandibular third molar . about 60 % of the mandibular canals notched the inner cortical plate of the mandible or the third molar root surface . cystic expansion and quantification of cortical bone destruction were readily assessed by this technique . it was concluded that diagnostic information obtained from cross-sectional tomograms significantly aids the oral and maxillofacial surgeon during the preoperative diagnostic workup and that the radiation risks are comparable to those of other accepted localization techniques . 
spontaneous pneumomediastinum . an unusual cause of a sore throat . sore throat , usually related to pharyngitis , is a common presenting symptom in the primary care setting . drs frenkel and lyons describe a case showing that physicians need to be aware of another , puzzling cause -- spontaneous pneumo-mediastinum . 
potential role of beta-carotene in prevention of oral cancer . recent data suggests that retinoids and carotenoids may be effective in reversing a putative " field cancerization " defect in the epithelium at risk for oral cancer . animal experiments have shown that these compounds can inhibit cancer formation . several clinical trials have demonstrated the ability of retinoids to reverse oral leukoplakia . however , toxicities associated with retinoids at the doses used in these studies limits their potential for chemoprevention . because of its lack of toxicity , beta-carotene is a very attractive agent for chemoprevention . it suppresses micronuclei in exfoliated oral mucosal cells from subjects at risk for oral cancer and recently has been shown to be active in reversing leukoplakia . another area under investigation is the possibility of preventing second primary tumors in patients cured of their initial cancer who have an increased risk of developing new cancers of the upper acrodigestive tract . 
remission of precancerous lesions in the oral cavity of tobacco chewers and maintenance of the protective effect of beta-carotene or vitamin a. participants in the intervention trials were fishermen ( kerala , india ) , who chewed tobacco-containing betel quids daily before and throughout the study period . frequency of oral leukoplakia , micronuclei in oral mucosal cells , and alterations in nuclear textures were used as endpoints . administration of vitamin a ( 60 mg/wk ) for 6-mo resulted in complete remission of leukoplakias in 57 % and a reduction of micronucleated cells in 96 % of tobacco-chewers . beta-carotene ( 2.2 mmol/wk ) induced remission of leukoplakia in 14.8 % and reduction of micronucleated cells in 98 % . vitamin a completely suppressed and beta-carotene suppressed by 50 % formation of new leukoplakia within the 6-mo trial period . after withdrawal of vitamin a or beta-carotene treatment , oral leukoplakias reappeared , frequency of micronuclei in oral mucosa increased , and nuclear textures reverted to those present before the administration of chemo-preventive agents . the protective effect of the original treatment could be maintained for at least 8 additional months by administration of lower doses of vitamin a or beta-carotene . 
undifferentiated carcinomas of salivary glands . undifferentiated carcinomas of salivary glands are those epithelial malignancies whose light-optic histopathologic features are not sufficient to place them in other defined classes of carcinoma . they are ultrastructurally heterogeneous and can manifest neuroendocrine differentiation . with or without the latter , the carcinomas are biologically high-grade and rank with salivary duct and high-grade mucoepidermoid carcinomas in terms of morbidity and mortality . 
risk stratification of ambulatory patients suspected of pneumocystis pneumonia . to determine whether aspects of clinical history , physical examination , and laboratory studies improve the diagnostic accuracy of the chest roentgenogram in the diagnosis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) , we followed up 302 consecutive patients with respiratory symptoms and risk factors for human immunodeficiency virus . of the 279 patients ( 92 % ) with follow-up information available , 31 ( 11 % ) were diagnosed with pcp . only 68 % of patients with pcp had typical chest roentgenograms . regression analysis identified four independent predictors of pcp : diffuse or perihilar infiltrates , presence of mouth lesions , lactate dehydrogenase level more than 220 u/l , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate 50 mm/h or more . using these four predictors , patients could be stratified into low - , intermediate - , and high-risk groups for pcp . we suggest that examination of the mouth , chest roentgenogram , lactate dehydrogenase level , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate be part of the evaluation of ambulatory patients with respiratory symptoms at risk for human immunodeficiency virus . 
mediastinitis following nasal intubation in the emergency department . a patient who developed a retropharyngeal abscess and fatal mediastinitis following emergent nasal intubation is described . despite aggressive surgical therapy the patient died of mediastinitis . although mediastinitis as a complication of oral intubation has been described , mediastinitis following nasal intubation has not previously been reported . 
acinic cell carcinoma . clinicopathologic review . the authors reviewed 90 cases of acinic cell carcinoma treated at the mayo clinic to assess long-term follow-up and to study features predictive of disease progression . sixty-three patients ( 55 females and 35 males ) were seen for primary treatment ; 27 had recurrent disease when first evaluated . histologically , these tumors were composed of serous acinar cells and intercalated duct-type cells . morphologic patterns included solid , microcystic , follicular , and papillary-cystic . all patients were followed for at least 10 years or until death . of the primary treatment group , 44 % had local recurrence , 19 % had metastasis , and 25 % died of disease . disease first recurred locally up to 30 years after presentation and resulted in death after as many as 38 years . poor prognostic features include pain or fixation ; gross invasion ; microscopic features of desmoplasia , atypia , or increased mitotic activity ; and excision as initial treatment . neither morphologic pattern nor cell composition was a predictive feature . 
risk factors for cancer of the tongue in uruguay . from 1987 to 1989 , a hospital-based case-control study of cancer of the tongue was conducted in montevideo , uruguay , as part of a large study to investigate a number of risk factors for cancer of the oral cavity , pharynx , and larynx . the study involved interviews with 57 cases and 353 controls and was restricted to men . relative risks ( rr ) associated with tobacco smoking , alcohol drinking , and selected dietary items were obtained by unconditional logistic-regression analysis . users of black tobacco had a rr fourfold higher than users of blond tobacco , and heavy drinkers of alcohol had a rr of 11.6 . infrequent consumption of vegetables was associated with a significant rr of 5.3 , and heavy drinkers of the local infusion " mate " had a rr of 2.5 . it was concluded that black tobacco smoking and alcohol drinking were the strongest risk factors for cancer of the tongue in uruguay . their effects combine according to a multiplicative model . also , infrequent vegetable intake and mate ingestion contribute to the risk of cancer of the tongue . 
an assessment of salivary function in healthy premenopausal and postmenopausal females . the elderly represent the most rapidly growing segment of the u.s. population , and the majority of this group are females . the average woman can anticipate living about a third of her life beyond menopause , and many u.s. women undergo hormonal replacement in an attempt to relieve menopausal symptoms . little is understood about the relationship between menopause , hormonal replacement therapy , and the oral structures , although oral discomfort , xerostomia , and salivary hypofunction have been associated with postmenopausal women . the effects of menopausal status and estrogen therapy on subjective reports of oral dryness and discomfort and objective measurements of major salivary gland output were assessed in 43 healthy premenopausal and postmenopausal females . no complaints of xerostomia or burning mouth and no alterations in the quantity of saliva occurred in this population . this study suggests that among healthy women salivary gland function is not significantly influenced by menopause or hormonal replacement therapy . 
uses and complications of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty . uvulopalatopharygoplasty has become widely performed for chronic snoring and for cases of obstructive sleep apnoea . unfortunately this operation is not without morbidity and complications . we report our results of a prospective series of 50 patients undergoing uvulopalatopharyngoplasty with a minimum follow-up of one year . snoring was abolished in 18 ( 36 per cent ) and substantially reduced in the remainder . obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome , identified in 11 patients pre-operatively , was reduced in severity in all but three . troublesome complications were seen in 18 ( 36 per cent ) patients , namely intermittent velopharyngeal incompetence in five ( 10 per cent ) , pharyngeal dryness in 11 ( 22 per cent ) and loss of taste in five ( 10 per cent ) . one patient had nasopharyngeal stenosis requiring correction . a cautious approach to this operation is required with rigorous case selection . the importance of full assessment and careful follow-up should not be underestimated . 
marijuana smoking as a possible cause of tongue carcinoma in young patients . a case of t1n0m0 carcinoma of the tongue in a male 23-year-old ' regular ' marijuana smoker is described . hemiglossectomy and complete bilateral neck dissection were carried out . no post-operative radiotherapy was given as the resection margins were histologically negative . the tumour recurred one year later in the left cervical region involving the mandible and surgery was again performed , but after three months , neck disease was still evident . the case described case implies the introduction of marijuana as a possible new risk factor in the development of oral cavity tumours . resection of the primary lesion has to be as wide as possible even in t1 cases , due to the aggressive biological behaviour of such tumours in young subjects . 
randomized , double-blind trial of mazindol in duchenne dystrophy . there is evidence that growth hormone may be related to the progression of weakness in duchenne dystrophy . we conducted a 12-month controlled trial of mazindol , a putative growth hormone secretion inhibitor , in 83 boys with duchenne dystrophy . muscle strength , contractures , functional ability and pulmonary function were tested at baseline , and 6 and 12 months after treatment with mazindol ( 3 mg/d ) or placebo . the study was designed to have a power of greater than 0.90 to detect a slowing to 25 % of the expected rate of progression of weakness at p less than 0.05 . mazindol did not benefit strength at any point in the study . side effects attributable to mazindol included decreased appetite ( 36 % ) , dry mouth ( 10 % ) , behavioral change ( 22 % ) , and gastrointestinal symptoms ( 18 % ) ; mazindol dosage was reduced in 43 % of patients . the effect of mazindol on gh secretion was estimated indirectly by comparing the postabsorptive igf-i levels obtained following 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 months in the mazindol treated to those in the placebo groups . although mazindol-treated patients gained less weight and height than placebo-treated patients , no significant effect on igf-i levels was observed . mazindol doses not slow the progression of weakness in duchenne dystrophy . 
sick building syndrome . " sick building syndrome " ( sbs ) is one of the more colorful terms describing an increasingly common pattern of symptoms found among workers in modern office buildings . core symptoms include lethargy , mucous membrane irritation , headache , eye irritation , and dry skin . to prompt a diagnosis of sbs , these otherwise common symptoms must be " excessively " reported and primarily " work-related . " the world health organization now estimates that 30 % of new or remodeled office buildings show signs of sbs , and that between 10 % and 30 % of the occupants of these buildings are affected by sbs . despite such figures , sbs remains poorly researched and even more poorly understood . the following review provides the clinician an overview of sbs that will allow a more accurate differential diagnosis and will help to prevent the widespread suffering that can accrue when sbs is not quickly recognized . 
quincke 's edema , revisited . angioneurotic edema involving the uvula is sometimes referred to as quincke 's edema . the term angioneurotic edema describes several closely related diseases manifested by recurrent , acute edema of the skin or mucosa . we report a case of uvular edema secondary to food allergy , treated successfully with steroids . a short review of angioneurotic edema and its management is also presented . 
sjogren 's syndrome and primary biliary cirrhosis : presence of autoantibodies to purified mitochondrial 2-oxo acid dehydrogenases . sjogren 's syndrome is well known for the presence of antibodies directed at specific nuclear antigens . however , the presence of antibodies reacting with a variety of other self antigens , including antimitochondrial antibodies , has often been reported although their significance is unknown . moreover , patients with sjogren 's syndrome have been occasionally reported to be concordant with primary biliary cirrhosis . to address this issue we studied in a group of 96 patients with sjogren 's syndrome the presence of autoantibodies to the dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferases of both pyruvate dehydrogenase and branch chain ketoacid dehydrogenase and to alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase ; these latter enzymes are the mitochondrial target antigens of primary biliary cirrhosis . we report that 7 of the 96 patients reacted with the mitochondrial antigens that are prominent in primary biliary cirrhosis . moreover , in those patients showing reactivity with mitochondrial antigens , the autoantibodies were directed at the same immunodominant epitopes that have been previously characterized in primary biliary cirrhosis . one of the 7 positive patients was known to have primary biliary cirrhosis . we hypothesize that the remaining 6 patients are at clinical risk for the development of primary biliary cirrhosis and/or that abnormalities would be found on liver biopsy . 
vascularized full-thickness parietal bone grafts in maxillofacial reconstruction : the role of the galea and superficial temporal vessels . reconstruction of bony structures of the face is always a problem as big as the defect and the function that must be replaced . everything from simple grafts to sophisticated distant bone flaps has been used . based on the studies of cutting et al. , psillakis et al. , and casanova et al. , we have developed the full-thickness galeoparietal bone flap , initially for mandibular reconstruction , but of great use for all maxillofacial reconstructions . from july of 1987 to december of 1988 , 14 patients have been operated on . the experience with this flap is shown in four patients as follows : primary reconstruction of a mandible as a result of ameloblastoma , secondary reconstruction of a mandible with associated old fractures and malalignment of segments , bilateral malar reconstruction in a patient with treacher collins syndrome , and severe sequelae of an already treated romberg case . small variations could be made to best accommodate the technique used to the defect we were treating . some technical details , the experience , the results , and possible sequelae or complications are also discussed . 
thalidomide : treatment of severe recurrent aphthous stomatitis in patients with aids . an increasing number of aids patients have been noted to suffer severe recurrent aphthous stomatitis ( ras ) , a condition often associated with high morbidity that remains unresponsive to conventional therapeutic interventions . in two cases thalidomide was administered to successfully treat aids patients with ras . both patients experienced complete abatement of pain shortly after therapy was initiated . ulcerations that were present for months resolved after three or four weeks of thalidomide therapy without any adverse effects . thalidomide appears to be an effective agent for the treatment of severe ras unresponsive to traditional therapies . 
topical cyclosporine for oral mucosal disorders . topical cyclosporine may be effective in the treatment of various oral mucosal disorders . in three open trials and in one double-blind study , a topical formulation of this drug produced significant improvement in oral lichen planus . cyclosporine blood levels were generally low in these studies and no abnormalities of laboratory values resulted during use . of six patients with oral bullous diseases treated with topical cyclosporine , four showed a decrease in erythema , partial healing of ulcerations , and a reduction in pain . three patients relapsed shortly after cyclosporine was discontinued . four of eight patients with persistent aphthous stomatitis remained virtually free of ulcers during 8 weeks of topical cyclosporine therapy . these results indicate that topical cyclosporine is beneficial as a therapy for oral lichen planus and possibly other mucosal diseases . 
sensitivity restored of class v abrasion/erosion lesions . the effectiveness of restorative treatment in reducing sensitivity associated with the class v erosion/abrasion lesion was evaluated and the efficacy of three tooth-colored restorative materials in reducing sensitivity was compared . the 108 lesions were restored with either glass ionomer restorative material , composite resin with a dentin bonding agent , or composite resin with a dentin bonding agent and a glass ionomer liner . composite resin with glass-ionomer liner restorations significantly reduced sensitivity to air and hot and cold water . glass ionomer restorations and restorations with composite resin and a dentin bonding agent significantly reduced sensitivity but were also associated with increased sensitivity to air and cold respectively in 20 % to 30 % of the lesions restored when evaluated at 6 months . 
reviewing the unicystic ameloblastoma : report of two cases . classification of ameloblastoma into solid , multicystic , unicystic , and peripheral types based on clinical appearance and effects has gained recent recognition . the unicystic ameloblastoma is a less encountered variant of the ameloblastoma . it appears more frequently in the second or third decade with no sexual or racial predilection . it is almost exclusively encountered asymptomatically in the posterior mandible . the following report of two cases discusses the pathophysiology , demographics , histology , and prognosis of the unicystic ameloblastoma . 
microleakage at gingival dentin margins of class v composite restorations lined with light-cured glass ionomer cement . this study compared the microleakage of light-cured and auto-set glass ionomer liners used in class v composite laminated glass ionomer restorations by determining the amount of microleakage at the gingival cementum/dentin margins . standardized nonundercut v-shaped class v cavities with gingival margins below the cementoenamel junction were prepared on the mesial and distal surfaces of 40 molars , establishing a total of 80 cavities , which were randomly divided into four groups . each was lined with glass ionomers : group 1 , ketac-bond ( espe-premier ) , which served as the control ; group 2 , xr-ionomer ( kerr ) ; group 3 , xr-ionomer with polyacrylic acid ( paa ) pretreatment ( kerr ) ; and group 4 , vitrabond ( 3m ) . specimens were thermocycled for 300 cycles in 0.5 % aqueous solution of basic fuchsin between 4 and 55 c with a 1-minute dwell time , and individually embedded in an epoxy resin . statistical analysis indicated no differences among groups using the light-cured glass ionomer ( groups 2 to 4 ) , and they showed significantly less leakage than the control ( group 1 ) at p less than 0.00001 ) . removal of the smear layer using 10 % polyacrylic acid solution did not influence microleakage in restorations with light-cured glass ionomer liners . 
effect of endodontic access preparation on resistance to crown-root fracture . this investigation involved the creation of coronal-radicular fractures in vitro and compared the fracture resistance of intact human mandibular molars , with molars after varied tooth preparation . forty freshly extracted , non-carious , nonrestored human mandibular molars were randomly divided into four treatment groups . the molars were subjected to constantly increasing occlusal load until coronal-radicular fracture occurred . tooth preparations significantly diminished resistance to coronal-radicular fracture . 
evaluating and influencing periodontal diagnostic and treatment behaviors in general practice . providers ' periodontal diagnostic and treatment behaviors were assessed in 34 practices in two north carolina counties . regularly attending patients had a low prevalence of gingival pocketing on index teeth , moderate attachment loss , and fairly prevalent bleeding and calculus . treatment frequency and patient knowledge were generally adequate , but the notation of periodontal status in the patient record was insufficient . a continuing education intervention resulted in substantial and significant improvement in notation rates . changes in rates with which services were provided , and changes in patient periodontal status were smaller and mixed . the study shows that continuing education can be effective in helping some but not all providers adopt needed , appropriate behaviors . 
asymptomatic periapical radiolucent lesion found in an area of previous trauma [ published erratum appears in j am dent assoc 1991 feb ; 122 ( 2 ) :18 ] the case of an anterior mandibular radiolucent area , which unexpectedly yielded salivary gland tissue , is described . salivary gland depressions in the posterior mandible are readily recognized because of their almost pathognomonic radiographic appearance . a salivary gland inclusion in the anterior mandible in the proximity of teeth may create a diagnostic dilemma where superimposed periapical pathosis is present . the clinical importance lies in the recognition and appropriate treatment of the lesion . for the anterior salivary gland inclusion , a biopsy and a microscopic examination provide the most reliable diagnosis . 
treatment of beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis with cefaclor or penicillin . efficacy and interaction with beta-lactamase-producing organisms in the pharynx . the recommended treatment for group a beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis has continued to be penicillin given in parenteral or oral form . treatment failures , as determined by the continued presence of the streptococcal organism in the pharynx , however , do occur in 6 % to 25 % of patients treated with penicillin . furthermore , beta-lactamase produced by other bacteria in the pharynx could potentially inactivate the penicillin , resulting in increased treatment failures or infection relapses . a study was undertaken to compare the efficacy of cefaclor , which is relatively resistant to inactivation by beta-lactamase , with penicillin for eradicating the group a beta-hemolytic streptococcal organism from the throats of 93 patients with pharyngitis . additionally , extensive cultures for potential beta-lactamase-producing organisms were conducted on 37 patients ; 27 % of these had one or more pharyngeal organisms that were producing beta-lactamase . no statistically significant difference was found between the clinical responses or the bacteriological cure rates of those treated with cefaclor and those treated with penicillin when stratified by the presence or absence of beta-lactamase-producing organisms . the prevalence of beta-lactamase-producing organisms in the pharynx , however , was increased after treatment with penicillin , whereas no change was noted following treatment with cefaclor . 
extraoral parotid sialolithotomy . the extraoral approach to duct surgery for the removal of parotid stones can be a simple procedure once the stone is accurately located in relation to the skin surface . the combination of sialography and sonography can provide this information . a case report demonstrates the step-by-step approach to diagnosis , localization , and surgery for the management of such extraglandular sialoliths . 
indications for simultaneous orthognathic and septorhinoplastic surgery . orthognathic and rhinoplastic surgery can be combined successfully when certain guidelines are understood . relative indications and contraindications have been established that generally yield predictable results . tip position ( rotation and projection ) may be the most difficult aspect to predict and , therefore , is best avoided during simultaneous surgery . major deformities of the dorsum can be easily corrected in conjunction with maxillary surgery . three cases demonstrating these guidelines are presented and discussed . 
the relationship between the indications for the surgical removal of impacted third molars and the incidence of alveolar osteitis . six hundred forty-two impacted third molars were surgically removed in 412 patients . before surgery , each patient was assessed clinically and radiographically , and the reason for the removal of each tooth was specifically recorded . one hundred eighty-two of the impacted teeth were removed for prophylactic reasons and 460 for therapeutic reasons . as much as possible , standardization of the operating procedure and environment , and of the preoperative and postoperative regimens was observed . after surgery , each case was followed to determine the absence or presence of signs and symptoms of alveolar osteitis . it was found that several factors seem to contribute to the development of alveolar osteitis ; however , the most significant related finding was that the reason for the extraction , that is , whether the extraction was undertaken for therapeutic or prophylactic reasons . 
evaluation of ultrasound in the diagnosis of pathologic processes in the parotid gland . the values of ultrasound in differentiation of pathologic processes in the parotid gland were studied in 61 patients . the ultrasound findings were compared with operative and histologic findings . in 28 patients with chronic inflammatory processes , the ultrasound findings were in complete correlation with the histologic findings , showing enlarged parotid glands , homogenous glandular epithelium , and small , multiple cysts . in 31 patients with a tumor of the parotid gland , ultrasound scanning detected the presence of the tumor . in determining the location of the tumor , the method is highly specific when it is localized in the superficial lobe ( 100 % ) , and it is less specific when it is localized in the deep lobe of the parotid gland . also , it is highly specific in determination of tumor size ( 96 % ) . in two cases with retention cysts , the ultrasound findings also correlated with the histologic and operative findings . the results obtained show that ultrasound is a reliable diagnostic method for detection of pathologic changes in the parotid gland . 
severe preeclampsia presenting as dysphonia secondary to uvular edema . a case report . in addition to hypertension and proteinuria , generalized edema is seen commonly in women with severe preeclampsia . a patient presented to us at term with the complaint of dysphonia . upon examination she appeared to be clearly preeclamptic and had a grossly edemetous uvula , which we think occurred secondary to generalized edema . this case might be the first reported one of preeclampsia presenting as dysphonia and of uvular edema in association with preeclampsia . 
pregnancy associated with gorlin 's syndrome . a pregnant woman with gorlin 's syndrome presented for the removal of malignant ovarian tumours . the main problem encountered by the anaesthetists was an unexpected increase in arterial blood pressure . this was most probably associated with surgical manipulation of the ovaries with an increase in prorenin/renin production . 
right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale caused by pulmonary hypertension associated with rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren 's syndrome : a case report . this case report presents a fifty-four-year-old woman with right-to-left shunt in the atrium . it seemed clinically at first that the shunt was due to atrial septal defect . however , she also had pulmonary disease associated with rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren 's syndrome . at autopsy atrial septal defect was not evident , but a patent foramen ovale and pulmonary artery disease were observed . this case suggests that pulmonary hypertension secondary to rheumatoid arthritis and sjogren 's syndrome could lead to right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale . 
salivary gland involvement in wegener 's granulomatosis . salivary gland involvement is a rare clinical feature of wegener 's granulomatosis . we report a series of five cases in which submandibular or parotid gland swelling was part of the initial manifestation of the disease . all patients had limited forms of wegener 's granulomatosis . the value of determination of serum anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies is demonstrated in four of the cases , and its use as a new diagnostic adjunct and promising tool to monitor disease activity is discussed . the use of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole as part of alternative treatment regimens for limited wegener 's granulomatosis is advocated . 
patient-controlled analgesic administration . a comparison of steady-state morphine infusions with bolus doses . the authors have shown previously that bone marrow transplant ( bmt ) patients who self-administered bolus doses of morphine gained equal oral mucositis pain relief while using less drug compared with similar patients receiving morphine by staff-controlled continuous infusion . in a follow-up study they compared the efficacy and side effects of morphine in two groups of marrow transplant patients who controlled their own analgesic administration either by conventional bolus-dose , patient-controlled analgesia ( pca ) or by adjusting the rate of continuous morphine infusion to increase or decrease their plasma morphine concentration . patients controlling their morphine infusion rates ( pharmacokinetically based patient-controlled analgesia [ pkpca ] group ) obtained more relief from oral mucositis pain than did patients using conventional pca . patients in the pkpca group used more morphine than pca patients and achieved superior pain relief without significant increases in side effects ( e.g. , nausea , mood changes , sedation ) . the authors conclude that pkpca improves the management of prolonged , severe pain in marrow transplant patients and that this approach to patient-controlled analgesia may be useful in other types of persistent pain . 
combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy in advanced inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck . the final report of a randomized trial . between 1983 and 1986 , the national institute for cancer research in genoa and affiliated institutions conducted a randomized study to compare two different ways of combining chemotherapy ( ct ) and radiation therapy ( rt ) . one hundred sixteen patients were randomized to receive neoadjuvant ct followed by definitive rt ( treatment arm a ) or alternating ct and rt . in treatment arm a , rt consisted of 70 gy to the involved areas and 50 gy to the uninvolved neck at 2 gy/fraction , five fractions per week . in treatment arm b , rt consisted of 60 gy to involved areas and 50 gy to the uninvolved neck in three courses of 20 gy each , 2 gy/fraction , ten fractions/2 weeks alternated with four courses of ct . ct consisted of vinblastine 6 mg/m2 intravenously followed 6 hours later by bleomycin 30 iu intramuscularly , day 1 ; methotrexate 200 mg intravenously , day 2 ; leucovorin rescue , day 3 . ct was repeated every 2 weeks up to four courses . the same ct was used in both treatment arms of the study . fifty-five patients were entered in treatment arm a and 61 in treatment arm b. complete responses were 7/48 and 19/57 in treatment arms a and b , respectively ( p less than 0.03 ) . four-year progression-free survival was 4 % in treatment arm a and 12 % in treatment arm b ( p less than 0.02 ) , and four-year survival was 10 % in a and 22 % in b ( p less than 0.02 ) . mucosal tolerance was significantly worse in treatment arm b ( p less than 0.00004 ) . the subgroup analysis shows the major improvement of alternating ct and rt in patients with the worst prognostic characteristics . 
why aging leads to increased susceptibility to infection . the elderly are predisposed to various infections through a multitude of factors . although intrinsic , unalterable defects occur in the aging immune system and nonspecific host defenses , there are factors that physician and patient can concentrate on to reduce the risk of infection . for example , meticulous attention to skin care can reduce the risk of soft tissue infection . improvement in oral hygiene and relief of xerostomia might promote recolonization with normal oral flora . correction of urinary tract obstruction where possible , relying on the use of indwelling urinary catheters only when necessary , can significantly reduce the risk of utis . medications that impair cognitive function should be prescribed judiciously , since they can promote aspiration with subsequent pneumonia , xerostomia , and urinary retention . correction of protein malnutrition may improve cell-mediated immunity and skin integrity , thereby reducing the risk of infection . the signs and symptoms of infection in the aged may be subtle . therefore , the primary care physician should approach this susceptible population with a heightened clinical suspicion , thus expediting possibly life-saving early diagnosis and treatment . 
a new syndrome : hearing loss and familial salivary gland insensitivity to aldosterone in two brothers . two male siblings presented in infancy with hyponatremia . the levels of plasma renin activity and aldosterone were elevated . sodium supplement was necessary to maintain normal sodium balance . the salivary sodium concentrations were markedly elevated , with sweat sodium levels being in the upper normal range . urinary sodium concentration and renal epithelial exchange between sodium and potassium were normal . this was felt to be due to an autosomal recessive disorder . both siblings were later diagnosed as having a bilateral moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss with intermittent conductive overlay due to middle ear fluid . the sensorineural loss was also felt to be autosomal recessive in origin , but the possibility of a disturbance of sodium balance in the inner ear has been questioned . 
mandibular involvement in oral cancer . it is difficult to predict the tumour invasion into the mandible by oral cancer pre-operatively , and consequently the decision to preserve or sacrifice the mandible is largely individualistic . the present study of 44 cases analyses the reliability of pre-operative parameters to assess mandibular involvement . clinical , radiological and scintigraphic features have been compared with the detailed histology of the bone . this study confirms the usefulness of superior marginal resections in lesions which are close to but not involving the mandible , as well as for superficial lesions which are actually seen to involve the mandible but their ct and bone scans are negative for tumour invasion . 
biotin deficiency per se is teratogenic in mice . we examined whether maternal biotin deficiency would potentiate the latent teratogenicity of relatively low doses of vitamin a in mice . the incidence and the type of gross congenital malformations ( cleft palate , micrognathia , and micromelia ) induced by biotin deficiency were similar among the groups given three different concentrations of vitamin a ( 4000 , 12,000 and 60,000 iu ) in the diet . also , the type of these malformations was different from those ( exencephaly , cleft palate and macroglossia ) induced by a known teratogenic dose of vitamin a ( 1,200,000 iu ) . we conclude that in mice concentrations of vitamin a in the range of 4-10 times the level recommended by the national research council and biotin deficiency do not interfere with one another ; also , biotin deficiency per se is teratogenic in mice . 
mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands : a reappraisal of the influence of tumor differentiation on prognosis . thirty-nine cases of mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands were reviewed for a reappraisal of the influence of the grade of differentiation on the outcome of the disease . the age of the patients ranged between 7 and 84 years . fifteen patients were females and 24 males . the tumors were located at the parotid gland ( n = 30 ) , the submaxillary gland ( n = 1 ) , the soft palate ( n = 5 ) and the oral mucosa nos ( n = 3 ) . at presentation 4 tumors were intraglandular and 35 extraglandular ; three patients had lymph node metastases and one patient lung metastases . the grade of differentiation was assessed using the criteria of healey et al . twelve tumors were classified as grade i , 17 as grade ii , and 10 as grade iii . follow-up information was obtained with a duration of 5-144 months ( mean 44.7 months ) . six cases recurred locally and 5 developed metastases . five years cumulative survival was 100 % for grade i , 70.1 % for grade ii , and 47.2 % for grade iii . the results point to the usefulness of the assessment of the grade of differentiation as a guide to anticipate the outcome of the disease . 
characterization of cytokines present in middle ear effusions . retention of inflammatory mediators and cells in the middle ear cleft during chronic otitis media with effusion ( come ) , results in ongoing inflammation with the potential for pathologic changes and hearing loss . cytokines are glycoproteins produced by macrophages and other cells . activities of cytokines include fever production , osteoclast , fibroblast , phagocyte and cytotoxic cell activation , regulation of antibody formation , and inhibition of cartilage , bone and endothelial cell growth . using enzyme-linked immunospecific assays we measured levels of six cytokines in middle ear effusions ( mee ) from children with come . significant levels of four cytokines : interleukin-1-beta ( greater than 50 pg/ml ) , interleukin-2 ( greater than 300 pg/ml ) , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( greater than 40 pg/ml ) , and gamma-interferon ( greater than 6.25 pg/ml ) were found in 51 % , 54 % , 63 % , and 19 % of mee , respectively . in contrast , levels of a fifth cytokine , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor , and a sixth cytokine , interleukin-4 , were undetectable . age was observed to have a significant effect on the levels of specific cytokines . interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) correlated inversely ( p less than .02 ) with age such that the younger the child , the higher the level of il-1 in mee . tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf ) correlated directly ( p less than .005 ) with age such that the older the child , the higher the level of tnf in mee . children undergoing tympanostomy on multiple occasions had average mee tnf levels ( 234.2 + / - 109.1 pg/mg total protein ) that were nearly 14 times higher ( p less than .005 ) than those from children undergoing their first tympanostomy ( 16.9 + / - 3.0 pg/mg total protein ) . thus il-1 correlated with the early stages of come , while tnf correlated with persistence of disease . the presence of these cytokines in mee may be responsible for the mucosal damage , bone erosion , fibrosis , and resulting hearing loss seen in some cases of come . 
aerobic and anaerobic microbiology of acute suppurative parotitis . aspirates of pus from acute suppurative parotitis were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria . bacterial growth was present in 23 specimens . a total of 36 bacterial isolates ( 20 anaerobic and 16 aerobic and facultative ) were recovered , accounting for 1.6 isolates per specimen ( 0.9 anaerobic and 0.7 aerobic and facultative ) . anaerobic bacteria only were present in 10 ( 43 % ) patients , aerobic and facultatives in 10 ( 43 % ) , and mixed aerobic and anaerobic flora in 3 ( 13 % ) . single bacterial isolates were recovered in 9 infections , 6 of which were staphylococcus aureus and 3 were anaerobic bacteria . the predominant bacterial isolates were s. aureus ( 8 isolates ) , bacteroides sp . ( 6 isolates , including 4 bacteroides melaninogenicus group ) , and peptostreptococcus sp . ( 5 ) . beta-lactamase-producing organisms were recovered from 11 ( 73 % ) of the 15 specimens tested . this study highlights the polymicrobial nature and importance of anaerobic bacteria in acute suppurative parotitis . 
granulomatous sialadenitis . granulomatous inflammation in salivary tissues is most often a response to liberated ductal contents , particularly mucin , in various degrees of obstructive sialadenopathy . far less often is a granulomatous sialadenitis the result of specific infective granulomas or systemic granuloma-forming diseases . in these instances , the salivary parenchymal involvement is usually secondary to disease localization in regional lymph nodes . 
gross cystic disease fluid protein-15 in salivary gland tumors . gross cystic disease fluid protein-15 ( gcdfp-15 ) is a 15-kd glycoprotein that is expressed by normal apocrine epithelia and in a majority of breast carcinomas . however , recent studies have demonstrated that this substance is also present in tumors of the salivary glands , sweat glands , and prostate gland . to determine whether the expression of cgdfp-15 might aid in the differential diagnosis of salivary gland lesions , the anti-gcdfp-15 monoclonal antibody d6 was applied to paraffin sections of 133 such neoplasms . benign tumors ( 76 % reactive ) were more often labeled than malignant lesions ( 28 % reactive ) by this antibody ; overall , 53 ( 41 % ) of 133 cases were positive for gcdfp-15 . notably , the tubuloglandular components in 17 ( 81 % ) of 21 pleomorphic adenomas were reactive , but no example of either adenoid cystic carcinoma or polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma were labeled . in contrast , 24 % of adenocarcinomas stained with this antibody . the apparent expression of gcdfp-15 by a spectrum of salivary gland tumors supports their biologic relationship to lesions of the cutaneous apocrine glands and breast . furthermore , the demonstration of this determinant may be of use in suggesting the salivary gland nature of poorly differentiated carcinomas of the head and neck , and it may facilitate the separation of pleomorphic adenoma from histologically similar malignant neoplasms in the salivary glands themselves . 
cyclic-amp binding proteins in the head and neck . results are presented of a preliminary study in which camp binding activity was measured in 34 specimens from a variety of head and neck sites . a wide range of camp binding protein levels was detected in all tissues assessed . there appeared to be a subgroup of parotid adenomas with increased camp binding activity . the biological significance of these proteins remains to be determined and their relationship to tumour growth in the head and neck is likely to be complex . 
irritant and sensitizing potential of copper , mercury and tin salts in experimental contact stomatitis of rat oral mucosa . hgcl2 , cuso4 , sncl2 , sncl4 or sodium lauryl sulphate ( sls ) were openly applied to rat oral mucosa for 1 min , followed 6 h later by histologic examination of the tissue response . granulocytes were the predominant inflammatory cells and no lymphocytic infiltration could be seen with any of the substances tested . irritant threshold levels were defined histologically for each of the substances . cuso4 was found to be non-irritant at all concentrations . the addition of non-irritant concentrations of sls lowered the threshold levels for hgcl2 and sncl2 , but cuso4/sls was non-irritant at all concentrations tested . preapplication to the mucosa of sls at non-irritant concentrations gave results with hgcl2 , sncl2 and cuso4 similar to those with sls added to the metal salt solutions . lesions of allergic contact type could not be induced in the oral mucosa to any of the metal salt preparations . 
clinical and biologic effects of granulocyte colony stimulating factor in the treatment of myelokathexis . successful treatment of a patient with myelokathexis , a rare form of chronic neutropenia associated with recurrent infections , is described . rapid mobilization of bone marrow neutrophils and improved myeloid morphologic features were observed after treatment with human granulocyte colony stimulating factor . transient thrombocytopenia and bone pain were observed during treatment . although neutrophil chemotaxis , superoxide production , and fcriii surface expression were reduced , the patient improved clinically after restoration of a normal neutrophil count . 
location of abnormalities in panoramic radiographs of edentulous patients . a series of 308 panoramic radiographs of edentulous patients was examined for the presence of pathoses to determine whether any predictive basis could be found for occurrence of abnormalities by sex , age , or location . radiolucencies , radiopacities , and retained roots and teeth were recorded by size and by anterior or posterior location in edentulous jaws . radiopacities were the most frequently found abnormality ( 18 % of subjects ) , followed by retained roots ( 8 % ) , radiolucencies ( 3 % ) , and retained teeth ( 3 % ) . no significant correlation was found by chi-square test between type or location of abnormality and sex of the patient . there was , however , a significant relationship between location and type of abnormality . radiopaque and radiolucent lesions were more frequently found in the mandible , and unerupted teeth and retained roots were more frequently seen in the posterior maxilla . selective radiographs to detect retained roots and unerupted teeth in the posterior maxilla may be most productive in terms of prosthodontic treatment outcome . otherwise , this study finds no basis for selection of intraoral sites for specific intraoral radiographs of asymptomatic edentulous patients . 
submandibular cystic hygroma resembling a plunging ranula in a neonate . review and report of a case . cystic hygromas are large lymphangiomas that are most often found in the posterior triangle of the neck and the axilla in children . they are most frequently found before age 2 and may be massive . after upper respiratory infection , they may become infected and enlarged , causing dysphagia and toxemia . the diagnosis can usually be made by history and physical examination and confirmed by biopsy . treatment is by surgical excision of small lesions and staged debulking excisions in more severe cases . a patient with a cystic hygroma having many clinical characteristics of a plunging ranula is presented . the cyst fluid was aspirated and analyzed for its amylase , sodium , potassium , chloride , urea nitrogen , glucose , and total protein content . the characteristics of the fluid were also compared with those of lymph and saliva . this report demonstrates the difficulty in determining the diagnosis of a tumor that has the clinical features of a cystic hygroma , as well as a plunging ranula . the necessity of a proper presurgical diagnosis is essential since the form of therapy for each is different and conflicting . a method that distinguishes between the cervical cystic hygroma and a plunging ranula by means of aspirated fluid is discussed . 
application of instat hemostat in the control of gingival hemorrhage in the patient with thrombocytopenia . a case report . gingival bleeding in the patient with thrombocytopenia can be a difficult management problem . primary therapy with platelet transfusions may not be sufficient to control the hemorrhage and adjunctive local therapy may be required . currently , few local management techniques can effectively control this problem . instat collagen absorbable hemostat can be used as a local adjunct with platelet transfusions and has certain application advantages over topical thrombin and microfibrillar collagen . two successful techniques of instat application to control gingival hemorrhage in a patient with severe thrombocytopenia in leukemic relapse are described . 
oral hairy leukoplakia in hiv infection : a diagnostic pitfall . twenty-nine human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients with white , nonremovable lesions on the lateral border of the tongue , clinically suggestive of oral hairy leukoplakia ( hl ) , were studied . in particular , the value of local antifungal therapy in establishing the diagnosis of hl was investigated . in 15 patients ( 52 % ) the lesions could be ultimately attributed to a candidal infection of the tongue . in 10 of the remaining 14 patients , a biopsy was obtained from lesions persisting after local antifungal treatment . in all biopsy specimens , the diagnosis of hl was confirmed by histopathologic examination and the demonstration of epstein-barr virus dna by polymerase chain reaction , southern blot hybridization , and dna in situ hybridization . the present data confirm that the diagnosis of hl in hiv-infected patients can not be reliably made on clinical criteria alone , but requires histopathologic confirmation including the demonstration of epstein-barr virus dna , preferably by dna in situ hybridization . however , with regard to the differential diagnosis of white , nonremovable lesions on the lateral border of the tongue in hiv-infected patients , the present study suggests that persistence of lesions after local antifungal therapy is highly suggestive of hl . 
hiv infection : clinical features and treatment of thirty-three homosexual men with kaposi 's sarcoma . the clinical findings of patients with oral kaposi 's sarcoma are reviewed . these oral findings commonly included candidiasis , hairy leukoplakia , gingivitis associated with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , periodontitis , and other symptoms , including xerostomia . the other common symptoms of hiv disease that may be of importance in leading to a diagnosis are reviewed in this patient group . treatment by local radiotherapy or by intralesional vinblastine of these oral kaposi 's sarcomas resulted in successful palliation , with more than 50 % regression of the lesions in 80 % of the patients treated . 
gingival swelling as a manifestation of aplastic anemia . gingivitis in the preschool child is uncommon and is usually associated with underlying systemic disease such as leukemias , neutropenias , and other immunologic defects . this report describes gingival hyperplasia in a preschool child with aplastic anemia and highlights the need to exclude systemic disease in children with periodontal disease . 
melanocytic hyperplasia of the oral mucosa . lesions that exhibit melanocytic hyperplasia are uncommon in the oral mucosa . they are even more rare than the various morphologic types of nevomelanocytic lesions . this article reports the clinicopathologic features of oral lesions diagnosed as lentigo simplex , junctional lentigo ( " jentigo " ) , atypical melanocytic hyperplasia ( melanoma in situ ) , and melanocanthoma . the proper terminology for these lesions is also discussed . 
major aphthous-like ulcers in patients with aids . this report describes persistent , painful oral ulcers that occurred in nine patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . these ulcers resembled major aphthous ulcers in clinical appearance and response to therapy . they occurred less frequently in patients with aids than those caused by herpes simplex and were found in 4 of 346 ( 1.1 % ) patients with aids at one medical center . lesions were typically painful . identification and treatment with topical tetracycline and steroids led to resolution with relief of symptoms . further study is necessary to understand the etiology and pathogenesis of these ulcers . 
normal proprioceptive trigeminal afferents in patients with sjogren 's syndrome and sensory neuronopathy . a pure sensory neuropathy due to neuronal damage in the gasserian and spinal ganglia has been described in patients with sjogren 's syndrome . conventional electromyographic ( emg ) studies can demonstrate the selective involvement of the sensory pathways but they do not provide definite evidence for the site of the lesion . noting that the trigeminal sensory neurons carrying cutaneous and muscular afferents are differentially located in the gasserian and mesencephalic nuclei , respectively , we carried out an electrophysiological study of the trigeminofacial and trigeminotrigeminal reflexes in 5 patients with sjogren 's syndrome and pure sensory neuropathy , in 10 patients with sensory-motor neuropathies of other causes , and in 10 healthy subjects . our results show that patients with sjogren 's syndrome and pure sensory neuropathy who exhibited abnormal blink reflexes and an abnormal , cutaneous-induced masseter silent period had normal jaw jerks , whereas patients with sensory-motor neuropathies who exhibited abnormal cutaneous responses had abnormal jaw jerks . these findings suggest that the lesion in pure sensory neuropathy involves damage to the neurons of the gasserian ganglia and not to the trigeminal axons , since an axonal lesion would be expected to involve the large axons from muscle spindle receptors . 
association of the complement allele c4aq0 with primary sjogren 's syndrome in japanese patients . we studied allotypes of the fourth component of complement ( c4 ) and factor b in 76 patients with sjogren 's syndrome ( ss ) and in 63 normal subjects . c4a-null ( c4aq0 ) was found in 10 of 28 patients who had primary ss , compared with 1 of 63 control subjects ( p less than 0.005 ) . in contrast , no significant difference in the frequency of any c4 allotype was observed between patients with secondary ss and control subjects . an association of hla-drw53 with primary ss in japanese patients has been reported . since there is no linkage disequilibrium between drw53 and c4aq0 , it is possible that at least 2 genes in the major histocompatibility complex may determine susceptibility to the development of primary ss in the japanese population . 
pancreatic autoantibodies and pancreatic function in sjogren 's syndrome . pancreatic autoantibodies were determined in 49 patients with sjogren 's syndrome and related to functional parameters . pancreatic duct autoantibodies ( pda ) were detected in the sera of three patients , and all showed abnormal exocrine pancreatic function . islet cell antibodies ( ica ) were not detected in the sera of the 49 patients , including two individuals with diabetes mellitus . in conclusion , pda occur in patients with sjogren 's syndrome , and may be associated with exocrine pancreatic dysfunction . 
the vascularized fibula graft in mandibular reconstruction . the use of a vascularized graft from the fibula for mandibular reconstruction is presented . the great strength , pliability , and long vascular pedicle that characterize such grafts make them particularly suitable for this type of repair . the results in six cases were highly satisfactory . masticatory function was well restored , without alteration of the facial contour , and with minimal sequelae at the donor site . 
fine-needle aspiration biopsy of head and neck lesions . the case records of 213 fine-needle aspiration biopsies ( fnab ) of head and neck masses performed on 209 patients over a 3-year period were reviewed to assess the diagnostic accuracy and safety of this technique in comparison with surgical histologic examination . cytologic diagnoses based on fnab were compared with histologic diagnoses in 110 patients who underwent surgery . based on cytology alone , 40.3 % of the lesions were reported as malignant , 45.1 % as benign , and 14.6 % as indeterminant . a specific cytologic diagnosis was made in 85.5 % of the cases . cytologic diagnoses concurred with surgical histologic diagnoses 90 % of the time . fine-needle aspiration biopsy was found to have a false-positive rate of 0.5 % and a false-negative rate of 2.3 % . the sensitivity and specificity of fnab in determining a malignant diagnosis were 81.1 % and 99 % , respectively . positive and negative predictive values were calculated at 98.9 % and 82.8 % , respectively . diagnostic rate , sensitivity , and negative predictive value increased consistently throughout the study period , indicating that the diagnostic accuracy of fnab improved with experience . 
medical and dental implications of cocaine abuse . with the ever-increasing supply of cocaine and use of " crack , " the potent and smokeable form of cocaine , the dangers of cocaine abuse , with its high morbidity and mortality , have become recognized . oral and maxillofacial surgeons may frequently and unknowingly be treating patients who use cocaine , and , therefore , they must be educated about cocaine-related problems and be prepared to deal with the complications . this article discusses the nature of cocaine , its pharmacology , systemic affects , the oral manifestations of cocaine abuse , and recommended clinical management of the patient . 
monocytoid b cell lymphoma . the clinical , light microscopic , ultrastructural , immunocytochemical and cytogenetic features of a case of monocytoid b cell lymphoma were investigated . the tumour initially affected the cervical and supraclavicular nodes , but 33 months later affected the left parotid salivary gland . the patient had subclinical sjogren 's syndrome . the neoplastic cells showed characteristic morphological features and had peri - and interfollicular distribution in the node . immunocytochemically the tumour cells were l26 , 4kb5 , mb2 , cd19 , cd20 , cd22 and igm/kappa positive . prominent plasmablastic plasmacytoid differentiation was present in the recurrent tumour , suggesting an origin from post-follicular b cells . the lymphoma cells showed unusual cytogenetic abnormalities . 
dapsone is an effective therapy for the skin lesions of subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus and urticarial vasculitis in a patient with c2 deficiency . the deficiency of second component of complement ( c2d ) is the most common hereditary complement deficiency . patients with c2 deficiency are frequently associated with an auto-immune disease process , in particular , systemic lupus erythematosus ( le ) - like syndrome and/or vasculitic syndrome or bacterial infections . c2d has been associated with the le subset of subacute cutaneous le ( scle ) , the presence of anti-ro ( ssa ) antibodies , and the human leukocyte antigen ( hla ) types a10 , b18 , dr2 . we describe the clinical , serologic and immunogenetic data in a patient with manifestations of sjogren 's syndrome who developed urticarial vasculitis and photosensitive annular scle which were effectively treated with oral dapsone . our case illustrates the dynamic nature of le . 
prevention of dry socket : an overview . dentists , exodontists , oral surgeons , and now oral and maxillofacial surgeons have been plagued with a postextraction complication , commonly known as " dry socket , " since the inception of our profession . other designations that have been attached to this malady over the years include alveolar osteitis , postextraction osteitis , osteomyelitic syndrome , alveolar sicca dolorosa , and , latterly , fibrinolytic alveolitis . myriad attempts to eliminate this painful condition have been made , to no avail . nonetheless , significant progress has been made in an endeavor to reduce its incidence . perhaps it is time to take an inventory of the proven methods that will assist the practitioner in reducing the incidence of this complication in his/her practice . this article presents a review of past investigations that appear to have merit in this regard , with a summary of recommendations at the conclusion of the article . 
effects of removing inferior alveolar neurovascular structures on mandibular growth and the eruption of permanent dentition in puppies . investigation was performed on the effects of removing the inferior alveolar neurovascular structures on the permanent dentition and mandibular growth . five puppies with erupted deciduous teeth had the inferior alveolar neurovascular structures removed unilaterally . when the test animals were 28 weeks old , examination revealed that the deciduous teeth on the side operated had exfoliated but permanent teeth did not replace them . on the other hand , the permanent teeth on the side not operated on replaced the exfoliated deciduous teeth . after a second period of 28 weeks , the germs of the permanent teeth on the side operated on were still buried in the mandibular bone , and the permanent teeth on the side not operated on erupted normally . mandibular measurements demonstrated that translative and transformative growth and developmental processes were normal in both the sides operated on and the sides not operated on . 
orofacial odontogenic infections : review of microbiology and current treatment . orofacial odontogenic infections are common . current evidence indicates that anaerobes play a major role in these infections and that the most common microbial isolates are bacteroides , fusobacteria , peptococci , and peptostreptococci as well as some viridans streptococci . drainage must be established where possible . penicillin is still the drug of first choice for therapy , with metronidazole a good alternative . nevertheless , not all clinicians are aware of current views and , therefore , this article is a state-of-the-art review for the practicing clinician of the microbiology and antimicrobial therapy of orofacial odontogenic infections . 
malignant melanoma of the oral cavity . a case report . the oral cavity is a rare location for the development of primary malignant melanoma . less than 2 % of all malignant melanomas develop in the region . a case report is presented , illustrating the management in the site of the palate , together with a review of the relevant literature . 
oral lichen planus : the clinical , historical , and therapeutic features of 100 cases lichen planus is a chronic inflammatory epidermal and mucosal disease , the cause of which is poorly understood . we reviewed the clinical and historic features of 100 patients referred to our clinic for diagnosis and management of lichen planus . the age , gender , chief complaint , duration of the chief complaint , medical history , medications , and clinical findings were recorded . past therapeutic modalities were reviewed . of therapeutic significance , 25 patients with oral lichen planus had a secondary oral candidiasis . management of symptomatic lichen planus with topical and systemic steroid is discussed . the pharmacology of topical and systemic steroid usage and the rationale for treatment are discussed . 
candidal infection in oral lichen planus . the prevalence of candidal infection in lichen planus ( lp ) and its possible association with ulceration were independently examined in two archived series of 108 and 77 cases derived from two separate populations . to ensure that similar material was being compared , each case was histopathologically reassessed and confirmed as lp or reclassified as nonspecific lichenoid stomatitis ( nsls ) , lichenoid dysplasia ( ld ) , or other ( o ) . three further sections , cut at 25 microns intervals , were stained with periodic acid-schiff reagent for the identification of intraepithelial candidal pseudohyphae . as control specimens , 61 normal and 59 hyperkeratotic mucosal samples were similarly processed and examined . candidal infection was found in 17.4 % and 16.4 % of ulcerated and nonulcerated lp cases , respectively , and in 40.0 % and 16.7 % of ulcerated and nonulcerated nsls cases , respectively . one case of ld was infected . each control series contained one infected case . the results indicate that candidal infection occurs more readily in lp and nsls , with no apparent association with ulceration in lp . the comparatively marked increase in the infection prevalence of ulcerated nsls can not be statistically confirmed , and its significance remains uncertain . 
a comparison of the signs of temporomandibular joint dysfunction and occlusal discrepancies in a symptom-free population of men and women . to date , there has been no conclusive explanation for the predominance of female patients with temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) dysfunction . the purpose of this study was to survey a normal population without symptoms for the presence of certain putative signs of tmj dysfunction in association with certain signs of occlusal discrepancy and to determine the presence of any gender variation . the subjects ( 217 men and 217 women ) were examined for the presence of three putative signs of tmj dysfunction : limited mandibular opening ( under 37 mm ) , deviation on opening , and joint sounds . the subjects were also examined for the presence of four signs of occlusal discrepancy : an anterior slide from centric relation ( cr ) to centric occlusion ( co ) , lateral slide from cr to co , nonworking occlusal contacts , and working disclusive contacts distal to the canines . cr is the mandibular position at which the condyles are in their most superior position on the posterior aspect of the articular tubercles . co is the mandibular position at which the mandibular and maxillary teeth are in maximum intercuspation . there were no significant differences in the prevalence of the putative signs of tmj dysfunction and occlusal discrepancy between men and women . it was concluded that factors other than the presence of these signs of tmj dysfunction and occlusal discrepancy are responsible for the high predominance of female patients with tmj dysfunction . 
grinspan 's syndrome : a drug-induced phenomenon ? three cases of apparently drug-induced grinspan 's syndrome involving the triad of oral lichen planus , diabetes mellitus , and hypertension are reported . because drug therapy for diabetes mellitus and hypertension is capable of producing lichenoid reactions of the oral mucosa , the question arises as to whether grinspan 's syndrome is an iatrogenically induced syndrome . 
adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma of the tongue . a case of posterior tongue lymphoma associated with adult t-cell leukemia ( atl ) that occurred as a lesion in the lingual dorsal portion is reported in a 64-year-old woman . initially , a diagnosis of hodgkin 's lymphoma was considered as no findings associated with atl except lymphadenopathy and serum anti-atla antibodies were present . combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy were administered with favorable results ; however , 4 months later , pneumocystis carinii pneumonia developed , and 2 months later , generalized lymphadenopathy and hypercalcemia evolved . at this time , a diagnosis of atl was made . the patient died of renal dysfunction 6 months after the initial presentation . in suspected cases of atl and malignant diseases of t-cell lineage , namely , malignant lymphoma and mycosis fungoides , the presence of htlv-1 infection should be confirmed by testing for anti-atla antibodies . 
peripheral ameloblastoma with clear cell differentiation . this report details a case of mandibular peripheral ameloblastoma having a clear cell component . the latter consisted of ovoid cells with vacuolated or clear cytoplasm and vesicular or pyknotic nuclei that may be disposed as discrete clusters or show direct transition from typical acanthomatous areas . comparison of this lesion with other odontogenic and nonodontogenic tumors that contain clear cells is discussed in the context of the differential diagnosis . 
intracoronal radiolucencies within unerupted teeth . case report and review of literature . a panoramic radiograph obtained during orthodontic treatment revealed an intracoronal radiolucency within an unerupted permanent second molar . this unusual entity was successfully treated by surgical and endodontic intervention , followed by restorative and orthodontic treatment . these treatments enabled the tooth to maintain pulpal vitality , erupt , complete root formation , and function . this report will review the proposed etiologies for this condition , discuss the need for surgical intervention , and present the details of the case . 
a comparison of two temporary restorations : light-cured resin versus a self-polymerizing temporary restoration . temporary restorative materials are an important component of endodontic therapy . they must both adequately seal the access preparation between visits and protect the obturated canal ( s ) from microleakage until a permanent restoration can be placed . the efficacy of cavit and t.e.r.m. ( a new light-cured composite product ) was compared with the use of a carbon black coronal microleakage protocol . the teeth examined had previously received coronal restorations . after the teeth were accessed , restored with cavit or t.e.r.m. , and exposed to the dye , they were cleared . three-dimensional assessment then revealed that cavit more consistently provided an effective seal . in addition , a great deal of microleakage was observed around the permanent restoration-tooth interface . this indicates that perhaps leaking permanent restorations should be removed in their entirety before initiation of endodontic treatment . 
radiographic detection of recurrent carious lesions associated with composite restorations . the greatest potential problem associated with posterior composite restoration is secondary caries detection . it is essential that secondary caries is detected as early as possible to enhance the prognosis for a successful treatment outcome . this laboratory study evaluated the optimum level of radiopacity of composite materials for radiographic detection of secondary carious lesions associated with composite materials . results indicated that for the radiologic detection of secondary caries , it is sufficient for composite materials to have the same level of radiopacity as enamel . 
iliac versus cranial bone for secondary grafting of residual alveolar clefts . secondary bone grafting of the maxilla in the mixed transitional dentition stage has become a well-accepted procedure in the surgical protocol for rehabilitation of patients with residual alveolar clefts . this retrospective study was undertaken to evaluate and compare the long-term results obtained with iliac or cranial cancellous bone graft material in the area of alveolar clefts and was based on the independent experience of two plastic surgeons from the same center using exclusively cranial or iliac cancellous bone , respectively . the criteria for surgery were similar . the surgical technique , with the exception of the bone-grafting material , also was similar , and all patients were treated by the same group of orthodontists . fifteen patients from each group , from a total of over 100 patients , were randomly selected and included in the study . all patients were followed up from 18 to 60 months . operative and perioperative parameters , donor-site morbidity , and long-term results were evaluated , compared , and analyzed . there were no significant differences between the two groups , and equally good results in terms of bone incorporation , tooth eruption , and appearance were obtained with both iliac and cranial bone grafts . we conclude from our study that successful bone grafting is primarily achieved by adherence to meticulous surgical technique , simultaneous closure of coexisting oronasal or palatal fistulae , use of cancellous bone particles only , and coverage of the grafts with well-vascularized flaps . the source of bone graft does not seem to primarily influence the success of the outcome . 
radiographic manifestations of congenital anomalies affecting the airway . congenital anomalies of the airway are generally uncommon , but a vast array of possibilities exists . some present life-threatening emergencies at birth , and others go undiagnosed for years . clinical symptoms are often nonspecific , and radiographic evaluation is frequently requested to localize and characterize the lesion before endoscopy , surgery , or medical management . the most common intrinsic congenital anomalies causing airway compromise in infants include choanal atresia , mandibular hypoplasia , laryngomalacia , vocal cord paralysis , and congenital subglottic stenosis . the radiologist must be on the alert for unsuspected additional anomalies involving the airway , lungs , and esophagus , which occur with relative frequency . numerous extrinsic congenital masses of the head , neck , and mediastinum may compromise the airway . hemangiomas , lymphangiomas , and teratomas are more likely to be noted at birth , whereas branchial cleft cysts , thyroglossal duct anomalies , and dermoid cysts frequently present later . mass location and radiographic characteristics usually allow accurate preoperative diagnosis . intracranial involvement by nasal or nasopharyngeal masses , intrathoracic involvement by lower neck mass , and intraspinal involvement by posterior neck mass must always be sought for radiographically . persistence of respiratory symptoms after removal of such masses is not uncommon because tracheal deformity and laxity may take months or years to resolve . recent advances in cine ct and mr imaging promise to improve imaging of the airway in general and in the pediatric population in particular . significant limitations in imaging of the pediatric larynx remain . as a result , endoscopy continues to be the primary diagnostic tool for airway anomalies of this region . 
primary sarcomas of the major salivary glands . sarcomas arising in the major salivary glands are rare . this article presents the clinicopathologic features of 11 patients with primary sarcomas of the parotid gland ( eight men and three women aged 7 to 75 years ; mean age , 42 years ) . the 11 sarcomas were histologically typified as follows : three malignant fibrous histiocytomas and two each of neurosarcomas , rhabdomyosarcomas , fibrosarcomas , and osteosarcomas . four patients experienced disease recurrences , and seven patients developed metastases . seven patients died of their sarcomas , with a mean survival time of 30 months . four patients were alive from 5 to 12 years ( one each with angiomatoid malignant fibrous histiocytoma , embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma , fibrosarcoma , and neurosarcoma ) . prognosis correlated with size of the neoplasm , type of sarcoma , and histologic grade . in this respect , salivary gland sarcomas behaved in identical fashion to their soft-tissue counterparts . 
primary parotid malignancies . a clinical and pathologic review . one hundred ninety-four patients with primary malignant tumors of the parotid gland who underwent surgery at the mayo clinic ( 1970 through 1987 ) are reviewed . survival patterns were analyzed using the kaplan-meier product-limit method that separated histologic results into three significantly different groups . survival rate was highest for patients with acinic cell , adenoid cystic , and low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinomas ; intermediate for patients with high-grade mucoepidermoid carcinomas ; and lowest for the remaining six histologic types encountered . cox multiple linear regression was used to identify patient and tumor characteristics with greatest prognostic significance . in order of decreasing strength , regional metastatic involvement , pain , male gender , grade , stage , and advancing age all demonstrated independent prognostic significance . fifty-three percent of patients requiring facial nerve sacrifice were asymptomatic at presentation . a high positive correlation was observed between advancing grade and stage . 
further evaluation of radical surgery following radiotherapy for advanced parotid carcinoma . a series of 30 patients who have been treated for advanced carcinoma of the parotid gland using radiotherapy followed by radical surgery is presented . three patients deteriorated during preoperative radiotherapy and remained unfit for surgery ; the remaining 27 underwent radical parotidectomy with block dissection of the neck . twelve patients received additional radiotherapy after operation . of those patients undergoing surgery , three have been lost to follow-up , 17 have died and seven remain alive ; the period of follow-up ranges from 3 to 133 months . fourteen patients remained free of recurrent disease at death or when last seen , and six patients developed a local recurrence at a medium period of 10.5 ( range 3-36 ) months after surgery . for all 30 patients , the cumulative proportion surviving for 5 years was 30 per cent . 
dry mouth : diagnosing and treating its multiple causes . dry mouth in the elderly is a common occurrence with multiple etiologies . it is not a normal phenomenon of aging and , therefore , an attempt at elucidating its cause should be made . sjogren 's syndrome may occur , and it is diagnosed by labial biopsy . medications are also frequently associated with dry mouth , and dosages may need to be adjusted or the drug discontinued if symptoms are severe . strategies for management of dry mouth are explored . 
inhibition of fluorouracil-induced stomatitis by oral cryotherapy . mucositis is a significant dose-limiting toxicity associated with fluorouracil ( 5fu ) , particularly when it is combined with leucovorin . we hypothesized that oral cryotherapy would cause local vasoconstriction and would temporarily decrease blood flow to the oral mucous membranes . if cryotherapy were used during the time of peak serum 5fu levels , then the oral mucous membranes would have less exposure to 5fu and thus develop less mucositis . to test this hypothesis , 95 patients scheduled to receive their first cycle of 5fu plus leucovorin were randomized to have oral cryotherapy at the time of chemotherapy administration or to serve as a control group . subsequent mucositis was significantly reduced in the group assigned to receive cryotherapy as judged by the attending physicians ( p = .0002 ) and by the patients themselves ( p = .0001 ) . we now routinely recommend this cryotherapy procedure for our patients receiving daily bolus 5fu plus leucovorin . 
concurrent cisplatin , infusional fluorouracil , and conventionally fractionated radiation therapy in head and neck cancer : dose-limiting mucosal toxicity . after a preliminary dose-finding study involving 12 patients with advanced or locally recurrent head and neck cancer , 27 patients were treated on a phase ii protocol , using fluorouracil 350 mg/m2/d by continuous intravenous ( iv ) infusion over 5 days , followed on the sixth day by a 2-hour iv infusion of cisplatin 50 mg/m2 , administered during the first and fourth weeks of radiation therapy to total doses between 60 and 64 gy , using 2 gy daily fractions . eight of these 27 patients had american joint committee on cancer staging ( ajcc ) stage iii disease , and 12 had stage iv disease . four had recurrent disease after surgery . three-year follow-up is now available . twenty-one ( 77.8 % ) remitted completely following treatment , and 11 remain free of local and regional relapse at 3 years . four have developed systemic metastases . following successful salvage treatment in two cases , estimated determinate survival at 3 years is 64 % . acute toxicity was manageable with this regime . eleven instances of grade 3 radiation therapy oncology group/european organization for research and treatment of cancer ( rtog/eortc ) mucositis were observed , which caused interruptions to radiotherapy in only four cases . no late sequelae have so far been recorded . it is concluded that the protocol described is tolerable but probably did not cause a greater number of locoregional " cures " than would have been expected following conventional radiotherapy alone in this group of patients . the use of infusional fluorouracil with concurrent conventionally fractionated radiation therapy and cisplatin infusion results in mucositis that limits the dose of fluorouracil to levels that are probably subtherapeutic . 
apparent increase in the incidence of invasive group a beta-hemolytic streptococcal disease in children . recently , among adults , an increase in the incidence of invasive disease caused by group a beta-hemolytic streptococci ( gabs ) has been noted , as has the appearance of a severe illness called " toxic shock-like syndrome , " also caused by gabs . we now report an apparent increase beginning in 1987 in the incidence of invasive disease caused by gabs in children . among these patients the manifestations were varied . one child had signs and symptoms compatible with the streptococcal toxic shock-like syndrome . among the gabs isolates from our patients , 8 ( 80 % ) of 10 evaluated for m-protein antigens were nontypeable . further studies will be necessary to determine the relationship between serotypes and virulence of gabs . physicians should be aware of the possibility of an increasing incidence of invasive gabs disease in children , as well as its manifestations , which may include toxic shock-like syndrome . 
fine-needle aspiration biopsy of salivary glands . between january 1 , 1973 , and december 31 , 1988 , the authors or their associates performed 552 fine-needle aspiration biopsies on patients with clinically significant masses of the salivary glands . all patients presented at the medical college of virginia hospitals or clinics of virginia commonwealth university ; they were followed for periods ranging from 1 to 16 years . when available , the fine-needle aspiration diagnoses were correlated with histologic diagnoses and long-term patient outcomes . the sensitivity for a neoplasm was 93.3 % ; the specificity for the absence of a neoplasm was 99 % . diagnostic efficiency was 96.4 % , and predictive value of a positive aspiration for a neoplasm was 98.3 % . with fine-needle aspiration , surgical excision of salivary gland masses is often unnecessary . in patients with primary and metastatic neoplasms involving the salivary glands , fine-needle aspiration aids the surgeon in mapping the extent of the surgical procedure and in preoperatively preparing the patient . the procedure is cost-effective . 
aerobic and anaerobic microbiology of peritonsillar abscess . thirty-four aspirates of pus from peritonsillar abscesses that were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria showed bacterial growth . a total 107 bacterial isolates ( 58 anaerobic and 49 aerobic and facultative ) were recovered , accounting for 3.1 isolates per specimen ( 1.7 anaerobic and 1.4 aerobic and facultatives ) . anaerobic bacteria only were present in 6 ( 18 % ) patients , aerobic and facultatives in 2 ( 6 % ) , and mixed aerobic and anaerobic flora in 26 ( 76 % ) . single bacterial isolates were recovered in 4 infections , 2 of which were streptococcus pyogenes and 2 were anaerobic bacteria . the predominant bacterial isolates were staphylococcus aureus ( 6 isolates ) , bacteroides sp ( 21 isolates , including 15 bacteroides melaninogenicus group ) , and peptostreptococcus sp ( 16 ) and s. pyogenes ( 10 ) . beta-lactamase-producing organisms were recovered from 13 ( 52 % ) of 25 specimens tested . this retrospective study highlights the polymicrobial nature and importance of anaerobic bacteria in peritonsillar abscess . 
postanginal sepsis with dysphagia . we have described a 10-year-old girl who had dysphagia followed abruptly by arthritis . streptococcus pyogenes was identified as the pathogen by fasciotomy with bone biopsy , and a tonsillar fluid collection confirmed the diagnosis of postanginal sepsis . the patient was cured by a 6-week course of parenteral antibiotics . 
nutritional supplementation and the development of linear enamel hypoplasias in children from tezonteopan , mexico . the purpose of this study was to compare the effect of nutritional intake during tooth-crown formation on the subsequent development of linear enamel hypoplasias ( lehs ) in mexican nonsupplemented ( control ) adolescents ( n = 42 ) and adolescents who had received daily nutritional supplements since birth ( n = 42 ) . the proportion of individuals with lehs was nearly two-fold greater ( 74.4 % ; 95 % ci 64.7-84 .1 % ) in the control than in the supplemented group ( 39.5 % ; 95 % ci 28.6-50 .4 % ; chi 2 = 9.44 ; p = 0.001 ) . although the estimated peak age at formation , approximately 2-2 .5 y , is similar in both groups , the proportion of early ( before 1.5 y ) and late ( after 3.0 y ) lehs was greater in the control group . leh was also more common in females and was associated with an increase in illness days and a decrease in growth velocity . results of this study suggest that mild to moderate undernutrition during enamel formation is causally linked to the formation of lehs . 
s-100 protein antibodies do not label normal salivary gland myoepithelium . histogenetic implications for salivary gland tumors . neoplastically modified myoepithelial cells have a key role in developing the histologic characteristics of some salivary gland tumors . s-100 protein expressed in certain of these tumors is suggested to support this role , as the principal component in the human salivary gland reported to be s-100 protein-positive is myoepithelium . confirmation of such an important aspect is required . immunoperoxidase staining of parotid salivary gland shows considerably different patterns obtained with antibodies to s-100 protein , neuron-specific enolase , and neurofilaments compared with those for muscle-specific actin and cytokeratin 14 ; many more cells and their processes associated with acini and ducts are evident with the latter two antibodies . double immunofluorescent staining with antibodies to either s-100 protein or neuron-specific enolase combined with muscle-specific actin does not reveal colocalization of these antigens in myoepithelial cells . the former localize only to nerve fibers adjacent to , but separate from , acini , and the latter only to myoepithelial cells . it is apparent that s-100 protein staining of the rich network of unmyelinated nerves in the interstitial tissues , evident ultrastructurally , has been misinterpreted as myoepithelium . this result has important implications for histogenetic classifications of salivary gland tumors . 
