outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus . objective -- to compare the outcome of renal replacement treatment in patients with diabetes mellitus and in non-diabetic patients with end stage renal failure . design -- retrospective comparison of cases and matched controls . setting -- renal unit , western infirmary , glasgow , providing both dialysis and renal transplantation . patients -- 82 diabetic patients starting renal replacement treatment between 1979 and 1988 , compared with 82 matched non-diabetic controls with renal failure and 39 different matched controls undergoing renal transplantation . main outcome measures -- patient characteristics , history of smoking , prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy and myocardial ischaemia at start of renal replacement treatment ; survival of patients with renal replacement treatment and of patients and allografts with renal transplantation . results -- the overall survival of the diabetic patients during the treatment was 83 % , 59 % , and 50 % at one , three , and five years . survival was significantly poorer in the diabetic patients than the controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . particularly adverse features for outcome at the start of treatment were increasing age ( p less than 0.01 ) and current cigarette smoking ( relative risk ( 95 % confidence interval ) 2.28 ( 0.93 to 4.84 ) , p less than 0.05 ) . deaths were mainly from cardiac and vascular causes . the incidence of peritonitis in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis was the same in diabetic patients and controls ( 49 % in each group remained free of peritonitis after one year ) , and the survival of renal allografts was not significantly worse in diabetic patients ( p less than 0.5 ) . conclusions -- renal replacement treatment may give good results in diabetic patients , although the outlook remains less favourable than for non-diabetic patients because of coexistent , progressive vascular disease , which is more severe in older patients . 
failure of nutritional recovery after total gastrectomy . malnutrition is reported to be an inevitable consequence of total gastrectomy , although there are few data to support this contention . six patients of median age 63 years underwent total gastrectomy for malignancy . at follow-up ( median 45 months , range 25-60 months ) each patient was clinically tumour-free and underwent dietary assessment , faecal fat and nitrogen measurement and routine haematological testing . protein and fat stores , measured by neutron activation analysis and the tritiated water dilution technique , were compared with the same measurements made before operation and with predicted values . mean ( s.d. ) dietary intake ( 2224 ( 381 ) kcal day-1 and 81 ( 15 ) g protein day-1 ) met the patients ' estimated requirements . mean ( s.d. ) serum albumin and faecal nitrogen values were normal but there was notable steatorrhoea ( 21 ( 17 ) g day-1 ) . body composition measurements revealed profound deficiencies of body-weight ( p less than 0.02 ) , protein ( p less than 0.01 ) and fat ( p less than 0.02 ) before operation which were not corrected by an apparently curative total gastrectomy ( p less than 0.05 ) , although further deterioration was prevented . 
hypercalcemia in infants presenting with apnea . to our knowledge apnea in infants has not been associated with hypercalcemia . we describe seven hypercalcemic infants aged 2 days to 3 months who had presented with apnea ; six of the seven were otherwise healthy . the apneic attacks were brief , and normal breathing was restored spontaneously or after tactile stimulation . the attacks stopped and the apnea monitoring was discontinued when the children were 1 month to 2 years of age . the only abnormal finding common to all of the patients was hypercalcemia . idiopathic infantile hypercalcemia was diagnosed in six of the patients and familial benign hypercalcemia in one . our findings suggest that determination of the plasma calcium level be included in the investigation of apnea in infancy . 
suppression of urinary albumin excretion in diabetic rats by 4 ' ( imidazol-1-yl ) acetophenone , a selective inhibitor of thromboxane synthesis . thromboxane contributes to the regulation of glomerular hemodynamics in experimental models of diabetes and has been implicated as mediator in some models of glomerular injury . in the present study we examined urinary albumin , protein , and thromboxane b2 ( txb2 ) excretion during the 170 days after induction of diabetes by injection of streptozotocin in insulin-treated moderately hyperglycemic ( 200 to 400 mg/dl glucose ) rats ( sdrs ) . the effects of a thromboxane synthesis inhibitor , 4 ' - ( imidazol-1-yl ) acetophenone ( txi ) ( 100 mg/kg/day ) on these parameters were also assessed . urinary txb2 and albumin excretion in sdrs was not different from that in normal rats between 7 and 90 days but were three times higher than normal in sdrs at 125 and 170 days after induction of diabetes . in sdrs , urinary protein excretion was higher than in controls at 170 days but not at earlier time points . inulin clearance ( cin ) of sdrs was significantly higher than control values at 7 and 90 days and was not influenced by txi during this period . at 170 days cin was not significantly different in sdrs and normal rats . by contrast , albumin clearance ( caib ) and fractional caib were elevated in sdrs when compared with those values in normal rats . treatment of sdrs with txi for 170 days completely prevented the rise in urinary txb2 , albumin , and protein excretion , as well as the rise in fractional caib , but did not alter prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) excretion . txi also increased cin in sdrs to levels that were significantly higher than normal at 170 days . txi had no significant effect on urinary pge2 , txb2 , albumin , or protein excretion or on cin in normal rats and did not influence blood pressure or blood glucose in normal rats or sdrs . the results suggest a role for thromboxane in the mediation of albuminuria in the sdr . 
community screening for hypercholesterolemia . this study focused on a cholesterol screening and education program conducted in scottsdale , arizona , to determine the prevalence of hypercholesterolemia among the volunteer participants , and whether such a program motivates lifestyle changes and physician follow-up . the study also examined whether participants used the program to monitor known hypercholesterolemia . during the 6-month program , 1228 individuals were screened . of these , 29 % had a previous history of elevated cholesterol and 5 % were on cholesterol-lowering medication . of the group with no previous history of hypercholesterolemia , 41 % had cholesterol levels higher than 5.17 mmol/l ( 200 mg/dl ) and 10 % had levels higher than 6.21 mmol/l ( 240 mg/dl ) . a subgroup of 120 persons with levels higher than 6.21 mmol/l ( 240 mg/dl ) were contacted 4 to 6 months after the screening . most of this group reported improvement in diet and exercise patterns , and 58 % had consulted a physician . these results suggest that people with known hypercholesterolemia are using community screening programs to monitor their own cholesterol levels , and that such programs identity new high-risk individuals . program participants appear to change diet and exercise patterns and to seek physician follow-up . 
the relationship of antibody levels to the clinical spectrum of human neurocysticercosis . one hundred proven cases of cerebral cysticercosis were studied with an enzyme linked immunoassay ( elisa ) employing cyst fluid as antigen , with a view to detecting specific antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) . antibody levels were correlated with the clinical presentation of the patients , the type and number of cysts detected on their brain scans , the anatomical position of these cysts and the presence of lymphocytes in the csf . patients could be divided into two distinct categories , one with low levels of antibody in the serum and absent antibody in the csf , and the other with high levels in both the serum and the csf . this differentiation matched the clinical presentation of a benign and a malignant group . antibody levels could not be related to the type of cysts as observed on the brain scan , but depended on the anatomical position of the cyst , being lower if the cysts were confined to the cerebral cortex . a correlation of antibody levels with the number of cysts was only found in the benign group . 
estimating the benefits of cholesterol lowering : are risk factors for coronary heart disease multiplicative ? it is often stated that the major risk factors for coronary heart disease ( chd ) -- smoking , high blood pressure and high serum cholesterol -- are not merely additive but act together such that each multiplies the effects of the others . economic analyses in which the benefits of risk factor modification are estimated often reflect this . this paper explains how predictive models based on the simplest form of the multiple logistic function inevitably predict greater benefit from cholesterol lowering in those in whom other risk factors are adverse ; this results from the model itself , rather than the data . chd death rates from the screenee population of the multiple risk factor intervention trial are examined : these suggest that the relationship between cholesterol and both other major risk factors is closer to additive than to multiplicative . when the benefits of cholesterol lowering are estimated , a model based on additive risk , specifying product ( " interaction " ) terms , is to be preferred . 
hospitalization experience of navajo subjects with type ii diabetes and matched controls : an historical cohort study . using an historical cohort study design with a 12 year follow-up , we found that 77 navajo adults with type ii diabetes mellitus were hospitalized at a rate of 335 hospitalizations per 1000 patient years compared to a rate of 167 hospitalizations per 1000 patient years for 77 age , sex , and residence matched non-diabetic controls , yielding a risk ratio of 2.0 . using matched pairs analysis ( sign test ) , the observed difference in number of hospital admissions is statistically significant ( z = 2.30 , p less than 0.05 ) . the average duration of hospitalization , however , was not statistically different in matched pairs analysis ( z = 0.95 , p greater than 0.05 ) . the 136 excess hospitalizations of the diabetic subjects included 45 admissions for poor metabolic control of diabetes , 50 excess admissions for infectious disease , and 26 excess admissions for conditions of the heart , eye , kidney , or non-traumatic amputation . in multivariate analyses , variables found to be associated with greater hospitalization experience among the 77 diabetic subjects in the 12 years follow-up period included older age at entry to the study , poorer metabolic control early in the study period , and presence of diabetic complications . 
body mass index and 15-year mortality in a cohort of black men and women . the association between body mass index ( bmi ) and mortality was investigated in 2453 black male ( aged 30-79 years ) and 2731 black female ( aged 40-79 years ) members of the kaiser foundation health plan . during a 15-year follow-up 393 male and 283 female deaths were identified . analyses were conducted separately in a lower and an upper range of bmi ( as well as over the entire range ) , to isolate separate effects of low weight and high weight on mortality . particular attention was also paid to potential bias from cigarette smoking and antecedent illness . cox regression analyses showed that over the entire range of bmi the adjusted bmi-mortality association was significantly j-shaped for the men and essentially flat for the women . the inverse association between bmi and mortality in the lower range of bmi was statistically significant for the men ; the adjusted relative hazard increasing from the 10th to the 50th percentile of bmi was 0.76 ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 0.59-0 .98 ) . the positive association between bmi and mortality in the upper range of bmi was highly statistically significant for the men ; the adjusted relative hazard increasing from the 50th to the 90th percentile of bmi was 1.37 ( 95 % ci 1.14-1 .63 ) . whether controlled by multivariate analysis , by excluding the first 5 years of follow-up from the analyses , or by analyzing the bmi-mortality association in smoking-specific and/or illness-specific subgroups , smoking and antecedent illness did not have much impact on the bmi-mortality association , in either sex . the general observations on the bmi-mortality association are similar to findings in some white cohorts . 
postlaminectomy ossified extradural pseudocyst . case report . a large ossified spurious meningocele accompanied by recurrent lumbar disc herniation occurred 7 years after posterior intervention for laminectomy and discectomy in a 53-year-old man . the cyst wall , histologically composed of mature bone tissue , was sparsely covered with connective tissue and lined with fibrocyte - or fibroblast-like cells on the inside . the ossified pseudocyst was presumed to have originated from a minute defect in the dura mater which occurred at the time of the first operation . 
hmpao-spect imaging resembling alzheimer-type dementia in mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes ( melas ) . single-photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) of the brain using hexamethyl propylene amine oxime ( hmpao ) was performed in a 37-year-old patient suffering from mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes ( melas ) . reduced blood flow was observed bilaterally in the parieto-occipital regions ( resembling alzheimer type dementia ) and in the right parietal lobe . 
effects of excess dietary tyrosine on cholesterol , bile acid metabolism and mixed-function oxidase system in rats . excess dietary tyrosine ( 12 % ) caused hypercholesterolemia in male wistar rats and significantly increased cytochrome p-450 and b5 contents . bile flow and biliary output of total bile acids were significantly increased in rats fed this diet . biliary output of cholesterol was not significantly altered , whereas that of taurocholic acid was significantly increased . excess dietary tyrosine significantly decreased the fecal excretion of neutral steroids , whereas total steroid excretion was not significantly changed . the present results indicate that excess dietary tyrosine causes hypercholesterolemia without modifying the fecal total steroid excretion , thus supporting our previous hypothesis that stimulated synthesis of cholesterol is a main reason why excess dietary tyrosine leads to hypercholesterolemia . 
effect of vitamin c depletion on serum cholesterol and lipoprotein levels in ods ( od/od ) rats unable to synthesize ascorbic acid . the effect of ascorbic acid deficiency on serum and liver cholesterol , phospholipid and triglyceride levels , serum lipoprotein levels and serum lipoprotein cholesterol levels were examined in male rats with a hereditary defect in ascorbic acid synthesis ( ods rats ) . male homozygotes ( od/od ) and male rats of their parent strain ( + / + ) were each divided into four treatment groups and were fed vitamin c-deficient or vitamin c-replete diets containing either 0 or 0.5 % cholesterol . during the 3-wk feeding-period the ods ( od/od ) rats fed the vitamin c-deficient diet gradually decreased food intake , resulting in a lower body weight than that of od/od rats given ascorbic acid . the serum cholesterol level was significantly higher in the vitamin c-deficient od/od rats fed the cholesterol diet , and it tended to be higher in those fed the control ( 0 % cholesterol ) diet , whereas the liver lipid levels remained unchanged relative to those in od/od rats fed the vitamin c-replete diet . the serum very low density lipoprotein and high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol levels were lower in od/od rats fed the vitamin c-deficient diet without cholesterol , but intermediate density lipoprotein and low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were markedly higher in the vitamin c-deficient od/od rats than in od/od rats given ascorbic acid , regardless of dietary cholesterol level . the ratio of hdl2 cholesterol to hdl3 cholesterol was also higher in the vitamin c-deficient od/od rats . the parent strain of the od/od rats ( + / + ) showed no change due to vitamin c deficiency . these results suggest that vitamin c deficiency delays low density lipoprotein metabolism and produces hypercholesterolemia in male od/od rats . 
ascorbic acid effects on vitamin d hormone metabolism and binding in guinea pigs . ascorbic acid deficiency in guinea pigs fed a vitamin d-replete diet caused a moderate reduction of ca level in serum and bone ; 25-hydroxy-cholecalciferol or 25-hydroxyergocalciferol ( 25-ohd ) serum concentration tended to decline ; renal 25-hydroxycholecalciferol-1-hydroxylase ( 1-ohase ) activity decreased 50 % ; and 25-hydroxycholecalciferol-24-hydroxylase activity increased 1.6-fold . chromatin 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol [ 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 ] receptor concentration in the intestinal mucosa decreased 20-30 % , and the percentage of occupied receptors decreased from 12-15 % to 6-8 % . receptor affinity for 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 did not change ( kd = 0.24-0 .26 nmol/l , kd2 = 0.06-0 .10 nmol/l ) , but the cooperativity coefficient decreased from 1.7 to 1.4 . vitamin c deficiency potentiated effects of vitamin d deprivation and impaired a restorative action of vitamin d. it was accompanied by a marked delay in the elevation of 25-ohd concentration in serum as well as decreased 1-ohase activity in kidneys and a lower concentration of occupied 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 receptors in the intestinal mucosa . the data demonstrate a critical role for ascorbic acid in vitamin d metabolism and binding . 
vitamin a deficiency decreases natural killer cell activity and interferon production in rats . we examined the effect of vitamin a deficiency on natural killer ( nk ) cell activity and interferon ( ifn ) production . rats were weaned at 16 or 21 d of age onto semisynthetic diets containing either 0 or 4 micrograms retinol/g diet . at the time of study , retinol-depleted rats had serum vitamin a concentrations less than 7 % of those of pair-fed controls . in two studies , rats exhibited no external signs of retinol deficiency , but with further depletion some symptoms were observed . splenic nk cell activity against chromium-51-labeled yac-1 cells was significantly decreased in vitamin a-depleted rats ( 22-80 % of values for control rats , depending on the degree of retinol deficiency ) , regardless of the ratio of effector to target cells used . when vitamin a-depleted rats were repleted orally with retinol , nk cell activity was consistently normalized . to understand the possible mechanisms involved in decreasing nk cell activity , we investigated ifn production by concanavalin a-stimulated spleen cells from vitamin a-depleted , from repleted and from control animals . ifn titers were significantly decreased ( 22-33 % of values for control rats ) in supernatants of spleen cell cultures of the vitamin a-depleted rats . repletion with vitamin a resulted in ifn activities ranging from 80 to 130 % of controls . adding alpha/beta ifn in vitro to the spleen cells of vitamin a-depleted animals increased their nk cell activity . the number of spleen cells reacting with a monoclonal antibody specific for rat nk cells was slightly lower in retinol-depleted rats , but not enough to account for the differences in nk cell and ifn activities . these data suggest that vitamin a deficiency affect the nonspecific arm of the immune system , possibly by altering the functional capacity of cells to produce lymphokines needed for the generation of an appropriate cytolytic response . 
normalization of plasma arginine vasopressin concentrations when children with meningitis are given maintenance plus replacement fluid therapy we hypothesized that plasma arginine vasopressin ( avp ) concentrations in children with meningitis are appropriate for the children 's degree of hypovolemia , even though the concentrations were higher than expected for the serum osmolality . a randomized study was conducted to compare the effect on plasma avp concentrations of giving maintenance fluid requirements plus replacement of any deficit versus restricting fluids to two thirds of maintenance requirements for 24 hours . plasma avp concentrations and serum osmolality were measured before fluid therapy was begun and again after 24 hours . nineteen children , 2 months to 17 years of age , were studied ; 13 had bacterial meningitis ( 12 with haemophilus influenzae type b ) . ten children ( seven with bacterial meningitis ) received a mean of 1.42 times the calculated maintenance fluid requirements , and nine ( six with bacterial meningitis ) were restricted to a mean of 0.65 times maintenance . children in the maintenance group also received significantly more sodium ( mean = 6.3 meq/kg/24 hr ) than children in the fluid-restricted group ( mean = 2.0 meq/kg/24 hr ) . the two groups were comparable for plasma avp concentration and serum osmolality before fluid therapy was begun . the plasma avp concentration was significantly lower after 24 hours of maintenance plus replacement fluids than after fluid restriction ( p = 0.005 ) , and the change in avp concentration correlated with the amount of sodium given ( p less than 0.02 ) . this study supports the hypothesis that serum avp concentrations are elevated in patients with meningitis because of hypovolemia and become normal when sufficient sodium is given to facilitate reabsorption of water by the proximal tubule of the kidney . patients with meningitis can be given maintenance plus replacement fluids but should be monitored for the development of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone . 
renovascular beta adrenergic hypersensitivity and hyperinsulinemia in rats with dietary-induced obesity . to determine whether obesity alters responsiveness to vasoactive drugs , we compared the cardiovascular effects of angiotensin , phenylephrine and isoproterenol in unanesthetized age-matched control and obese oscai rats . obesity was induced by programming pups to overeat immediately after birth and then feeding them a high-fat diet thereafter . elevations in tail-cuff systolic and mean pressures from 7 through 11 months of age and in plasma insulin at 8 months of age indicated that obese rats had developed borderline hypertension and hyperinsulinemia . cardiovascular responsiveness was then tested by recording blood pressure , heart rate and renal blood flow from chronically implanted arterial catheters and flow probes while graded doses of the three test drugs were infused intravenously . heart rate and renal blood flow decreased during pressor responses to angiotensin and phenylephrine and were oppositely increased during depressor responses to isoproterenol . magnitude of all cardiovascular receptors was dose-dependent . obese rats had weaker reflex bradycardic responses to angiotensin and phenylephrine than control rats . more importantly , they also had larger renal vasoconstrictor responses to 2 ng/100 g of angiotensin or vasodilator responses to 15 ng/100 of isoproterenol . whether or not the changes in cardiovascular responsiveness were related to hyperinsulinemia was undetermined . our results suggest that , in addition to being overweight , slightly hypertensive and hyperinsulinemic , obese oscai rats have impaired baroreflexes and a renal vascular bed more responsive to beta adrenergic vasodilation . 
trigger finger in young patients with insulin dependent diabetes . two-hundred-and-fifty patients with juvenile diabetes mellitus aged 3-38 years , were examined for trigger finger . thirteen patients ( 5 % ) were found to have trigger finger -- 10 women and 3 men aged 14-38 years ( mean 26 years ) . the ring , middle fingers , and thumb were the most affected . two patients had bilateral trigger finger . there was a significant correlation between duration of diabetes and trigger finger ( p less than 0.001 ) but no correlation with the control of diabetes . our work indicates for the first time the prevalence of trigger finger in young patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus . 
splinter hemorrhages as a possible clinical manifestation of cholesterol crystal embolization . we describe a patient with cholesterol crystal embolization who demonstrated splinter hemorrhages of multiple fingernails and toenails as part of her clinical presentations . our patient 's clinical presentation , and review of the medical literature , raise the possibility that cholesterol crystal embolization may be associated with splinter hemorrhages . 
rapidly progressive calcific periarthritis occurring in a patient with lupus nephritis receiving chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . we present a patient who developed rapidly progressive calcific periarthritis while receiving chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . she developed chronic renal failure on the basis of lupus nephritis . hydroxyapatite crystals were isolated from periarticular deposits and identified using phase contrast light microscopy and electron microscopy . conservative management using phosphate binding agents and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was unsuccessful and lesions were excised surgically . 
differential effects of alpha and beta adrenergic blockade on glucose and lactate metabolism during acute stress . in this study we examined the role of alpha and beta blockade on glucose and lactate metabolism during the acute stress of insulin-induced hypoglycemia . three groups of conscious dogs with chronically fitted catheters in the femoral artery and in the femoral , portal , and hepatic veins were studied after an 18-hr fast . after a 1-hr basal period , hypoglycemia was induced with insulin infusion at 5 mu/kg . min for 3 hr . group 1 received no other treatment . groups 2 and 3 received , respectively , phentolamine ( 8 micrograms/kg . min ) and propranolol ( 4 micrograms/kg . min ) beginning 30 minutes before and throughout the experimental period . despite similar hyperinsulinemia , plasma glucose dropped in group 1 ( from 115 + / - 10 to 40 + / - 3 mg/dl ) and in group 2 ( from 110 + / - 4 to 60 + / - 3 mg/dl ) but in group 3 it was maintained at 45 + / - 4 mg/dl by exogenous glucose infusion at a rate of 2.2 + / - 0.4 mg/kg . min . hepatic glucose production increased 50 + / - 13 % , 127 + / - 30 % , and 55 + / - 30 % in groups 1 , 2 , and 3 , respectively , within 60 minutes and was 56 + / - 19 % , 55 + / - 17 % , and -0.04 + / - 12 % during the last hour of the experiment . glucose utilization did not change in groups 1 and 2 but it increased in group 3 . plasma lactate increased in group 1 ( from 850 + / - 190 to 1,980 + / - 450 mumol/l ) and in group 2 ( 985 + / - 180 to 4,785 + / - 500 mumol/l ) , while in group 3 there was an early rise ( to 695 + / - 120 mumol/l ) within 30 minutes that gradually dropped to near basal . 
transmission of hiv-1 infections from mothers to infants in haiti . impact on childhood mortality and malnutrition . the cds/jhu aids project team . of 4588 pregnant women in a high-risk haitian population , 443 ( 9.7 % ) were serologically positive for the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive were more likely to be premature , of low birth weight , and malnourished at 3 and 6 months of age than were infants born to women who were hiv-1 seronegative . increased mortality was observed in infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive by 3 months of age . at 12 months of age , 23.4 % of the infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive had died compared with 10.8 % of the infants born to women who were hiv-1 seronegative ; at 24 months of age , the mortality rates were 31.3 % and 14.2 % , respectively . maternal hiv-1 infections resulted in an 11.7 % increase in the overall infant mortality rate in this population . the estimated mother-to-infant hiv-1 transmission rate in these breast-fed infants was 25 % , similar to the rates reported for non-breast-fed populations in the united states and europe . 
the metabolic consequences of a " washed " cardiopulmonary bypass pump-priming fluid in children undergoing cardiac operations . the substrate load of the pump-priming fluid , especially glucose and lactate , has a major influence on the metabolic response of children during cardiac operations and may be detrimental neurologically . it is possible to cleanse the priming fluid of these excess substrates by ultrafiltration followed by the addition of a balanced electrolyte solution . we have used this technique in the bypass management of nine children over 1 year of age and weighing less than 18 kg who were studied from induction of anesthesia to 6 hours postoperatively . frequent blood samples were taken for measurement of electrolytes , intermediary metabolites , and stress-related hormones . throughout the study period electrolyte concentrations were maintained within the physiologic range and changes in blood glucose and lactate were minimized compared with those of matched historical controls from previous studies . during the period of cardiopulmonary bypass mean serum glucose concentrations varied between 4.4 and 7.7 mmol/l and peaked at 10.7 mmol/l just before skin closure . the mean serum lactate concentration did not exceed 2.3 mmol/l during the period studied . thus ultrafiltration of the priming fluid and replacement with a balanced electrolyte solution results in the delivery to the patient of a reasonably physiologic substrate load , which is reflected in improved control of mean plasma intermediary metabolite concentrations . the method may form the basis of further clinical studies to determine specific aspects of the metabolic stress response in children . 
peroxisomal disorders . although peroxisomes were once considered a vestige , their importance in cellular metabolism is clearly established by the many inherited diseases that have been described in the past two decades . unfortunately there is no definitive treatment for the various disorders , but based on the recognition of the biochemical abnormalities , prenatal testing and appropriate genetic counseling can be provided . it is essential for clinicians to be aware of this group of diseases , as diagnosis and further study of these patients are essential in understanding the basic etiologic mechanisms underlying these complex groups of disorders . clearly , there is much to be learned about the relationship between biochemical abnormalities and the phenotypic variability of the peroxisomal disorders . 
effect of long-term monitoring of glycosylated hemoglobin levels in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus background . the value of routine measurements of glycosylated hemoglobin ( hemoglobin a1c ) in the care of patients with diabetes mellitus is uncertain . we undertook this study to determine whether knowledge of hemoglobin a1c values would result in improved metabolic control in a group of patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) . methods . we randomly assigned 240 patients with iddm to one of two groups that were comparable in age , sex , duration of diabetes , and initial hemoglobin a1c levels . the patients were followed for a year , and the hemoglobin a1c concentration was measured at three-month intervals . the hemoglobin a1c values were used in assessing glycemic control and modifying therapy in one of the two groups . in the other , care givers were not aware of the hemoglobin a1c levels and relied on blood or urine glucose measurements to monitor treatment . results . among the 222 patients still being followed after one year , the mean hemoglobin a1c value decreased significantly -- from 10.1 to 9.5 percent ( p less than 0.005 ) -- in the group whose hemoglobin a1c level was monitored ( n = 115 ) , whereas the initial and one-year values in the control group ( n = 107 ) were 10.0 and 10.1 percent , respectively . the proportion of patients with poor control , defined as those having a hemoglobin a1c value above 10.0 percent , decreased from 46 to 30 percent ( p less than 0.01 ) in the group whose hemoglobin a1c level was monitored but did not change significantly ( 45 to 50 percent ) in the control group . the patients in the group whose hemoglobin a1c level was monitored were seen and their insulin regimens changed more often , but they were hospitalized for acute care of their diabetes less often than those in the control group . a similar decrease in hemoglobin a1c values occurred in the control group in the following year , when their care givers knew their hemoglobin a1c values . conclusions . regular measurements of hemoglobin a1c lead to changes in diabetes treatment and improvement of metabolic control , indicated by a lowering of hemoglobin a1c values . 
plasma prorenin activity and complications in children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus background . renin , secreted into the blood by the juxtaglomerular cells of the kidneys , is derived from a larger precursor , prorenin . plasma prorenin activity is increased in patients with insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetes mellitus who have microvascular complications of their disease . we undertook this study to determine prospectively whether rising prorenin activity can predict the development of complications in young patients with type i diabetes . methods and results . plasma prorenin was measured in 135 children and adolescents with type i diabetes . the mean ( + / - se ) plasma prorenin activity among the 32 patients over the age of 10 years who had had uncomplicated diabetes for 0.1 to 5 years was 8.43 + / - 0.58 ng of angiotensin i per liter.second , as compared with 7.06 + / - 0.32 in 37 control subjects of the same age ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the 9 patients older than 10 who had retinopathy or overt albuminuria , the mean plasma prorenin activity was 13.09 + / - 1.43 ng of angiotensin i per liter.second ( p less than 0.0001 ) . in 34 patients 10 years old or older with uncomplicated diabetes , 3 to 13 measurements of plasma prorenin activity were taken during a follow-up period of 6 to 39 months . urinary albumin was determined at each visit , and the patients had regular retinal examinations . only 1 of the 20 patients who had consistently normal plasma prorenin values had overt albuminuria ( ratio of urinary albumin to creatinine , greater than 0.017 ) or retinopathy , whereas one or both of these complications appeared in 8 of the 14 who had at least one high prorenin value . the plasma prorenin value was significantly higher in these eight patients at least 18 months before a complication was found . conclusions . increased plasma prorenin activity identifies a group of young patients with diabetes who are at high risk for retinopathy or nephropathy . 
a prospective study of the development of diabetes in relatives of patients with insulin-dependent diabetes . background . the presence of cytoplasmic islet-cell autoantibodies has been recognized as a risk factor for the development of diabetes mellitus in relatives of patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) , but the magnitude of the risk is unknown , as is the influence of other factors , such as age , sex , and race . methods . from 1979 through 1989 , we studied 4015 initially nondiabetic relatives of 1590 probands with iddm to determine the risk of iddm according to the presence and titer of autoantibodies , as well as other factors . results . of the 4015 nondiabetic relatives , 125 ( 3.1 percent ) had islet-cell antibodies in their initial serum samples , and 40 contracted iddm . islet-cell antibodies were most frequent ( 4.3 percent ) in relatives who were under 20 years of age ( p = 0.001 ) and in those ( 4.8 percent ) from families with more than one affected member ( a multiplex pedigree ) ( p = 0.003 ) . independent risk factors for the development of diabetes in the relatives included age of less than 10 years at the time of the initial study ( p = 0.001 ) , membership in a multiplex pedigree ( p = 0.02 ) , and a positive test for islet-cell antibodies in the initial serum sample ( p = 0.0001 ) . twenty-seven of the relatives in whom diabetes developed ( 67.5 percent ) had positive tests for islet-cell antibodies before the diagnosis of iddm , giving a relative risk of iddm of 68 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 34 to 134 ) for antibody-positive relatives . islet-cell-antibody titers of 20 juvenile diabetes foundation units or higher were associated with an increasing risk of diabetes . conclusions . nondiabetic relatives of probands with iddm who are in the first two decades of life , are members of multiplex pedigrees , and have increased titers of islet-cell antibodies are the most likely to contract iddm themselves . 
increased high-density lipoprotein levels caused by a common cholesteryl-ester transfer protein gene mutation . background and methods . the plasma cholesteryl-ester transfer protein ( cetp ) catalyzes the transfer of cholesteryl esters from high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) to other lipoproteins . we recently described a japanese family with increased hdl levels and cetp deficiency due to a splicing defect of the cetp gene . to assess the frequency and phenotype of this condition , we screened 11 additional families with high hdl levels by means of a radioimmunoassay for cetp and dna analysis . results . we found the same cetp gene mutation in four families from three different regions of japan . analysis of restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms of the mutant cetp allele showed that all probands were homozygous for the identical haplotype . family members homozygous for cetp deficiency ( n = 10 ) had moderate hypercholesterolemia ( mean total cholesterol level [ + / - sd ] , 7.01 + / - 0.83 mmol per liter ) , markedly increased levels of hdl cholesterol ( 4.24 + / - 1.01 mmol per liter ) and apolipoprotein a-i , and decreased levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( 1.99 + / - 0.80 mmol per liter ) and apolipoprotein b. members heterozygous for the deficiency ( n = 20 ) , whose cetp levels were in the lower part of the normal range , had moderately increased levels of hdl cholesterol and apolipoprotein a-i and an increased ratio of hdl subclass 2 to hdl subclass 3 , as compared with unaffected family members ( 1.5 + / - 0.8 vs. 0.7 + / - 0.4 ) . cetp deficiency was not found in six unrelated subjects with elevated hdl cholesterol levels who were from different parts of the united states . conclusions . cetp deficiency appears to be a frequent cause of increased hdl levels in the population of japan , possibly because of a founder effect . the results that we observed in heterozygotes suggest that cetp normally plays a part in the regulation of levels of hdl subclass 2 . there was no evidence of premature atherosclerosis in the families with cetp deficiency . in fact , the lipoprotein profile of persons with cetp deficiency is potentially antiatherogenic and may be associated with an increased life span . 
minor congenital malformations in infants of insulin-dependent diabetic women : association with poor glycemic control . a prospective study of 171 insulin-dependent diabetic pregnant women was undertaken to establish the relationship of glycemic control with minor congenital malformations . each live-born infant was assessed systematically by two independent examiners using a standardized checklist . there were 32 infants with minor congenital malformations ( 18.7 % ) . there were significant differences in mean glycohemoglobin a1 between the group with minor congenital malformations and the group without congenital malformations at 12 , 16 , and 20 weeks , but not at 8 or 24 weeks . logistic regression analysis showed that maternal age , race , gravidity , white class , duration of diabetes , maternal vasculopathy , and cigarette smoking were not significant variables correlated with minor congenital malformations . because glycohemoglobin levels from 12-20 weeks are believed to reflect glycemic control from approximately 6-20 weeks , we conclude that poor glycemic control during late embryogenesis and early fetal development is associated with an increased risk of minor congenital malformations . we speculate that improvement of glycemic control during this period should decrease the risk of minor congenital malformations . 
diabetes insipidus associated with craniopharyngioma in pregnancy . a case is presented of a pregnancy complicated by a suprasellar mass diagnosed at 27 weeks ' gestation . this patient developed diabetes insipidus , which was successfully treated with 1-desamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin . thyrotropin-releasing hormone and acth stimulation tests were also abnormal , requiring the institution of thyroid and cortisol replacement therapy . the patient was delivered at 34 weeks ' gestation secondary to worsening visual field testing . a craniotomy was performed in the postpartum period with removal of a craniopharyngioma . with successful medical treatment and careful observation , surgical intervention may be postponed until postpartum or until a gestational age with lower neonatal morbidity and mortality is reached . 
phenobarbital and cerebral blood flow during hypertension in the newborn beagle . phenobarbital sodium has been used in anticonvulsant concentrations ( 15 to 40 micrograms/ml serum ) in premature newborns in attempts to prevent periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages . although its clinical usefulness in this regard is controversial , phenobarbital treatment has been shown to reduce periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhages after hypertensive insult in newborn beagles . in this study cerebral blood flow values in steady state and during phenylephrine-induced hypertension with and without phenobarbital pretreatment were measured in newborn beagles . at anticonvulsant dosage , phenobarbital sodium decreased mean arterial blood pressure transiently during steady state and significantly reduced total cerebral blood flow during phenylephrine-induced hypertension without reducing mean arterial blood pressure . this phenobarbital sodium effect on cerebral blood flow was not as great in the presence of acidosis , and the initial hypotensive effect of phenobarbital sodium was sustained for a longer period of time during acidosis . phenobarbital sodium may reduce the incidence of hemorrhages in the newborn brain by providing protection against isolated hemodynamic stresses characterized by acute increases in cerebral blood flow , with or without increased mean arterial blood pressure . 
rapid intravenous rehydration in the pediatric emergency department children suffering from mild to moderate ( 3 to 6 % ) dehydration likely caused by viral gastroenteritis are often hospitalized because they are unable to tolerate oral fluids . we studied 17 such children , aged one to six years , who were otherwise healthy . all had isonatremic dehydration and were treated with 30 ml/kg of 3.3 % dextrose and 0.3 % saline over a period of three hours in the emergency department before being discharged . no patient required admission to the hospital . only one patient required another course of rapid intravenous rehydration and subsequently improved without hospitalization . although all our patients experienced vomiting before treatment , 65 % had no vomiting after treatment . rapid intravenous rehydration is an effective treatment , for children with mild to moderate dehydration secondary to presumed viral gastroenteritis , that obviates the need for hospitalization . 
worldwide differences in the incidence of type i diabetes are associated with amino acid variation at position 57 of the hla-dq beta chain . the presence of an amino acid other than aspartic acid at position 57 of the hla-dq beta chain ( non-asp-57 ) is highly associated with susceptibility to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) , whereas an aspartic acid at this position ( asp-57 ) appears to confer resistance to the disease . we hypothesize that the 30-fold difference in iddm incidence across racial groups and countries is related to variability in the frequency of these alleles . diabetic and nondiabetic individuals were evaluated in five populations , including those at low , moderate , and high risk . hla-dq beta genotype distributions among the iddm case groups were markedly different ( p less than 0.001 ) , as were those among nondiabetic controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . non-asp-57 alleles were significantly associated with iddm in all areas ; population-specific odds ratios for non-asp-57 homozygotes relative to asp-57 homozygotes ranged from 14 to 111 . relative risk information from the case-control study and population incidence data were combined to estimate genotype-specific incidence rates for the allegheny county , pa , caucasians . these rates were used to predict the overall incidence rates in the remaining populations , which were within the 95 % confidence intervals of the actual rates established from incidence registries . these results are consistent with the hypothesis that population variation in the distribution of non-asp-57 alleles may explain much of the geographic variation in iddm incidence . 
adoptive transfer of autoimmune diabetes and thyroiditis to athymic rats . we describe the induction of autoimmune diabetes , insulitis , and thyroiditis in athymic rats following injections of major histocompatibility complex compatible spleen cells . lymphocytes with these capabilities were found in normal rats of the yos , wag , pvg , and diabetes-resistant bb strains , and in diabetes-prone bb rats . adoptive transfer was facilitated by prior in vivo depletion of rt6 .1 + regulatory t cells and in vitro mitogen activation of donor spleen cells . by rt6 depleting diabetes-resistant donors and using nude recipients , transfer of diabetes and thyroiditis was accomplished by using fresh , unstimulated spleen cells . the data suggest that organ-specific autoreactive cells may be present to various degrees but suppressed to a variable extent in many rat strains . the equilibrium between autoreactive and regulatory cells appears to determine the expression of autoimmunity . 
progression of diabetic autonomic neuropathy over a decade in insulin-dependent diabetics . the prognosis for diabetics with autonomic neuropathy is little known . we therefore studied the progress of young insulin-dependent diabetics , first identified as having abnormal autonomic function 10-15 years ago . we have shown that the mortality of diabetics with symptomatic autonomic neuropathy is increased , but is less than previously reported . mortality in asymptomatic diabetics with an isolated abnormality in autonomic function tests is not increased . the heart rate variability declines at 1.02 + / - 0.47 ( sd ) per annum in diabetics with an initially normal heart rate variability . while symptoms of autonomic neuropathy do not usually remit even over a decade , they do not commonly progress . three groups of young insulin-dependent diabetics had heart rate variability tested between 1972 and 1977 and have been reviewed 10-15 years later . group a ( n = 49 ) had symptomatic autonomic neuropathy and an abnormal heart rate variability ( less than 12 ) , group b ( n = 24 ) were asymptomatic yet had an abnormal heart rate variability and group c ( n = 38 ) were asymptomatic and had a normal heart rate variability ( 16-26 ) . the 10-year survival in group a ( 73.4 per cent ) was less ( p less than 0.05 ) than in groups b ( 91.7 per cent ) or c ( 89.5 per cent ) which did not differ from each other . the 18 group a deaths were due predominantly to renal failure ( n = 4 ) , myocardial infarction in patients with nephropathy ( n = 3 ) and sudden unexpected death ( n = 3 ) . the chief symptoms of autonomic neuropathy -- diarrhoea , postural hypotension and gustatory sweating , were very persistent but did not necessarily deteriorate or become disabling in the majority of patients . the development of autonomic symptoms in asymptomatic patients with abnormal heart rate variability was uncommon over a decade . 
hyponatraemia in patients with cirrhosis . hyponatraemia occurs in nearly half of patients in hospital with cirrhosis and ascites , and is due to the excessive retention of free water which results from the kidney 's inability to excrete it normally . the morbidity and mortality associated with hyponatraemia is largely attributable to central nervous system disturbances . the degree to which brain water content increases depends on the duration of hyponatraemia and on compensatory mechanisms . altered steroid and peptide hormones in cirrhotic patients may contribute to the development of hyponatraemic encephalopathy , symptoms of which overlap with hepatic encephalopathy and uraemia . the occurrence of central pontine myelinolysis is unrelated to the rate of correction of hyponatraemia . the appearance of hyponatraemia in cirrhotic patients , long regarded as a poor prognostic sign , may be a function of unrecognized underlying impaired renal function . therapy for hyponatraemia remains suboptimal . 
natural history and cardiac manifestations of homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia . forty-nine patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia ( diagnosed on the basis of family history , xanthomatosis , total serum cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein receptor status ) were studied over a period of 13 years , and underwent cardiovascular assessment . eleven died , nine of myocardial infarction . seven underwent coronary artery bypass , and another five had surgery to relieve supravalvular and valvular aortic stenosis . a distinctive pattern of disease was noted . coronary ostial stenosis ( four patients ) and aortic root stenosis ( six patients ) , both consequences of aortic root cholesterol deposition , were the typical manifestations of heart disease in childhood and adolescence . adults developed severe coronary artery disease with a high incidence of main stem lesions ( four of five patients ) . surgery provided effective treatment for coronary artery disease and aortic outflow tract stenosis . overall survival appeared to be better than reported in other studies which may reflect the ' receptor-defective ' status of this group of patients . 
defect in thermoregulation in malnutrition reversed by weight gain . physiological mechanisms and clinical importance . previous studies in infants and in the elderly have shown that a low body weight is associated with a defect in thermoregulation and an increased risk of hypothermia . in the present study , thermoregulatory responses to a cooling stimulus were measured in 10 young and middle-aged patients who lost at least 10 per cent of their body weight during illness . investigations were performed before and after restoration of body weight ( mean weight gain 7.2 kg , se 1.2 kg , p less than 0.001 ) . the cooling stimulus was provided by a special suit perfused with water at 28 degrees c and then at 23 degrees c. before weight gain , there was no increase in metabolic rate in response to cooling , despite a fall in core temperature . following weight gain , the thermogenic response to cooling was restored towards normal . peripheral vasoconstriction , the principal mechanism for heat conservation , was similar before and after weight gain . the thermogenic response to an infusion of adrenaline ( 25 ng/kg/min ) was not abolished by weight loss , suggesting that the defect in cold-induced thermogenesis following weight loss is due to a change in central control mechanisms of thermoregulation , and not to tissue unresponsiveness . the phenomenon of abnormal thermoregulation following weight loss and the return to normal with subsequent weight gain may be clinically important , particularly in the elderly , since quite small falls in core temperature may impair both neuromuscular coordination and cerebral function . 
the prevalence and risk factors associated with the onset of diabetic nephropathy in juvenile-onset ( insulin-dependent ) diabetics diagnosed under the age of 17 years in leicestershire 1930-1985 . the prevalence of diabetic nephropathy was studied in a population of 847 juvenile-onset ( insulin-dependent ) diabetics diagnosed under the age of 17 years who attended diabetic clinics in leicestershire between 1930 and 1985 . seven hundred and eighty-nine patients ( 93.2 per cent ) were traced . eight patients with non-diabetic proteinuria and four classified as maturity-onset diabetics of the young were excluded from further analysis . the mean age at onset was 9.3 + / - 4.2 years ( mean + / - sd ) and the mean duration of diabetes 17.0 + / - 10.6 years ( range 3-63 years ) . overall , 28 patients ( 3.6 per cent ) developed persistent proteinuria and 39 patients ( five per cent ) intermittent proteinuria . end-stage renal failure developed in eight patients . in patients with diabetes of 20 years duration ( n = 254 ) the prevalence of persistent proteinuria was 9.1 per cent and of intermittent proteinuria , 7.9 per cent . systolic and diastolic blood pressures were elevated in diabetics with persistent proteinuria compared to patients without proteinuria ( 154/89 + / - 27/15 vs 123/76 + / - 15/9 mm hg mean + / - sd ; p less than 0.001 ) . systolic blood pressure was also raised in patients with intermittent proteinuria ( 133/77 + / - 17/12 , p less than 0.005 ) . in addition , proteinuria ( intermittent and persistent ) was significantly associated with the use of once-daily insulin therapy in childhood and poor clinic attendance . this study suggests that twice-daily insulin therapy from diagnosis in childhood and regular contact with the diabetic clinic decreased the prevalence of diabetic nephropathy in this population . 
scapholunate advanced collapse : a common wrist abnormality in calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition disease . scapholunate advanced collapse ( slac ) is a pattern of wrist malalignment that has been attributed to posttraumatic or spontaneous osteoarthritis of the wrist . its features , however , also have been observed in patients with idiopathic calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate ( cppd ) crystal deposition disease . to determine the frequency and characteristics of slac in this disease , the authors reviewed wrist radiographs in 168 well-documented cases of this disorder . forty-four of the cases ( 26 % ) revealed wrist abnormalities typical of slac . associated findings included bilateral involvement ( 63 % ) ; calcification in or near the triangular fibrocartilage ( 70 % ) ; scapholunate widening or dissociation ( 70 % ) ; and arthropathies of the trapezioscaphoid ( 57 % ) , metacarpophalangeal ( second through fifth ) ( 52 % ) , first carpometacarpal ( 40 % ) , and radiolunate ( 14 % ) joints . results strongly suggest that cppd crystal deposition disease is one of the major causes of slac . furthermore , radiolunate arthropathy was found in 14 % of the patients with slac and cppd crystal deposition disease , which is different from other observations . 
unusual cerebral manifestations in hereditary fructose intolerance . five children with hereditary fructose intolerance developed symptoms of neurological impairment . in three of them , neurological involvement was related to the acute hepatic toxicity of fructose ( hypoglycemia , abnormal coagulation , cardiovascular collapse ) ; in the other two , such a relationship could not be demonstrated . neurological impairment is not classic in hereditary fructose intolerance , but its occurrence in the acute phase of the disease is possible and does not constitute an argument against the diagnosis . 
genetic defects in lipoprotein metabolism . elevation of atherogenic lipoproteins caused by impaired catabolism . certain proteins ( called apolipoproteins b and e ) on the surface of lipoprotein particles are responsible for mediating the binding of cholesterol-rich particles to specific lipoprotein receptors on the surface of cells and represent a major pathway controlling blood cholesterol levels . three important disorders of lipoprotein metabolism , which provide insights into the molecular mechanisms responsible for the elevation of specific atherogenic lipoproteins , are the following : ( 1 ) type iii hyperlipoproteinemia results from specific mutations in apolipoprotein e that prevent the normal binding of chylomicron remnants and very-low-density lipoprotein remnants to lipoprotein receptors . patients with this disorder who have elevated levels of these remnant lipoproteins develop atherosclerosis . ( 2 ) familial defective apolipoprotein b-100 results from a single amino acid substitution in apolipoprotein b that prevents low-density lipoprotein from binding normally to the low-density lipoprotein receptor and elevates plasma cholesterol levels . ( 3 ) familial hypercholesterolemia , which results in elevated levels of plasma low-density lipoprotein and premature atherosclerosis , is caused by a variety of mutations in the low-density lipoprotein receptor that interfere with the normal binding of lipoproteins to this receptor . these observations not only provide insights into the mechanisms responsible for normal lipoprotein metabolism , but also highlight the potential role of specific lipoproteins in atherogenesis . 
acute water intoxication as a complication of urine drug testing in the workplace urine drug testing is now mandatory in many industries . we report the first case , to our knowledge , of an adverse consequence of drug testing in the workplace : acute water intoxication . we discuss normal water metabolism and the adverse effects of water loading and impaired renal function on free water clearance . we present a literature review of seven other cases of acute voluntary water intoxication in patients without chronic psychiatric or neurologic illness . for workers undergoing urine drug testing we conclude that risk factors for acute water intoxication include ( 1 ) intake of more than 1 l of water and ( 2 ) impaired urine dilution . in a recently drug-tested worker , symptoms of cerebral dysfunction should suggest the possibility of water intoxication . 
fatal hypernatremia from exogenous salt intake : report of a case and review of the literature [ published erratum appears in mayo clin proc 1991 apr ; 66 ( 4 ) :439 ] hypernatremia is a common electrolyte disturbance , most often caused by volume depletion . hypernatremia due to sodium excess occurs less frequently , and fatal hypernatremia solely from ingestion of table salt is rare . we describe a 41-year-old man who had seizures and hypernatremia after ingestion of a supersaturated salt water solution intended for gargling . he had consumed approximately a third cup of table salt ( approximately 70 to 90 g of salt or 1,200 to 1,500 meq of sodium ) . his initial serum sodium concentration was 209 meq/liter . hypotonic fluid therapy was given to provide free water and to correct the hypernatremia gradually . our patient , however , failed to recover from the initial insult and died 3 days later . review of the literature revealed 10 adult and 20 pediatric cases of hypernatremia attributable to exogenous intake of salt . the type of therapy ( fluid or peritoneal dialysis ) , the type of fluid used , and the rate of correction of hypernatremia did not influence survival . the age of the patient and the initial serum sodium concentration were the most important prognostic indicators . both very young patients and those with lesser degrees of hypernatremia had a better rate of survival than did other patients . in addition , our review illustrates the surprisingly small amount of salt that can cause severe hypernatremia and the danger of using salt or saline as an emetic . 
molecular basis of different forms of metachromatic leukodystrophy background . metachromatic leukodystrophy is an autosomal recessive inherited lysosomal storage disorder caused by a deficiency of arylsulfatase a. three forms of the disease can be distinguished according to severity and the age at onset : late infantile ( 1 to 2 years ) , juvenile ( 3 to 16 ) , and adult ( greater than 16 ) . methods and results . to understand the molecular basis of the different forms of the disease , we analyzed arylsulfatase a alleles associated with metachromatic leukodystrophy . two alleles ( termed i and a ) were identified and accounted for about half of all arylsulfatase a alleles among 68 patients with metachromatic leukodystrophy whom we examined . sufficient information was available for 66 of the patients to allow classification of their disease . of the six instances of homozygosity for allele i , all were associated with the late-infantile form of the disease ; of the eight instances of homozygosity for allele a , five were associated with the adult form and three with the juvenile form . when both alleles were present , the juvenile form resulted ( seven of seven instances ) . heterozygosity for allele i ( with the other allele unknown ) is usually associated with late-infantile disease , and heterozygosity for allele a with a later onset of the disease . the clinical variability can be explained by the different levels of residual arylsulfatase a activity associated with these genotypes . conclusions . like many lysosomal storage disorders , metachromatic leukodystrophy shows clinical heterogeneity that seems to reflect genetic heterogeneity . one of the known alleles ( allele i ) is associated with earlier and more severe disease than the other ( allele a ) . 
effect of restricting dietary protein on the progression of renal failure in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus background . restriction of dietary protein may slow the progression of renal failure in diverse renal diseases , but the extent to which such a diet is beneficial in patients with diabetic nephropathy is uncertain . methods . we studied the effect of reduced intake of protein and phosphorus on the progression of renal disease in 35 patients with insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetes mellitus and clinically evident nephropathy . the low-protein , low-phosphorus diet contained 0.6 g of protein per kilogram of ideal body weight per day , 500 to 1000 mg of phosphorus , and 2000 mg of sodium . the control diet consisted of the patient 's prestudy diet with the stipulation that it contain 2000 mg of sodium and at least 1 g of protein per kilogram per day and 1000 mg of phosphorus . renal function was assessed by measurement of iothalamate and creatinine clearances at intervals of 3 to 6 months , and the patients were followed for a minimum of 12 months ( mean , 34.7 ) . the declines in mean glomerular filtration rates were compared between groups by linear-regression analysis of the glomerular filtration rate as a function of time . results . the patients who followed the study diet for a mean of 37.1 months had declines in iothalamate clearance of 0.0043 ml per second per month and in creatinine clearance of 0.0055 ml per second per month . the comparable values in the control group were 0.0168 and 0.0135 , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . blood pressure was well controlled , and the degree of glycemic control was comparable in both groups . conclusion . dietary restriction of protein and phosphorus can retard the progression of renal failure in patients with type i diabetes mellitus who have nephropathy . we believe that wider use of this treatment is indicated . 
aldosterone synthesis in salt-wasting congenital adrenal hyperplasia with complete absence of adrenal 21-hydroxylase . background . congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency is a disorder of cortisol and aldosterone biosynthesis that results from mutations in the cyp21 gene encoding the adrenal 21-hydroxylase p-450c21 . it can cause severe salt wasting in newborns that requires long-term treatment with glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids . we describe a spontaneous partial recovery from this disorder in a 19-year-old woman who had discontinued treatment . methods . we measured plasma and urinary levels of adrenal hormones , plasma renin activity , and sodium balance longitudinally in the patient and four other patients in whom adrenal hyperplasia had been diagnosed in infancy and in whom dna analysis had predicted a complete absence of functional p-450c21 . the ratio of plasma renin activity to urinary aldosterone was used as a measure of the response of the adrenal zona glomerulosa . two patients underwent intravenous infusion of [ 3h ] progesterone for the measurement of extraadrenal production of 21-hydroxylated precursors of aldosterone . results . the patient who had discontinued her medication excreted a normal amount of aldosterone ( 20.0 nmol per square meter of body-surface area per day ) while following a diet low in sodium . her ratio of plasma renin activity to urinary aldosterone-18-glucuronide excretion was 1.7 after three days of sodium restriction , as compared with a ratio of 4.7 at the age of nine years ( normal range , 0.03 to 0.1 ) . the percentage of extraadrenal conversion of progesterone to deoxycorticosterone was low . the four other patients had variable responses to sodium restriction after the neonatal period ( range for plasma renin activity : urinary aldosterone-18-glucuronide , 1.9 to 19.4 ) . conclusions . although patients with salt-wasting 21-hydroxylase deficiency have functionally equivalent mutations in their cyp21 genes , they may vary from one another and over time in their ability to produce mineralocorticoids . this variation may be attributable to another adrenal enzyme with 21-hydroxylase activity . 
infertility-associated endometrial cancer risk may be limited to specific subgroups of infertile women . data from previous studies suggest that infertility is a risk factor for endometrial cancer . we used data from the cancer and steroid hormone study to further characterize this relationship . the subject group comprised 399 women ages 20-54 with newly diagnosed epithelial endometrial cancer ascertained through six cancer registries . the control group comprised 3040 women in the same age range selected by random-digit telephone dialing from the same geographic areas where cancer patients resided . compared with women who reported no fertility problem , women with physician-diagnosed infertility who had reported at least 2 years of infertility had an odds ratio for endometrial cancer , adjusted for age , of 1.7 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.1-2 .6 ) . women who reported infertility resulting from ovarian factors had an adjusted odds ratio of 4.2 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.7-10 .4 ) . these results suggest that factors such as anovulation may explain much of the increased risk of endometrial cancer found among subgroups of infertile women . 
patient experience in a diabetic program project improves subsequent pregnancy outcome . there has been a notable improvement in the outcome of the pregnancies of insulin-dependent diabetics . this improvement has resulted from intensive health care programs and increased awareness among patients and health providers of the need for specialized prenatal care . we hypothesized that participation in a specialized program providing early glycemic control would benefit the patient 's subsequent pregnancy , despite progression of the diabetic disease process . we prospectively studied 55 insulin-dependent diabetic patients enrolled before 9 weeks ' gestation through two consecutive pregnancies : sequence 1 and sequence 2 . a control group of 55 insulin-dependent diabetic patients , entering the program for the first time , were matched with the sequence 2 pregnancies of the study group by maternal age and year of pregnancy . specific outcomes related to glycemic control in early gestation were significantly improved from sequence 1 to sequence 2 pregnancies : earlier week of entry ( p = .0001 ) , lower glycohemoglobin at 9 weeks ( p = .005 ) and at 14 weeks ( p = .02 ) , and improved fetal outcome ( decreased rate of spontaneous abortions or major malformations ; p less than .01 ) . week of entry and glycohemoglobin at 9 and 14 weeks were also significantly improved compared with the control group . seventy-three percent of the patients entered the program earlier in their sequence 2 pregnancies ( p = .001 ) and had lower glycohemoglobin concentrations at 9 weeks ( p = .005 ) compared with their sequence 1 pregnancies . sixty-five percent of the patients in sequence 2 had advanced diabetic disease ( white class d-rf ) , compared with 46 % in sequence 1 ( p less than .05 ) and 44 % of the controls ( p less than .05 ) . 
immediate postoperative mammogram for failed surgical excision of breast lesions in a series of 200 consecutive preoperative needle localizations of non-palpable breast lesions , 128 lesions ( 64 % ) were calcified and 72 lesions ( 36 % ) were noncalcified on preoperative mammograms . radiographs of the surgical specimen failed to confirm excision of 11 lesions ( 5.5 % ) , seven calcified and four noncalcified . these 11 patients were taken directly from the surgical suite to the radiology suite , where an immediate postoperative mammogram was obtained . in five patients ( 2.5 % ) , immediate postoperative mammograms showed surgical failure with the lesion still present . in six patients ( 3.0 % ) , immediate postoperative mammograms showed that the lesion had been removed , even though the lesion had not been identified on surgical-specimen radiographs . no errors occurred in the interpretation of immediate postoperative mammograms , a fact corroborated by examination of surgical specimens obtained at repeat surgery in three patients and identification of skin calcifications in two patients , and with follow-up mammograms in six patients . whenever a discrepancy between preoperative localization radiographs and surgical-specimen radiographs exists , the authors suggest immediate postoperative mammography to improve the diagnostic process . 
effect of chronic alcohol administration on transketolase in the brain and the liver of rats . to estimate the nutritional and the pathological states in thiamin-deficiency-related diseases , especially wernicke-korsakoff syndrome , we studied the relationship among transketolase activity , transketolase concentration , and thiamin phosphate esters in rats chronically fed alcohol . in the brain of alcohol-fed rats , the enzyme activity and concentration decreased although there was no positive correlation between the two . on the contrary , transketolase activity in the liver correlated positively with concentration , and both transketolase activity and concentration were decreased in the thiamin-deficient groups . these findings suggest that transketolase in the brain may be different from that in the liver and that the alteration of the enzyme activity in the brain may be based on the conformational change of the protein molecule caused by chronic alcohol administration . 
influence of breakfasts with different nutrient contents on glucose , c peptide , insulin , glucagon , triglycerides , and gip in non-insulin-dependent diabetics . to examine the influence of coingestion of fat and protein in a mixed meal on carbohydrate metabolism , subjects with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) received three different breakfasts varying in the amount of fat and protein ( group 1 ) or only in the amount of fat ( group 2 ) . compared with the changes after a standard breakfast , insulin increased after the protein-rich meal and decreased after the fat-rich meal in group 1 . glucose and gastric inhibitory polypeptide ( gip ) remained constant . in contrast , only gip showed a significant increase after a high-fat meal in group 2 . thus , in niddm subjects , glucose and insulin responses to different mixed meals do not appear to be exclusively mediated by gip . protein was confirmed as a potent stimulator of insulin secretion . other factors , such as an altered beta-cell response in diabetics to gip or other incretions , must be considered to explain the reported results . 
protein metabolism in obesity : effects of body fat distribution and hyperinsulinemia on leucine turnover . to examine whether moderate obesity and differences in body fat distribution are associated with abnormalities of protein metabolism , leucine turnover was measured in three groups of age-matched premenopausal women . ten upper-body-obese ( ub ob ) , 10 lower-body-obese ( lb ob ) , and 10 nonobese ( non ob ) women were studied in an overnight postabsorptive condition ( basal ) and again during an infusion of low physiologic amounts of insulin ( insulin clamp ) . results showed that basal leucine carbon flux was greater ( p less than 0.05 ) in ub ob and lb ob women than in non ob women ( 2.96 + / - 0.08 vs 3.14 + / - 0.16 vs 2.68 + / - 0.08 mumol.kg lean body mass-1 . min-1 , respectively ; mean + / - sem ) . leucine carbon flux was not suppressed during the insulin-clamp study in ub ob women but was in the lb ob and non ob women . we conclude that moderate obesity is associated with increased proteolysis and that insulin 's antiproteolytic actions are impaired in upper-body obesity . these findings could have implications for future studies of and treatment of obesity . 
effect of trestatin , an amylase inhibitor , incorporated into bread , on glycemic responses in normal and diabetic patients . the effect of incorporating the pancreatic alpha-amylase inhibitor trestatin into bread on postprandial plasma glucose and insulin excursions was tested in healthy volunteers and non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients . at both dose levels of trestatin ( 3 and 6 mg/75 g starch ) the peak values of plasma glucose and insulin were reduced markedly ( compared with placebo ) after the ingestion of 75 g starch in the form of bread . in healthy control subjects as well as in diabetic patients , trestatin produced significantly lower insulin excretions but also significant reductions in incremental plasma glucose areas in a dose-dependent fashion . it is concluded that it is technologically feasible to incorporate trestatin into starchy foods without loss of activity or impairment of taste . furthermore , the positive effect of trestatin on glycemic and insulinemic responses in diabetics and the lack of serious side effects offer a great potential in the dietary treatment of diabetic patients . 
percent body fat in obese white females predicted by anthropometric measurements . the percent body fat ( pbf ) and 15 anthropometric measurements were measured in 221 obese white females randomly assigned to validation and cross-validation groups . two new anthropometric equations for the prediction of the percent of body fat were generated by multiple regression . equation 1 includes the residual lung volume ( rv ) as a factor and had a correlation coefficient ( r ) of 0.85 and a standard error of the estimate ( see ) of 3.9 % . equation 2 does not include the rv and has an r of 0.82 and an see of 4.3 % . both equations were more precise than two previous widely used equations . in a subgroup of 37 subjects who underwent weight loss , equation 1 gave a more precise estimate of the change in pbf . we conclude that the new equations permit a better prediction of the pbf in obese white females . 
does fasting interval affect the glucose challenge test ? the relationship between fasting interval and glucose screening was assessed in a prospective study of 153 non-diabetic pregnant patients undergoing a standard 50g glucose challenge test . an interval of less than 3 hours after the last meal was found to be associated with a significantly greater insulin response as opposed to a fasting interval of more than 3 hours ( 121.3 pmol/l vs. 83.5 pmol/l , p less than .001 ) and a greater insulin/glucose index ( 0.92 vs. 0.66 , p less than .001 ) , with no difference in plasma glucose . overall , obese patients had a higher glucose response than non-obese , but only higher insulin levels ( 107 pmol/l vs. 69 pmol/l , p less than .001 ) and insulin/glucose index ( 0.79 vs. 0.59 , p less than .02 ) when the fasting interval was greater than 3 hours . our data suggest that the fasting interval can influence insulin response during a glucose challenge test and the aberration in insulin secretion may effect screening results , especially in the high-risk gravida with glucose abnormality . 
relationships between glucose levels and insulin secretion during a glucose challenge test . the relationship between glucose and insulin levels was examined in a prospective study of 153 pregnant patients without diabetes who underwent a standard 50 gm glucose challenge test . one hundred eighteen women had normal screening results ( glucose level less than 140 mg/dl ) and 35 had abnormal screening values but a normal oral glucose tolerance test . abnormal responders had greater insulin levels ( 149 vs 82 pmol/l , p less than 0.0001 ) , and a higher insulin/glucose index ( 0.96 vs. 0.72 , p less than 0.007 ) . patients with glucose levels less than 100 mg/dl had significantly lower insulin/glucose indices . overall , obese patients had significantly greater glucose and insulin measurements than did nonobese women , but there was no difference within normal and abnormal groups . glucose levels accounted for 52 % of the insulin output and 29 % of the insulin/glucose index variance . neither age , parity , nor obesity contributed significantly to insulin levels in the multiple regression model . therefore the accepted threshold for glucose screening reflects abnormal insulin output and this aberration may be indicative of the primary defect in gestational diabetes . 
placental thromboxane and prostacyclin production in an ovine diabetic model . we hypothesized that streptozocin-induced ovine diabetes would cause alterations in the placental production of thromboxane and prostacyclin . with a tissue incubation technique , we examined the placental production of thromboxane and prostacyclin in cotyledons from seven normal near-term ewes ( 127 + / - 3 days ' gestation ) and six streptozocin-induced diabetic ewes ( 125 + / - 3 days ' gestation ) . diabetic status was verified with serial fasting blood glucose assessments . placental tissue was incubated in dulbecco 's modified eagle 's medium for 48 hours at 37 degrees c with 95 % oxygen and 5 % carbon dioxide . samples were collected at 0 , 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 20 , 32 , and 48 hours . radioimmunoassay of the stable metabolites thromboxane b2 and 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha were used to determine thromboxane and prostacyclin production , respectively . placental thromboxane production was reduced in diabetic animals when compared with control animals ( 5.63 + / - 2.81 vs 7.32 + / - 1.37 pg/mg per hour , respectively ; p less than 0.05 ) . prostacyclin production was also significantly reduced in the diabetic placentas compared with control placentas ( 11.44 + / - 4.06 vs 16.29 + / - 4.59 pg/mg per hour , respectively ; p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that the ovine placenta produces thromboxane and prostacyclin . the ovine thromboxane production rate is comparable to that of the human placenta but the prostacyclin production rate is approximately two to three times higher . the observed decrease in the placental production of thromboxane and prostacyclin may reflect an adverse effect of hyperglycemia directly on eicosanoid production or indirectly through decreased placental cellular proliferation . 
effect of obesity on safe duration of apnea in anesthetized humans . obese patients have a decreased functional residual capacity and , hence , a reduced oxygen supply during periods of apnea . to determine whether obese patients are at greater risk of developing hypoxemia during induction of anesthesia than patients of normal weight , 24 patients undergoing elective surgical procedures were studied . group 1 ( normal ) were within 20 % of their ideal body weight . group 2 ( obese ) were more than 20 % but less than 45.5 kg over ideal body weight . group 3 ( morbidly obese ) were more than 45.5 kg over ideal body weight . patients were preoxygenated for 5 min or until expired nitrogen was less than 5 % . after induction of anesthesia and muscle relaxation the patients were allowed to remain apneic until arterial saturation as measured by pulse oximetry reached 90 % . the time taken for oxygen saturation to decrease to 90 % was 364 + / - 24 s in group 1 , 247 + / - 21 s in group 2 , and 163 + / - 15 s in group 3 ; these times are significantly different at p less than 0.05 between groups . regression analysis of the data demonstrated a significant negative linear correlation ( r = -0.83 ) between time to desaturation and increasing obesity . these results show that obese patients are at an increased risk of developing hypoxemia when apneic . 
the effects of tumor necrosis factor on intestinal structure and metabolism . tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , a polypeptide produced predominantly by activated macrophages , is an important mediator of sepsis . we analyzed the specific metabolic changes that occur in the gut following tnf administration . following general anesthesia , hemodynamic and metabolic indices were measured serially in control dogs ( n = 7 ) and animals receiving a continuous sublethal intravenous infusion of tnf ( 0.57.10 ( 5 ) iu/kg/6 hours , n = 7 ) . during tnf infusion mean arterial pressure gradually decreased despite fluid administration , which maintained wedge pressure and cardiac index , which were similar to control animals . while tnf significantly reduced intestinal blood flow to 12 + / - 3 ml/min/kg compared to 28 + / - 3 ml/min/kg ( p less than 0.01 ) in controls , intestinal oxygen consumption was maintained due to an increased extraction rate . despite hypoperfusion the intestinal exchange of metabolic substrate ( glucose , lactate , pyruvate , alanine , glutamine , glutamate , and ammonia ) was comparable between the control and tnf-infused animals . however , when substrate carbon balance across the intestinal tract was calculated , it appeared that there was a limitation in fuel availability in the tnf animals . this may be due to competition for fuel between the gut and other major organs . fuel limitation may jeopardize rapid cell proliferation and mucosal repair and with regional hypoperfusion these processes may account for the mucosal ulcerations observed at the termination of the study . 
vitreous fluorophotometry in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . correlation with microalbuminuria and diastolic blood pressure . vitreous fluorophotometry was performed on 240 eyes of 120 young subjects who had insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( type i ) and various grades of retinopathy . the concentration of fluorescein was measured in the anterior chamber and posterior vitreous 1 hour after intravenous injection of fluorescein . there was a significant association ( p less than .001 ) between the grade of retinopathy and the level of posterior vitreous leakage . the amount of posterior vitreous leakage in each eye also had a significant association with borderline elevation of diastolic blood pressure . subjects with excessive posterior vitreous leakage had significantly higher levels of urinary microalbumin excretion . in a multiple linear regression analysis for posterior vitreous leakage , retinal grade consistently entered the model at a significant level ( p less than or equal to .00001 to .003 ) . blood pressure also entered the model for posterior vitreous leakage at a significant level for retinal grades of the right and left eyes and of the worst eye . these results demonstrate an association between leakage of retinal and renal vessels , possibly linked at least in part to elevation in diastolic blood pressure . 
incidence and etiology of hyponatremia in an intensive care unit . to evaluate the incidence and causes of hyponatremia in intensive care unit ( icu ) patients , retrospective and prospective studies were done . hyponatremia was defined as a serum sodium concentration equal to or less than 134 mmol/l ( 134 meq/l ) . prospectively , 29.6 % of patients displayed hyponatremia . relevant data were obtained in twelve patients . two patients did not have serum hypoosmolality . in the ten patients with serum hypoosmolality , urine osmolality was not maximally dilute and urine sodium concentration was greater than 30 mmol/l ( 30 meq/l ) suggesting inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion ( siadh ) . however , three patients exhibited suppressed adh levels despite absence of maximal urinary dilution . the data suggest that hyponatremia is common in icu patients and that renal diluting defects are frequent . therefore , hypotonic fluid should be administered cautiously . 
differential regulation of liver p-450iii cytochromes in choline-deficient rats : implications for the erythromycin breath test as a parameter of liver function . progressive liver fibrosis in rats develops when they are fed a diet deficient in choline . this diet also results in a pronounced and selective decrease in the liver microsomal content of a phase i drug-metabolizing enzyme belonging to the cytochrome p-450iii gene family . because p-450iii cytochromes characteristically catalyze the n-demethylation of erythromycin , we believed that the production of breath co2 from erythromycin would be dramatically reduced in choline-deficient rats . however , when 12 choline-deficient rats were compared with 9 control rats , the reduction in co2 production from erythromycin ( mean decrease 71 % ) was essentially identical to that from aminopyrine ( mean decrease 69 % ) , a substrate believed to be metabolized normally by the hepatocyte in fibrotic liver disease . furthermore , we found that the relative erythromycin and aminopyrine demethylase activities were comparable when measured in vitro in liver microsomes prepared from the choline-deficient rats . to determine the molecular basis for the erythromycin demethylase activity in the choline-deficient rats , the liver microsomes were subjected to immunoblot analysis using a variety of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies capable of distinguishing individual p-450iii-related proteins . our studies confirm that a major erythromycin demethylase belonging to the p-450iii family , termed p-450p , was greatly reduced in the choline-deficient rat liver . however , the specific concentration of a second p-450p-related protein was essentially normal and that of a third p-450p-related protein was actually increased in the choline-deficient rat liver . 
cd8 + t cell homing to the pancreas in the nonobese diabetic mouse is cd4 + t cell-dependent . the adoptive transfer of type i diabetes in nonobese diabetic mice requires the contribution of both cd4 + and cd8 + t cells . to further elucidate the cellular pathway ( s ) of beta-cell destruction and the responsibility of each subset , high doses of committed t cells from diabetic mice purified to single subsets , were injected into syngeneic nonobese diabetic neonates . the recipients of single or mixed subsets were followed for clinical manifestations of diabetes and examined at 30 days of age for in situ lesions . none of the animals injected with either cd4 + or cd8 + t cells became overtly diabetic during the 30 days of observation whereas 8 of 23 mice inoculated with a mixture of the two subsets developed glycosuria and hyperglycemia . however , insulitis was found in 6 of the 13 mice injected with cd4 + t cells whereas only 1 of the 9 mice injected with cd8 + t cells showed marginal infiltration of the pancreas . the lesions initiated by cd4 + t cells alone were considerably less severe than those induced by the mixture of both subsets , corroborating the fact that overt disease did not occur in the former group . together , these results suggest a distinct function for each diabetogenic t cell subset . cd4 + t cells , which have the capacity to home to the pancreas , promote in turn the influx of cd8 + effector t cells that do not by themselves accumulate in this organ . these results illustrate a novel form of t-t cell interactions leading to organ specific autoimmune lesions . 
effects of tromethamine and hyperventilation on brain injury in the cat . the metabolic brain acidosis after trauma has been thought to be harmful and to contribute to neurological deterioration . amelioration of the brain acidosis either by systemic buffering agents or by hyperventilation has been proposed as a method of treatment . the objective of this study was to explore with magnetic resonance ( mr ) spectroscopy the metabolic changes in brain that occur with the use of hyperventilation , tham ( tromethamine ; tris [ hydroxymethyl ] aminomethane ) , and a combination ( tham and hyperventilation ) therapy in experimental fluid-percussion injury . brain lactate , brain ph , inorganic phosphate ( pi ) , and adenosine triphosphate levels were measured by 1h and 31p mr spectroscopy . arterial and cerebrovenous lactate and water content in brain tissue was determined in 29 cats using the specific gravimetric technique . following injury , the phosphocreatine ( pcr ) / pi ratio , which is an index of cerebral energy depletion , decreased to 76 % in four untreated animals , to 79 % in 11 tham-treated animals , to 68 % in seven animals receiving hyperventilation , and to 66 % in seven animals with combination tham and hyperventilation therapy . the pcr/pi ratio returned to a normal level in 8 hours in animals treated with tham and tham in combination with hyperventilation . the brain lactate index increased to 157 % in the hyperventilation group after trauma . in cats receiving tham plus hyperventilation , the brain lactate index was reduced to 142 % , while the minimum rise of 126 % was associated with treatment of tham alone . in the tham-treatment and combination-treatment groups , the water content of the white and gray matter was significantly decreased compared with that in untreated cat brains . prolonged hyperventilation provided relative ischemia in brain tissue and promoted more production of brain lactate , no recovery of the pcr/pi ratio , and no decrease in brain edema . on the other hand , administration of tham decreased production of brain lactate and brain edema and promoted the recovery of cerebral energy dysfunction . it was found that tham ameliorates the deleterious effects of hyperventilation by minimizing energy disturbance and that it also decreases brain edema . the authors conclude that tham may be effective in reducing brain tissue acidosis and helpful as a metabolic stabilizing agent following severe head injury . 
disorders of calcium and phosphorus homeostasis . calcium and phosphorus are , respectively , the fifth and sixth most abundant elements in the body ; both play vital roles in a multitude of physiologic systems . because the great bulk of these elements is found in the skeleton , a large part of the discussion of calcium and phosphorus metabolism focuses on skeletal disorders , the impact of which falls heavily on young children . this article reviews the physiology of calcium and phosphorus , the skeletal and systemic consequences of disorders of vitamin d nutrition and metabolism , and the metabolic bone disease of prematurity . 
can insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus be cured or prevented ? a status report on immunomodulatory strategies and pancreas transplantation . the past decade has brought advances in our undestanding of the etiology of beta cell destruction leading to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . most patients have an autoimmune process that begins months or years prior to overt disease . there are now reliable techniques to monitor the inflammatory process , with increasingly accurate methods for predicting disease in susceptible individuals . this information should lead to new techniques that will cure or possibly prevent diabetes . 
diagnosis and management of familial dyslipoproteinemia in children and adolescents . cad results from atherosclerosis , a chronic disease process that has its origin in childhood . children and adolescents can be at higher risk for cad by virtue of being from families with premature cad or familial dyslipoproteinemias . the plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels result from a number of complex metabolic processes that are under the control of genetic and environmental ( e.g. , diet ) influences . the normal ranges of plasma lipids and lipoproteins in children are known , and children and adolescents with dyslipoproteinemia are ordinarily defined as those having levels of plasma total , ldl , or triglyceride above the 95th percentile or with a low hdl cholesterol below the 5th percentile . children of a parent with documented dyslipoproteinemia or with family history of premature cad may be screened in the fasting state any time after 2 years of age . following the exclusion of secondary causes of dyslipoproteinemia , the diagnosis of primary dyslipoproteinemia can be made . lipoprotein patterns are not diagnostic for a given genotype . efforts to determine further the biochemical defects responsible for a given phenotype have led to the investigation of gene coding for the apolipoproteins , the key enzymes in the lipoproteins pathways ( lpl , hdl , and lcat ) and the receptors that process lipoproteins , such as the ldl receptor and the chylomicron remnant receptor . from a practical standpoint , the diagnosis of the kind of dyslipoproteinemia in a child will depend upon the nature and severity of the dyslipoproteinemia , both in the child ( or adolescent ) and in parents and siblings . marked increases in plasma total and ldl cholesterol in the child and in at least one of the parents often reflect the presence of familial hypercholesterolemia , an inherited dominant condition due to a defect in the ldl receptor gene . the triglyceride levels are often normal . if the child has a different dyslipoproteinemia pattern from siblings and parents , then the diagnosis of familial combined hyperlipidemia or hyperapobetalipoproteinemia should be considered . most children with mild or borderline elevations in total and ldl cholesterol will have polygenic hypercholesterolemia . triglyceride problems in children and adolescents are relatively uncommon , particularly the more severe hypertriglyceridemia such as that found in lipoprotein lipase and apoc-ii deficiency , dysbetalipoproteinemia , and type v hyperlipoproteinemia . high levels of lp ( a ) lipoprotein , in isolation or in combination with other dyslipoproteinemia , accelerate risk for cad . low levels of hdl cholesterol in the absence of other abnormalities suggest the diagnosis of hypoalphalipoproteinemia . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
effects of nimodipine on infarct size and cerebral acidosis after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat . the objective of this study was to determine the effect of nimodipine on infarct development and local brain ph after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat . female fischer-344 rats were subjected to permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery by electrocoagulation . after 6 , 12 , or 24 hours , brains were frozen , and infarct size , degree of edema formation , and local brain ph were quantified by standard histology or the umbelliferone technique , respectively . in control rats , cortical infarct size was increased from 29.5 microliters at 6 hours to 72.5 microliters at 24 hours after vessel occlusion . in striatum only , an insignificant increase from 15.2 to 24.7 microliters in infarct volume was observed during this period . edema increased from 7 % to 22 % in cortical and from 4 % to 39 % in the striatal infarct areas during this time . nimodipine ( 0.1 mg/kg s.c. ) , given 45 minutes before and again 8 and 16 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion , did not alter infarct size at 6 hours but considerably improved outcome at later times . edema formation was lower at 12 hours in the group treated with the calcium antagonist ( p less than 0.05 ) . by contrast , effects on local brain ph were seen as early as 6 hours after the vessel occlusion . nimodipine greatly reduced the areas exhibiting the lowest ph values beyond ph 6.0 ( p less than 0.05 ) . similar effects by nimodipine on brain ph were observed in the 12-hour series , whereas at 24 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion , a shift to more alkalotic values was noted with no overt differences between control and drug-treated groups . 
soft tissue calcification in renal failure . disorders of phosphorus , calcium , and vitamin d are common in patients with renal failure . medical management , including dietary phosphorus restriction , administration of phosphate binding agents , and calcium and vitamin d sterol supplementation , must be instituted to control serum concentrations of these substances because of the loss of normal homeostatic mechanisms . if these measures are not employed , soft tissue calcification and hyperparathyroidism may result . we report the case of a 22-year-old woman with endstage renal disease treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis who developed secondary hyperparathyroidism and tumorous calcinosis as a result of noncompliance with dietary phosphorus restriction and phosphate-binding agent therapy . the etiology and treatment of soft tissue calcification in patients with renal disease are discussed . compliance with dietary restrictions and phosphate binding agents is frequently problematic in this population . pharmacists should play an active role in educating patients with renal disease on the consequences of noncompliance with dietary and drug therapy . 
rational ordering of electrolytes in the emergency department . study objective : to validate the predictive abilities of a retrospectively developed set of clinical criteria for detecting clinically significant electrolyte abnormalities , using a different patient population . design : cross-sectional study . setting : the emergency department of a busy public hospital . type of participants : nine hundred eighty-two patients on whom the emergency physician ordered serum electrolytes . interventions : the predictive properties of ten clinical criteria were evaluated ; these included poor oral intake , vomiting , chronic hypertension , taking a diuretic , recent seizure , muscle weakness , age of 65 years or more , alcoholism , abnormal mental status , and recent history of electrolyte abnormality . measurements and main results : seven hundred thirty patients ( 74.3 % ) had one or more electrolytes outside of the laboratory normal range , but only 143 ( 14.6 % ) had clinically significant electrolyte abnormalities . the clinical criteria predicted 135 of the clinically significant electrolyte abnormalities ( sensitivity , 94.4 % ) . when the eight " false-negative " cases were reviewed , none of the electrolyte abnormalities affected patient outcome . implementation of the criteria would have avoided unnecessary testing in 233 patients ( 23.7 % ) . conclusion : although no set of clinical criteria can eliminate the need for clinical judgment , use of a set of clinical criteria could substantially decrease electrolyte ordering without compromising patient care . 
evaluation and management of supraventricular tachycardia in children . emergency physicians may be called on to resuscitate acute complications in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease . supraventricular tachycardia , with or without hemodynamic decompensation , is one of the most serious complications . we present the case of a 22-month-old boy with a history of single ventricle who presented to our institution with a history of syncope and hemodynamically stable supraventricular tachycardia . initial attempts at pharmacologic conversion with propranolol and verapamil failed . the arrhythmia was terminated in response to an iv fluid bolus and dopamine infusion and probably resulted from a combination of anemia , hypovolemia , and impaired contractility . appropriate evaluation and management relating to the cre of acute supraventricular tachycardia in children are discussed . 
national education programs working group report on the management of patients with hypertension and high blood cholesterol . cardiovascular diseases are responsible for nearly one of every two deaths in the united states , and have been estimated to cost more than $ 127 billion annually . epidemiologic data have shown that persons with fewer or lower levels of the risk factors for cardiovascular disease are less likely to have a cardiovascular event . in addition , the greater the level of any single risk factor , the greater is the chance of incurring disease . moreover , a combination of risk factors creates a synergistic effect , further increasing risk . conversely , reducing the number and level of risk factors prevents death and disability from cardiovascular diseases . this report addresses the management of patients with several cardiovascular risk factors , placing a special emphasis on hypertension and high blood cholesterol . nonpharmacologic therapy , in the form of proper diet , exercise , and smoking cessation , is the foundation for management of both hypertension and high blood cholesterol . clinicians should use these nondrug measures as definitive or adjunctive therapy . pharmacologic agents can be very beneficial in managing the risks imposed by elevated levels of blood pressure or blood cholesterol . in selecting medications , it is important to weight their benefits , costs , and potential untoward effects . clinicians must consider these issues in managing patients with several risk factors but should not avoid managing any risk factor or quickly dismiss any particular mode of therapy simply because of the potential for adverse effects . 
pediatrics residents ' attitudes about insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and children with diabetes . nationwide , pediatricians provide a substantial portion of the health care of children with diabetes . their beliefs and attitudes about diabetes and children with the illness have an important influence on their treatment decisions . the attitudes and beliefs of a 1988 sample of pediatrics residents were compared with data from a 1987 national survey of practicing pediatricians ' beliefs and attitudes about children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and about the disease itself . pediatrics residents in their second and third years of training were considerably more negative about diabetes and diabetic children than were either the members of the national sample of practicing pediatricians or the residents ' first-year colleagues . 
endothelin and increased contractility in adult rat ventricular myocytes . role of intracellular alkalosis induced by activation of the protein kinase c-dependent na ( + ) - h + exchanger . endothelin , a 21-amino acid vasoactive peptide , is among the most potent positively inotropic agents yet described in mammalian heart . having demonstrated that endothelin 's inotropic effect is due , in part , to an apparent sensitization of cardiac myofilaments to intracellular calcium , we determined whether this could be due to a rise in intracellular ph ( phi ) . in isolated adult rat ventricular cells loaded with the h ( + ) - selective fluorescent probe bcecf , 100 pm endothelin increased contractile amplitude to 190 + / - 26 % of baseline and phi by 0.08 + / - 0.02 ( n = 8 ) , whereas 1 nm endothelin increased phi by 0.13 + / - 0.03 with little further increase in contractility . amiloride ( 10 ( -4 ) m ) prevented the increase in phi in response to endothelin and reduced the inotropic response by 45 % , although the inotropic effect could be readily restored by subsequent nh4cl-induced alkalinization . similarly , inhibitors of protein kinase c ( h-7 and sphingosine ) diminished or abolished the rise in phi after endothelin superfusion while causing a decline in its inotropic effect comparable with that observed with amiloride . pretreatment with pertussis toxin , which we have demonstrated results in complete adp-ribosylation of the alpha-subunits of go and gi gtp-binding proteins and abolition of endothelin 's positive inotropic effect , only partially reduced the intracellular alkalinization induced by the peptide , suggesting a complex signal transduction mechanism . thus , the positive inotropic action of endothelin is due in part to stimulation of the sarcolemmal na ( + ) - h + exchanger by a protein kinase c-mediated pathway , resulting in a rise in phi and sensitization of cardiac myofilaments to intracellular ca2 + . 
mechanical alternans during acidosis in ferret heart muscle . acidosis leads to mechanical alternans ( i.e. , alternation of large and small contractions ) in ferret papillary muscles . this alternation in the size of the contraction is paralleled by alternation in the size of the intracellular ca2 + transient ( monitored using the photoprotein aequorin ) . in isolated myocytes , the large contraction is accompanied by a prolonged action potential . mechanical alternans also can be induced by acidosis in isolated myocytes during a train of voltage-clamp pulses . thus , it appears unlikely that the mechanical alternans is secondary to changes in action potential duration ; it is more likely that the observed changes in action potential duration are secondary to changes in the size of the ca2 + transient . the observation that a ca2 ( + ) - activated inward current also shows alternation during mechanical alternans provides a possible mechanism for the link between ca2 + and action potential duration . the alternation in the size of the ca2 + transient may be secondary to the slowed mechanical restitution observed in papillary muscles during acidosis . this also could explain the observation that decreasing stimulation rate can abolish the alternans . 
nonhemophilic hemosiderotic synovitis of the shoulder . a case report . in a nonhemophilic 72-year-old man , a persistent degenerative hemarthrosis of the shoulder joint was associated with a complete tear of the rotator cuff . extensive , rusty synovial pigmentation and hyperplasia ( hemosiderotic synovitis ) mimicking pigmented villonodular synovitis ( pvs ) were noted at surgery . spontaneous hemarthrosis of the shoulder includes rapid onset of severe pain , limitation of movement , subsequent appearance of a bruise on the affected shoulder and arm , and radiological evidence of joint degeneration . hemosiderotic synovitis results from chronic intraarticular bleeding . with the breakdown of trapped hemoglobin , iron-containing hemosiderin is stored in synovial tissue producing rusty discoloration and proliferative reaction . the classic cytoarchitecture of pvs has additional subsynovial nodular proliferation of mononuclear cells . hemarthrosis may produce significant structural alteration of joints . its prompt recognition and the awareness of underlying causes should lead to earlier diagnosis , appropriate therapy , less joint destruction , and better outcomes . 
cellular immunodeficiency in protein-losing enteropathy . predominant reduction of cd3 + and cd4 + lymphocytes . cellular immunological abnormalities were studied in a patient with protein-losing enteropathy associated with constrictive pericarditis . analysis of lymphocyte subpopulations in peripheral blood showed lymphopenia with a decrease of cd3 + and cd4 + t cells , whereas cd8 + lymphocytes , b cells and nk cells were within the normal range . fecal loss of lymphocytes as a cause of lymphopenia was evidenced by a marked excretion of 111-indium-labeled peripheral blood mononuclear cells via stool . proliferative responses against several mitogens were severely reduced as was in vitro igg production . delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction against a variety of antigens was absent . vaccination with tick-borne encephalitis virus , used for primary immunization , and with the recall antigen tetanus toxoid resulted in a blunted antibody response . after pericardectomy , the severity of enteric protein loss declined , serum immunoglobulin levels returned to the normal range , and total lymphocytes and cd3 + and cd4 + counts increased but remained low even 12 months after surgery . fecal loss of lymphocytes was found to be reduced after pericardectomy , but was higher than that seen in a disease control patient with active inflammatory bowel disease . in vitro immunoglobulin production returned to normal , dth could be demonstrated against purified protein derivative and proteus antigen , but mitogen-driven blastogenic response of lymphocytes remained low . revaccination with tick-borne encephalitis and tetanus toxoid antigens seven months after surgery resulted in a dramatic increase of serum levels of antibodies against both antigens , comparable to that seen in healthy control individuals . 
prevalence of diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance in elderly subjects and their association with obesity and family history of diabetes . the goal of this study was to investigate the prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) in elderly subjects and their association with obesity , central obesity , and a family history of diabetes . a representative population sample of 1300 subjects ( 471 men , 829 women ) aged 65-74 yr participated in the study . the participation rate was 71 % . the prevalence rates of previously and newly diagnosed niddm and igt , based on a history of diabetes and an oral glucose tolerance test , were 8.7 , 7.0 , and 17.8 % in men and 11.7 , 7.1 , and 19.1 % in women . thus , 33.8 % of men and 37.9 % of women had abnormal glucose tolerance according to world health organization criteria . obesity ( body mass index greater than or equal to 27 kg/m2 in men and greater than or equal to 25 kg/m2 in women ) and central obesity ( waist-hip ratio greater than or equal to 0.98 in men and greater than or equal to 0.89 in women ) doubled the prevalence of igt or niddm . the combination of obesity and a family history of diabetes was associated with a more marked increase in the prevalence of igt or niddm in men than in women . simultaneous presence of obesity , central obesity , and a family history of diabetes was associated with a threefold increase in the prevalence of igt or niddm ( 65.4 vs. 24.1 % in men , 52.8 vs. 19.6 % in women , p less than 0.001 ) . the major risk factors for niddm , e.g. , obesity , central fat distribution , and a family history of diabetes , explained 10 % of the variance in 2-h glucose values in multiple regression analysis . in conclusion , the prevalence of igt and niddm was high in elderly subjects . although obesity , central fat distribution , and a family history of diabetes were significantly associated with the increased prevalence of igt or niddm , they explained only a minor proportion of the variance in 2-h glucose values . 
weight gain associated with improved glycemic control in population-based sample of subjects with type i diabetes . previous studies have suggested that weight gain is an identifiable risk of efforts to lower blood glucose with intensive insulin therapy in type i ( insulin-dependent ) diabetic subjects . this study examined this relationship in a population-based sample of type i diabetic subjects participating in the wisconsin epidemiologic study of diabetic retinopathy . four hundred five adults ( aged greater than or equal to 21 yr ) with type i diabetes , who were diagnosed before age 30 yr , were studied from 1980 to 1982 and in a follow-up examination from 1984 to 1986 . weight gain over the 4-yr interval averaged 1.8 + / - 5.9 kg . weight gain was significantly associated ( r = -0.26 , p less than 0.001 ) with improvements in glycosylated hemoglobin levels ; the quartile of subjects with the greatest improvements in glycemic control gained 3.4 kg , whereas the quartile of subjects with the smallest improvements in glycemic control lost 0.6 kg . weight gain was also correlated with increases in the number of shots of insulin per day and change in the treatment regimen from one type of insulin to a combination of short - and long-acting insulins . these results suggest that weight gain may be an adverse consequence of improved glycemic control . efforts to better understand the mechanism explaining weight gain and to prevent weight gain are needed . 
effect of captopril on glucose concentration . possible role of augmented postprandial forearm blood flow . the goal of this study was to evaluate the effects of captopril on plasma glucose concentration . the daily profiles of the plasma glucose levels were determined in 12 non-insulin-dependent diabetic normotensive subjects , treated with or without captopril at a dose of 25 mg 3 times/day . forearm blood flow was also measured by strain-gauge plethysmography . administration of captopril improved the daily profile of the plasma glucose level . postprandial forearm blood flow was also augmented 2 h after a meal . these results suggest that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors may improve glucose metabolism in diabetic subjects , possibly through enhancement of blood flow to skeletal muscle . 
self-care predictors of metabolic control in niddm patients . the objective of this study was to evaluate whether the relationship between self-care behavior and metabolic control is comparable in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) on insulin and not on insulin . we studied 84 niddm patients hospitalized for an elective admission in washington university 's model demonstration unit . at admission , patients reported the frequency of exercise , blood glucose monitoring , and meal skipping for the previous 2 wk . metabolic control over the previous 8-12 wk was determined from glycosylated hemoglobin assays . in cross-sectional analysis controlling for patient sociodemographic and health characteristics , glycosylated hemoglobin levels were positively related to meal skipping ( p = 0.0008 ) and negatively related to the frequency of blood glucose monitoring ( p = 0.0025 ) . self-care behaviors explained 26 % of the variance in glycosylated hemoglobin levels in niddm patients . multivariate modeling demonstrated no significant interaction effects between insulin treatment and self-care on metabolic control . in conclusion , these findings support the clinical significance of self-care activities for metabolic control in niddm patients , particularly meal skipping and blood glucose monitoring . 
effects of thromboxane synthesis inhibitor triflusal on renal hemodynamics in microalbuminuric diabetic patients . triflusal ( 2-acetoxy-4-trifluormethylbenzoic acid ) is a platelet-antiaggregant drug that selectively inhibits thromboxane synthesis with little effect on prostacyclin production . in this study , we evaluated the effect of 5-day administration of 900 mg/day triflusal on glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) , renal plasma flow ( rpf ) , urinary albumin excretion ( uae ) , thromboxane b2 ( txb2 ) , 6-ketoprostaglandin f1 alpha ( pgf1 alpha ) , and pge2 in nine normotensive insulin-dependent diabetic patients with uae between 30 and 103 micrograms/min . plasma txb2 and plasma renin activity ( pra ) were also determined . after administration of triflusal , we observed a reduction in microalbuminuria ( 59 + / - 25 vs. 33 + / - 22 micrograms/min , p less than 0.01 ) , an increase in rpf ( 648 + / - 119 vs. 722 + / - 134 ml.min-1 x 1.73 m-2 , p less than 0.01 ) , and a reduction in filtration fraction ( 0.24 + / - 0.04 vs. 0.20 + / - 0.03 , p less than 0.01 ) . triflusal produced a significant reduction in both plasma txb2 ( 130 + / - 39 vs. 52 + / - 32 pg/ml , p less than 0.02 ) and urine txb2 ( 523 + / - 249 vs. 312 + / - 11 pg/min , p less than 0.02 ) , without changes in pra and uae of 6-keto-pgf1 alpha and pge2 . metabolic control and arterial blood pressure did not change during the study . these results suggest that platelet-antiaggregant therapy can reduce microalbuminuria in diabetic patients . this effect could be mediated by a reduction in the transglomerular hydraulic pressure through a vasodilation of efferent arterioles secondary to renal thromboxane synthesis inhibition . 
obesity and diabetes in blacks . diabetes mellitus is more prevalent in the american black population than in the white population . the prevalence is increasing in blacks , and there is evidence that it is accompanied by a greater severity of diabetic complications . in addition , mortality figures are higher in blacks , and black women are more seriously affected than black men . although the reasons for this are unclear , some factors stand out as important . these include obesity , socioeconomic status , and genetics . obesity is a severe problem in blacks , particularly in women . both the degree and the distribution of fat may contribute greatly to the prevalence of diabetes in blacks . although the prevalence of obesity is higher in the poor economic groups , multivariate analysis suggests that poverty can not explain all of the excess obesity that occurs in the black population . more research is needed into a possible genetic predisposition of blacks to obesity and diabetes and into the interrelationship between the two conditions in this racial group . 
genetics of niddm . this brief review discusses the current level of understanding of the role of genetic defects in the etiology of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) and the use of molecular-genetic methods for this study . evidence for genetic susceptibility is strong , and defects in both insulin production and action are suspect . with restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms and genomic sequencing , various candidate loci are being evaluated . evidence that multiple genes are involved is only circumstantial . if niddm is genetically heterogeneous and also influenced by environmental components , population associations and linkage analyses in families may not be as easily interpreted as for diseases involving single major gene defects . 
theoretical and baseline considerations for diet and weight control of diabetes among blacks . this article outlines theoretical considerations for diet and weight control of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) and identifies factors that may be of particular importance in influencing the success of diet and weight control of niddm in the black population . long-term adherence to dietary or weight-control regimens requires that the patient evaluate and restructure established eating and physical activity patterns . with the use of the social action theory as a conceptual framework , this complex behavioral change task can be understood as a function of the interplay of various self-regulatory mechanisms . these mechanisms are influenced by the person 's capabilities for making changes , his/her physical condition and general health status , the physical and social environmental context , and the person 's material and social resources . many of these factors may differ for blacks and whites in a direction that suggests a lesser potential for effective diet and weight-loss therapy among black niddm patients . for example , compared with whites , blacks are more likely to have limited incomes , low educational attainment , ambivalence about weight control , multiple health problems , and high-fat high-sodium low-fiber diets or food preferences . however , some evidence suggests that state-of-the-art counseling approaches can be as effective for blacks as for whites . the challenge is to adapt the types of approaches suggested by the social action theory for culturally appropriate and cost-effective delivery in black community health-care settings . 
exercise in therapy and prevention of type ii diabetes . implications for blacks . the rationale for the use of exercise in the treatment of type ii ( non-insulin-dependent ) diabetes and its special implications for blacks are reviewed herein . when performed on a regular basis , exercise may improve glycemic control and improve several risk factors for coronary heart disease including hypertriglyceridemia , hypertension , and hyperinsulinemia . in addition , it may be a useful adjunct to diet in producing weight loss . the metabolic benefits of exercise in part appear to be related to its ability to enhance insulin sensitivity . benefits are short lived after discontinuing exercise . because of problems with compliance and concurrent medical problems , many patients with type ii diabetes are not good candidates for an exercise-diet program . for this reason , the optimum target population may be people at risk for type ii diabetes and premature atherosclerosis . such a population might include the offspring of patients with these disorders and individuals with impaired glucose tolerance , hyperinsulinemia , gestational diabetes , and/or an android pattern of fat distribution . type ii diabetes is more common in blacks than in the general population . in most instances , it is associated with cardiovascular risk factors benefited by exercise . despite this , there are no available studies regarding the effects of regular exercise in blacks with type ii diabetes or those at risk for it . 
diabetic cardiomyopathy . the purpose of this article was to review the clinical and experimental features of diabetic cardiomyopathy , with particular relevance to the black population . one hundred thirty-seven studies were identified , of which 57 were selected as references for this article . diabetes is associated with the development of cardiomyopathy , independent of coronary atherosclerosis . pathological studies show myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis ; microvascular pathology is also present , but all of these pathological findings have an uncertain relationship to myocardial failure . hemodynamic findings of both congestive and restrictive cardiomyopathy have been described . noninvasive studies revealed abnormal systolic and diastolic function in many diabetic subjects , particularly in the presence of diabetic complications and/or hypertension . experimental studies have focused on the mildly diabetic dog and the severely diabetic rat . one year of diabetes in dogs resulted in decreased left ventricular compliance and increased interstitial connective tissue . studies in the diabetic rat showed a marked slowing of contraction and relaxation . chronic insulin therapy reversed the changes in the rat model . combining hypertension with diabetes in the rat resulted in increased myocardial and coronary microvascular pathology and greater changes in isolated muscle function , electrophysiology , and contractile protein biochemistry . many hypertensive diabetic rats died spontaneously , showing signs of congestive heart failure . diabetic cardiomyopathy is a significant cause of heart failure in diabetic subjects and occurs more frequently in those with microvascular complications and/or hypertension . clinical studies are needed to clarify the natural history of this disorder , focusing on the benefits of tight control of hyperglycemia and treatment of associated hypertension . experimental studies will clarify the pathophysiology and contribute to improved therapy . the high prevalence of diabetes and hypertension in blacks makes these considerations especially relevant to this population . 
cross-sectional analysis of renal function in black americans with niddm . our objective was to define glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) and renal plasma flow ( rpf ) in black americans with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . this was a cross-sectional study of 71 black niddm patients with diagnosed diabetes duration from 1 mo to 21 yr . hyperglycemia was regulated and stabilized before patients were entered into the study . gfr and rpf were determined by the clearance of [ 125i ] iothalamate and 131i-labeled hippuran , respectively , with a constant-infusion technique and four urine collection periods . hyperfiltration , as defined by a gfr of greater than 140 ml.min-1 .1.73 m-2 , was found in 7 of 20 patients ( 35 % ) with newly diagnosed ( less than 2 yr duration ) niddm . the percentage of patients with hyperfiltration decreased with increasing duration of diagnosed diabetes . decreasing gfr and rpf occurred with increasing duration of diagnosed diabetes . in conclusion , renal hemodynamic changes in black americans with niddm are similar to those known to occur in white populations with iddm . 
hypertension and diabetes in blacks . this article summarizes the current state of knowledge on the interrelationship between non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , obesity , insulin resistance , and hypertension in our attempt to explore the pathophysiology of the high incidence of diabetes and hypertension in the black population in the united states . a central role for hyperinsulinemia is proposed , and questions are raised that are suitable for investigative clinical trials . 
diabetic retinopathy in blacks . diabetic eye disease , particularly diabetic retinopathy , is the leading cause of new cases of legal blindness in people 20-74 yr of age in the united states . the prevalence and rate of diabetes in this age-group are higher in blacks than in whites . the rate of blindness from diabetic eye disease is also higher in blacks than in whites . severe macular edema , the most frequent cause of decreased vision in diabetic retinopathy , appears to be more common in blacks . risk factors for developing macular edema include poorly controlled hypertension , hyperglycemia , and duration of disease . the higher prevalence of hypertension in blacks may contribute to the increased severity of diabetic retinopathy . further evaluation is necessary to determine the influence of race on the severity of diabetic retinopathy . 
metabolic and health complications of obesity . overnutrition manifested by obesity has emerged as a major health problem in affluent countries . in spite of increased interest in fitness , obesity is on the increase in the united states . this is particularly so among children and adolescents . although obesity is associated with many risk factors for diseases , the mechanisms whereby it enhances disease risk are not fully understood . such an understanding is needed to develop strategies for management of these conditions . in this report we suggest that overnutrition produces clinical diseases only in individuals who already possess a metabolic weakness or " defect " in a given system . in the absence of such underlying defects , overnutrition , or obesity , is well tolerated . one of the most common consequences of obesity is dyslipidemia , that is , elevations of very low-density lipoprotein ( vldl ) triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol and low concentrations of high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol . the major effect of overnutrition on lipoprotein metabolism is to stimulate the production of vldl . for patients who have an underlying defect in lypolysis of vldl triglycerides , hypertriglyceridemia will develop in the obese state . for those who have defective clearance of ldl , obesity will accentuate hypercholesterolemia . both of these effects can be explained by overproduction of vldl , due to obesity , combined with a genetic defect in clearance of vldl or ldl . the mechanism whereby obesity causes a lowering of hdl cholesterol is uncertain , although it could enhance removal of hdl by an excess of adipose tissue . another disease associated with obesity is cholesterol gallstones . the presence of obesity more than doubles the risk for gallstones . two underlying factors increase the danger for gallstones : a deficiency of hepatic secretion of bile acids and a tendency for formation of cholesterol crystals in bile . overnutrition promotes the synthesis of whole-body cholesterol , and the only route for excretion of this excess cholesterol is through the biliary tree . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
recurrent acute fatty liver of pregnancy associated with a fatty-acid oxidation defect in the offspring . a case of a 29-year-old woman who has had two episodes both clinically and biochemically consistent with acute fatty liver of pregnancy is described . these episodes occurred in two successive pregnancies , and liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in the second pregnancy . both pregnancies were managed by prompt fetal delivery ; on both occasions this led to a complete biochemical resolution of the liver function abnormalities . two healthy babies were delivered by ceasarian sections . this case is of particular importance because a rapidly progressive and devastating illness developed in both infants , leading to death at 6 1/2 and 6 months , respectively . the illness in both babies was characterized by wide-spread fatty infiltration of several vital organs and a failure of any treatment to influence the outcome of that illness . studies suggested that the illness in the children was caused by a still ill-defined disorder of fatty acid oxidation . the biochemical disorder evidenced in this family is discussed , in an attempt to shed light on the etiology of acute fatty liver of pregnancy . 
neutrophil dysfunction in glycogen storage disease ib : association with crohn 's - like colitis . two cases of patients with crohn 's - like colitis and glycogen storage disease ib have been reported previously . in the current report , chronic inflammatory bowel disease that developed in another adolescent with this glycogenosis is described , thereby corroborating the association . the neutrophil dysfunction observed in glycogen storage disease ib is the most likely predisposing factor . neutrophil function was investigated in our patient in an attempt to shed light on the pathogenesis of his intestinal inflammation . the patient displayed reduced neutrophil chemotaxis to zymosan-activated serum , n-formyl-methionine-phenylalanine , and escherichia coli bacteria-derived factor and reduced intracellular killing of staphylococcus aureus 502a . others have found this defective bacteriocidal activity to be caused by impaired oxidative metabolism . the recent recognition of chronic inflammatory bowel disease in glycogen storage disease ib , as well as in chronic granulomatous disease , suggests that further study of respiratory burst activity of neutrophils in crohn 's disease is warranted . 
impaired oxidative metabolism increases adenine nucleotide breakdown in mcardle 's disease . two patients with muscle phosphorylase deficiency [ mcardle 's disease ( mca ) ] were studied during bicycle exercise at 40 ( n = 2 ) and 60 w ( n = 1 ) . peak heart rate was 170 and 162 beats/min , corresponding to approximately 90 % of estimated maximal heart rate . muscle samples were taken at rest and immediately after exercise from the quadriceps femoris . lactate content remained low in both muscle and blood . acetylcarnitine , which constitutes a readily available form of acetyl units and thus a substrate for the tricarboxylic acid cycle , was very low in mca patients both at rest and during exercise , corresponding to approximately 17 and 11 % , respectively , of that in healthy subjects . muscle nadh was unchanged during exercise in mca patients in contrast to healthy subjects , in whom nadh increases markedly at high exercise intensities . despite low lactate levels , arterial plasma nh3 and muscle inosine 5 ' - monophosphate increased more steeply relative to work load in mca patients than in healthy subjects . the low postexercise levels of lactate , acetylcarnitine , and nadh in mca patients support the idea that exercise performance is limited by the availability of oxidative fuels . increases in muscle inosine 5 ' - monophosphate and plasma nh3 indicate that lack of glycogen as an oxidative fuel is associated with adenine nucleotide breakdown and increased deamination of amp . it is suggested that the early onset of fatigue in mca patients is caused by an insufficient rate of adp phosphorylation , resulting in transient increases in adp . 
effect of exercise and obesity on skeletal muscle amino acid uptake . the genetically obese zucker rat has a reduced capacity to deposit dietary protein in skeletal muscle . to determine whether amino acid uptake by muscle of obese zucker rats is impaired , soleus strip ( sol ) and epitrochlearis ( epi ) muscles from 10-wk-old lean and obese zucker rats were studied in vitro by use of [ 14c ] alpha-aminoisobutyric acid ( aib ) . muscles from fasted rats were incubated under basal conditions at rest or after a 1-h treadmill run at 8 % grade . to equate total work completed , lean and obese rats ran at 27 and 20 m/min , respectively . muscles were pinned at resting length , preincubated for 30 min at 37 degrees c in krebs-ringer bicarbonate buffer containing 5 mm glucose under 95 % o2-5 % co2 , and then incubated up to 3 h in krebs-ringer bicarbonate with 0.5 mm aib , [ 14c ] aib , and [ 3h ] inulin as a marker of extracellular fluid . basal aib uptake in epi and sol from obese rats was significantly reduced by 40 and 30 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , respectively , compared with lean rats . for both lean and obese rats , exercise increased ( p less than 0.05 ) basal aib uptake in epi and sol , but the relative increases were greater in the obese rats ( epi 54 % and sol 71 % vs. epi 32 % and sol 37 % ) . these results demonstrate that genetically obese zucker rats have reduced basal skeletal muscle amino acid uptake and suggest that physical inactivity may partially contribute to this defect . 
regulation of forearm lipolysis in different types of obesity . in vivo evidence for adipocyte heterogeneity . forearm and systemic adipose tissue free fatty acid ( ffa ) release was measured in eight nonobese , six lower-body obese , and eight upper-body obese women under basal , hyperinsulinemic , and hypoinsulinemic conditions to determine whether forearm fat is regulated in a similar manner as whole body fat . results : adipose tissue palmitate release was greater from forearm than whole body ( 5.97 + / - 0.75 vs. 3.84 + / - 0.34 mumol.kg fat-1 . min-1 , respectively , p less than 0.005 , n = 22 subjects ) . systemic palmitate release , relative to fat mass , was significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) greater in nonobese than upper-body obese , and upper-body obese than lower-body obese women , and forearm adipose tissue palmitate release followed the same pattern . hyperinsulinemia suppressed systemic and forearm lipolysis to similar degrees , however , hypoinsulinemia consistently increased systemic palmitate flux without increasing forearm palmitate release . these results confirm the heterogeneity of adipose tissue in an in vivo model and emphasize the need to consider which adipose tissue depots are responsible for the differences in systemic ffa flux in obese and nonobese humans . 
obesity and the metabolic response to severe multiple trauma in man . in the obese state profound metabolic disturbances exist and it is not known how this disrupted metabolism in obese subjects ( body mass index greater than 30 ) may change their ability to respond to the superimposed , injury-induced stress . understanding the mechanisms that modify the metabolic parameters in traumatized obese patients is essential in their nutritional assessment and further treatment . we have investigated in 7 obese and 10 nonobese multiple trauma patients , on a whole-body level , the energy metabolism , protein kinetics , and lipolysis in the early catabolic " flow phase " of severe injury when they were receiving maintenance fluids without calories or nitrogen . traumatized obese patients mobilized relatively more protein and less fat compared with nonobese subjects . a relative block both in lipolysis and fat oxidation is experienced by injured obese patients that results in a shift to preferential use of proteins and carbohydrates . reduced endogenous protein synthetic efficiency observed in obese patients implies increased protein recycling . thus obese patients could not effectively use their most abundant fat fuel sources and have to depend on other fuel sources . the nutritional management of obese trauma victims should therefore be tailored towards provision of enough glucose calories to spare protein . 
diacylglycerol accumulation and microvascular abnormalities induced by elevated glucose levels . the present experiments were undertaken to examine the hypothesis that glucose-induced increased de novo synthesis of 1,2-diacyl-sn-glycerol ( which has been observed in a number of different tissues , including retinal capillary endothelial cells exposed to elevated glucose levels in vitro ) and associated activation of protein kinase c may play a role in mediating glucose-induced vascular functional changes . we report here that twice daily instillation of 30 mm glucose over 10 d in a rat skin chamber granulation tissue model induces approximately a 2.7-fold increase in diacylglycerol ( dag ) levels ( versus tissues exposed to 5 mm glucose ) in association with marked increases in vascular clearance of albumin and blood flow . the glucose-induced increase in dag levels as well as the vascular functional changes are prevented by addition of 3 mm pyruvate . pharmacological activation of protein kinase c with the phorbol ester tpa in the presence of 5 mm glucose increases microvascular albumin clearance and blood flow , and similar effects are observed with 1-monoolein ( mog ) , a pharmacological inhibitor of the catabolism of endogenous dag . a pharmacological inhibitor of protein kinase c ( staurosporine ) greatly attenuates the rise in microvascular albumin clearance ( but not the rise in blood flow ) induced by glucose or by mog . these findings are compatible with the hypothesis that elevated concentrations of glucose increase tissue dag content via de novo synthesis , resulting in protein kinase c activation , and that these biochemical events are among the factors that generate the increased microvascular albumin clearance . 
anderson 's disease : genetic exclusion of the apolipoprotein-b gene in two families . anderson 's disease is a recessive disorder characterized by intestinal fat malabsorption , absence of postprandial chylomicrons , and reduced levels of cholesterol , triglycerides , and apoproteins b , ai , and c. we have studied two families with , respectively , three and two children with anderson 's disease . intestinal apo-b and apo-aiv mrnas from two anderson 's patients were normal in size but their concentration was decreased fivefold compared with controls . after dna digestion with seven restriction enzymes , restriction fragment length polymorphisms of apo-b gene did not show conclusive information except for xba1 , which revealed a lack of cosegregation between the restriction fragment length polymorphism and the anderson 's phenotype . linkage analysis was performed using the polymorphism of the apo-b gene 3 ' minisatellite . genomic dna from parents and children was amplified by polymerase chain reaction using oligonucleotide primers flanking the apo-b gene 3 ' hypervariable locus . in both families each child inherited different apo-b alleles from at least one parent . according to the recessive mode of transmission of the disease , our results are incompatible with the involvement of the apo-b gene . more likely a posttranslational defect or a mutation in another gene encoding a protein essential for lipoprotein assembly or secretion may be involved . 
physician practice for cardiovascular disease risk-factor reduction in six upper midwestern communities . preventive practice for coronary heart disease risk is increasingly accepted in the medical community . to determine the extent and characteristics of treatment advice for high blood pressure , blood cholesterol , and cigarette smoking , 274 randomly selected primary care physicians were interviewed by telephone in six midwestern cities . participation in the survey was 90 % . reported care for high blood pressure was consistent with national guidelines . management of high blood cholesterol varied significantly among physicians and frequently differed from national recommendations . although consensus existed on the importance of advising cigarette smoking cessation , reported approaches differed . the results observed indicate improved preventive practice compared with earlier surveys and recent national reports . continued improvement , however , is needed in cholesterol and smoking-cessation management . 
possible platelet contribution to pathogenesis of transient neonatal hyperammonaemia syndrome . the pathogenesis of the transient neonatal hyperammonaemia syndrome is largely unknown . the role of platelet activation was investigated in three preterm infants with this syndrome by non-invasive methods . in all three infants , urinary concentrations of beta-thromboglobulin and 11-dehydrothromboxane b2 levels were much higher during the hyperammonaemia than those in ten control preterm infants . it is possible that transient platelet activation occurs in the portal system of these infants , thereby causing the hyperammonaemia . 
gingival and cutaneous xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis . report of a case . the first comprehensive case report of intraoral xanthomatosis associated with primary biliary cirrhosis is detailed . the lesions were present along the free gingival margin and labial vestibule . crevicular fluid was noted to be tinged yellow . generalized cutaneous eruptions were also seen . the xanthomas were attributed to the underlying hyperlipoproteinemia . advanced progression of the hepatic disease necessitated a liver transplant . disappearance of both oral and skin lesions were subsequently observed . 
the butterfly rash and the malar flush . what diseases do these signs reflect ? the butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders . systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs . in pellagra , symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body . erysipelas produces brawny , fiery red facial lesions , and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption . lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern , and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face . carcinoid syndrome often causes flushing attacks that vary in duration , and facial flushing that lasts throughout treatment may accompany chemotherapy if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction . deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation . 
treating serum lipid abnormalities in high-priority patients . normalization of serum lipid levels should be initiated as soon as possible in patients with myocardial , cerebrovascular , or peripheral vascular disease . clinical trials indicate that coronary artery disease and overall mortality rates can be reduced and atherosclerosis stabilized or reversed by lipid-lowering therapy . treatment should lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels to 130 mg/dl or less and total triglyceride levels to 150 mg/dl or less and increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels to at least 52 mg/dl in men and 66 mg/dl in women . nonlipid coronary risk factors should be eliminated when possible . lipid-lowering therapy may consist of dietary modification and drug treatment with colestipol hydrochloride ( colestid ) , cholestyramine ( cholybar , questran ) , lovastatin ( mevacor ) , gemfibrozil ( lopid ) , and nicotinic acid ( nicolar ) . 
a myo-inositol pool utilized for phosphatidylinositol synthesis is depleted in sciatic nerve from rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes . peripheral nerve from experimentally diabetic rats exhibits lowered levels of myo-inositol ( mi ) and decreased incorporation of [ 3h ] mi into phosphatidylinositol ( pi ) . there are indications that diminished pi turnover may be causally related to reduced na + , k ( + ) - atpase activity in diabetic nerve . we have investigated whether a metabolic compartment of mi that is essential for pi synthesis is decreased in this tissue . sciatic nerve segments from streptozotocin-induced diabetic and age-matched normal rats were incubated in vitro with either 32pi or [ 3h ] cytidine in the presence of propranolol . this cationic amphiphilic agent redirected nerve phospholipid metabolism to produce enhanced 32p incorporation into pi and decreased labeling of phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidyl-ethanolamine . the accumulation of phosphatidyl cmp ( cmp-pa ) was also demonstrated by chromatographic and enzymatic means . the incorporation of [ 3h ] cytidine into cmp-pa in normal nerve increased up to 15-fold when 0.6 mm propranolol was present . in diabetic nerve , the liponucleotide incorporated 2 - to 3-fold more isotope and was more readily labeled at lower drug concentrations as compared to normal nerve . the buildup of [ 3h ] cmp-pa was reduced in a dose-dependent manner in the presence of mi in the incubation medium at concentrations up to 3 mm . however , if mi was added after liponucleotide accumulation , preformed cmp-pa could not be utilized for pi synthesis . the difference in liponucleotide labeling between normal and diabetic nerve was nearly abolished at 0.3 mm medium mi , a concentration much less than the level of cyclitol in the tissue . these results strongly suggest the presence in nerve of a pool of mi that is not in equilibrium with the bulk of nerve mi and that is preferentially used for pi synthesis . this metabolic compartment is depleted in diabetic nerve but can be readily replenished by exogenous mi and may correspond to the mi pool that has been proposed to be required for the turnover of a portion of tissue pi involved in maintenance of normal na + , k ( + ) - atpase activity . 
evidence that down-regulation of beta-cell glucose transporters in non-insulin-dependent diabetes may be the cause of diabetic hyperglycemia . non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) is attributed to a failure of pancreatic beta cells to maintain insulin secretion at a level sufficient to compensate for underlying insulin resistance . in the zdf rat , a model of niddm that closely resembles the human syndrome , we have previously reported profound underexpression of glut-2 , the high-km facilitative glucose transporter expressed by beta cells of normal animals . here we report that islets of diabetic rats exhibit a marked decrease in the volume of glut-2-positive beta cells and a reduction at the electron-microscopic level in the number of glut-2-immunoreactive sites per unit of beta-cell plasma membrane . the deficiency of glut-2 can not be induced in normal beta cells by in vivo or in vitro exposure to high levels of glucose nor can it be prevented in beta cells of prediabetic zdf rats by elimination of hyperglycemia . we conclude that this dearth of immunodetectable glut-2 in niddm is not secondary to hyperglycemia and therefore that it may well play a causal role in the development of hyperglycemia . 
cytogenetic damage induced by folate deficiency in mice is enhanced by caffeine . folate deficiency in swiss mice increased the incidence of micronuclei in peripheral blood erythrocytes , indicating increased chromosomal damage in nucleated erythrocyte precursors . caffeine enhanced the incidence of micronuclei in blood and bone marrow by up to 5-fold in folate-deficient mice at doses that did not significantly alter the micronucleus frequency in the presence of adequate dietary folate . the lower dose of caffeine used in this study ( 75 mg/kg ) approaches doses received by humans who consume large amounts of caffeinated beverages . since folate deficiency and caffeine consumption are highly prevalent in the human population , the potential for a similar interaction in man should be evaluated . 
rickets and osteomalacia are still around . the terms rickets and osteomalacia describe gross , histologic , and radiologic abnormalities common to more than 50 diseases that vary in cause and clinical presentation . rachitic and osteomalacic syndromes seen in current clinical practice usually are resistant to vitamin d forms and are most often caused by phosphate loss or 1,25 ( oh ) 2d deficiency , or both . radiographic identification of rachitic or osteomalacic syndromes and accurate diagnosis of a particular cause is essential , as many patients ' conditions can be improved or cured with proper therapy . 
vitamin e and neurologic deficits . over the past decade it has become apparent that vitamin e is an essential nutrient for maintaining the structural and functional integrity of the developing human nervous system , skeletal muscle , and the retina . the clinical and histologic resemblance of the human neuromuscular disorder associated with chronic fat and vitamin e malabsorption to that observed in experimental vitamin e-deficient animal models is striking . because of chronic malabsorption of vitamin e , children with cf , chronic cholestasis , abetalipoproteinemia , and short bowel syndrome are at risk for the development of neurologic deficits caused by vitamin e deficiency . correction of the vitamin e deficiency state prevents , reverses , or , at least , stabilizes the neurologic dysfunction in susceptible individuals . advances in stable isotope technology permit study of the hepatic discrimination among the various stereoisomers and forms of vitamin e. investigations into the cause of the primary form of vitamin e deficiency , the isolated vitamin e deficiency syndrome , promise to delineate the normal physiologic processes involved in absorption , transport , and tissue delivery of vitamin e. studies in progress are addressing the optimal route and form of vitamin e therapy to be used in each predisposing condition . one major task remaining is to better define the mechanism by which vitamin e deficiency leads to neurologic injury . 
efficacy of doxazosin in specific hypertensive patient groups . in practice , some of the major problems for the physician who treats hypertension are patients who are resistant to treatment or who have other complicating risk syndromes . therefore the overall efficacy of an antihypertensive agent must include an assessment of effect in patients with serious ancillary problems . in this article , doxazosin is reviewed for its efficacy in the treatment of severe essential hypertension and specific complications or conditions of mild or moderate essential hypertension , namely , left ventricular hypertrophy , hyperlipidemia , noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , renal insufficiency , pheochromocytoma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , peripheral vascular disease , and smoking . doxazosin is particularly efficacious in many specific subgroups of patients with hypertension , and the results of relevant studies are discussed . 
vitamin e in gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion . to clarify the relationship among vitamin e , oxygen radicals , and lipid peroxidation in ischemia-reperfusion , we produced an experimental model of gastric mucosal injury in rats by ischemia-reperfusion with clamping of the celiac artery and measurements of the area of gastric erosion , thiobarbituric acid ( tba ) - reactive substances , and alpha-tocopherol in serum and gastric mucosa during ischemia-reperfusion . the area of gastric erosions and tba-reactive substances in gastric mucosa were significantly increased after 30 and 60 min of reperfusion . the serum alpha-tocopherol-cholesterol ratio and gastric mucosal alpha-tocopherol were significantly decreased after 30 and 60 min of reperfusion . on the other hand , in vitamin e-deficient rats , gastric mucosal injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion was more severe than that in vitamin e-nondeficient rats . these results indicate that vitamin e is consumed in the process of lipid peroxidation induced by oxygen radicals in ischemia-reperfusion to prevent the development of tissue damage . 
family history fails to identify many children with severe hypercholesterolemia . optimal strategies for identifying children with hypercholesterolemia have not been established . several groups have advocated that testing of serum cholesterol levels be limited to those children who have family histories of hyperlipidemia or premature coronary heart disease . we studied the ability of comprehensive family histories to identify children with hyperlipidemia in a group of 114 children ( mean age , 8 + / - 4 years ) who were referred for treatment of hypercholesterolemia . a positive family history was defined according to guidelines of the american academy of pediatrics . the mean fasting total cholesterol in the children was 5.74 + / - 1.42 mmol/l ( 222 mg/dl ) . family history was negative for hypercholesterolemia or premature coronary heart disease in 22 ( 22 % ) of 100 children with total cholesterol levels greater than the 75th percentile for their ages , in 13 ( 18.3 % ) of 71 children with total cholesterol levels greater than the 95th percentile for their ages , and in four ( 11.8 % ) of 34 children with presumed heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia . of the 78 children who had both hypercholesterolemia and positive family histories , hyperlipidemia was reported in 72 families , whereas premature heart disease was reported in only 27 . we conclude that in a population of children referred because of known hypercholesterolemia , a detailed family history not only fails to identify many children with mild hypercholesterolemia , but also fails to identify a significant proportion of children with markedly elevated cholesterol levels . additionally , in families of children with hypercholesterolemia , a history of hyperlipidemia is more common than a history of premature heart disease . 
differences in expression of cystic fibrosis in blacks and whites . the recent identification of the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene confirms that genetic heterogeneity occurs in cf. a three-base-pair deletion in exon 10 resulting in a loss of the phenylalanine residue at amino acid position 508 of the gene product , termed the cf conductance regulator protein , accounts for 70 % of cases of cf in white subjects . however , this gene defect occurs in only 37 % of affected blacks . analysis of cf genes from american blacks has revealed a number of mutations , most of which are unique to that population . we therefore searched for potential differences in expression of cf between 24 black and 48 white patients with cf matched for birth date and gender . black patients more frequently presented with only respiratory symptoms ( 38 % vs 10 % ) . black patients had fewer hospitalizations for pulmonary exacerbations ( 2 vs 6.9 ) , a better mean forced vital capacity ( 77 % vs 62 % of predicted ) , and higher chest roentgenogram scores ( 18.2 vs 14.4 ) than white patients . complication rates were similar except for a higher incidence of hyponatremic dehydration ( 21 % vs 2 % ) and peptic ulcer disease ( 13 % vs 0 % ) in blacks . survival time appeared to be longer in blacks , but the difference was not statistically significant . we conclude that phenotypic differences exist between black and white patients with cf , which may be due to the genetic heterogeneity between these two populations . 
localization of the aland island eye disease locus to the pericentromeric region of the x chromosome by linkage analysis . aland island eye disease ( aied ) is an x-chromosomal disorder characterized by reduced visual acuity , progressive axial myopia , regular astigmatism , latent nystagmus , foveal hypoplasia , defective dark adaptation , and fundus hypopigmentation . the syndrome was originally reported in 1964 in a family on the aland islands . to determine the localization of the aied gene , linkage studies were performed in this family . total of 37 polymorphisms , covering loci on the entire x chromosome , were used . by two-point analysis the strongest evidence for linkage was obtained between aied and dxs255 ( maximum lod score [ zmax ] 4.92 at maximum recombination fraction [ theta max ] .00 ) . marker loci dxs106 , dxs159 , and dxs1 also showed no recombination with aied . other positive lod scores at theta max .00 were obtained with markers localized in the xy homologous region in xq13-q21 , but the numbers of informative meioses were small . multilocus linkage analysis indicated that the most probable location of aied is in the pericentromeric region between dxs7 and dxs72 . these results rule out localizations of aied more distal on xp that have been proposed by others . our data do not exclude the possibility that aied and incomplete congenital stationary night blindness are caused by mutations in the same gene . this question should be resolved by careful clinical comparison of the disorders and ultimately by the molecular dissection of the genes themselves . 
hemochromatosis and infection : alcohol and iron , oysters and sepsis . hemochromatosis , or primary iron overload , is a variably expressed genetic metabolic disorder greatly modified by sex , age , diet , and alcohol consumption . although a diagnosis has been made at the bedside by careful documentation of the slow resolution of subcutaneous iron pigment , clinical diagnosis is frequently overlooked , and even autopsy may fail to reveal hemochromatosis as the cause for cirrhosis . genetic linkage studies have confirmed the extremely high prevalence of this disorder . untreated patients may succumb to sepsis caused by organisms such as vibrio vulnificus , yersinia species , and others whose virulence is altered by iron availability . 
therapeutic implications of lipid-lowering agents in the progression of renal disease . progressive deterioration in renal function frequently occurs in the absence of the original cause of injury . during the past decade , intense investigations into the factors responsible for progressive nephron destruction have demonstrated that hemodynamic stresses and metabolic and coagulation abnormalities participate in glomerular injury . hyperlipidemia is a common abnormality in renal disease and is frequently aggravated by protein-uria . experimentally , therapy with the lipid-lowering agents clofibric acid or lovastatin reduced circulating lipids , particularly cholesterol , decreased proteinuria , and prevented glomerular damage in normotensive and hypertensive models of progressive renal disease . these beneficial effects occurred independently of changes in systemic blood pressure or glomerular injury , supporting the notion that cholesterol or its accompanying changes , or both , were central in lipid modulation of glomerulosclerosis . clinically , lipid abnormalities are common in patients with renal disease , and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is the most frequent cause of death in these patients . although the role of lipids in atherosclerotic disease has been well established , whether a similar effect of lipids occurs in the microvasculature of the kidney is unknown . whether therapeutic approaches directed at reducing hyperlipidemia in patients with renal disease will provide a measure of renal protection , as has been seen in experimental models of renal disease , is also unknown . 
hyperlipidemia of nephrosis : pathophysiologic role in progressive glomerular disease . during the past few years , the increasing speculation that the hyperlipidemia of nephrosis may be one of several pathogenic mechanisms involved in the progression of initial glomerular injury to glomerulosclerosis has generated many clinical and experimental investigations . this discussion reviews pertinent studies that address two major issues . first , the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms involved in the development of the hyperlipidemia of nephrosis are explored . second , this article examines recent studies that investigate how this secondary hyperlipidemia may further aggravate initial glomerular injury and contribute to a progressive glomerulopathy , primarily mediated through alterations in monocyte/macrophage function . 
rationale and management of hyperlipidemia of the nephrotic syndrome . hyperlipidemia is usually present in patients with the nephrotic syndrome . the most common lipid abnormality is hypercholesterolemia , although as the disorder progresses , hypertriglyceridemia may develop . elevated plasma lipids have two potential vascular consequences , namely , atherosclerosis and progression of renal failure . neither of these complications has been proven with certainty , but there is growing evidence to indicate that both may be long-term consequences of the nephrotic syndrome . therefore , effective therapy of hyperlipidemia , particularly elevated cholesterol levels , is needed as a protection against these complications . since nephrotic hypercholesterolemia frequently is severe , dietary therapy , although a valuable adjunct , will not normalize cholesterol levels in most nephrotic patients . thus , if effective serum cholesterol lowering is to be achieved , drug therapy will be required . bile acid-binding resins have been shown to lower cholesterol levels in nephrotic patients , but the decline in cholesterol concentrations is usually insufficient to produce a marked reduction in coronary risk . nicotinic acid theoretically should be useful for treatment of nephrotic hyperlipidemia , but it has not been adequately tested . the new drugs that inhibit cholesterol synthesis , e.g. , lovastatin , appear to be highly promising for treating elevations of both serum cholesterol and triglycerides in the nephrotic syndrome . however , testing of these drugs in this condition has been limited , and the possibility of significant side effects in an appreciable portion of patients has not been ruled out . of particular concern is the development of severe myopathy that can produce myoglobinuria and acute renal failure . this side effect is relatively rare in patients without the nephrotic syndrome , but its prevalence in the latter condition has not been determined . the fibric acids will lower triglyceride levels in nephrotic patients , but they are not effective in lowering cholesterol levels ; consequently , they probably have little role in the treatment of nephrotic hypercholesterolemia . finally , the drug probucol will lower cholesterol levels in nephrotic patients , although not to desirable levels ; still , probucol could prove useful in combination with other cholesterol-lowering drugs . 
hyperlipidemia and glomerular sclerosis : an alternative viewpoint . clinical and experimental observations suggest an association between hypercholesterolemia and progressive glomerular injury . in the main , most investigators have assumed that hypercholesterolemia induces an atherosclerotic process in the renal microvasculature analogous to that well recognized in larger vessels . the evidence for this line of reasoning is well described in other papers in this symposium . it is our belief that hypercholesterolemia may also lead to glomerular injury by hemodynamic mechanisms . in support of this latter view , diet-induced hypercholesterolemia often raises blood pressure in experimental animals and markedly impairs endothelial cell-dependent vascular relaxation in vitro . a high cholesterol diet also increases renal vascular resistance and contributes to glomerular capillary hypertension , a hemodynamic maladaptation known to cause glomerular sclerosis . in addition , hypercholesterolemia results in hyperviscosity , a rheologic abnormality leading to increased efferent arteriolar resistance and glomerular hypertension . the similar glomerular hemodynamic responses to two hyperviscosity states , elevated hematocrit and hypercholesterolemia , implicate efferent arteriolar hyperviscosity as a potential mechanism of injury common to hyperviscosity states . it therefore seems likely that as in atherosclerosis , multiple risk factors act synergistically to initiate glomerular structural injury . specifically , we suggest that hypercholesterolemia and glomerular hypertension act synergistically to initiate structural injury . although modification of either risk factor may limit injury , it seems likely that therapy targeted to each of multiple risk factors may afford superior protection . 
lipid abnormalities , renal failure , and parathyroid hormone . a substantial number of patients with chronic renal failure display type iv lipoproteinemia . they have elevated serum levels of very-low-density , intermediate-density , and low-density lipoprotein . serum cholesterol levels are usually normal and those of high-density lipoprotein are low . it is generally accepted that hypertriglyceridemia is due to decreased removal from the blood secondary to reduced activity of lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase . secondary hyperparathyroidism and elevated blood levels of parathyroid hormone ( pth ) may play an important role in the pathogenesis of the triglyceridemia of chronic renal failure . indeed , parathyroidectomized-normocalcemic dogs with chronic renal failure have normal serum levels of triglyceride , normal fat tolerance , and normal post-heparin lipolytic activity . available data indicate that the abnormalities in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism in chronic renal failure are linked . excess pth suppresses insulin release from pancreatic islets , and the insulin deficiency results in carbohydrate intolerance . insulin deficiency also causes decreased synthesis of lipoprotein lipase and hence abnormal lipid metabolism . thus , the hyperparathyroidism of chronic renal failure may play a paramount role in the genesis of the abnormal metabolism of both carbohydrates and lipids . 
the hyperlipidemia of the nephrotic syndrome . lipid abnormalities in patients with the nephrotic syndrome have long been recognized . however , the significance of these lipid abnormalities , the mechanisms producing them , and their potential treatment have all been a cause of debate . recent data have helped clarify each of these areas of controversy . studies of the lipoprotein abnormalities of patients with the uncomplicated nephrotic syndrome have shown that many will have elevated levels of total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , whereas only a few will have elevated levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . if these lipid abnormalities have the same significance in this population as in other populations studied , then some patients with unremitting nephrotic syndrome will be at high risk for cardiovascular disease . the elevated cholesterol levels noted in the nephrotic syndrome are caused primarily by enhanced hepatic synthesis , with lesser contributions by decreased clearance and altered enzyme activities . the signal for enhanced hepatic lipogenesis may relate to changes in plasma albumin concentration , plasma oncotic pressure , a local effect of viscosity at the hepatic sinusoidal level , or a loss of urinary proteins or other liporegulatory substances . recently , a number of short-term studies in nephrotic patients have documented the safety and efficacy of lipid-lowering drugs such as the bile acid-binding resins , probucol , and the hmgcoa ( hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme a ) reductase inhibitors . 
cholesterol and lipid disturbances in renal disease : the natural history of uremic dyslipidemia and the impact of hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . lipid abnormalities have been postulated to contribute to renal insufficiency by a mechanism that is analogous to atherogenesis . the majority of patients treated for chronic renal failure die of cardiovascular complications . lipid abnormalities in this group are thought to contribute to this high mortality . proving a causal association between dyslipidemia and accelerated atherosclerosis in the end-stage renal disease population has been confounded by the presence of other pro-atherogenic conditions in this population . the current study compiles the lipid data we have accumulated from our renal population for the years 1987 to 1989 . the report is divided into three main parts : the first is a survey of lipid levels and atherogenicity indicators in groups with different types of renal disease or modalities of treatment . the second is a multivariate analysis of the relationship of clinical and biochemical variables ( and their interactions ) to the serum lipid and apolipoprotein levels and their ratios and their change over time in a large dialysis population . in the third study , we quantitate the peritoneal clearances of apolipoproteins a-i and b in patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and assess the relationship of these clearances to serum lipid and lipoprotein levels and risk ratios . 
hyperlipidemia after organ transplantation . hyperlipidemia , long recognized as a difficult and common problem following organ transplantation , may be the underlying cause of the accelerated atherosclerosis observed in heart transplant recipients and children with renal transplants . in addition , hyperlipidemia may play a role in late renal graft loss . the cause of post-transplant hyperlipidemia is unclear . in patients treated with azathioprine and prednisone , hypertriglyceridemia is the commonest finding and probably results from an increased consumption of calories from carbohydrate and fat following resolution of uremia , in conjunction with glucose intolerance secondary to steroid administration . in patients treated with cyclosporine , hypercholesterolemia is the most common form of hyperlipidemia . cyclosporine is a lipophilic drug that is transported in the plasma , largely in association with lipoproteins , and may require the low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) receptor for internalization into cells . hypercholesterolemia may result from interference with the basic cholesterol feedback mechanism via the ldl receptor . in addition , cyclosporine affects bile acid synthesis and worsens glucose tolerance , both factors that may promote hyperlipidemia . the first therapeutic approach to hyperlipidemia in the transplant recipient is dietary calorie-fat restriction and supplementation with soluble fiber . ongoing clinical trials of the available pharmacologic lipid-lowering agents are addressing the safety and efficacy of these agents in the setting of immunosuppression ; until that time , they should be used cautiously and in low doses . 
extracorporeal ldl cholesterol removal : role of ldl-pheresis in combination with other hypolipidemic therapy to regress vascular disease . the direct relationship between hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis has resulted in formal cholesterol-lowering recommendations for patients at increased risk . the incomplete response to therapy of some forms of hypercholesterolemia as well as not uncommon drug intolerance prompted the development of extracorporeal techniques to reduce serum cholesterol levels . nonhuman primate data and an analysis of human cholesterol epidemiology and reduction trials were used to establish guidelines that would maximize the likelihood of stabilizing or regressing established coronary artery atherosclerosis . these goals are a total cholesterol ( tc ) level of less than or equal to 150 mg/dl ( 3.9 mmol/l ) and a ratio of tc to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( hdl ) of less than 2.8 . selective , extracorporeal removal of ldl cholesterol ( ldl-pheresis ) was combined with diet and hypolipidemic drugs in a pilot study at the rogosin institute to achieve these lipid end-points . technical aspects of ldl-pheresis , the background rationale for its use as part of a combined hypolipidemic therapy , the initial experience at the rogosin institute , and plans for future studies and applications are presented . 
schizophrenia and fatal self-induced water intoxication with appropriately-diluted urine . a 31-year-old woman with untreated chronic schizophrenia developed extreme polydipsia which rapidly led to coma and death due to cerebral edema . hyponatremia ( 120 meq/liter ) and serum hypo-osmolality ( 260 mosm/kg ) were associated with marked polyuria ( up to 1850 ml/hour ) and appropriately low urinary osmolality ( 90 mosm/kg ) which responded to treatment . this case and few qualifying previous reports which are reviewed support the possibility that pure self-induced water intoxication with no major contribution of inadequate release of antidiuretic hormone may occur , and that extreme polydipsia can sometimes overwhelm normal renal diluting capacity in psychotic patients . 
renal disease in noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . diabetic nephropathy now accounts for approximately one-third of all patients who develop end-stage renal disease . the estimated cost to supply renal replacement therapy for this population now exceeds $ 750 million . the relatively recent realization that half of these individuals suffer from noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus has sparked increased interest in attempts to understand the pathologic processes involved and how they may be similar or different from those alterations seen in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . basic and clinical investigation continues in an attempt to solve the puzzle of pathogenesis , as well as answer questions about the clinical usefulness of microalbuminuria and the appropriate management of hypertension in this population . 
hyperosmolar states . the composition of the extracellular fluid ( ecf ) must remain stable for cells to function properly . in normal individuals vasopressin and thirst zealously maintain the total ecf concentration , or osmolality , within a narrow range . disruption of these regulatory mechanisms or rapid addition of solute to the ecf can lead to hyperosmolality . the serious neurologic symptoms that accompany many forms of hyperosmolality can be explained by understanding the physiologic response of cells to the osmotic stress . this review describes the physiology , pathophysiology , differential diagnosis , and therapy of hyperosmolar states . 
hypokalemia before induction of anesthesia and prevention by beta 2 adrenoceptor antagonism . we have observed that serum potassium levels measured immediately before induction of anesthesia ( " preinduction k + " ) are often lower than those measured 1-3 days preoperatively ( " preoperative k + " ) . the purpose of this investigation was to determine , in two studies , the magnitude of this difference and to elucidate the mechanism by which this occurs . in the first study , preinduction k + ( 3.6 + / - 0.4 meq/l , mean + / - sd ) was significantly lower than k + levels measured during routine preoperative testing ( 4.4 + / - 0.4 meq/l , n = 47 , p less than 0.001 ) . twenty-three patients ( 49 % ) had preinduction k + levels that were considered hypokalemic ( less than or equal to 3.5 meq/l ) , but 22 of these 23 patients had normal preoperative k + levels . the second study tested the hypothesis that preinduction decreases in serum k + are mediated by beta 2-adrenergic receptors . preinduction k + changes were determined in patients given a single preoperative dose of propranolol ( beta 1/beta 2-antagonist ) , atenolol ( beta 1-antagonist ) , or no beta-blocker ( control ) . the difference between preoperative and preinduction serum k + in patients receiving propranolol ( 0.1 + / - 0.4 meq/l ) was significantly attenuated ( p less than 0.02 ) compared with the difference in control subjects ( 0.5 + / - 0.4 meq/l ) , but was not significantly different from controls in patients pretreated with atenolol ( 0.3 + / - 0.4 meq/l ) . these results demonstrate that serum k + levels measured intraoperatively just before anesthetic induction are consistently and significantly less than those measured 1-3 days preoperatively . the ability of propranolol but not atenolol to block this change suggests that the acute decrease in k + levels was due to beta 2-adrenergic receptor stimulation . 
coronary bypass grafting with totally calcified or acutely dissected ascending aorta . from august 1984 through november 1988 , 10 of 2,658 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting had ascending aortic disease that was not amenable to proximal anastomoses for coronary bypass grafting . this was due to a calcified aorta in 6 and acute aortic dissection in 4 . there were 5 male and 5 female patients with a mean age of 71 years . cannulation site was the femoral artery in 5 , ascending aorta in 3 , and aortic arch in 2 . profound hypothermia and ventricular fibrillation , with no cross-clamp or cardioplegia , was used in 9 patients , and circulatory arrest in 1 . in 8 patients a single internal mammary artery was used as the total inflow with a saphenous vein graft brought off the internal mammary artery to one or more distal left-sided coronary vessels . bilateral internal mammary arteries were used in 2 other patients . operative mortality was zero . there was one perioperative myocardial infarction and one transient stroke without sequelae . all patients have done well from 1 to 6 years postoperatively . these data support the use of internal mammary arteries as single or bilateral proximal conduits for other venoarterial bypass grafts when the aorta is extensively diseased either by calcification or dissection . 
expanded clinical evaluation of lovastatin ( excel ) study results . i. efficacy in modifying plasma lipoproteins and adverse event profile in 8245 patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia in the expanded clinical evaluation of lovastatin ( excel ) study , a multicenter , double-blind , diet - and placebo-controlled trial , we evaluated the efficacy and safety of lovastatin in 8245 patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia . patients were randomly assigned to receive placebo or lovastatin at a dosage of 20 mg once daily , 40 mg once daily , 20 mg twice daily , or 40 mg twice daily for 48 weeks . lovastatin produced sustained , dose-related ( p less than .001 ) changes as follows ( for dosages of 20 to 80 mg/d ) : decreased low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level ( 24 % to 40 % ) , increased high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level ( 6.6 % to 9.5 % ) , decreased total cholesterol level ( 17 % to 29 % ) , and decreased triglyceride level ( 10 % to 19 % ) . the national cholesterol education program 's low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level goal of less than 4.14 mmol/l ( 160 mg/dl ) was achieved by 80 % to 96 % of patients , while the less than 3.36 mmol/l ( 130 mg/dl ) goal was achieved by 38 % to 83 % of patients . the difference between lovastatin and placebo in the incidence of clinical adverse experiences requiring discontinuation was small , ranging from 1.2 % at 20 mg twice daily to 1.9 % at 80 mg/d . successive transaminase level elevations greater than three times the upper limit of normal were observed in 0.1 % of patients receiving placebo and 20 mg/d of lovastatin , increasing to 0.9 % in those receiving 40 mg/d and 1.5 % in those receiving 80 mg/d of lovastatin ( p less than .001 for trend ) . myopathy , defined as muscle symptoms with a creatine kinase elevation greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal , was found in only one patient ( 0.1 % ) receiving 40 mg once daily and four patients ( 0.2 % ) receiving 80 mg/d of lovastatin . thus , lovastatin , when added after an adequate trial of a prudent diet , is a highly effective and generally well-tolerated treatment for patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia . 
mediastinitis following nasal intubation in the emergency department . a patient who developed a retropharyngeal abscess and fatal mediastinitis following emergent nasal intubation is described . despite aggressive surgical therapy the patient died of mediastinitis . although mediastinitis as a complication of oral intubation has been described , mediastinitis following nasal intubation has not previously been reported . 
the role of alpha 1-adrenoceptors in adrenaline-induced hyperkalaemia . the hyperkalaemic action of adrenaline was investigated in 44 anaesthetized domestic pigs . plasma and epicardial concentrations of k + were measured , in the latter case with an ion-selective electrode . adrenaline 10 micrograms kg-1 caused a rapid increase in the plasma concentration of k + from 4.2 to 5.9 mmol litre-1 . the magnitude and the time course of epicardial concentration of k + were similar . alpha-adrenoceptor block with either phentolamine 5 mg kg-1 ( non-selective block ) or prazosin 0.1 mg kg-1 ( selective alpha 1-adrenoceptor block ) abolished the hyperkalaemic effect of adrenaline in the plasma and on the epicardium . the alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine increased the k + concentration , but the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist uk 14.304 did not cause any change in concentration . these results suggest that the hyperkalaemia induced by adrenaline occurs in the interstitial fluid of the myocardium and is mediated by alpha 1-adrenoceptors . these findings may be important in patients at risk of hyperkalaemia , with implications , for example , in the use of suxamethonium during induction of anaesthesia . 
free protein s levels are elevated in familial c4b-binding protein deficiency . in plasma , 40 % of the protein s is free and functions as a cofactor for the anticoagulant effects of activated protein c. the remaining 60 % of protein s is complexed to c4b-binding protein and is functionally inactive . a family with hereditary c4b binding protein deficiency has been identified with c4b-binding protein levels in an affected father and daughter of 37 micrograms/ml and 23 micrograms/ml , respectively ; these values are significantly below the normal range for this protein of 180 micrograms/ml + / - 44 micrograms/ml ( mean + / - 2 sd ) . the total protein s ( free + bound ) is normal in these individuals ( 23.2 micrograms/ml and 17.8 micrograms/ml , respectively ; normal 19.1 micrograms/ml + / - 6.0 micrograms/ml ) . the free protein s levels are markedly increased at 22.5 micrograms/ml and 17.4 micrograms/ml , respectively ( normal 5.9 micrograms/ml + / - 2.4 micrograms/ml ) . this experiment of nature shows that total protein s levels in plasma are not affected by the absence of c4b-binding protein and that chronic elevation of free protein s is not associated with increased hemorrhagic tendencies . 
obesity and body fat distribution and breast cancer prognosis . this study addresses the effect of obesity and body fat distribution on axillary lymph node involvement , tumor size , and estrogen receptor ( er ) level in breast cancer patients . anthropometric measurements were prospectively obtained on 248 consecutively and newly diagnosed women with invasive breast cancer . the anthropometric measurements evaluated were abdomen , thigh , subscapular , and midaxillary skinfolds ; weight ; and height . weight and quetelet index ( kg/m2 ) were significantly ( p = 0.001 ) associated with lymph node involvement in postmenopausal patients . the abdomen : thigh skinfold ratio was significantly higher in premenopausal patients ( p = 0.004 ) and postmenopausal ( p = 0.03 ) without axillary node involvement compared with women with 4 + axillary node involvement . the abdomen : thigh skinfold was higher ( p = 0.05 ) in women with smaller breast cancers ( less than 2.0 cm ) and higher er levels . weight and quetelet index did not affect tumor size or er level . this study demonstrated that obese postmenopausal women who developed breast cancer tend to have more axillary node involvement than their leaner counterparts . generalized obesity did not affect tumor size or er level . premenopausal and postmenopausal women with upper body fat distribution appear to be a subset of women who have a more favorable prognosis as measured by less lymph node involvement , smaller tumors , and higher levels of er in their tumors . 
coinheritance of two mild defects in low density lipoprotein receptor function produces severe hypercholesterolemia . a family is described in which the probands , twin girls , had severe hypercholesterolemia suggestive of familial hypercholesterolemia ( fh ) . the mother of the twins had normal plasma cholesterol levels , and the father had only moderate hypercholesterolemia . moreover , low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) binding studies in cultured fibroblasts and isolated lymphocytes in the parents failed to reveal significantly reduced ldl receptor activity that is typical of fh heterozygotes . turnover studies of ldl in the parents , however , revealed low fractional clearance rates ( fcrs ) for ldl . in cultured fibroblasts and isolated lymphocytes from the twin probands , binding of normal ldl was half normal or less . ldl turnover studies in the twins revealed a marked reduction in fcrs for ldl . when the twins were treated with lovastatin , however , fcrs for ldl increased significantly , suggesting enhancement of ldl receptor activity . this finding along with ldl binding studies in the cultured cells infer that the twins did not have homozygous fh . in addition , all family members tested negative for familial defective apolipoprotein-b-100 , and ldl isolated from the mother and twins showed normal binding to normal fibroblasts . the overall data suggest that the severe hypercholesterolemia in the offspring was due to inheritance of mild to moderate defects of ldl receptor function from both parents . although the latter defects could not be detected with certainty by in vitro tests in each parent , they were evident from ldl turnover tests . coinheritance of these defects apparently produced severe hypercholesterolemia in the offspring . 
osteomalacia in hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria : a correlative clinical-histomorphometric study . we characterized the bone disease of transilial biopsy specimens from children with hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria ( hhrh ) and genetically related asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects . all hhrh patients showed irregular mineralization fronts , markedly elevated osteoid surface and seam width , increased number of osteoid lamellae , and prolonged mineralization lag time . these findings are consistent with a mineralization defect and indicate unambiguously that the bone disease in hhrh is osteomalacia . the only abnormality seen in the asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects was slightly extended osteoid surface . parametric and nonparametric statistical analyses performed on a pooled sample of hhrh patients and asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects revealed a very high inverse correlation and a tight linear relationship between serum phosphorus and osteoid parameters . serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d , which is low in other forms of hereditary hypophosphatemia and osteomalacia , is elevated in hhrh and correlated positively with osteoid parameters and the mineralization lag time . serum alkaline phosphatase showed similar relationships . these results as well as the clinical , biochemical , and radiological remission of bone disease consequent to phosphate therapy strongly suggest that in hhrh 1 ) hypophosphatemia alone is sufficient to cause osteomalacia ; and 2 ) the elevation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d reflects the degree of the primary renal phosphate leak , but is not involved in the pathogenesis of the bone disease . 
dual defects in pulsatile growth hormone secretion and clearance subserve the hyposomatotropism of obesity in man . we have examined the mechanisms underlying reduced circulating gh concentrations in the obese human . computer-assisted ( deconvolution ) analysis was used to determine endogenous gh secretory and clearance rates quantitatively from entire 24-h plasma gh concentration profiles . these analyses revealed that the half-life ( t 1/2 ) of endogenous gh was significantly shorter in obese ( 11.7 + / - 1.6 min ) than in normal weight subjects ( 15.5 + / - 0.81 min ; p less than 0.01 ) . the accelerated blood disposal rate of gh was not due to decreased circulating concentrations of gh-binding protein , since the latter were similar in obese ( 25 + / - 1.0 % ) and normal weight ( 24 + / - 2.3 % ) men . however , obese men had significantly fewer gh secretory bursts ( 3.2 + / - 0.53 vs. 9.7 + / - 0.67 / day ; p less than 0.01 ) . among the rare gh secretory bursts that occurred in obese subjects , there were significantly prolonged mean intersecretory burst intervals ( 282 + / - 65 vs. 131 + / - 11 min ; p less than 0.05 ) . the resultant daily gh production rate in obese men was reduced to one fourth that in normal weight individuals . both gh secretion rate and burst frequency were negatively correlated with the degree of obesity ( ponderal index ) . the decreases in gh burst frequency and half-life were specific , since gh secretory pulse amplitude ( maximal rate of gh release ) , the mass of gh released per burst , and the duration of computer-resolved gh secretory bursts were not different in obese and normal weight men . we conclude that obese men harbor a double defect in gh dynamics involving both gh secretion and clearance , and that the severity of the gh secretory deficiency is proportionate to the degree of obesity . 
the role of free fatty acid metabolism in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance in obesity and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . to investigate the mechanisms of insulin resistance in obesity and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , we examined oxidative and nonoxidative pathways of free fatty acid ( ffa ) and glucose metabolism in 14 lean and 17 obese ( with normal oral glucose tolerance ) nondiabetic subjects and in 8 lean and 8 obese subjects with niddm . ffa and glucose metabolism were measured using the sequential insulin clamp technique in combination with indirect calorimetry and infusion of [ 3-3h ] glucose and [ 1-14c ] palmitate . obesity was characterized by enlarged fat mass , which correlated positively with the plasma ffa concentration ( r = 0.62 ; p less than 0.01 ) . ffa metabolism was less sensitive to insulin in obese than in lean nondiabetic subjects , but this defect could be overcome by increasing the plasma insulin concentration . niddm patients showed normal sensitivity to the inhibitory action of insulin on ffa metabolism ; however , maximal suppression by insulin was impaired . the combination of obesity and niddm was associated with a further enhancement of reesterification of ffa than observed in either condition alone . in both obesity and niddm , the dose-response curve for suppression of hepatic glucose production by insulin was impaired . while obesity was primarily characterized by reduced sensitivity to the stimulatory action of insulin on oxidative and nonoxidative pathways of glucose metabolism , resistance to the effect of insulin on glucose metabolism in niddm was characterized by a reduced maximal response . the combination of obesity and niddm further impaired the sensitivity of liver glucose output and glucose oxidation to insulin . the hypothesis is advanced that in uncomplicated obesity , increased availability and oxidation of ffa leads , by the ffa/glucose cycle , to the impairment in glucose utilization . in niddm , on the other hand , the defect in glucose utilization is primary , and the enhanced rate of ffa oxidation may represent a compensatory phenomenon . 
influence of thiamin supplementation on the health and general well-being of an elderly irish population with marginal thiamin deficiency [ published erratum appears in j gerontol 1991 sep ; 46 ( 5 ) : m180 ] the effect of thiamin supplementation on the health and general well-being of 80 randomly selected healthy elderly irish women , from a population with marginal thiamin deficiency , was studied . key variables affecting thiamin status were controlled . weekly dietary intakes , subjective feelings , and activity assessments were measured during a 4-week baseline and 6-week double blind treatment period . clinical assessments were performed during the last week of each period . for treatment , subjects were randomly assigned to either thiamin ( 10 mg daily ) or placebo groups . compared to baseline and placebo supplemented values , thiamin-supplemented women experienced significantly increased appetite , energy intake , body weight and general well-being , and decreased fatigue . thiamin supplementation also tended to reduce daytime sleep time , improve sleep patterns , and increase activity . these data suggest that evaluation of thiamin status is indicated when nonspecific conditions such as anorexia , weight loss , fatigue , depression , and sleep disorders are present in elderly persons . 
abnormal arginine vasopressin response to cigarette smoking and metoclopramide ( but not to insulin-induced hypoglycemia ) in elderly subjects . aging is known to reduce arginine vasopressin ( avp ) response to volumetric stimulations and to increase avp responses to osmotic stimuli and to administration of metoclopramide ( mcp ) . in order to gain a better insight into the effect of age on avp secretion , we evaluated avp responses to cigarette smoking , mcp , and insulin-induced hypoglycemia in 30 male subjects aged 22-81 and divided into 3 groups by age . basal avp concentrations were similar in all groups . the avp response during the insulin tolerance test had a similar pattern and magnitude ( 2.5-fold increase ) in all groups . avp responses to mcp and cigarette smoking were similar in the two younger groups , with plasma avp levels increased 2 times by mcp and 2.5 times by cigarette smoking . in contrast , both mcp - and cigarette smoking-induced avp rises were significantly higher in the oldest group , where plasma avp concentrations increased 2.5 times after mcp and 3.25 times after smoking . when data of the mcp and cigarette smoking tests were combined , regression analyses showed a significant positive correlation between avp peak responses to mcp and cigarette smoking in the oldest subjects . these data show that elderly humans have increased avp responses not only to mcp but also to cigarette smoking , suggesting a common disorder for both alterations . in contrast , the lack of age-related changes in avp response during the insulin tolerance test demonstrates that the mechanism underlying the avp response to hypoglycemia is not affected by aging . 
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella enteritidis in cirrhotic ascites . spontaneous bacterial peritonitis due to salmonella is uncommon . we report three patients with ascites infected by salmonella . all three patients had advanced chronic liver disease , typically cirrhosis with portal hypertension . salmonella enteritidis grew in the ascite fluid culture of the three patients . there was no clinical or microbiological evidence of salmonella infection other than in the ascitic fluid . one patient died before antibiotic treatment was started , but the other two were treated with different combinations of antimicrobial drugs . one of them died on the fourteenth day of hospitalization , and the other survived . 
esophageal obstruction with a dietary fiber product designed for weight reduction . supplements consisting primarily of dietary fibers are marketed as aids to weight reduction . of uncertain efficacy , they have generally been regarded as safe when used according to directions . we report two cases of acute esophageal obstruction by a guar gum product in patients with preexisting esophageal abnormalities and review similar reports from other centers . 
early inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone after trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy . the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone ( siadh ) is a rare but life-threatening complication of trans-sphenoidal pituitary adenomectomy . it has previously only been described as a late phenomenon . we report an early presentation within the first week . the pathophysiology , clinical features and treatment are discussed . 
metabolite and hormonal profiles in heat stroke patients at mecca pilgrimage . sera obtained during the hajj seasons of 1985 , 1986 , 1987 and 1988 from 125 heat stroke patients were collected and subjected to chemical analysis which included determination of glucose , lactate , cholesterol , and triglycerides , as well as assay of t3 , t4 , tsh and cortisol . hyperglycaemia and lactic acidaemia were found to be the most frequent metabolic abnormalities . the changes in cholesterol did not exhibit a specific pattern . triglycerides were significantly elevated in only 6 % of patients . cortisol levels were very significantly elevated in precooled patients . although the mean t3 levels remained within the normal range , the mean concentration on admission was significantly higher than the post-cooling mean . tsh and t4 levels did not show significant changes . 
kidney function and cardiovascular risk factors in non-insulin-dependent diabetics ( niddm ) with microalbuminuria . microalbuminuria in non-insulin-dependent diabetes ( niddm ) is a strong predictor of increased mortality . the major causes of death are cardiovascular , whereas end-stage renal failure is of low frequency . to define kidney function and the presence of some assumed cardiovascular risk factors , we compared a group of 19 microalbuminuric niddm patients ( m ) , of mean age ( + / - sd ) 65 + / - 4 years , and known duration of diabetes 8 + / - 7 years , with 19 randomly selected matched normoalbuminuric patients ( n ) . seven microalbuminuric patients ( p ) were also studied . glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) did not differ between n and m , whereas kidney volume was increased in m ( 260.3 + / - 54.1 ml 1.73 m-2 ) compared to n ( 220.4 + / - 44.8 ml 1.73 m-2 ; p = 0.018 ) . the frequency of cardiac disease increased with increasing albuminuria . glycaemic control did not differ between the groups , but fasting plasma c-peptide levels increased from 2.8 + / - 1.1 micrograms l-1 in n , to 3.7 + / - 1.7 micrograms l-1 in m ( p = 0.08 ) , and to 4.2 + / - 1.9 micrograms l-1 ( p = 0.03 ) in p. the lipoprotein profile showed no significant differences , although the ldlcholesterol/hdlcholesterol ( ldl-c/hdl-c ) ratio tended to rise . a significant correlation was found between c-peptide and ldl-c/hdl-c ( r = 0.5 ; p less than 10 ( -3 ] . in conclusion , gfr was not increased , and did not differ between n and m , whereas kidney volume was enhanced in m. several assumed cardiovascular risk factors showed values of m intermediate between those of n and p. 
the relationship between clinically confirmed cobalamin deficiency and serum methylmalonic acid . over a 1-year period , we examined 42 consecutive patients with low serum cobalamin levels detected by primary screening test ( s-protein binder , ria ) . in 31 patients ( 74 % ) clinical cobalamin deficiency was confirmed , whereas the remaining 11 patients ( 26 % ) were characterized clinically as non-cobalamin deficient . the serum methylmalonic acid level was higher than 0.34 mumol l-1 ( 3 sd above the mean in normal controls ) in 30 of the 31 clinically characterized cobalamin-deficient subjects , and below this level in 10 of the 11 non-deficient patients . we conclude that the serum methylmalonic acid assay provides an appropriate means of discrimination between cobalamin deficiency and non-cobalamin deficiency ( efficiency = 0.95 ) , and we recommend that the assay be adopted as the standard test for diagnosis of tissue cobalamin deficiency . 
drug related admissions to a cardiology department ; frequency and avoidability . three hundred and sixty-six consecutive patients admitted to a department of cardiology were evaluated for drug events as a cause of admission . the drug events considered were adverse drug reactions ( adr ) and dose-related therapeutic failures ( dtf ) . ' definite ' or ' probable ' drug events accounted for 15 admissions ( 4.1 % , 95 % confidence limits 2.3-6 .7 % ) , of which eleven were adr and four were dtf . with the inclusion of six ' possible ' drug events , the rate of drug-related hospitalizations ( drh ) was 5.7 % . drhs were characterized by a preponderance of acute admissions and elderly patients . hypokalaemia ( less than 3.5 mm ) was observed in 27 ( 16 % ) patients receiving diuretics , and could be related to four cases of arrhythmias ( two ' probable ' and two ' possible ' adr ) . the average serum potassium level was similar in diuretic treated patients with or without drugs to counteract hypokalaemia , irrespective of the drugs chosen . among the 15 ' definite ' / ' probable ' drhs , five were considered to be due to an error in prescription , and a further five cases were judged to have been avoidable had appropriate measures been taken by prescribing physicians . a drh educational intervention programme should primarily deal with non-compliance or with prescription of diuretics or digoxin , since these problems constitute the majority of cases of drh . no specific group of doctors could be targeted as responsible for drh , avoidable or not . 
glucose tolerance and hyperinsulinaemia in obese women : role of adipose tissue distribution , muscle fibre characteristics and androgens . the separate independent statistical contribution of abdominal distribution of fat , hyperandrogenicity and muscle morphology to glucose intolerance and hyperinsulinaemia was analysed in 88 obese women . in univariate analyses the waist/hip circumference ratio ( whr ) , body fat and lean body mass were all positively associated , and shbg levels were negatively associated with insulin and glucose values . muscle fibre areas were positively correlated with insulin but not with glucose concentrations . adjustment for other variables did not remove the positive association between whr and fasting insulin and glucose concentrations . shbg , free testosterone and type iib fibre areas were , however , significant confounding factors in the relationship between whr and summed insulin and glucose concentrations . we conclude that fat distribution in obese women is associated with fasting hyperglycaemia and hyperinsulinaemia , independently of androgens and muscle fibre morphology , but that reduced shbg concentrations and increased type iib fibre areas may partly explain increased glucose and insulin responses to an oral glucose load in abdominally obese women . 
fulminant monophasic multiple sclerosis , marburg 's type . the clinical , neuroradiological and necropsy findings are described in a 49 year old woman with long-standing idiopathic pulmonary haemosiderosis and acute monophasic multiple sclerosis ( marburg 's type ) . progression of the demyelinating process produced blindness and paraplegia over three weeks . at five weeks , magnetic reasonance imaging ( mri ) studies showed lesions in the pons and left occipital lobe . the patient died 10 weeks after onset of symptoms . necropsy examination revealed acute plaques in the optic chiasm , and the white matter around the lateral and fourth ventricle and spinal cord . similarities between this and previously described cases of marburg 's disease are discussed . 
lowering the cost of lowering the cholesterol : a formulary policy for lovastatin objectives : to describe a medical center policy designed to contain the cost of using the lipid-lowering drug lovastatin in a primary care setting , to examine the effect of the policy on cost containment , and to examine physician acceptance of the policy . setting : a veterans affairs medical center . interventions : the policy made lovastatin available to physicians when failure of therapy with diet and two first-line drugs was documented on an order form . the form also contained educational information including prices and recommended niacin as the drug treatment of first choice for most patients . design : to evaluate the effect of the policy , lipid-lowering drug use at the medical center was compared with that at a similar center that did not restrict lovastatin use , and with lipid-lowering drug use in the united states as a whole . a written questionnaire was used to survey physician reaction to the policy . results : the use of lovastatin as a percentage of total lipid-lowering drug use at the center with the lovastatin policy was one-fourth that at the other center or nationwide , and the use of niacin was four times greater ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the estimated savings in drug costs to the center with the lovastatin policy due to these differences was more than $ 30,000 per year . in the survey of physicians affected by the policy ( n = 78 , response rate = 100 % ) , less than one-fourth viewed it unfavorably , and 90 % favored this policy over restricting the drug to a subspecialty clinic . conclusion : the authors ' experience indicates that a formulary policy that permits limited use of an expensive drug in a primary care setting can contain costs in a way that is acceptable to physicians . a policy of this type could be useful to the increasing number of health care provider organizations that cover the cost of outpatient medications . 
lovastatin therapy for cholesterol ester storage disease in two sisters . we administered lovastatin to two sisters , aged 4 and 17 years , who had cholesterol ester storage disease , an autosomal recessive disorder manifested by hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia . the drug , a competitive inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase , was taken orally for 6 months . serum lipid concentrations were determined monthly . computed tomography of the liver was performed before and during therapy to evaluate liver fat content . the younger sister had liver biopsies before and after 6 months of lovastatin therapy to assess hepatic cholesterol stores . both patients had marked decreases in serum levels of cholesterol , triglycerides , and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol ; high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels increased . computed tomography during treatment demonstrated a significant increase in linear attenuation , suggesting a decreased liver fat content . liver tissue obtained 6 months after lovastatin therapy was initiated had 13 % less esterified cholesterol than the liver sample obtained before treatment . we conclude that lovastatin may be effective in treating children with cholesterol ester storage disease . 
estimates of metabolic rate in obese and nonobese adolescents . to evaluate the validity of equations for the calculation of basal metabolic rate , we compared measured metabolic rates in a population that included obese and nonobese adolescents with metabolic rates calculated from five equations commonly used to estimate metabolic rate . of the available options , neither the mayo clinic nomogram nor the food and agriculture organization/world health organization/united nations university ( fao/who/unu ) equations produced estimates that differed significantly from measured values . in a second cohort of severely obese adolescent girls , the fao/who/unu equation that included both height and weight provided the most accurate estimate of metabolic rate . because of their simplicity , we recommend use of the fao/who/unu equations to estimate metabolic rate in adolescent populations ( boys : bmr = 17.5 weight ( kg ) + 651 ; girls : bmr = 12.2 weight ( kg ) + 746 ) . however , when obese cohorts are studied , the fao/who/unu equation that includes both weight and height predicts metabolic rate most accurately ( boys : bmr = 16.6 weight ( kg ) + 77 height ( m ) + 572 ; girls : bmr = 7.4 weight ( kg ) + 482 height ( m ) + 217 ) . 
nephron site responsible for the reduced kaliuretic response to mineralocorticoids during hypokalemia in rats . rats with hypokalemia induced by eating a low-k diet have a diminished kaliuretic response to mineralocorticoids . the purpose of this study was to determine if this was the due to a lower rate of net secretion of k in the cortical collecting duct ( ccd ) and/or an enhanced rate of reabsorption of k in the medullary collecting duct ( mcd ) . secondary active secretion of k in the ccd raises the [ k ] in the lumen as compared to the plasma [ tf/p ) k ) . if the ( tf/p ) k is greater than 1 , there was secondary active secretion of k in this nephron segment . the ( tf/p ) k in the ccd was measured by microcatheterization of the collecting duct . three groups of rats were studied : rats on a low-k diet with and without the acute administration of doca , and rats on a normal-k diet treated with doca on a chronic basis . rats on the low-k diet had a ( tf/p ) k of 0.8 + / - 0.11 ; this value did not rise to values significantly greater than 1 after the acute administration of doca ( 1.4 + / - 0.35 ) . in contrast , chronic administration of doca to rats fed a normal-k diet did result in a ( tf/p ) k which was significantly greater than unity ( 3.1 + / - 0.39 ) . the degree of hypokalemia was not significantly different in these rats . the absolute and fractional reabsorption of k in the mcd was not different in the rats on the low-k diet with or without doca . we conclude that the nephron segment which is responsible for the reduced kaliuretic response to mineralocorticoids is the ccd . 
albuterol and insulin for treatment of hyperkalemia in hemodialysis patients . we evaluated in maintenance hemodialysis patients the potassium lowering effects of intravenous insulin with glucose , nebulized albuterol , and a regimen combining both modalities . there was a similar decrease in plasma potassium following either insulin with glucose ( 0.65 + / - 0.09 mmol/liter ) or albuterol ( 0.66 + / - 0.12 mmol/liter ) , and a substantially greater fall with the combined regimen ( 1.21 + / - 0.19 mmol/liter , p less than 0.02 vs. either drug alone ) . baseline plasma glucose concentrations were similar ( about 4.8 mmol/liter ) prior to all three treatments . following insulin with glucose , plasma glucose increased transiently . but then fell to 2.8 + / - 0.3 mmol/liter at one hour , with concentrations below 3 mmol/liter in 9 of 12 patients . none of the patients had symptoms of hypoglycemia . plasma glucose increased to 6.8 + / - 0.5 mmol/liter with albuterol . after the combined drug regimen plasma glucose rose transiently and was back to baseline ( 4.7 + / - 0.7 mmol/liter ) at one hour . treatment with insulin or albuterol produced trivial increases in heart rate , whereas the combined drug regimen was associated with a significant rise ( 15.1 + / - 6.0 min-1 ) . these observations suggest that albuterol and insulin with glucose are equally efficacious in lowering plasma potassium in uremic patients , and that the hypokalemic effects of the two drugs is additive . the hypoglycemic effect of insulin is attenuated by coadministration albuterol . combined therapy with insulin , glucose and albuterol is efficacious and safe for the acute treatment of hyperkalemia in hemodialysis patients . 
soft tissue calcification in pediatric patients with end-stage renal disease . soft tissue calcification is a recognized complication of uremia in adult patients and has been implicated as a cause of ischemic necrosis , cardiac arrhythmias , and respiratory failure . however , soft tissue calcification has been regarded as rare in pediatric renal patients . following a sudden death due to pulmonary calcinosis in an adolescent after renal transplantation , we retrospectively reviewed clinical , biochemical and autopsy data of 120 patients with uremia , on dialysis , or following renal transplantation cared for at childrens hospital of los angeles from 1960 to 1983 . soft tissue calcification was found in 72 of 120 patients ( 60 percent ) . forty-three patients ( 36 percent ) had systemic calcinosis ( group a ) : the most frequent sites of mineral deposition were blood vessels , lung , kidney , myocardium , coronary artery , central nervous system , and gastric mucosa . vascular calcification was uniformly accompanied by deposits in other organs . twenty-nine patients had small amounts of focal calcification ( group b ) and 48 patients had no soft tissue calcification ( group c ) . by multiple logistic regression analysis , the use of vitamin d or its analogues , the form of vitamin d medication prescribed , the peak calcium x phosphorus product , the age at onset of renal failure , and male sex were jointly associated with calcinosis ( group a ) . vitamin d therapy showed the strongest independent association with calcinosis and the probability of calcinosis was greater in patients receiving calcitriol when compared with dihydrotachysterol and vitamin d2 or d3 . the duration of renal failure , peak serum calcium , serum calcium at death , serum phosphorus at death , and primary renal diagnosis , were not statistically associated with calcinosis . 
lymphoedema/hypercalcaemia syndrome mediated by parathyroid-hormone-related protein . a 24-year-old woman presented with a cryptogenic , hypercalcaemic syndrome with metastatic pulmonary calcification and leg and massive breast enlargement and bilateral chylous pleural effusions compatible with a generalised lymphatic abnormality . the patient 's serum parathyroid hormone-related protein concentration was very high at a time when she was significantly hypercalcaemic , implying that the hypercalcaemia was mediated by this protein . 
respiratory arrest in near-fatal asthma background and methods . the majority of asthma-related deaths occur outside the hospital , and therefore the exact factors leading to the terminal event are difficult to ascertain . to examine the mechanisms by which patients might die during acute exacerbations of asthma , we studied 10 such patients who arrived at the hospital in respiratory arrest or in whom it developed soon ( within 20 minutes ) after admission . results . the characteristics of the group were similar to those associated in the literature with a high risk of death from asthma , including a long history of the disease in young to middle-aged patients , previous life-threatening attacks or hospitalizations , delay in obtaining medical aid , and sudden onset of a rapidly progressive crisis . extreme hypercapnia ( mean [ + / - sd ] partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide , 97.1 + / - 31.1 mm hg ) and acidosis ( mean [ + / - sd ] ph , 7.01 + / - 0.11 ) were found before mechanical ventilation was begun , and four patients had hypokalemia on admission . despite the severe respiratory acidosis , no patient had a serious cardiac arrhythmia during the resuscitation maneuvers or during hospitalization . we observed systemic hypertension and sinus tachycardia in eight patients , atrial fibrillation in one , and sinus bradycardia in another . in both patients with arrhythmia the heart reverted to sinus rhythm immediately after manual ventilation with 100 percent oxygen was begun . the median duration of mechanical ventilation was 12 hours , and all patients had normocapnia on discharge from the hospital . conclusions . we conclude that at least in this group of patients , the near-fatal nature of the exacerbations was the result of severe asphyxia rather than cardiac arrhythmias . these results suggest that undertreatment rather than overtreatment may contribute to an increase in mortality from asthma . 
enteroliths causing intermittent obstruction in a patient with crohn 's disease . calcified enteroliths as a cause of intermittent small bowel obstruction is an uncommon clinical entity . the pathophysiological mechanism involves stasis of intestinal contents and has been associated with meckel 's diverticulum , tuberculosis , and regional enteritis . this case describes prophylactic operative intervention in a symptomatic patient with enteroliths as a result of crohn 's disease . 
effects of chronic alcohol intake on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism in subjects with type ii ( non-insulin-dependent ) diabetes . purpose : to study the effects of chronic alcohol intake on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism in subjects with non-insulin-dependent ( type ii ) diabetes ( niddm ) . to also evaluate the effect of alcohol withdrawal on metabolic control . patients and methods : the study group consisted of 46 alcohol-consuming patients with niddm ( niddm-b group ) , 35 non-alcohol-consuming patients with niddm ( niddm group ) , and 40 normal control subjects . all patients were admitted to the hospital . carbohydrate and lipid metabolism was assessed in these individuals immediately on admission to the hospital and during the following days . results : in the niddm-b group , blood alcohol ( ethyl alcohol ) concentration was very low . however , chronic alcohol intake was associated with higher fasting and postprandial glucose concentrations and higher hemoglobin a1c . no significant differences were found in c-peptide levels . moreover , higher concentrations of 3-hydroxybutyrate and free fatty acids were observed in the niddm-b group than in the niddm group . no differences were found in triglyceride concentrations , acid-base patterns , or electrolyte levels . the metabolic effects of alcohol completely waned after 3 days of complete withdrawal . conclusion : chronic alcohol intake causes deterioration in metabolic control of persons with niddm . the effects induced by alcohol are completely reversed after a few days of withdrawal . strict metabolic assessment is necessary when alcohol is an important constituent of the diet . 
reductions in exercise lactic acidosis and ventilation as a result of exercise training in patients with obstructive lung disease . though exercise training is part of most pulmonary rehabilitation programs , whether there is a physiologic basis for increased exercise tolerance is unclear . we sought to determine whether patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) are capable of obtaining a physiologic training effect , as manifested by a reduction in blood lactate and ventilation ( ve ) at a given level of exercise . we also sought to determine whether training work rate determines the size of the training effect . nineteen participants with copd of predominantly moderate severity in an inpatient rehabilitation program performed two cycle ergometer exercise tests at a low and a high work rate for 15 min or to tolerance and also an incremental exercise test to tolerance . arterial blood was sampled for blood gas and lactate analyses . identical tests were performed before and after 5-day-per-week cycle ergometer training for 8 wk either for 45 min/day at a high work rate ( average , 71 w ) or for a proportionally longer time at a low work rate ( average , 30 w ) . average fev1 was 56 + / - 12 % predicted and did not change with training . peak exercise lactate ( average , 6.5 meq/l ) was not correlated with fev1 . for the high work rate training group , identical work rates engendered less lactate ( 4.5 versus 7.2 meq/l ) and less ve ( 48 versus 55 l/min ) after training ; the low work rate training group had significantly less lactate and ve decrease ( p less than 0.01 ) . further , endurance time for the high constant work rate increased 73 % in the high work rate training group but only 9 % in the low work rate training group . at identical work rates , ve decrease average 2.5 l/min per meq/l decrease in lactate ( r = 0.75 ) . we conclude that most copd subjects studied increased blood lactate at low work rates . many of these patients were able to achieve a physiologic training effect . though total work was the same , training at a high work rate was more effective than was training at a low work rate . the lower ve requirement to perform exercise was in proportion to the lower lactate level , but the ve decrease for a given decrease in lactate was smaller than that seen in normal subjects ( 7.2 l/min/meq / l ) , apparently because patients with copd fall to hyperventilate in response to lactic acidosis ( paco2 does not drop ) . these findings provide a physiologic rationale for exercise training of patients with copd . 
inspiratory muscle performance and pulmonary function changes in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . the study examined pulmonary function parameters of 36 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and analyzed their inspiratory muscle performance . the control group consisted of 40 healthy reference persons of a sex ratio , age , height , and weight distribution similar to those of the patients . the pulmonary function test included the measurement of the lung volumes and the maximal expiratory flow-volume curves . the values of maximal sniff esophageal ( pes ) and transdiaphragmatic pressures ( pdi ) were used as parameters for global inspiratory muscle strength and diaphragm strength , respectively . the 12-s maximum voluntary ventilation ( mvv ) test supplied the parameter of inspiratory muscle endurance . the diabetic patients showed a highly significant decreased value for their inspiratory vital capacity ( vcin ) compared with that of the control subjects ( 4.75 + / - 0.84 versus 5.36 + / - 1.37 l ; p less than 0.01 ) . inspiratory muscle performance in the diabetic patients was also restricted . sniff pes was significantly lower in the diabetic group ( p less than 0.05 ) ; sniff pdi ( p less than 0.01 ) and mvv ( p less than 0.05 ) were also low . the results did not correlate with either the duration of diabetes or the quality of metabolic control measured by glycosylated hemoglobin concentration . the reduction of vcin in diabetic patients may have been caused partly by the reduced capacity of the inspiratory muscles . 
survival after hypertonic saline resuscitation from hemorrhage . there has been recent increased interest in hypertonic saline resuscitation from shock and hemorrhage . this study was performed to evaluate the survival effects of hypertonic saline resuscitation . fifty male sprague-dawley rats of average weight of 325 grams were anesthetized with halothane . animals were subjected to blood loss of 21 ml/kg over 5 minutes . intravenous infusion was started 10 minutes after hemorrhage with either lactated ringer 's injection ( 42 ml/kg ) or three per cent nacl ( 10.64 ml/kg ) chosen randomly . these doses provided equal amounts of sodium . at the end of fluid infusion , blood samples were obtained for electrolyte determination . rats were observed 3 days for survival . survival was significantly lower in the three per cent nacl group compared with the lactated ringer 's group . it is probable that worsened outcome with three per cent nacl was associated with intracellular dehydration . 
evaluation of albumin loss during low-density lipoprotein apheresis . because the reduced plasma oncotic pressure from hypoproteinemia causes hyperlipidemia , serum albumin levels should be maintained during low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) apheresis . the amount of albumin loss was evaluated in seven patients with familial hypercholesterolemia during ldl apheresis in which columns packed with dextran sulfate-cellulose beads were used as a selective adsorbent of ldl . serum albumin level significantly decreased from 4.3 + / - 0.3 ( mean + / - sd ) g/dl to 3.6 + / - 0.2 g/dl . the albumin loss was assessed by two different methods : 1 ) radioimmunoassay of microalbumin content in the discarded fluid , and 2 ) measurement of changes in plasma albumin reserve . the albumin losses during one apheresis session were 3.7 + / - 2.9 g and 8.3 + / - 5.7 g , respectively , depending upon which of two different methods was used . there was a significant correlation between these two methods ( r = 0.84 , p less than 0.02 ) . the amount of albumin loss during apheresis was estimated to be between 4.1 % and 9.1 % of total plasma albumin reserve , and more than half of the decreased serum albumin level appeared to be attributable to dilution due to the electrolyte solution used for priming of the extracorporeal circuit . 
screening for hypercholesterolemia among canadians : how much will it cost ? [ published erratum appears in can med assoc j 1991 mar 1 ; 144 ( 5 ) :545 ] objective : to determine the cost of screening all canadians aged 30 years or more without coronary heart disease ( chd ) for hypercholesterolemia . data sources : the expected results of initial screening of the serum cholesterol level were estimated on the basis of 1986 canadian census data and the 1978 canada health survey . the results of repeat testing were estimated on the basis of data from the lipid research clinics prevalence study . lipid profile results were extrapolated from tests at the montreal general hospital 's clinical chemistry laboratory . laboratory costs and primary care practitioner costs were provided by the canadian society of clinical chemists and provincial fee schedules respectively . main results : among 12,479,356 canadians free of chd 48.7 % would be identified as being at high risk , 4.8 % would be identified as being at moderate risk , and 46.6 % would be reassured that their lipid risk for chd was low . the total cost of implementing the program in the first year would be $ 432 million to $ 561 million ( $ 325 million for laboratory tests and $ 107 million to $ 236 million for visits to primary care practitioners ) . conclusion : the substantial cost of implementing a nationwide screening program must be weighed against the expected benefits to ensure that the final result is both practical and economically feasible . 
hyponatremia and hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism in a critically ill patient : combination of insensitivity to angiotensin ii and tubular unresponsiveness to mineralocorticoid . a 62-year-old man with pneumonia and left flank pain had a clinical syndrome of hyponatremia , hypotension , dehydration , and high urinary sodium excretion in the presence of a normal glomerular filtration rate . the plasma level of antidiuretic hormone was relatively high despite decreased serum osmolality . thyroid function and excretion of glucocorticoid and sex steroids were normal . the serum aldosterone level was very low despite elevated plasma renin activity . angiotensin ii failed to stimulate any secretion of aldosterone , despite the occurrence of a progressive rise in blood pressure . on the other hand , rapid acth administration increased both serum aldosterone and cortisol . the patient showed no effective response to increased salt intake , but large doses of mineralocorticoid resulted in a normal serum sodium level without dehydration . subsequently , he suffered cardiac arrest secondary to ventricular tachycardia . postmortem examination showed well differentiated adenocarcinoma in the left pleura and an intact , histologically normal adrenal zona glomerulosa and kidney . this is the first reported case of a critically ill patient with hyponatremia caused by hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism possibly due to angiotensin ii insensitivity and tubular unresponsiveness to mineralocorticoid . 
use of aminohydroxypropylidene bisphosphonate ( ahprbp , " apd " ) for the treatment of hypercalcemia in patients with renal impairment . aminohydroxypropylidene bisphosphonate ( ahprbp , " apd " ) is a relatively new bisphosphonate which has been shown to be effective for control of hypercalcemia due to a variety of causes . renal impairment has been reported following the use of other bisphosphonates and pre-existing renal impairment has been regarded as a contraindication to the use of ahprbp . we report the successful use of intravenous ahprbp to control hypercalcemia in three patients with renal impairment , one of whom was dialysis-dependent . no significant side effects were noted ; in particular , there was no further deterioration in renal function . intravenous ahprbp may be a safe and effective agent for the control of hypercalcemia in patients with renal impairment . 
polycystic ovary syndrome . polycystic ovary syndrome is a disorder of unknown cause characterized by anovulation , hyperandrogenism , and gonadotropin secretory abnormalities producing oligo-ovulation or anovulation . hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance are important features of this syndrome . because other causes of androgen excess may produce similar clinical and biochemical findings , pco remains a diagnosis of exclusion . treatment is directed toward relieving symptoms of hyperandrogenemia in order to stimulate ovulation , correcting obesity , and inducing regular menses to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer . 
variable prevalence of lymphocytic thyroiditis among diabetes-prone sublines of bb/w or rats . the bb/wor rat develops spontaneous autoimmune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( dm ) and lymphocytic thyroiditis ( lt ) . six different inbred sublines of this rat model have been selected for studying the pathogenesis of dm and , thereby , the prevalence of dm has been carefully monitored and found to be relatively constant . in contrast , we have observed a striking difference in the prevalence and intensity of lt in these six sublines , varying from 100 % in nb subline rats to 4.9 % in be subline rats at 105-110 days of age . excess iodide administration frequently increases the prevalence of lt but did not do so in the two sublines ( bb and be ) with the lowest frequency of spontaneous lt. in view of this variable prevalence of lt in the different bb/wor sublines , it is imperative that investigators studying the pathogenesis and modulation of lt in this rat model select those sublines which express a desired frequency of spontaneous lt. 
diabetes-associated impairment of hepatic insulin receptor tyrosine kinase activity : a study of mechanisms . insulin receptor tyrosine kinase activity solubilized from liver of control and streptozotocin diabetic rats was studied using histone h2b and poly-glu-tyr ( 4:1 ) as phosphoacceptors . both substrates inhibited autophosphorylation and exogenous kinase activity when added before , but not after , receptor activation with atp . when h2b was added before atp , insulin stimulated exogenous kinase activity of diabetic-derived receptors was significantly higher ( approximately 50 % ) than control values at low h2b concentrations , but significantly lower ( approximately 50 % ) than control values at high h2b concentrations , suggesting a decrease in the apparent km and maximal velocity of the diabetic receptor tyrosine kinase toward h2b . when receptors were allowed to maximally autophosphorylate before the addition of h2b , the maximal h2b kinase activity of diabetic-derived receptors was only approximately 25 % lower than that of controls . these effects were not attributable to altered atp kinetics . insulin receptor kinase activity toward the substrate poly-glu-tyr ( 4:1 ) was unaltered by insulinopenic diabetes . insulin receptor alpha-beta dimers were not detectable in either control or diabetic-derived preparations . we conclude that the impairment of hepatic insulin receptor kinase activity associated with insulinopenic diabetes reflects a decreased ability to maximally activate , which is enhanced when the receptor is activated in the presence of some substrates , e.g. h2b . impaired signalling by the diabetic-derived receptor appears to be dependent on the type of substrate and its concentration . 
hyponatremia-induced inhibition of magnocellular neurons causes stressor-selective impairment of stimulated adrenocorticotropin secretion in rats . chronically hyponatremic rats were subjected to various stressors in order to evaluate the possible contribution of magnocellular neurons to the regulation of acth secretion , since such rats have markedly inhibited secretion and synthesis of magnocellular arginine vasopressin ( avp ) and oxytocin ( ot ) . stress caused by a novel environment or by insulin-induced hypoglycemia resulted in moderate increases in plasma acth , which were of similar magnitude in both hyponatremic and normonatremic rats , and these stressors caused no increase in plasma avp and ot levels in either group of rats . however , when exposed to ether , hyponatremic rats exhibited a significantly blunted acth response compared to normonatremic controls ( 331 + / - 49 vs. 740 + / - 124 pg/ml ; p less than 0.01 , respectively ) , and plasma avp levels were markedly increased in the normonatremic , but not in the hyponatremic , rats . intravenous infusion of 2 m nacl also caused an acth release in hyponatremic rats that was significantly smaller than that in their normonatremic counterparts ( 228 + / - 52 vs. 479 + / - 85 pg/ml ; p less than 0.05 , respectively ) , and in this case both plasma avp and ot levels were markedly increased in the normonatremic , but not in the hyponatremic , rats . however , hyponatremic rats exhibited greatly increased plasma acth levels 2 and 96 h after adrenalectomy ( adx ) , which were statistically equivalent to the increases in acth levels in normonatremic rats after adx . seven days after adx parvocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus showed strongly increased crf-41 and avp-neurophysin , but not ot-neurophysin , immunoreactivities in both normonatremic and hyponatremic rats . these results show that parvocellular crf-41 / avp-producing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus are not inhibited by chronic hyponatremia , in contrast to magnocellular neurons , and suggest that acth secretion induced by ether or hypertonic saline , but not by novel environment or insulin-induced hypoglycemia , is partially mediated by magnocellular avp and/or ot . 
the hypothalamic-pituitary axis of streptozotocin-induced diabetic female rats is not normalized by estradiol replacement . studies in diabetic rats have found abnormalities at the hypothalamic , pituitary , and/or ovarian level but have not controlled for changes in estrogen levels induced by diabetes . the purpose of this investigation was to study the effect of diabetes on the hypothalamic-pituitary axis in ovariectomized rats treated with estradiol ( e2 ) . ovariectomized 60 day old female rats were assigned to control ( c , n = 42 ) , diabetic ( d , n = 47 ) or insulin-treated diabetic ( di , n = 16 ) groups . diabetes was induced with an injection of streptozotocin in the d and di groups . in the c , d , and di groups , estrogen was replaced by implanting blank , 5 micrograms or 20 micrograms e2 pellets sc . pituitary lh responsiveness to gnrh was assessed in c and d animals . anterior hypothalamic and midhypothalamic concentrations of prognrh and gnrh , pituitary lh and fsh and serum levels of lh , and e2 were measured by ria . anterior hypothalamic prognrh concentrations were decreased in diabetic rats treated with 5 micrograms e2 compared to 5 micrograms e2 control animals ( p less than 0.05 ) . midhypothalamic gnrh concentrations were also reduced in d vs. c animals despite comparable estrogen therapy ( p less than 0.004 ) . gnrh-stimulated lh levels were greater in e2-treated diabetic females than in similarly treated control rats ( p less than 0.001 ) . d and di animals were more sensitive than controls to the inhibitory effect of estrogen on basal lh levels . pituitary lh and fsh content was lower in 20 micrograms e2-replaced animals but was not influenced by the diabetic state . these data demonstrate a diabetes-induced decrease in hypothalamic prognrh and gnrh concentration which is not corrected with e2 replacement . the hyper-responsiveness of the diabetic rat pituitary to gnrh also suggests a chronic lack of gnrh stimulation from the hypothalamus but a continued ability of the pituitary to respond to gnrh . 
clinical interaction of salt and weight change on blood pressure level . studies that examine the effect of altered body weight or dietary sodium on blood pressure level are reviewed . emphasis is placed on studies that compare the effects of weight reduction or sodium restriction in separate comparison groups or analyze the independent effect of the two intervention modalities in multiple regression analysis . additional analyses of the hypertension prevention trial data are presented . most studies , where comparison can be made , suggest a greater effect for weight reduction than for the achieved , moderate , or short-term reduction in sodium intake on subsequent lowering of blood pressure ; the lowering effect on blood pressure of weight reduction is independent of the effect of dietary sodium restriction . however , long-term ( over a year ) substantial reductions ( up to 70 meq/day ) of dietary sodium have not been achieved in comparative trials , nor are the effects of combined weight and sodium reduction in the prevention and treatment of hypertension quantified . future studies and potential problems are discussed . 
effect of lovastatin on intimal hyperplasia after balloon angioplasty : a study in an atherosclerotic hypercholesterolemic rabbit . restenosis , the major limitation of balloon angioplasty , is the result of intimal hyperplasia after the procedure . lovastatin , a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a ( hmg-coa ) inhibitor , may influence intimal hyperplasia by lowering serum cholesterol and by blocking deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) synthesis . to determine whether lovastatin reduces intimal hyperplasia , a prospective , randomized blinded study was performed in 60 atherosclerotic new zealand white male rabbits . atherosclerosis was produced by air desiccation injury followed by a 28 day diet of 2 % cholesterol and 6 % peanut oil that was terminated before balloon angioplasty was performed . angioplasty could not be performed in 14 rabbits with bilateral femoral artery occlusion , and in one rabbit the procedure was a technical failure . forty-five rabbits underwent balloon angioplasty performed with use of a 2.5-mm balloon inflated to 10 atm for three 1 min dilations at 1 min intervals . seven rabbits died during the procedure . thirty-eight rabbits were randomized to either a lovastatin group ( 6 mg/kg body weight per day ) or a control group . angioplasty was performed on all patent vessels ( n = 54 ) ; the procedure was bilateral in 16 rabbits and unilateral in 22 . fifteen lovastatin-treated and 15 control rabbits survived 39 days after angioplasty and were then killed . angiograms , obtained before and 10 min and 39 days after balloon angioplasty , were read with use of electronic calipers by two observers who had no knowledge of treatment data . after the rabbits were killed , vessels were pressure perfused using a standardized protocol to maintain in vivo dimensions for blinded quantitative histologic analysis . 
erythropoietin response to anemia as a function of age . the erythropoietin ( epo ) response to anemia was assessed for 244 subjects aged 1-64 years ( mean 45.2 years ) and 121 subjects aged 65-94 years ( mean 68.3 years ) . subjects included non-anemic individuals as well as those with anemia of various etiologies , excluding renal disease and pregnancy . significant inverse correlations between serum immunoreactive epo and hematocrit were noted for both groups . regression lines failed to show a significantly lower slope or y-intercept for older compared to younger subjects . epo levels were not significantly lower for older compared to younger subjects when controlled for hematocrit level . these results suggest that the epo response to anemia in older subjects is similar to that of younger subjects . 
experience with in situ saphenous vein bypasses during 1981 to 1989 : determinant factors of long-term patency . from 1981 to 1989 , 361 consecutive in situ saphenous vein bypasses were performed . indications for revascularization were critical limb ischemia ( n = 335 , 93 % ) , popliteal aneurysm ( n = 15 , 4 % ) , and claudication ( n = 11 , 3 % ) . outflow tract was the popliteal artery in 116 ( 32 % ) and tibial artery in 245 ( 68 % ) of bypasses . at 6 years primary patency was 63 % and secondary patency was 81 % . during the performance of the in situ bypass procedure , 86 ( 24 % ) venous conduits were modified because of a technical failure ( n = 49 , 13 % ) or an inadequate vein segment ( n = 37 , 10 % ) . secondary patency at 4 years for bypasses requiring modification was 72 % compared to 84 % for bypasses not modified ( p less than 0.05 ) . atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery necessitating endarterectomy , patch angioplasty , or replacement lowered primary patency at 3 years ( 69 % ) compared to the inflow artery not requiring reconstruction ( 46 % , p less than 0.02 ) . in the follow-up period , 95 ( 26 % ) bypasses were revised because of thrombosis or hemodynamic failure . bypasses requiring revision had a 4-year secondary patency of 68 % compared to 88 % for bypasses not revised ( p less than 0.02 ) . the first 179 cases ( 1981 to 1985 ) were compared to the subsequent 182 cases ( 1986 to 1989 ) . the secondary patency at 3 years for the latter half ( 92 % ) compared to the first half ( 80 % ) of the experience was significantly improved ( p less than 0.02 ) . the secondary patency for bypasses not requiring revision was significantly improved ( p less than 0.02 ) for the latter half ( n = 142 , 97 % ) compared to the first half ( n = 124 , 83 % ) of the series . long-term patency with the in situ saphenous vein bypass is dependent on surgical experience , quality of the venous conduit , and atherosclerotic disease of the inflow artery that necessitates reconstruction . meticulous surgical technique and compulsive bypass surveillance results in superior long-term patency . 
cigarette smoking increases the risk of albuminuria among subjects with type i diabetes . the effect of cigarette smoking on diabetic renal and retinal complications was evaluated in 359 young subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . the prevalence of increased albumin excretion rates was 2.8 times higher in smokers than nonsmokers . mean glycohemoglobin levels and duration of diabetes were also significant factors in the development of diabetic nephropathy and retinopathy in a logistic regression model . smoking remained a significant factor in the logistic regression model for albuminuria ( but not retinopathy ) when controlled for glycohemoglobin level , duration of diabetes , age , gender , and blood pressure . the progression of albuminuria and of retinopathy was also greater in smokers . albuminuria improved significantly when subjects ceased smoking . it is concluded that cigarette smoking is an independent risk factor and is associated with the development and progression of early diabetic renal damage ( albuminuria ) and with the worsening of retinal disease in young subjects with diabetes . 
why is diabetes mellitus a stronger risk factor for fatal ischemic heart disease in women than in men ? the rancho bernardo study [ published erratum appears in jama 1991 jun 26 ; 265 ( 24 ) :3249 ] we report here the 14-year sex-specific effect of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus on the risk of fatal ischemic heart disease in a geographically defined population of men and women aged 40 through 79 years . there were 207 men and 127 women who had diabetes at baseline based on medical history or fasting hyperglycemia . they were compared with 2137 adults who had fasting euglycemia and a negative personal and family history of diabetes . the relative hazard of ischemic heart disease death in diabetics vs nondiabetics was 1.8 in men and 3.3 in women , after adjusting for age , and 1.9 and 3.3 , respectively , after adjusting for age , systolic blood pressure , cholesterol , body mass index , and cigarette smoking using the cox regression model . the sex difference in the independent contribution of diabetes to fatal heart disease was largely explained by the persistently more favorable survival rate of women ( than men ) without diabetes . 
the effects of nonthyroid disease and drugs on thyroid function tests . serious nonthyroid illness and caloric deprivation , which so often accompany systemic illness , have diverse and still incompletely understood effects on thyroid hormone economy . we have discussed the pathophysiologic basis for the most common pattern of alterations in routine thyroid function tests : a decreased serum t3 concentration ; normal or , in critically ill patients , a low total serum t4 level ; and a normal free t4 concentration . another , less frequent pattern ( high total and free t4 with a normal serum t3 ) can be encountered transiently in the acutely ill medical or psychiatric patient . with the recent advent of sensitive assays for tsh and better methods for serum free t4 , it is now possible to define more quickly and accurately the thyroid-metabolic status of most of these sick patients ; the vast majority are euthyroid . certain drugs confound the picture . the most important of these include dopamine and high-dose glucocorticoids , both of which suppress tsh secretion from the pituitary and may actually cause a state of central hypothyroidism . other drugs have multiple effects on thyroid hormone indices ( e.g. , amiodarone ) . knowledge of all of the ways in which systemic illness , starvation , and certain drugs may influence thyroid function tests is crucial in assessing the thyroid status of patients with serious nonthyroid disease . 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of gallstones : results and 6-month follow-up in 141 patients . a study of biliary shock wave lithotripsy of gallstones sponsored by dornier medical systems , munich , began in the united states in may 1988 to evaluate the efficacy and safety of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy ( eswl ) and the need for adjunctive therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid ( udca ) . one hundred forty-one symptomatic patients with one to three gallstones 5-30 mm in diameter were randomized to treatment . one week before eswl , patients were given either udca or placebo . this treatment was continued for 6 months . all patients underwent follow-up at predetermined intervals . according to the protocol , re-treatment for fragments larger than 5 mm in diameter could be performed only at 6 weeks ; 26 ( 18 % ) of the 141 patients were retreated . at 6 months , the stone-free rates for single stones were as follows : patients with noncalcified stones receiving udca , 29 % ; patients with noncalcified stones receiving placebo , 24 % ; and patients with partially calcified stones receiving either udca or placebo , 6 % . no significant difference was noted between the udca and placebo groups . at 6 months , the stone-free rates in patients with single , noncalcified stones 20 mm or less in diameter were 40 % ( udca ) and 32 % ( placebo ) , which is superior to rates for those with solitary , noncalcified gallstones 21-30 mm in diameter and those with two or three stones . 
malnutrition and acute respiratory tract infections in filipino children . the impact of malnutrition on morbidity and mortality associated with acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) was studied in filipino children less than 5 years old . malnutrition measured by weight-for-age z-scores of less than -3 sd and less than -2 sd from the national center for health statistics median reference population was associated with the following significant relative risks of morbidity : 1.24 ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] = 1.14 , 1.34 ) and 1.14 ( 95 % ci = 1.08 , 1.19 ) , respectively , for ari ; and 1.9 ( 95 % ci = 1.46 , 2.39 ) and 1.2 ( 95 % ci = 1.03 , 1.47 ) , respectively , for acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) . these risk ratios remained significant when adjusted for age , crowding , and parental smoking . malnourished children with severe alri also had a mortality risk two to three times higher than that of healthy children . this risk remained significant even when adjusted for significant predictors of mortality , including clinical complications , concurrent measles , severe infections , and female gender ; and for clinical factors , including extent of pneumonic infiltrates , dehydration , and hepatic enlargement . these findings underscore the importance of nutritional intervention in the control of morbidity and mortality among patients with ari . 
etiologic , clinical , and pathologic analysis of 31 fatal cases of acute respiratory tract infection in argentinian children under 5 years of age . during a 3-year survey of 805 children with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) who were admitted to three hospitals in buenos aires , 31 fatal cases were recorded -- a fatality rate of 3.8 % . of the 31 children who died , 77 % were less than 1 year of age , 48 % were boys , 58 % were malnourished , 29 % had previous respiratory disease , and 22 % had previous congenital disease . all children who died had clinical diagnoses of pneumonia ( 71 % ) or bronchiolitis ( 29 % ) . autopsies were performed in 14 of the cases . viral etiology was determined by both cell culture and indirect immunofluorescence ( iif ) assay of either nasopharyngeal aspirates ( npa ) or lung tissue and bacterial etiology was determined by isolation of organisms from blood , lung tissue , and/or pleural fluid . npa was examined for bordetella pertussis by iif . pathogens were identified in 65 % of fatal cases . seven cases were bacterial ; seven cases were viral ; and six cases resulted from mixed infections . lung tissue yielded positive etiologic results in 10 of 13 cases . histopathologic examination performed on specimens from the 14 autopsied children revealed necrotizing bronchiolitis with intranuclear inclusions ( n = 5 ) and multifocal pneumonia ( n = 9 ) . 
effect of hypoxia on cerebral metabolites measured by proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in rats . proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy is a unique method to monitor noninvasively the concentrations of cerebral metabolites . n-acetyl-l-aspartate , the concentration of which is assumed to be stable during hypoxia , has been used to form ratios with lactate . to determine the stability of the signal from n-acetyl-l-aspartate , we used a model of graded hypoxia in rats to monitor the percentage changes from baseline of the peak heights for lactate , lipids , and n-acetyl-l-aspartate . anesthetized adult rats were exposed sequentially to 15 % and 10 % o2 while proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were collected with a surface coil in a 7-t 89-mm-bore spectrometer . brain lactate concentration was either increased by feeding or infusion of glucose ( n = 9 ) or lowered by fasting ( n = 7 ) . after death the brains were removed and frozen , and the water - and lipid-soluble compounds were extracted to identify the origin of the signals . we analyzed the data both as the percentage change from baseline for heights of the lactate ( 1.33 ppm ) , lipids ( 1.5 ppm ) , and n-acetyl-l-aspartate ( 2.02 ppm ) peaks and as the ratios of heights of the 1.33 and 2.02 and the 1.5 and 2.02 ppm peaks . both hypoxic episodes caused a 45 % decrease from baseline in the 2.02 ppm peak . during the second hypoxic episode , the 1.33:2.02 ppm peak height ratio increased significantly in hyperglycemic rats ( p less than 0.05 ) but was unchanged in hypoglycemic rats . 
pathophysiology , monitoring , and management of the ventilator-dependent patient : considerations for drug therapy , emphasis on stress ulcer prophylaxis . adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) , or noncardiac pulmonary edema , is a form of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure . the goals of treatment for patients with ards are to provide supportive therapy , to reverse the underlying etiology or pathology , and to prevent subsequent complications . supportive therapy consists of supplemental oxygen , positive end-expiratory pressure , and , often , mechanical ventilation . the reversal of the underlying pathology varies according to the etiologic origin of ards . complications from ards include stress ulcers , which occur when gastric aggressive and defensive functions become unbalanced . antacids and cytoprotective agents are used for stress ulcer prophylaxis , but histamine h2-receptor antagonists are now regarded as the standard of care . because all the marketed h2-receptor antagonists are efficacious , choice of the agent is based on the adverse effect profile and drug interactions . no definitive data currently exist linking stress ulcer prophylaxis regimens that raise intragastric ph to a significant risk for nosocomial pneumonia . 
long-term studies of mental health after the greenville gastric bypass operation for morbid obesity . from february 1 , 1980 , to may 1 , 1989 , 462 patients underwent the greenville gastric bypass at the east carolina university school of medicine . the operation effectively maintained satisfactory weight loss after 9 years ( mean weight preoperatively , 293 lbs ; at 24 months , 179 lbs ; at 96 months , 194 lbs ) . the gastric bypass favorably affected non-insulin-dependent diabetes , hypertension , and physical and role functioning . in the most recent 157 patients , our studies were extended to study the effects of the gastric bypass on mental health . the significant improvements in mental health indices that were observed 6 and 12 months after surgery eroded by the end of 2 years . this return of the mental health indices to the preoperative status , plus the late occurrence of 3 suicides and 2 deaths from alcohol abuse among the total 462 patients , suggest that long-term follow-up and continued emotional support are essential ingredients for successful bariatric surgery . 
human isophane or lente insulin ? a double blind crossover trial in insulin dependent diabetes mellitus . fifty two children with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus were randomised to receive human isophane or lente insulin preparations in combination with soluble insulin in a double blind trial . patients were seen every two months , and crossed over after four months of treatment . control assessed by glycated haemoglobin was significantly lower in children on human isophane insulin , but fasting blood glucose and fructosamine concentrations and the number of episodes of hypoglycaemia were similar on both regimens . in five children on twice daily insulin regimens , insulin profiles throughout a 24 hour period demonstrated greater variability on lente compared with isophane insulin despite identically administered insulin doses . a questionnaire completed at the end of the study showed that two thirds of the children and/or their parents preferred the isophane insulin , and they gave perceived improvement of metabolic control as the major reason for their choice . 
comparison of non-mydriatic retinal photography with ophthalmoscopy in 2159 patients : mobile retinal camera study objective -- to determine whether non-mydriatic polaroid retinal photography was comparable to ophthalmoscopy with mydriasis in routine clinic screening for early , treatable diabetic retinopathy . design -- prospective study of ophthalmoscopic findings according to retinal camera screening and ophthalmoscopy and outcome of referral to ophthalmologist . setting -- outpatient diabetic clinics of three teaching hospitals and three district general hospitals . patients -- 2159 adults selected randomly from the diabetic clinics , excluding only those registered as blind or those in wheelchairs and unable to enter the screening vehicle . main outcome measures -- numbers of patients and eyes correctly identified by each technique as requiring referral with potentially treatable retinopathy ( new vessel formation and maculopathy ) and congruence in numbers of microaneurysms , haemorrhages , and exudates reported . results -- camera screening missed two cases of new vessel formation and did not identify a further 12 but indicated a need for referral . ophthalmoscopy missed five cases of new vessel formation and indicated a need for referral in another four for other reasons . maculopathy was reported in 147 eyes with camera screening alone and 95 eyes by ophthalmoscopy only ( chi 2 = 11.2 ; p less than 0.001 ) , in 66 and 29 of which respectively maculopathy was subsequently confirmed . overall , 38 eyes received laser treatment for maculopathy after detection by camera screening compared with 17 after ophthalmoscopic detection ( chi 2 = 8.0 ; p less than 0.01 ) . camera screening underestimated numbers of microaneurysms ( chi 2 = 12.9 ; p less than 0.001 ) and haemorrhages ( chi 2 = 7.4 ; p less than 0.01 ) and ophthalmoscopy underestimated hard exudates ( chi 2 = 48.2 ; p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions -- non-mydriatic polaroid retinal photography is at least as good as ophthalmoscopy with mydriasis in routine diabetic clinics in identifying new vessel formation and absence of retinopathy and is significantly better in detecting exudative maculopathy . 
psychological disturbance in children with haemophilia . objective -- to assess the need for formal psychotherapeutic intervention in children attending a children 's haemophilia clinic after some of them had been diagnosed as positive for hiv . design -- comparison of haemophiliac children with matched control groups of diabetic and healthy children . setting -- the west of scotland children 's haemophilia centre , glasgow . patients -- 43 children aged 3 to 16 years with mild , moderate , and severe clotting disorders were matched with control groups of 46 diabetic children and 42 physically healthy children . interventions -- parents of children aged 3-5 years were interviewed with the behaviour screening questionnaire . children aged 6 to 16 were assessed by parental and teacher report using standardised questionnaires and self report using a computerised depression inventory . all were scored numerically according to the presence of symptoms of emotional and behavioural problems . main outcome measures -- the groups were compared for mean scores on each rating device and for number of children achieving scores within the pathological range . results -- in the 6-16 age group five haemophiliac children , five diabetic children , and three healthy children scored in the pathological range on the parent questionnaire , as did two , three , and five respectively on the teacher questionnaire and four , four , and eight on the depression inventory . there was no significant difference across the three groups . analysis of mean scores similarly showed no significant difference across groups . in contrast , the single measure used for younger children showed an increase in behavioural difficulties among the diabetic children . conclusion -- haemophiliac children attending the west of scotland centre were no more disturbed than their diabetic or healthy peers despite the identification of hiv infection within the clinic and the widespread adverse publicity associated with aids and hiv infection . 
esophageal perforation during pneumatic dilatation for achalasia : a possible association with malnutrition . pneumatic balloon dilatation of the lower esophageal sphincter is commonly utilized as primary therapy for achalasia . perforation related to pneumatic dilatation is uncommon ( 2-6 % ) but may result in severe morbidity . factors associated with risk of perforation are not well defined . we noted perforation in three patients undergoing forceful balloon dilatation . all these patients had clinical evidence of significant malnutrition ( recent marked weight loss and severe hypoalbuminemia ) . malnutrition may be a causal factor for perforation in patients with achalasia undergoing dilatation . 
d-xylose absorption test . urine or blood ? the d-xylose absorption test has been used during the last four decades for evaluation of malabsorption in the small intestine . however , some disagreement still exists about the recommended method of performing this test : the 1-hr blood test , the 5-hr urine test , or both . we evaluated the test by performing 125 combined blood and urine tests in 111 patients . normal xylose absorption was recorded in both blood and urine in 71 tests ( group a , 56.8 % ) . abnormal test results in both blood and urine were recorded in 29 patients ( group b , 23.2 % ) . only one patient had a pathological blood value and normal xylose excretion in the urine . twenty-four patients ( group d , 19.2 % ) had normal 1-hr blood xylose ( greater than 25 mg/100 ml ) with abnormal 5-hr urine xylose ( less than 4.5 g/5 hr ) . fat and/or bile salt malabsorption were documented in 21 patients ( 87.5 % ) of this group using stool fat analysis and the [ 14c ] cholylglycine breath test . these data suggest that in adults the 5-hr urine collection more accurately reflects intestinal absorption in comparison with the 1-hr blood value . 
dmps as a rescue agent for the nephropathy induced by mercuric chloride . the effectiveness of 2,3-dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate ( dmps ) as a rescue agent for the acute nephropathy induced by hgcl2 was studied in uninephrectomized ( npx ) and sham-operated ( so ) rats . npx and so rats that were given a toxic 2.5-mumol / kg dose of hgcl2 developed severe renal damage within 24 hr after the hgcl2 was administered . renal injury was assessed by measuring plasma creatinine , creatinine clearance , fractional excretion of several biological markers , the rate of excretion of cellular enzymes and plasma solutes and severity of morphologically demonstrable necrosis in the pars recta of proximal tubules . when a 10-mg/kg dose of dmps was given to the npx and so rats 1 hr after treatment with the 2.5-mumol / kg dose of hgcl2 , the nephropathy induced by the dose of hgcl2 was less severe . moreover , the npx rats had significantly less severe renal damage than did the so rats . renal damage was completely absent from both npx and so rats that were given a 100-mg/kg dose of dmps 1 hr after treatment with the 2.5-mumol / kg dose of hgcl2 . these data indicate that at the 10-mg/kg dose of dmps , npx rats are protected against the nephrotoxic effects of a 2.5-mumol / kg dose of hgcl2 to a greater extent than are so rats . moreover , the data show that complete rescue from the 2.5-mumol / kg dose of hgcl2 is afforded to npx and so rats given 100 mg/kg of dmps within 1 hr after treatment with hgcl2 . this complete rescue is afforded for at least 24 hr . based on the present findings dmps may prove to be a useful rescue agent against the acute nephropathy induced by hgcl2 . 
bmy 30047 : a novel topically active retinoid with low local and systemic toxicity . in the treatment of various dermatological disorders , topically applied retinoids have potential therapeutic use with the advantage of improved localized activity and lower toxicity over systemically administered retinoids . however , most retinoids cause a significant degree of local irritation . in the present study , the ability to produce local activity with low local irritation potential was evaluated with a novel retinoic acid derivative . bmy 30047 ( 11-cis , 13-cis-12-hydroxymethylretinoic acid delta-lactone ) is one of a series of retinoic acid derivatives in which the carboxyl function of the polar end was modified with the aim of achieving reduced local irritation and systemic toxicity while retaining the local therapeutic effect . bmy 30047 was evaluated and compared with all-trans retinoic acid for topical retinoid activity in several preclinical assay systems , including the utricle reduction assay in rhino mice , 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate ester-stimulated ornithine decarboxylase induction in hairless mice and the uv light-induced photodamaged skin model in hairless mice . bmy 30047 was assessed for retinoid-type side effects by evaluating the skin irritation potential in rabbits after repeated topical application , and hypervitaminosis a-inducing potential in mice after i.p. injection . bmy 30047 demonstrated significant topical retinoid activity in several in vivo models with less skin irritation potential relative to the most used clinical concentrations of all-trans retinoic acid . bmy 30047 also showed very little systemic activity and did not produce any evidence of hypervitaminosis a syndrome at systemic doses 20 times greater than the no-effect dose of all-trans retinoic acid . 
a possible role for antiphospholipid antibodies in acquired cardiac valve deformity . we studied the frequency of antiphospholipid antibodies ( apl ) in patients undergoing cardiac valve replacement , and present the results in the context of the pathology of the valve lesions . forty-eight consecutive patients undergoing valve replacement were studied . of the whole group , 15 ( 31 % ) had antibody levels greater than 2 sd above the mean for a control group of healthy persons and 11 ( 23 % ) had a level of greater than 3 sd . there was an increased frequency of elevated antibody levels in patients with valves showing fibrocalcific change and a significant association between apl and valve thrombus . the possible role of these antibodies in the pathogenesis of the valve lesions is discussed . 
the incidence and prognostic significance of humoral hypercalcemia in renal cell carcinoma . this retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the incidence and prognostic significance of humoral hypercalcemia in 218 renal cell carcinoma patients during the last 20 years . of 218 patients 20 ( 9.2 % ) were hypercalcemic , with serum calcium levels ranging from 10.7 to 16.0 mg . / dl . the respective incidence of humoral hypercalcemia was 3 % in patients with stage i , 5.9 % with stage ii , 14.1 % with stage iii and 18.9 % with stage iv disease without bone metastasis . the survival curves between the hypercalcemic and eucalcemic groups among stages i to iii cancer patients showed no statistical significance ( p greater than 0.05 ) . the survival curve deteriorated significantly in stage iv cancer patients with humoral hypercalcemia ( p less than 0.005 ) , with a median survival of 45.0 + / - 39.7 days versus 286.4 + / - 27.6 days in eucalcemic patients . no specific correlation was found between pathological cell type and humoral hypercalcemia . 
metabolic alterations following continent urinary diversion through colonic segments . this study examined acid-base metabolism in patients with continent colonic urinary diversions and compared them to a control population . diverted patients demonstrated mild acidosis and a urinary acidification defect . ammonium chloride loading failed to demonstrate any major differences in the ability of these patients to handle an acute acid challenge . continent colonic urinary diversions do not appear to create significant acid-base changes in patients with normal hepatic and renal function . 
urinary bladder function 6 months after the onset of diabetes in the spontaneously diabetic bb rat . urinary bladder function was examined in the spontaneously diabetic bb rat six months after the onset of diabetes . diabetes caused significant decreases in rat weight and increases in bladder body weights and in vivo bladder capacities compared to age-matched controls , but no changes in the weights of bladder bases . the absolute contractile responses of urinary bladder body and base strips to nerve stimulation , carbachol , 5-hydroxytryptamine , atp , phenylephrine , and kcl were unaltered by diabetes . however , when the data were corrected for tissue mass , there were slight but not significant decreases in contractile responses of strips from diabetic rats . there were increases in total muscarinic receptor numbers and calcium channel binding sites in bladder bodies from bb rats as a result of the increases in tissue mass . the data indicate that the six month-diabetic bb rat differs from the streptozotocin-diabetic rat in the sensitivity of the urinary bladder to the complications of diabetes , probably as a result of the insulin treatment required to keep bb rats alive . 
niacin-induced hepatitis : a potential side effect with low-dose time-release niacin hepatitis developed in five patients who were taking low dosages ( 3 g/day or less ) of time-release niacin . in four of the five patients , clinical symptoms of hepatitis developed after the medication had been taken for a relatively short time ( 2 days to 7 weeks ) . this manifestation of hepatotoxicity seems to differ from that previously reported in association with use of crystalline niacin , which occurred with high dosage and prolonged usage of the medication . in view of the recent increased frequency of prescribing niacin for the treatment of hyperlipidemia , physicians should be aware of the potential for hepatotoxicity with even low-dose and short-term use of time-release niacin . 
comparison of the accuracy of glucose reflectance meters in pregnant insulin-dependent diabetics . home monitoring of blood glucose by reflectance meters has been shown to be accurate in the nonpregnant diabetic and is currently used for outpatient glucose control in the pregnant diabetic as well . beckman astra glucose results from samples collected into sodium fluoride were used as the standard for this study . comparisons were then made to four glucose reflectance meters : accu-check ii , one touch , diascan s , and exactech . although the reflectance meters appeared to be useful for assessing blood glucose trends in the pregnant diabetic , the results obtained from these meters would be unacceptable in the laboratory setting . unfortunately , because of the erratic combination of proportional and constant bias , correction factors are not easily ascertained . laboratories and physicians should reconsider the use of these reflectance meters for inpatient evaluation and general population screening of pregnant women . 
methods of treating plantar ulcers . the purpose of this article is to describe the indications , precautions , and fabrication techniques for orthotic devices the authors use to facilitate the healing of plantar ulcers . the methods of fabricating and applying three types of orthotic devices developed by the staff at the gillis w long hansen 's disease center -- walking casts , walking splints , and cutout sandals -- are described . patient examples are given for each of the methods . these techniques , in conjunction with patient education and the use of special footwear , provide clinicians with procedures they can use to aid in the healing of plantar ulcers secondary to leprosy , diabetes , or other neuropathic conditions . 
parathyroidectomy in chronic renal failure : a nine-year follow-up study . seventy-three patients with chronic renal failure who underwent parathyroidectomy between march 1978 and april 1987 were reviewed . thirty-four patients had undergone sub-total parathyroidectomy , and 39 patients had undergone total parathyroidectomy with parathyroid autograft into the forearm . eight patients showed persistent hyperparathyroidism requiring a second surgical procedure . in all other patients there was highly statistical improvement in parathyroid hormone , total calcium , ionized calcium , alkaline phosphatase and a significant reduction in calcium x phosphate product . histological evidence of osteitis fibrosa was present in 21 of 22 patients before surgery . postoperatively , four showed complete resolution and improvement . three patients developed histological evidence of osteomalacia during the study period . only four of the 39 patients who underwent total parathyroidectomy with autograft had true recurrent hyperparathyroidism and only two of the 34 patients who underwent sub-total parathyroidectomy had recurrent disease , indicating that there is little to choose between the two techniques in the control of secondary hyperparathyroidism and its subsequent recurrence . in one patient with recurrence of hyperparathyroidism from a forearm parathyroid graft the histological picture was different from that of normal hyperplastic parathyroid tissue . although it is probable that abnormal parathyroid tissue had been implanted there was no evidence of invasive growth into the forearm muscle . the most striking feature of long term follow-up was the difference in calcium x phosphate product in patients in whom vascular calcification increased compared to those patients with no change or regression of calcification . mean calcium phosphate product in those patients with progressive vascular calcification was 4.93 for small and medium size vessels and 5.38 for large vessels compared to 4.10 for small and medium vessels and 4.09 for large vessels . in the former case the serum phosphate was 2.00 and 2.17 as compared to 1.75 or 1.73 , suggesting that the aim in patients with end stage renal failure maintained by dialysis should be to control the serum phosphate concentration to 1.8 mmol or less and the calcium x phosphate product to less than 4.2 . 
reoperation for failed gastric bypass procedures for obesity . reoperation is worthwhile when there is an obvious defect in the gastric reduction operation that has failed to control weight . reoperation occasionally is necessary to correct a complication of gastric bypass . vertical banded gastroplasty is the operation of choice for reoperations , as it provides weight control while eliminating the problems of bypass . conversion of a horizontal to a vertical pouch is safe but requires careful attention to the technique to avoid injury to the other organs in the area and preservation of blood supply to the stomach . the gastrogastrostomy across the old horizontal staple line in the vertical pouch can be constructed in a way that will minimize the risk of obstruction . vertical banded gastroplasty is now the only operation in use at uihc for the treatment of obesity and is used not only as the primary operation but in all reoperations . bypass of the stomach and duodenum is not necessary for weight control and adds some risk of malabsorption and duodenal and stomal ulcer plus a lifetime of inaccessibility of the excluded areas for diagnostic and therapeutic measures . 
pharmacokinetics of ranitidine in morbidly obese women . the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of ranitidine 50 mg iv were determined in ten normal-weight and ten morbidly obese ( greater than 90 percent ideal body weight ) age-matched female subjects . no significant difference between normal and obese subjects was found in ranitidine peak serum concentration , volume of distribution , clearance , and elimination rate constant . ranitidine volume of distribution and clearance were significantly smaller in the obese subjects per kilogram of total body weight ( 1.45 vs. 0.80 l/kg and 0.59 vs. 0.33 l/h/kg , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) but not when normalized to ideal body weight ( 1.65 vs. 1.45 l/kg and 0.68 vs. 0.59 l/h/kg ) . we conclude that obese patients receiving ranitidine therapy should be treated with standard dosages or dosages based on ideal body weight . 
effects of pentoxifylline on proteinuria in normotensive patients with diabetes mellitus . in 1985 , investigators reported that four months of pentoxifylline therapy resulted in a significant decrease in proteinuria ( 46 percent reduction ) and plasma fibrinogen concentrations ( 18 percent reduction ) in patients with diabetes . our study evaluated four normotensive patients with diabetes and documented proteinuria who were treated with pentoxifylline 400 mg tid for four months . a consistent decrease in proteinuria ( as measured by the urine protein/creatinine ratio ) and plasma fibrinogen concentrations was not observed . therapy with pentoxifylline was discontinued after four months . 
do we need another antihypertensive agent ? the factors to be considered in selecting antihypertensive agents have traditionally centered around balancing efficacy against adverse side effects . the former can be achieved by a variety of agents alone or in combination . the latter not only involves safety but is also concerned with whether an otherwise safe agent is tolerated by the patient so compliance with the treatment regimen can be achieved . a relatively new consideration is how antihypertensive agents affect other disease states that may or may not be associated with hypertension . for example , how a drug may affect diabetes , gout , myocardial hypertrophy , atherosclerosis , and coronary events must be evaluated . these concerns taken together answer the question of why yet another antihypertensive agent may be needed in the pharmacologic armamentarium . 
managing the whole patient with hypertension : practical applications in a clinical setting . physicians are aware of the value of treating hypertension . complications such as stroke and congestive heart failure are less likely to occur in the well-controlled patient . in our quest to add coronary heart disease to this list , we must go beyond simple reduction of blood pressure . we must consider other risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia , cigarette smoking , diabetes mellitus , and family history . the presence of one or more of these may indicate a more aggressive treatment approach . similarly the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy , coronary disease , or renal disease may indicate specific pharmacotherapy . on the other hand , the low-risk patient with no other problems or conditions may be treated with only nonpharmacologic therapy such as weight loss , dietary sodium reduction , and/or alcohol restriction . every patient has a different constellation of findings . every patient should be treated individually . it is no longer sufficient just to lower blood pressure ; we need to manage the whole patient with hypertension ; keeping in mind that most antihypertensive agents are equally effective , the side effect profile is often the decisive factor in choosing an antihypertensive agent . 
resting energy expenditure is increased in stable , malnourished hiv-infected patients . resting energy expenditure ( ree ) was measured by reference to body composition in 50 malnourished patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and compared with that of 14 healthy subjects . among hiv patients , 40 had acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) and 10 had aids-related complex ( arc ) . all were in stable condition and had a previous history of progressive wasting , ie , a mean body weight loss of 14.2 + / - 8.1 kg over 16.6 mo ( range 2-49 ms ) . the mean ree was 14 % higher than estimated basal energy expenditure ( ebee ) , according to the harris and benedict formula . thirty-four patients ( 68 % ) were classified as hypermetabolic ( ree greater than 110 % ebee ) . the best predictable variable for ree was fat-free mass ( ffm ) , as determined by an anthropometric method ( r = 0.72 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the mean ree was 12 % higher in hiv patients than in the control group ffm ( 156 + / - 19 vs 124 + / - 17 kj.kg ffm-1 . d-1 ) . we concluded that in stable and malnourished hiv patients , the progressive wasting may be partly related to an increase in ree . the mechanism of this hypermetabolic state remains to be established . 
essential fatty acid sufficiency does not preclude fat-soluble-vitamin deficiency in short-bowel syndrome . patients with extensive small-bowel resection may experience malabsorption and nutrient deficiencies . we evaluated the ability to absorb fat and fat-soluble vitamins in a short-gut patient . for 18 wk after stopping intravenous lipid , while consuming a low-lactose , low-fat diet , he exhibited no clinical manifestations of essential fatty acid deficiency ( efad ) . serum 20:4 n-6 ( 20:4 omega-6 ) and 18:2 n-6 fatty acid concentrations were normal , whereas the concentration of 20:3 n-9 remained less than or equal to 0.1 % of total serum fatty acids . although serum vitamin a was normal , beta-carotene was undetectable despite oral supplementation . prothrombin time was elevated until parenteral vitamin k was given . this patient has fat absorption adequate to prevent efad but inadequate absorption of fat-soluble vitamins . in patients with short bowel , the requirements for parenteral lipids and fat-soluble vitamins should be determined independently . 
nitrogen deposition in malnourished children with cystic fibrosis . to determine the protein nutritional status of 21 malnourished children with cystic fibrosis ( cf ) , total body nitrogen ( tbn ) was measured and the results were compared with 21 control subjects . cf patients demonstrated a lower tbn ( p less than 0.001 ) . when matched for height ( n = 10 ) or bone age ( n = 13 ) , the cf patients still had a depressed tbn/height or tbn/lean body mass ( p less than 0.05 ) . to assess nitrogen deposition during nutritional rehabilitation , repeat tbn measurements were performed on the 21 cf patients . nitrogen deposition ranged from -230 to 550 g/y and correlated with weight velocity ( r = 0.78 , p less than 0.001 ) . increased nitrogen deposition ( greater than 150 g/y ) was generally associated with normal height gain ( height velocity sd score greater than -2.00 ) and weight gain ( greater than 2.0 kg/y ) . decreased nitrogen deposition was associated with poor weight gain but did not preclude normal linear growth . these data suggest an important role for tbn estimations in defining protein nutritional status in children and indicate that skeletal growth can continue in the presence of minimal nitrogen deposition . 
plasma lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase activity and plasma lipoprotein composition and concentrations in kwashiorkor [ published erratum appears in am j clin nutr 1991 sep ; 54 ( 3 ) :590 ] plasma lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase ( lcat ) activity , lipoprotein composition , and lipoprotein concentrations were measured in 21 children with kwashiorkor before ( day 1 ) , during ( day 10 ) , and after treatment ( day 30 ) . day 1 lcat activity ( 78.2 mumol.l-1 . h-1 ) was decreased with respect to day 10 ( 139.2 mumol.l-1 . h-1 , p less than 0.001 ) and day 30 ( 108.0 mumol.l-1 . h-1 , p = 0.08 ) . plasma total cholesterol ( tc ) , cholesterol ester ( ce ) , and lipoprotein ces ( vldl , idl , ldl , and hdl ) were reduced relative to days 10 and 30 ( p less than 0.001 ) . before treatment hdl composition was abnormal . on days 1 , 10 , and 30 , the respective mean hdl-apolipoprotein a-i ( apo a-i ) concentrations were 23.33 , 39.66 , and 36.08 mumol/l . ldl-apo b concentrations were 0.40 , 0.68 , and 0.56 mumol/l ( p less than 0.01 , days 10 and 30 vs day 1 ) . ldl particles on day 1 were decreased in number , depleted of ce , and laden with triacylglycerol and surface lipids . lcat activity on day 1 correlated with ldl-ce linoleate ( p less than 0.05 , r = 0.48 ) . reduced plasma lcat activity is an important factor related to abnormalities in lipoprotein composition and concentrations . 
preprandial blood glucose values and glycemic responses in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus at constant insulinemia . the influence of preprandial blood glucose ( ppbg ) concentration on glycemic responses was studied in seven subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes who , by means of the artificial pancreas , had achieved ppbg concentrations of 6 , 9 , and 17 mmol/l . a test meal of 50 g parboiled rice was given at the three different occasions and a constant insulin infusion was provided during the observation periods . the mean postprandial-blood-glucose-response area ( above basal ) differed significantly at the three blood glucose concentrations of 6 , 9 , and 17 mmol/l , reaching 1371 , 621 , and 179 mmol/l x 240 min , respectively ( p less than 0.01 ) . a negative correlation between the ppbg concentrations and the glycemic responses to the test meal was found ( r = 0.94 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the fasting insulin concentration at a ppbg concentration of 17 mmol/l was lower than at a ppbg concentration of 6 and 9 mmol/l . in conclusion , the glycemic responses to a carbohydrate meal are inversely correlated to the ppbg concentration in insulin-dependent diabetic subjects . 
photic sneeze reflex in nephropathic cystinosis photic induced sneeze is a reflex that occurs in certain individuals after exposure to bright light . cystinosis is an autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism in which nonprotein cystine accumulates within lysosomes . the pathognomonic ocular manifestation of cystinosis is corneal crystal deposition . we observed photic induced sneezes during ophthalmoscopic examination in five of 19 patients with nephropathic cystinosis ( 26 % ) . we report on this observation and discuss possible pathophysiological mechanisms for photic induced sneezing in cystinosis . 
muscle fatigue in mcardle 's disease . muscle fibre conduction velocity and surface emg frequency spectrum during ischaemic exercise . the origin of fatigue in mcardle 's disease is still a matter of debate . both a reduction of muscle membrane excitability and failure of excitation-contraction ( e-c ) coupling have been suggested as causes . we performed intermittent isometric biceps brachii contractions ( 80 % maximal voluntary contraction , rate 30/min ) under local ischaemia in 5 mcardle 's disease patients and 26 healthy controls . our results show that in mcardle 's disease the exerted force is less , the surface emg ( semg ) amplitude steadily increases , and that the power density spectrum ( pds ) shifts to lower frequencies , the latter without significant differences when compared with normals . the most important finding is that muscle membrane excitability remains unimpaired during ischaemic exercise , establishing a dominant role for intramuscular lactic acid formation in the reduction of muscle fibre conduction velocity seen in normal subjects . as is indicated by the shift of the pds towards lower frequencies , as well as by the increase in semg amplitude , it can be concluded that during ischaemic exercise in patients with myophosphorylase deficiency , fatigue occurs without alterations in muscle membrane excitability and is due to a failure of e-c coupling . 
permanent muscle weakness in familial hypokalaemic periodic paralysis . clinical , radiological and pathological aspects . myopathy accompanying familial hypokalaemic periodic paralysis ( hpp ) is much less well documented than the paralytic attacks from which the disease derives its name . eleven affected members of a large kinship with hpp were studied clinically and radiologically for the presence of myopathy . in 4 patients muscle biopsies were also performed and in 1 of them the histological findings obtained at autopsy were compared with the ct scans of various muscles . in another patient not previously biopsied , the specimens of both amputated legs were examined histologically . the age of the studied individuals ranged from 33 to 74 yrs . the 4 youngest patients showed no clinical signs of myopathy . however , in 2 of them ct scans demonstrated discrete hypodense lesions in the leg muscles , whereas in the other 2 , muscle biopsies showed a vacuolar myopathy . the other 7 patients , all older than 50 yrs , presented both clinical and ct evidence of myopathy of proximal and distal muscles ranging from very mild to very severe , males being slightly more affected than females . in all 11 patients a mean ct grading was made that was based on the abnormalities found in the different muscle groups . the myopathy appeared to be unrelated to the history of paralytic attacks , but a strong correlation was found between age and mean ct grading . it was concluded that hpp is a myopathy with permanent muscle weakness of late onset in all the patients . the expression of the paralytic attacks is variable . 
the turp syndrome . this article discusses the presentation , aetiology , treatment and prevention of central nervous system disturbances after transurethral resection of the prostate . nausea and vomiting , visual symptoms , and altered states of consciousness have been reported as complications due to intravascular absorption of irrigating fluid . hypotonicity after absorption of the irrigating fluid causes cerebral oedema . hyperglycinaemia may cause visual disturbances and hyperammonaemia may cause delayed coma . 
effect of ethanol on the efficacy of nasal continuous positive airway pressure as a treatment for obstructive sleep apnea . the effect of ethanol ingestion on the efficacy of nasal continuous positive airway pressure ( nasal cpap ) as a treatment for the obstructive sleep apnea ( osa ) syndrome was studied in ten obese male subjects undergoing this therapy . on the first night of polysomnography , the lowest level of cpap that maintained airway patency was determined ( critical level ) . on the second ( control ) night ( c ) , subjects slept the entire night on this level of cpap . on the third night ( e ) , subjects ingested either 1.5 ml/kg ( part a , n = 6 ) or 2.0 ml/kg ( part b , n = 4 ) of 50 percent ethanol ( 100 proof vodka ) over one half-hour starting 1 h before bedtime . a serum ethanol level was obtained at bedtime ( part a : 63.7 + / - 17.3 mg/dl ; part b : 108.6 + / - 20.6 mg/dl ) , and subjects were monitored on the critical level of cpap . comparison of nights c and e for parts a + b showed no difference in total sleep time ( tst ) or the amount of different sleep stages as an absolute time or a percentage of tst except that there was more stage 2 ( as a percent of tst ) on e nights . the apnea + hypopnea index and c and e nights did not differ and was quite low ( 3.6 + / - 3.7 / h vs 1.9 + / - 2.7 / h ) . similarly , ethanol ingestion did not increase the number of desaturations to at or below 90 and 85 percent , or lower the mean arterial oxygen saturation in nrem or rem sleep . analysis of parts a and b separately also showed no differences with respect to the apnea + hypopnea index or the number of desaturations on control and ethanol nights . we conclude that acute moderate ethanol ingestion does not decrease the efficacy of an optimum level of nasal cpap . 
treatment of niddm with insulin agonists or substitutes . non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) is a common disorder occurring in 3-6 % of adults in most western populations . in the united states , 29 % of patients with diabetes take insulin ; of these , 76 % have niddm . insulin therapy is usually required at some time in niddm . insulin therapy improves the abnormalities of niddm ( reduced beta-cell function , increased hepatic glucose production , reduced peripheral glucose disposal , lipid abnormalities ) . insulin and sulfonylurea agents have comparable effects on mild forms of niddm , but for more severe forms , insulin is usually superior . combination insulin-sulfonylurea treatment may improve the response to sulfonylureas , although long-term well-controlled trials have not been conducted . short-term insulin treatment may restore response to sulfonylureas . other promising treatments ( human proinsulin , nasal insulin , somatostatin ) have not shown any advantage over conventional insulin therapy . insulin causes hypoglycemia and peripheral hyperinsulinemia . the hazards of hyperinsulinemia , e.g. , weight gain and hypoglycemia , have been overstated , and questions about its atherogenic effects remain to be resolved . the effect of glycemic control on macro - and microvascular complications has not been established ; however , maintaining fasting blood glucose levels of less than 6.7 mm may protect against progression of retinopathy , neuropathy , and nephropathy and reduce the severity of ischemic stroke . dosage algorithms generally use intermediate - or long-acting insulin to control basal glycemia , with regular insulin added before meals if needed to control postprandial glycemia . effective therapy depends on the patient being informed , cooperative , and willing to self-monitor blood glucose . insulin treatment intermittency increases the risk for immune complications ( resistance and allergy ) . overall , patients with niddm can benefit from insulin therapy . 
insulin use in niddm . the effects of insulin treatment on the pathophysiology of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) are reviewed herein . short-term studies indicate variable and partial reduction in excessive hepatic glucose output , decrease in insulin resistance , and enhancement of beta-cell function . these beneficial actions may be due to a decrease in secondary glucose toxicity rather than a direct attack on the primary abnormality . insulin should be used as initial treatment of new-onset niddm in the presence of ketosis , significant diabetes-induced weight loss ( despite residual obesity ) , and severe hyperglycemic symptoms . in diet-failure patients , prospective randomized studies comparing insulin to sulfonylurea treatment show approximately equal glycemic outcomes or a slight advantage to insulin . a key goal of insulin therapy is to normalize the fasting plasma glucose level . in contrast to the conventional use of morning injections of intermediate - and long-acting insulin , preliminary studies suggest potential advantages of administering the same insulins only at bedtime . obese patients may require several hundred units of insulin daily and still not achieve satisfactory control . in some , addition of a sulfonylurea to insulin may reduce hyperglycemia , the insulin dose , or both . however , long-term benefits from such combination therapy remain to be demonstrated conclusively . established adverse effects of insulin treatment in niddm are hypoglycemia , particularly in the elderly , and weight gain . self-monitoring of blood glucose can identify patients in whom excessive weight gain is caused by subtle hypoglycemia . whether insulin causes weight gain by direct effects on appetite or energy utilization remains controversial . a potential adverse effect of insulin has been suggested by epidemiological studies showing associations between hyperinsulinemia or insulin resistance and increased risk for coronary artery disease , stroke , and hypertension . although potential mechanisms for an atherogenic action of insulin exist , current evidence does not prove cause and effect and does not warrant withholding insulin therapy ( or compromising on dosage ) when it is needed . 
intensive insulin therapy for treatment of type i diabetes . intensive insulin therapy is best defined as a comprehensive system of diabetes management with the patient and management team as partners . the system is directed at improvement of glycemia and patient well-being . glycemic targets should be individually defined . frequent self-monitoring of blood glucose , probably at least four times per day , is essential for meticulous control . the benefits include improved psychosocial functioning and the potential of lessening the risks of chronic complications of diabetes . the risks relate to problems associated with hypoglycemia , which are increased if meticulous glycemic control is sought . one of the important elements of intensive therapy is a multiple-component insulin program designed to provide effective insulinemia coinciding with each major meal and continuous basal insulinemia throughout the 24-h day . this may be achieved with continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion ( csii ) or multiple injections with various insulin regimens , although csii may offer real advantages in terms of the pharmacokinetics of insulin delivery . other pharmacokinetic issues to be considered involve selection of injection sites , timing of premeal insulin , and mixing insulins . many studies have shown that , albeit with effort , excellent glycemic control can be achieved by various intensive insulin-therapy regimens . the implementation of a program of intensive therapy involves patient self-management in terms of altering insulin dosages , food intake , and/or activity in an attempt to achieve the target level of glycemia selected . in motivated patients willing to embark on such a course of therapy , intensive insulin therapy can be worthwhile . it should be considered for all patients with type i ( insulin-dependent ) diabetes mellitus . 
lifelong sequential changes in glucose tolerance and insulin secretion in genetically obese zucker rats ( fa/fa ) fed a diabetogenic diet . life-long sequential changes in glucose tolerance and insulin secretion were investigated in genetically obese zucker rats ( fa/fa ) fed a diabetogenic diet rich in lard and sucrose . comparisons were made with lean littermates ( fa / - ) receiving normal chow diet . at 3-month intervals , seven to nine lean and obese rats had two permanent venous catheters implanted , allowing stress - and pain-free sampling of blood before , during , and after substrate administration . intravenous glucose , iv arginine , and oral glucose tolerance were tested . the obese rats progressively developed hyperglycemia and severe hyperinsulinemia ; their basal glycemia reached 8.8 + / - 1.1 vs. 5.8 + / - 0.2 mmol/liter in the lean rats at 46 weeks of age ; respective insulinemia was 287.7 + / - 61.9 and 18.1 + / - 2.8 mu/liter ( mean + / - sd ) . in the obese rats a distinct loss in glucose tolerance was seen with progression of age in spite of rising stimulated insulin secretion , which suggests progressive development of insulin resistance without exhaustion of b-cell secretory capacity . absence of insulin deficiency was also suggested by immunohistochemical staining of pancreatic tissue specimens from obese rats , which showed large populations of insulin-containing cells . like the obese animals , lean rats exhibited a decrease in insulin sensitivity with age . relating basal individual glycemia and insulinemia , a rise by 1 mmol/liter in glycemia was associated with a 8.8-fold rise in basal insulinemia in lean rats , but only with a 1.8-fold increase in obese rats . similar correlations for stimulated glycemia and insulinemia suggest impaired glucose sensitivity of pancreatic b-cells in obese vs. lean rats . in conclusion , hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia in insulin-resistant obese zucker rats on a diabetogenic diet are not characterized by quantitatively deficient b-cell secretory capacity , but , rather , by impaired b-cell sensitivity to glucose with qualitatively intact regulation of glycemia and insulinemia at elevated plasma concentrations . 
retinoic acid is able to reinitiate spermatogenesis in vitamin a-deficient rats and high replicate doses support the full development of spermatogenic cells . the effect of various doses of retinoic acid ( ra ) on the seminiferous epithelium in vitamin a-deficient rats has been studied . although it was generally thought that ra was not able to reinitiate spermatogenesis in vitamin a-deficient rats , one injection of 5 mg ra strongly stimulated the proliferative activity of a-spermatogonia within 24 h , as evidenced by a 7-fold increase in the number of bromodeoxyuridine-labeled a-spermatogonia . ten days after ra administration , b-spermatogonia or preleptotene spermatocytes were seen in most of the seminiferous tubules . after 15 days , zygotene spermatocytes were present . hence , ra is able to induce a massive and synchronized development of a-spermatogonia into spermatocytes . when ra was given once , combined with a ra-containing diet , only few of the zygotene spermatocytes present on day 15 were able to develop into pachytene spermatocytes , which did not develop into spermatids . in subsequent epithelial cycles new b-spermatogonia and spermatocytes were formed , although in lower numbers than during the first cycle after ra injection . when ra was given once a week , the formation of b-spermatogonia and preleptotene spermatocytes continued at a higher level . also , more pachytene spermatocytes were formed , some of which were able to develop into spermatids . finally , when ra was injected twice a week , even more pachytene spermatocytes and round spermatids were found after 36 days , and after 49 days elongated spermatids were found in all animals . it is concluded that ra , similar to retinol , is able to induce synchronous proliferation and differentiation of a-spermatogonia . when repeated injections are given , ra is able to support the full development of spermatogenic cells into elongated spermatids . 
failure of insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) infusion to promote growth in protein-restricted rats despite normalization of serum igf-i concentrations . dietary protein restriction in young rats induces gh resistance characterized by growth arrest and low serum insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) concentrations . to determine whether the low serum igf-i concentrations are responsible for the stunted growth , we infused 4-week-old protein-restricted rats with recombinant human igf-i ( 300 micrograms/day ) or rat gh ( 200 micrograms/100 g body wt/day ) by osmotic minipump for 1 week . despite the normalization of serum igf-i concentrations by igf-i infusion , carcass growth was not stimulated . in contrast , growth of the spleen and kidney was enhanced ( +45 % and +28 % , respectively ) . serum igf-binding protein 3 ( igfbp-3 ) , the principal carrier of igf-i in the serum at this age , is decreased by 34 % in protein-restricted animals and restored to normal by igf-i infusion . contrary to the selective effects of igf-i on growth of protein-restricted rats , well nourished hypophysectomized rats infused with 150 micrograms/day recombinant human igf-i showed a significant growth response , including carcass and organ growth and normalization of igfbp-3 values . these responses indicate that our igf-i preparation and mode of delivery were effective . we conclude that : 1 ) dietary protein restriction causes organ-specific resistance to the growth-promoting properties of exogenous igf-i ; 2 ) igf-i mediates the stimulatory effects of growth hormone on igfbp-3 synthesis ; and 3 ) the absence of carcass growth in the presence of normal serum igf-i concentrations during infusion of igf-i suggests that the growth arrest that accompanies protein restriction is mediated in part by resistance to igf-i . 
pituitary insulin-like growth factor-i content and gene expression in the streptozotocin-diabetic rat : evidence for tissue-specific regulation . insulinopenic diabetes mellitus in the rat is associated with reduced circulating levels of insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) , resulting primarily from decreased igf-i synthesis in liver and extrahepatic sites . plasma gh levels in these animals are also suppressed , with loss of episodic secretion and decreased pituitary synthesis . intrapituitary igf-i has been postulated to exert local autocrine/paracrine negative feedback regulation on gh synthesis and secretion . the present studies were designed to examine regulation of pituitary igf-i peptide content and gene expression in insulinopenic streptozotocin ( stz ) - diabetic rats compared to that in liver and testis . serum igf-i levels were reduced by 86 % in stz-diabetic rats together with reduction of igf-i content in liver ( 53 % ) and testis ( 74 % ; all p less than 0.001 vs. control ) . concomitantly , liver and testicular igf-i mrna levels were reduced by 90 % ( p less than 0.001 vs. control ) . insulin treatment restored igf-i peptide levels in serum , liver , and testis toward normal , with a partial but significant increase in liver igf-i mrna . in contrast , pituitary ifg-i peptide content increased by 69 % in stz-diabetic rats ( p less than 0.001 vs. control ) , with no change in igf-i gene expression . insulin treatment completely reversed the rise of pituitary igf-i peptide content . these results demonstrate a novel discordance in the regulation of igf-i gene expression and peptide content between pituitary and other tissues in stz-induced diabetic rats . elevated igf-i levels in the pituitaries of these animals may partly explain the suppressed gh synthesis and secretion seen in stz-diabetic rats and provide further evidence for a potential autocrine or paracrine role of pituitary igf-i in gh regulation . 
extracranial and mandibular augmentation with hydroxyapatite-collagen in induced diabetic and nondiabetic rats [ published erratum appears in j oral maxillofac surg 1991 jun ; 49 ( 6 ) :669 ] this study evaluated three hydroxyapatite ( ha ) preparations placed subperiosteally in rats given streptozotocin ( 70 mg/kg ) to induce diabetes ( id ) ( n = 24 ) and in nondiabetic ( nd ) rats ( n = 24 ) used as controls . implants of 1 ) nonporous ha granules ( hag ) , 2 ) ha granules hand-mixed with bovine collagen ( hacm ) , and 3 ) ha granules and purified fibrillar collagen in a preprocessed block ( pfc-ha ) were randomly placed in subperiosteal pockets created on the cranium and adjacent to the left/right mandibles of each rat . six rats from each group were killed at 3 , 6 , 12 , and 24 weeks postimplantation . animals killed after 3 weeks showed sporadic bone proliferation and bone resorption , whereas those killed after 6 , 12 , and 24 weeks showed formation of new bone at the implant/bone interface . contact of the implant with bone was a requirement for osteogenesis , but bone formed only into the basilar layers of the implants . the id group showed the greatest inflammatory response as well as the greatest degree of osteogenesis at all intervals of time . the addition of collagen to ha appeared to reduce the inflammatory response . specimens implanted with hacm showed the least inflammation of the three implanted materials in both id and nd groups . 
preconception care of diabetes . glycemic control prevents congenital anomalies . to test the value of intensive management of diabetes before and during early pregnancy , 84 women recruited prior to conception were compared with 110 women who were already pregnant referred at 6 to 30 weeks ' gestation . all underwent daily measurement of fasting and postprandial capillary blood glucose levels . mean blood glucose levels during embryogenesis and organogenesis were within 3.3 to 7.8 mmol/l in 50 % of preconception subjects and exceeded 10 mmol/l in 6.5 % . one major congenital anomaly occurred in 84 infants ( 1.2 % ) of women treated before conception compared with 12 anomalies in 110 infants ( 10.9 % ) of mothers in the postconception group . transient symptomatic hypoglycemia occurred during embryogenesis in 60 % of women in the preconception group , with a median frequency of 2.7 episodes per week , but was not associated with excess malformations . we conclude that education and intensive management for glycemic control of diabetic women before and during early pregnancy will prevent excess rates of congenital anomalies in their infants . 
cholesterol screening in a black inner-city pediatric population . a screening for total blood cholesterol levels was conducted by the university of louisville department of family practice in association with the national youth sports program in louisville , kentucky . on may 30 , 1987 , 224 inner-city children between 10 and 16 years of age were tested ; 109 ( 49 % ) were girls and 115 ( 51 % ) were boys . all participants were black . of the entire population , the girls had a slightly lower mean level of cholesterol than the boys ( 160 mg/dl vs 165 mg/dl , respectively ) . because of the large number of participants aged 10 to 14 years ( 211 ) , this subset of children was studied more closely . in this age group , 47 ( 22 % ) of the children were at moderate risk for future cardiovascular disease and 48 ( 23 % ) were at high risk . the serum cholesterol levels were relatively constant in all children until age 12 , after which a slight reduction occurred . this decrease is more evident in boys . our study also showed a correlation between increased blood cholesterol and above normal weight/height indices ( ie , quetelet scores ) , with nearly 70 % of all children having elevated cholesterol levels also exhibiting above normal quetelet scores . we observed no correlation between high cholesterol levels and high blood pressure in this study population . dietary intervention is recommended as the initial treatment for elevated cholesterol levels in children . 
cerebrospinal fluid losses through ventricular catheters leading to hyponatremia in two children . i have presented two cases of patients with hyponatremia due to excessive cerebrospinal fluid losses from ventricular drains . the possibility of such losses exists whether the drain is used to treat hydrocephalus or to monitor intracranial pressure . i find normal saline ( sodium concentration = 154 meq/l ) to be an appropriate fluid to replace ongoing losses of cerebrospinal fluid from a ventricular drain and currently start such replacement therapy ( ml for ml ) when the drain is placed . 
new approaches to improve diabetes control knowledge about diabetes mellitus and its management has steadily increased since the discovery of insulin in 1921 . specific therapies for both type i and type ii diabetes have resulted in greater normalization of plasma glucose levels . information obtained from self-monitoring of blood glucose levels has given physicians a firmer base on which to make management decisions concerning the safe control of diabetes . 
effect of hyperkalemia on experimental myocardial depression by verapamil . three patients with systemic hypotension and sinus bradycardia that were initially refractory to conventional therapy responded well to intravenous calcium administration . two-dimensional echocardiography revealed immediate reversal of severe left ventricular dysfunction after intravenous administration of calcium in two instances . common factors were hyperkalemia and verapamil therapy . this interaction was examined further by evaluation of contractility , heart rate , and arterial blood pressure in anesthetized dogs . controls ( n = 9 ) received saline infusion , and a second group ( n = 10 ) received saturated potassium chloride ( approximately 0.2 ml/min intravenously ) . in control dogs , administration of verapamil ( 1195 + / - 181 micrograms/kg intravenously ) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 113 + / - 7 mm hg to 74 + / - 5 mm hg , and heart rate from 147 + / - 9 beats/min to 86 + / - 11 beats/min . potassium chloride infusion alone increased blood [ k + ] from 3.4 + / - 0.1 to 6.2 + / - 0.2 meq/l , but was without hemodynamic effects . in hyperkalemic dogs , a significantly lower dose of verapamil ( 428 + / - 42 micrograms/kg intravenously ) reduced systemic arterial pressure from 102 + / - 8 mm hg to 36 + / - 4 mm hg , and heart rate from 150 + / - 5 beats/min to 104 + / - 15 beats/min . myocardial contractile function was examined with right ventricular isometric contractile force and left ventricular segment length changes . in normokalemic and hyperkalemic groups , contractility was decreased by verapamil . effects of verapamil on arterial pressure and contractility could be reversed significantly by administration of calcium , 0.4 meq/kg intravenously . the present results support the theory that the negative hemodynamic effects of verapamil may be exaggerated to a harmful degree by concomitant hyperkalemia . these adverse events may be reversed by calcium administration . 
is hyperglycemia associated with cardiovascular disease ? the framingham study . the association of nonfasting blood glucose levels with cvd incidence was determined prospectively in 1382 men and 2094 women aged 45 to 84 years participating in the framingham heart study . for this study , all patients were classified in 1970 as diabetic or nondiabetic . every 2 years they were examined , categorized according to causal blood glucose samples obtained at the clinic visit , reclassified for development of cvd and diabetes mellitus , and followed 10 years for cvd . during the follow-up period , 350 men and 369 women developed cvd . age-adjusted cvd rates were positively associated with glucose levels in nondiabetic women who did not develop diabetes during follow-up . no such associations were seen in men . multivariate analyses confirmed the independent association of blood glucose levels with later cvd in nondiabetic women . this study shows that hyperglycemia in the original framingham cohort is an independent risk factor for cvd in nondiabetic women , but not among men . 
comparative effects of overweight on cardiovascular risk in younger versus older men . the relation of age and body mass index ( bmi ) to atherosclerosis risk factors was examined in 357 men . older ( greater than or equal to 45 years ) men had higher ( p less than 0.01 ) systolic and diastolic blood pressures , fasting cholesterol and glucose , and 1-hour glucose and insulin levels . fasting insulin and triglyceride levels were not significantly different between the 2 age groups . although older men ( n = 170 ) had greater values for several risk factors , overweight ( bmi greater than 25.5 kg/m2 ) increased risk factors more in men younger than 45 years ( n = 187 ) . in younger men , those with higher bmis had a greater prevalence , respectively , of blood pressure greater than 140/90 mm hg ( 35.2 vs 11.2 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , cholesterol greater than 200 mg/dl ( 53.5 vs 29.3 % , p less than 0.001 ) , fasting triglycerides greater than 150 mg/dl ( 38.0 vs 10.3 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , 1-hour glucose greater than 160 mg/dl ( 15.5 vs 5.2 % , p less than 0.05 ) , fasting insulin greater than 11 microu/ml ( 28.2 vs 5.2 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , and 1-hour insulin greater than 110 microu/ml ( 28.2 vs 9.5 % , p less than 0.001 ) . in contrast , among older men , the prevalence of elevated blood pressure , cholesterol , triglycerides and glucose values was not significantly greater in the subgroup with high bmi . however , elevations of fasting ( 19.6 vs 6.4 % , p less than 0.05 ) and 1-hour insulin ( 29.3 vs 11.5 % , p less than 0.01 ) values were more common among older men with higher bmis . 
high-resolution linkage mapping for susceptibility genes in human polygenic disease : insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and chromosome 11q . insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) has a complex pattern of genetic inheritance . in addition to genes mapping to the major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) , several lines of evidence point to the existence of other genetic susceptibility factors . recent studies of the nonobese diabetic mouse ( nod ) model of iddm have suggested the presence , on mouse chromosome 9 , of a susceptibility gene linked to the locus encoding the t-cell antigen , thy-1 . a region on human chromosome 11q is syntenic to this region on mouse chromosome 9 . we have used a set of polymorphic dna markers from chromosome 11q to investigate this region for linkage to a susceptibility gene in 81 multiplex diabetic pedigrees . the data were investigated by maximization of lod scores over genetic models and by multiple-locus affected-sib-pair analysis . we were able to exclude the presence of a susceptibility gene ( location scores less than -2 ) throughout greater than 90 % of the chromosome 11q homology region , under the assumption that the susceptibility factor would cause greater than 50 % of affected sib pairs to share two alleles identical by descent . theoretical estimates of the power to map susceptibility genes with a high-resolution map of linked markers in a candidate region were made , using hla as a model locus . this result illustrates the feasibility that iddm linkage studies using mapped sets of polymorphic dna markers have , both for other areas of the genome in iddm and for other polygenic diseases . the analytic approaches introduced here will be useful for affected-sib-pair studies of other complex phenotypes . 
effects on serum lipids of adding instant oats to usual american diets . this study was designed as a test of the serum lipid response and dietary adaptation to recommended daily inclusion of instant oats in an otherwise regular diet . hypercholesterolemic adults were randomly assigned to a control or intervention group . participants in the intervention group were given packages of instant oats and requested to eat two servings per day ( approximately two ounces dry weight ) , substituting the oats for other carbohydrate foods in order to maintain baseline calorie intake and keep weight stable . serum lipids were measured in blood collected by venipuncture at baseline , four weeks , and eight weeks . baseline mean total cholesterol ( tc ) levels were 6.56 mmol/l and 6.39 mmol/l for intervention and control groups , respectively . after eight weeks , mean serum total cholesterol of the intervention group was lower by -0.40 mmol/l , and mean net difference in tc between the two groups was 0.32 mmol/l ( 95 % ci : 0.09 , 0.54 ) . low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol was similarly reduced with mean net difference of 0.25 mmol/l ( 95 % ci : 0.02 , 0.48 ) between the two groups . mean soluble fiber intake increased along with slight self-imposed reductions in mean total fat , saturated fat , and dietary cholesterol intake in the intervention group . neither group changed mean body weight . daily inclusion of two ounces of oats appeared to facilitate reduction of serum total cholesterol and ldl-c in these hyperlipidemic individuals . 
predictability of difficult laryngoscopy in patients with long-term diabetes mellitus . the laryngoscopic conditions of 62 diabetic patients who underwent renal transplantation or vitrectomy were studied . anaesthesia was induced with fentanyl and a sleep dose of thiopentone . conditions for direct laryngoscopy after 0.1 mg/kg vecuronium were scored from 0 to 3 ( easy-very difficult ) . all patients gave their palm prints after operation which were scored : 0 , phalangeal areas completely visible ; 1 , phalangeal areas partly visible ; 2 , phalangeal areas hardly visible ; 3 , only fingertips printed . the incidence of difficult laryngoscopy was 31 % . the higher the scores in the palm test , the more difficult was the laryngoscopy . the correlation coefficient between these two factors was r = 0.6 ( p less than 0.001 ) . our study shows that joint rigidity possibly caused by tissue glycosylation may also involve laryngeal and cervical areas resulting in a strenuous laryngoscopy . a defective palm print is a warning sign for difficult laryngoscopy . 
coronary artery calcification detected by ct : clinical significance and angiographic correlates . cardiac computed tomography ( ct ) to detect coronary calcification was performed on 161 patients undergoing coronary angiography for proven or suspected coronary artery disease . among 108 patients in whom coronary calcifications was identified , 90 % had significant coronary stenosis angiographically ( greater than 75 % stenosis ) , and 80 % of 121 patients with significant coronary stenosis showed calcification by ct . the relationship between the calcification site and the significance in stenosis of each vessel was determined . calcification was present in 133 arteries among 205 stenotic coronary arteries ( sensitivity = 65 % ) as compared with 59 of 439 entire arteries with normal coronary angiograms ( specificity = 87 % ) . in the younger age group the sensitivity of calcification for stenosis of each coronary artery was lower and the specificity and predictive value were generally higher than those in the elderly group . these results demonstrate that ct is a valuable procedure for detecting coronary arterial disease , since this examination is easy to conduct , noninvasive , and widely applicable for screening a large population . 
microcirculation and hemorheology in niddm patients . the authors studied 10 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and 5 controls matched for age , sex , blood lipids , and smoking habit . the two groups were also comparable for hemorheologic characteristics as evaluated by viscosimetry on whole blood , plasma and serum , erythrocyte filtration and aggregation . the microcirculation was studied in the subjects of both groups by microalbuminuria determination , retinal fluorangiography , and capillaroscopic examination of the bulbar conjunctive and nail folds . none of the patients presented microalbuminuria values higher than the upper limit of normal ( 20mg/24h ) . fluoroangiographic alterations were observed in 4 patients , and all 10 presented capillaroscopic alterations at the bulbar conjunctiva ( microaneurysms , erythrocyte aggregates ) and nail folds ( more frequently of the fingers than toes ) . similar alterations were detected in controls . thus these abnormalities seem independent of hemorheologic values . 
cotton-wool spots and retinal light sensitivity in diabetic retinopathy . in 14 eyes of 14 patients with diabetic retinopathy the light sensitivity of retinal cotton-wool spots was studied by computerised perimetry , and the visual field data were accurately correlated with the corresponding morphology as seen on fundus photographs and fluorescein angiograms . in 12 of the eyes the examinations were repeated within one year in order to follow changes in retinal light sensitivity during the evolution of the lesions . retinal cotton-wool spots were in all eyes associated with localised non-arcuate scotomata in the visual field . in four eyes the cotton-wool spots disappeared within three months of the first examination , and in two of these cases the corresponding scotomata disappeared together with the morphological lesions . in eight eyes the cotton-wool spots ( and the corresponding scotomata ) had not resolved one year after the first examination . the mean blood pressure showed no significant difference between the patients in whom the lesions resolved within three months and the patients in whom the lesions persisted longer . 
course of diabetic retinopathy following cataract surgery five patients with mild to moderate retinopathy to both eyes underwent complication-free cataract surgery in one eye . within three months of surgery deterioration of the retinopathy was observed in the operated eye only . in four patients there was an increase of intraretinal haemorrhages and hard exudates , accompanied by clinically significant macular oedema manifested as retinal thickening and extensive fluorescein leakage from both the macular and the peripapillary capillary networks . of these four patients one also developed retinal ischaemia , evident ophthalmoscopically by flame-shaped haemorrhages and cotton-wool spots and angiographically by areas of capillary non-perfusion . the fifth patient showed proliferation of new blood vessels and vitreous haemorrhage . diabetic patients scheduled for cataract surgery should undergo a thorough preoperative evaluation of any existing retinopathy . postoperatively they should be followed up at close intervals so that any progression of retinopathy can be promptly detected and considered for laser treatment . 
decalcification of a choroidal osteoma . a 56-year-old man presented with a clearly defined orange tumour in the posterior pole of his left eye . a choroidal osteoma was suspected , and ultrasonography confirmed the diagnosis . fluorescein angiography demonstrated subretinal neovascularisation on the nasal edge of the tumour , which was treated with krypton laser photocoagulation twice . recurrent subretinal neovascularisation occurred one year later and was not amenable to treatment . three years after the patient first presented , thinning of the tumour was noted on follow-up examination . during the next 15 months the tumour completely disappeared , leaving an area of retinal pigment epithelial and choroidal atrophy . total decalcification of the choroidal osteoma was demonstrated by ultrasonography . 
extracapsular cataract surgery with lens implantation in diabetics with and without proliferative retinopathy in a retrospective study we have examined all diabetics ( 66 operated eyes ) and an equal number of non-diabetic matched controls who underwent extracapsular cataract extracation ( ecce ) with intraocular lens ( iol ) implantation over a two-year period ending in december 1987 . of the diabetic patients ' 76 % eyes improved by at least two lines of snellen acuity postoperatively . of these patients 68 % eyes and of the control eyes 83 % achieved an acuity of 6/12 or better . in the diabetics the visual outcome depended on the state of the retinopathy and in particular the maculopathy . the diabetic group had a greater incidence of postoperative inflammation , but the major complications were related to continuing neovascularisation . early postoperative laser photocoagulation may help to prevent these proliferative complications , and , provided a large , adequate capsulotomy is performed for capsular thickening , the presence of an iol does not interfere with this photocoagulation . we also advise early postoperative assessment , and treatment if necessary , of any maculopathy . diabetic retinopathy should no longer be regarded as a contraindication to intraocular lens insertion . 
putative mechanisms of the impairment of endothelium-dependent relaxation of the aorta with atheromatous plaque in heritable hyperlipidemic rabbits . attenuation of acetylcholine-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation of thoracic aortas excised from watanabe heritable hyperlipidemic ( whhl ) rabbits linearly correlated with the percent area coated with atheromatous plaque . to elucidate mechanisms related to this reduced endothelium-dependent relaxation in the presence of atherosclerosis , the acetylcholine-induced release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor ( edrf ) was assessed functionally as a percent relaxation of the precontracted detector strips obtained from the tunica media beneath the intact intima or the atheromatous plaque in the same aortic ring preparation . relaxations of the normal detectors to effluents containing edrf of thoracic aortas during stimulation by acetylcholine ( 3 x 10 ( -6 ) m ) in heterozygous and homozygous whhl rabbits were 73 + / - 5 % and 59 + / - 9 % ( p less than 0.01 ) of the phenylephrine-induced precontraction , respectively . relaxations of the atherosclerotic detectors to effluents ( edrf ) through the aortas during stimulation by acetylcholine ( 3 x 10 ( -6 ) m ) in heterozygous and homozygous whhl rabbits were 16 + / - 4 % and 14 + / - 5 % , respectively -- values significantly smaller than those seen in the normal detectors . when superoxide dismutase was added to the perfusate of the donors from homozygous and heterozygous whhl rabbits , atherosclerotic detectors relaxed by effluents stimulated by acetylcholine to 73 % and 65 % ( p less than 0.01 versus before the addition of superoxide dismutase ) of the normal detector , respectively . relaxations induced by sodium nitroprusside as well as the contractions by acetylcholine , phenylephrine , and kcl ( 118 mm ) were comparable in detector strips from the normal and atherosclerotic portions . thus , not only is the amount of edrf released by acetylcholine reduced in the presence of atherosclerosis , the tunica media beneath the atheromatous plaque is also to some extent responsible for the superoxide-induced inactivation of edrf . 
modulation of coronary vasomotor tone in humans . progressive endothelial dysfunction with different early stages of coronary atherosclerosis . the endothelium plays a critical role in the control of vasomotor tone by the release of vasoactive substances . because endothelial injury or dysfunction is considered important very early in atherogenesis , we hypothesized that abnormal endothelial function precedes the angiographic detection of coronary atherosclerosis in the human coronary circulation . the coronary vasomotor responses to three different endothelium-mediated stimuli ( intracoronary infusion of acetylcholine 10 ( -8 ) to 10 ( -6 ) m , increase in blood flow to induce flow-dependent dilation , and sympathetic stimulation by cold pressor testing ) were assessed by quantitative angiography and subselective intracoronary doppler flow velocity measurements within the left anterior descending coronary artery in 38 patients . all three stimuli elicited epicardial artery dilation in all 11 patients with smooth coronary arteries and absence of risk factors for coronary artery disease ( group 1 ) . all nine patients with smooth coronary arteries but with hypercholesterolemia ( group 2 ) demonstrated a selective impairment in endothelial function with vasoconstriction ( 35 + / - 12.7 % decrease in mean luminal area ) in response to acetylcholine but showed a preserved flow-dependent dilation ( 15.5 + / - 4.4 % increase in mean luminal area ) and vasodilation in response to cold pressor testing ( 14.2 + / - 4.6 % increase in mean luminal area ) . in all nine patients with an angiographically defined smooth coronary artery segment but with evidence of atherosclerosis elsewhere in the coronary system ( group 3 ) , both acetylcholine and cold pressor testing induced vasoconstriction ( 26.2 + / - 8.7 % and 18.7 + / - 7.9 % decrease in mean luminal area , respectively ) , whereas flow-dependent dilation was preserved ( 20.4 + / - 8.7 % increase in mean luminal area ) . in the nine patients with angiographic evidence of wall irregularities ( group 4 ) , flow-dependent dilation was also abolished and vasoconstriction occurred in response to acetylcholine and cold pressor testing ( 34.5 + / - 10.7 % and 19.9 + / - 6.3 % decrease in mean luminal area , respectively ) . all coronary artery segments dilated in response to nitroglycerin , suggesting preserved function of vascular smooth muscle . despite similar reductions in coronary vascular resistance in response to the smooth muscle relaxant papaverin , patients with hypercholesterolemia demonstrated a selective impairment of vasodilation of the resistance vasculature in response to acetylcholine ( p less than 0.05 versus groups 1 , 3 , and 4 ) . thus , there is a progressive impairment of endothelial vasoactive functioning in coronary arteries of patients with different early stages of atherosclerosis , beginning with a selective endothelial dysfunction in angiographically defined normal arteries in patients with hypercholesterolemia and progressively worsening to a complete loss of endothelium-mediated vasodilation in angiographically defined atherosclerotic coronary arteries . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
effect of weight reduction in moderately overweight patients on recorded ambulatory blood pressure and free cytosolic platelet calcium . although platelet cytosolic calcium has been shown to decrease during pharmacological treatment of hypertension , there is no evidence that cytosolic calcium also falls during a nonpharmacological reduction in blood pressure . to provide such evidence , we examined prospectively the relation between platelet cytosolic calcium and ambulatory blood pressure during weight reduction in moderately overweight ( body mass index [ bmi ] greater than 25 ) , mildly hypertensive individuals . the experimental group ( responders : bmi reduction greater than 5 % ) consisted of 19 patients who lost 8.5 + / - 2.9 kg ( mean + / - sd , p less than 0.05 ) during a 10-week hypocaloric diet , whereas the control group ( nonresponders : bmi reduction less than 5 % ) consisted of 12 patients who showed no relevant change in body weight ( -2.0 + / - 1.3 kg ) during the same period of time . the moderate weight loss of the responders decreased blood pressure by 14/5 mm hg ( p less than 0.05 ) , as measured by ambulatory monitoring , which renders a placebo effect unlikely . this nonpharmacological reduction in blood pressure was accompanied by a proportional 11 % decrease ( p less than 0.05 ) in platelet cytosolic calcium and also by significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decreases in plasma catecholamines and serum cholesterol . these findings establish the concept of a nonpharmacological reduction in free cytosolic platelet calcium in humans and add further evidence suggesting a link between intracellular calcium homeostasis and blood pressure regulation . 
loss of endothelial pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein function in atherosclerotic porcine coronary arteries . pertussis toxin , an irreversible inhibitor of some g proteins , inhibits endothelium-dependent relaxations to certain agonists in porcine coronary arteries . in the present study , the effects of the toxin were examined on endothelium-dependent and - independent relaxations of hypercholesterolemic and atherosclerotic porcine coronary arteries to assess the functional state of the endothelial pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein . male yorkshire pigs were maintained on either a regular diet ( control group , n = 7 ) or a 2 % high-cholesterol diet ( cholesterol-fed group , n = 7 ) for 10 weeks . after the initial 2 weeks of maintenance , animals in both groups underwent balloon catheter removal of the endothelium of the left anterior descending or left circumflex coronary arteries . endothelium-dependent responses were examined in vitro after 10 weeks of maintenance ; at this time , a full lining of endothelial cells in both left coronary arteries was confirmed histologically . in arteries with endothelium of the control group ( normal responses ) , pertussis toxin significantly inhibited the endothelium-dependent relaxations to serotonin , uk14304 ( a selective alpha 2-adrenergic receptor agonist ) , and thrombin but not those to adp , bradykinin , or the calcium ionophore a23187 . in previously denuded arteries of the control group ( effects of endothelial regeneration alone ) or intact arteries of the cholesterol-fed group ( effects of hypercholesterolemia alone ) , the relaxations to serotonin , uk14304 , and thrombin were impaired significantly ; those relaxations were impaired further in previously denuded arteries of the cholesterol-fed group ( effects of atherosclerosis ) . the inhibitory effects of pertussis toxin were significantly reduced after endothelial regeneration and in hypercholesterolemia and were almost absent in atherosclerosis . 
reduced plasma noradrenaline concentrations in simple-obese and diabetic obese patients . 1 . obesity may be associated with a decreased activity of the sympathetic nervous system and also with a deficiency of the response to stimuli activating the sympathetic nervous system . as insulin activates the sympathetic nervous system , the present study was undertaken to measure the plasma noradrenaline concentration in the fasting state and after 75 g of oral glucose in simple-obese patients ( n = 13 ) , in non-insulin-dependent ( type 2 ) diabetic patients ( n = 37 ) and in normal control subjects ( n = 12 ) . 2 . the fasting plasma noradrenaline concentration was similarly reduced in the simple-obese group and in the diabetic obese group compared with the control group ( p = 0.005 ) . the glucose-induced increase in plasma noradrenaline concentration was normal in the simple-obese group , but was abolished in the obese diabetic patients ( p = 0.008 ) . 3 . step-wise regression analysis indicated that independent effects on the fasting plasma noradrenaline concentration were exerted by age ( r = +0.32 , p = 0.002 ) , glucose concentration ( r = -0.32 , p = 0.02 ) and the degree of obesity ( r = -0.37 , p = 0.007 ) , but not by plasma insulin concentration . 4 . these results show that obese patients have a reduced fasting plasma noradrenaline concentration independently of accompanying diabetes , but that the response of noradrenaline to oral glucose is only abolished in the obese diabetic patients . 
abnormal renal glucose handling in x-linked hypophosphataemic mice . 1 . the renal handling of glucose was determined in male x-linked hypophosphataemic ( hyp/y ) mice and in control littermates ( + / y ) aged 4 months . plasma glucose concentration and urinary glucose excretion were measured before and during stepwise increase in glycaemia induced by an acute infusion of glucose . the relationship between plasma glucose concentration and urinary glucose excretion was monitored per ml of glomerular filtrate in mice fed high and low phosphate diets . 2 . hyp/y mice fed the high phosphate diet showed a significantly higher glucosuria compared with + / y littermates . when glycaemia was increased , hyp/y mice developed frank glucosuria earlier than + / y animals . in hyp/y mice we could not find a threshold below which virtually no glucose was excreted in the urine , whereas this was clearly visible in + / y mice . these differences persisted in animals fed the low phosphate diet . 3 . using the acute response to the glucoregulatory hormones , glucagon and insulin , administered exogenously , we found that the regulation of plasma glucose concentration did not differ between hyp/y and + / y mice . 4 . the significantly lower plasma glucose concentration observed in hyp/y as compared with + / y mice decreased further during fasting . 5 . we conclude that the renal reabsorptive capacity for glucose is defective in hyp/y mice and their low plasma glucose concentration may be explained by the renal leak . therefore the x-linked phosphataemic mouse appears not only to be characterized by a defect in renal phosphate and calcium reabsorption but also by an altered glucose reabsorption . 
limits of brain tolerance to daily increments in serum sodium in chronically hyponatraemic rats treated with hypertonic saline or urea : advantages of urea . 1 . at present there is no consensus about the optimal management of hyponatraemia to prevent demyelinating brain lesions . we have evaluated in a large series of rats ( n = 136 ) the protective role of urea for the brain in the treatment of severe chronic hyponatraemia . urea ( group i , n = 51 ) was compared with hypertonic saline in boluses ( group ii , n = 46 ) and with hypertonic saline in divided doses ( group iii , n = 39 ) . treatment was administered intraperitoneally over 48 h. the severity of brain lesions was assessed by histological scoring . 2 . for 95 % of the injured animals treated with hypertonic saline , brain lesions appeared for an absolute increment in serum na + concentration ( delta sna + ) of 20 mmol day-1 l-1 . above this limit neurological injuries gradually worsened , and beyond a transition zone ( delta sna + greater than or equal to 20 less than or equal to 23 mmol day-1 l-1 ) 89 % ( group iii ) to 100 % ( group ii ) of the animals were injured . this limit can be reached rapidly , as attested by the comparable severity of brain lesions observed in group ii ( mean delta sna + 1 h after a bolus injection , 19 mmol/l ) and in group iii ( mean delta sna + 1 h after an injection , 2 mmol/l ) , both groups achieving similar daily delta sna + . 3 . a correction above the threshold of 20 mmol day-1 l-1 is as toxic during the first 24 h as during the second day of the treatment . 
enhancing blood glucose awareness in adolescents and young adults with iddm . objective : to determine the effectiveness of an intervention program designed to improve blood glucose awareness . research design and methods : eight young-adult outpatients ( mean age 22 yr ) and six adolescent inpatients ( mean age 14.5 yr ) with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus participated in the intervention program . nine adolescent inpatients ( mean age 13.9 yr ) served as an untreated comparison group . one adult outpatient with unreliable data was removed . before treatment , each patient completed a minimum of 40 blood glucose estimations , blood glucose tests , and symptom-rating checklists . symptoms of hypo - or hyperglycemia were identified for each patient . the three-session intervention focused on internal ( e.g. , personal symptoms ) and external ( e.g. , timing and amount of insulin , food , and exercise ) cues that could be used to enhance blood glucose awareness . at postintervention , patients completed a minimum of 40 additional blood glucose estimates and tests . comparison subjects completed the pre-postassessments but did not receive the intervention . results : blood glucose estimation accuracy was evaluated with error grid analysis . all estimated-actual blood glucose values were plotted into one of five zones : accurate estimates ( zone a ) , benign errors ( zone b ) , and clinically dangerous errors ( zones c , d , and e ) . an overall accuracy index ( ai ) was calculated by subtracting the summed percentage of clinically dangerous estimates ( zones c , d , and e ) from the percentage of accurate estimates ( zone a ) . at study entry , the adolescent inpatients ' mean ai of 7 % was significantly poorer than the 32 % mean ai exhibited by the outpatient young-adult sample ( p less than 0.02 ) . at postintervention , the adolescents ' mean ai improved to 30 % ( p less than 0.02 ) and the young adults ' mean outpatient ai improved to 45 % ( p less than 0.06 ) . the treated sample as a whole exhibited increased sensitivity to both hypo - ( p less than 0.005 ) and hyperglycemia ( p less than 0.05 ) . similar improvements did not occur in the untreated comparison sample . conclusions : adolescents may exhibit poorer blood glucose awareness than adults . although this intervention program improved blood glucose awareness in both adolescent and adult patients , postintervention blood glucose estimation accuracy remained far from ideal . 
racial differences in metabolic control of children and adolescents with type i diabetes mellitus . objective : this study evaluated racial differences in the metabolic control of children and adolescents with insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetes mellitus and examined the interactive effects of race with age and sex . research design and methods : data on several demographic and clinical variables were obtained for 102 black and 108 white children , including the percentage of total hba1 , age , age at diagnosis , duration of diabetes , pubertal status , insulin dose ( u.kg-1 . day-1 ) , body mass index , number of clinic visits kept and missed , number of hospitalizations for diabetic ketoacidosis ( dka ) for the year , and socioeconomic status ( ses ) . results : black children had higher insulin dosages ( p less than 0.05 ) and lower sess ( p less than 0.001 ) than white children . hba1 was higher in black than white children ( p less than 0.01 ) after statistically adjusting for the effects of insulin dose , diabetes duration , and ses . with hba1-based criteria , more black than white children were in poor and fewer in good metabolic control ( p less than 0.001 ) . older children ( greater than or equal to 13 yr ) had higher hba1 levels than younger ( less than 13 yr ) children ( p less than 0.002 ) , but there were no differences in hba1 between males and females nor were there interactive effects of race , sex , and age-group . black children were hospitalized for dka more frequently than white children ( p less than 0.04 ) . more black than white children missed clinic visits ( p less than 0.01 ) , but they did not differ in number of visits kept . conclusions : black youths with type i diabetes mellitus are in poorer metabolic control than white youths . 
role of diabetologist in evaluating diabetic retinopathy . objective : to evaluate the ability of diabetologists to screen diabetic patients for diabetic retinopathy . research design and methods : comparison of eye examination performed by diabetologists with direct ophthalmoscopy through an undilated pupil and by ophthalmologists through a dilated pupil with seven-field stereoscopic fundus photography ( gold standard ) . the study consisted of 67 insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetic outpatients attending a diabetes clinic . results : on the basis of fundus photography , patients were classified as having no or insignificant ( 30 % ) , minimal ( 31 % ) , moderate ( 24 % ) , or severe ( 15 % ) retinopathy . the diabetologists and ophthalmologists performed similarly in their ability to classify severity of diabetic retinopathy accurately . when no or insignificant retinopathy ( isolated microaneurysms only ) was detected by examination , clinically significant retinopathy detected by fundus photography was highly unlikely ( less than 5 % ) . on the other hand , if more than isolated microaneurysms were seen on examination , all examiners missed more severe lesions detected by fundus photography . patients with corrected visual acuity worse than 20/30 had a high likelihood ( 100 % ) of moderate or severe retinopathy . conclusions : motivated well-trained diabetologists can screen for diabetic retinopathy . the absence of detectable lesions by direct ophthalmoscopy indicates that automatic referral to an ophthalmologist is not necessary . however , if any level of retinopathy is detected or corrected acuity is worse than 20/30 , referral to an ophthalmologist is required . in this setting , fundus photography is advised because it is the most sensitive means of detecting clinically significant retinopathy . if other nonophthalmologists can be trained to achieve similar results , current recommendations for ophthalmologic referral that require annual ophthalmologic examinations for most diabetic patients may need to be reconsidered . 
care of diabetic patients by optometrists in new york state . objective : this study was undertaken to learn about the involvement of optometrists in the eye care of diabetic patients in new york and to collect baseline data for planning intervention programs in diabetic eye disease . research design and methods : this study was conducted by a mail survey being sent to all optometrists in new york whom we could identify through state sources ( n = 2270 ) . three follow-up mailings were conducted . results : eighty-six percent who received our mailing responded , 87 % of whom reported that they see diabetic patients . analysis was confined to this 87 % . routine retinal examinations were provided by 68 % of the respondents who see diabetic patients , 62 % of whom dilate the pupils . sixty-eight percent who see diabetic patients diagnose retinopathy solely by their own examination , and 60 % of these dilate . follow-up of retinopathy was provided by 15 % of optometrists who see diabetic patients , 90 % of whom dilate the pupils of their diabetic patients . twenty-five percent of respondents who see diabetic patients refer them to an ophthalmologist for diagnosis of retinopathy , and 67 % refer all retinopathy patients to an ophthalmologist for follow-up . although 91 % of respondents recommended eye examinations at least annually for diabetic patients , only 68 % specifically recommended annual examinations through dilated pupils . those who dilate were significantly more likely to recommend annual dilated examinations than those who do not dilate , regardless of practice setting . conclusions : these findings indicate that optometrists as a group see many diabetic patients . intervention strategies should include increased emphasis on the use of dilation when examining diabetic patients and annual dilated retinal examinations . 
demonstration of insulin transformation products in insulin vials by high-performance liquid chromatography . objective : to assess the importance of temperature , light , agitation , and regular withdrawal of insulin on the rates of appearance of three groups of insulin transformation products ( itps ) in vials of human and beef soluble insulin . research design and methods : twelve insulin-treated patients ( 6 receiving human soluble insulin , 6 receiving beef soluble insulin ) participated in the study . reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography was used to measure itp in serial samples from vials stored in various laboratory environments or issued to patients . vials in the laboratory were analyzed on nine occasions over 26 wk ; those issued to patients were analyzed weekly . results : results were expressed as rates of change ( % total protein/wk ) . except for human insulin stored at 4 degrees c , sampling did not accelerate transformation . storage at higher temperatures caused more rapid transformation to all itp groups , and human insulin was more susceptible than beef insulin . exposure to light accelerated transformation mainly to group 3 itp . fibrillation occurred in beef but not human insulin carried in a shirt pocket . results from patients ' vials were consistent with reported storage conditions . conclusions : all three itp groups form in human and beef soluble insulin . their rate of production is a function of temperature and light exposure . differences between the two insulins were probably due to differences in formulation . patients should be discouraged from hoarding vials and storing insulin in direct sunlight . one or more itps could contribute to the residual immunogenicity of modern insulin preparations . 
major cross-country differences in risk of dying for people with iddm . diabetes epidemiology research international mortality study group . objective : little is known concerning global differences in the risk of premature death for individuals developing youth-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) . the diabetes epidemiology research international study was developed to examine the mortality patterns of four population-based cohorts of iddm cases from allegheny county , pennsylvania ( n = 1000 ) , finland ( n = 5146 ) , israel ( n = 681 ) , and japan ( n = 1428 ) . research design and methods : all subjects were diagnosed as having diabetes , were less than 18 yr old at onset , were taking insulin at the time of hospital discharge , and were diagnosed between 1 january 1965 and 31 december 1979 . the living status as of 1 january 1985 was determined . results : overall , there were 182 deaths . life-table analysis revealed that at 20-yr duration of diabetes , 5.5 % of the cohort had died in allegheny county in contrast to only 3.1 % in finland and 4.6 % in israel ( p less than 0.01 ) . follow-up for an additional 3 yr in the united states and finland revealed major differences in the 30 - to 39-yr age-group , with 3.9 times greater premature mortality in the u.s. cohort compared with the finnish group ( overall mortality 2.3 vs. 0.6 % , respectively ) . the japanese cohort was developed in a somewhat different manner than the other three ; therefore , the populations of the u.s. , finland , and israel were reconfigured to make them directly comparable to that of japan . the japanese cohort exhibited markedly higher age-adjusted mortality rates ( n/100 ,000 person-yr of diabetes ) than the other three ( japan 681 , u.s. 230 , finland 171 , and israel 131 ) . conclusions : these data indicate that young adult iddm subjects are at an increased risk of premature death , there are differences in the mortality risk across countries , and both the u.s. and japan have the major problem of an apparently excessive premature death rate among young people who have diabetes . 
international evaluation of cause-specific mortality and iddm . diabetes epidemiology research international mortality study group . objective : a cross-cultural study was completed to evaluate differences in mortality patterns in four population cohorts in japan ; israel ; allegheny county , pennsylvania ; and finland . research design and methods : cases were diagnosed between 1 january 1965 and 31 december 1979 . mortality was determined as of 1 january 1985 . there were 147 deaths occurring in the 8212 insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) patients in the four countries . a standardized protocol for assessing causes of death ( cause-specific mortality ) was developed ; in this article , we report the causes . results : major overall mortality differences by country appeared , with iddm subjects in japan much more likely to die than in the other countries . in japan , the elevated mortality was the result of acute diabetes-related complications and kidney disease . for all countries , mortality from acute diabetes-related complications accounted for a surprisingly high percentage of deaths ( greater than 25 % in each country ) . a larger percentage of cases in finland died as a result of suicide than for the other three countries . conclusions : the results suggest that there are major cross-country differences in cause-specific mortality and that much of the premature mortality associated with diabetes is potentially preventable . 
superiority of radiobinding assay over elisa for detection of iaas in newly diagnosed type i diabetic children . objective : liquid - or solid-phase assays have been used for insulin autoantibody ( iaa ) determination , and the method of iaa measurement has not been standardized . research design and methods : iaas were determined by radiobinding assay ( rba ) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) in two large age-matched groups of nondiabetic and newly diagnosed insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetic children . results : positivity for iaa by rba ( greater than or equal to nondiabetic mean + 3sd ) was 2 of 178 ( 1.1 % ) and 55 of 173 ( 32 % ) in nondiabetic and diabetic children , respectively . prevalence of iaa by rba was significantly higher in the youngest age-group ( 63 % between 0-4 yr ) . positivity for iaa by elisa was 1 of 178 ( 0.6 % ) and 8 of 169 ( 4.7 % ) in nondiabetic and diabetic children , respectively . concordance rates between both assays were 0 of 3 ( 0 % ) in control subjects and 5 of 58 ( 8.6 % ) in diabetic children . conclusions : we conclude that rba is more appropriate than elisa for iaa detection at the onset of the disease . in addition , because available data suggest that iaas detected by rba only are high-affinity antibodies , it is tempting to speculate that iaas reflect a mature immune reaction against endogenous insulin . 
serum levels of tumor necrosis factor and il-1 alpha and il-1 beta in diabetic patients . objective : to determine whether chronic hyperglycemia causes increased levels of serum tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) and interleukin 1 alpha ( il-1 alpha ) and il-1 beta . research design and methods : sera were obtained from 59 diabetic patients , 44 chronically ill nondiabetic patients , and 34 age-matched healthy control subjects . mononuclear cells were isolated from a subgroup of diabetic patients and healthy control subjects . results : except for a modest increase in the prevalence of detectable serum tnf levels in diabetic patients , the serum cytokines measured in this study did not appear to be altered in diabetes . in vitro tnf production by mononuclear cells was not altered in diabetic patients . however , in vitro il-1 beta secretion , in response to lipopolysaccharides , was reduced . conclusions : diabetes mellitus is not associated with significant changes in serum levels of tnf , il-1 alpha , or il-1 beta . in vitro secretion of il-1 beta in response to lipopolysaccharides may be reduced in diabetes . 
effect of motilin on gastric emptying in patients with diabetic gastroparesis . objectives : because disturbances of gastric emptying are a serious complication in insulin-dependent diabetic subjects with regard to the maintenance of good metabolic control , we wanted to assess the effectiveness of motilin as a potential treatment for gastric emptying disturbances . research design and methods : the intestinal hormone motilin has been shown to accelerate gastric emptying in healthy subjects . therefore , we examined the effect of intravenous motilin on gastric emptying of a 99mtc colloid-labeled semisolid test meal in 9 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with diabetic gastroparesis . all patients had a significantly delayed gastric emptying rate compared with a group of 11 healthy control subjects . results : during the infusion of motilin , gastric emptying was accelerated , and it was no longer significantly different from control values . conclusions : these data demonstrate that motilin and related compounds such as erythromycin derivatives could be useful for the treatment of disturbed gastric emptying in diabetic subjects . 
vitamin e reduction of protein glycosylation in diabetes . new prospect for prevention of diabetic complications ? objective : this study evaluated the possibility of inhibiting protein glycosylation in vivo with vitamin e. research design and methods : two groups of 10 insulin-requiring diabetic patients , matched for duration of disease and metabolic control , received daily vitamin e supplementation of 1200 and 600 mg , respectively , for 2 mo . a third group of 10 diabetic patients , matched for duration of disease and metabolic control , served as the control group and received placebo . fasting plasma glucose , mean daily plasma glucose , fasting labile hba1 , and glycosylated proteins were measured in the basal state and after 1 and 2 mo of treatment . in addition , hyperglycemic clamp studies were performed in basal state and after 1 mo of vitamin e administration in all patients . results : glycemic indices did not show any significant changes during the study , whereas fasting labile hba , and glycosylated proteins decreased significantly after 1 and 2 mo in patients on vitamin e administration . stable hba1 decreased after 2 mo . mean glycemic incremental area in the hyperglycemic clamp procedure was similar before and after treatment , whereas a significant reduction in mean labile hba1 incremental area was found after vitamin e supplementation . a significant difference was also found in both fasting and incremental labile hba1 levels , stable hba1 , and glycosylated proteins between the two groups of diabetic patients on the two doses of vitamin e ; the diabetic patients who received the higher dose of vitamin e showed the greater reduction . no significant changes in these parameters were observed in diabetic patients on placebo administration . conclusions : these results demonstrate that vitamin e administration may reduce protein glycosylation in diabetic subjects independently of changes in plasma glucose , an effect that may be due to the inhibition of labile glycosylation , the first step of the maillard reaction . long-term studies will help establish the usefulness of vitamin e administration for the prevention of diabetic complications . 
relationship of limited joint mobility to abnormal foot pressures and diabetic foot ulceration . objective : to investigate the role of limited joint mobility ( ljm ) in causing abnormal foot pressures and foot ulceration . research design and methods : the subjects were recruited from a general diabetes clinic where patients were screened for neuropathy , retinopathy , and elevated plantar foot pressure . sixty-four patients in five groups were matched by age and sex in the following groups : group 1 , patients with ljm and neuropathy ; group 2 , nonneuropathic diabetic patients with ljm ; group 3 , patients with neuropathy and no ljm ; group 4 , diabetic control subjects ; and group 5 , nondiabetic control subjects . joint mobility was assessed in the foot at subtalar and metatarsophalangeal joints ; plantar foot pressures were assessed by optical pedobarography and neuropathic status by a biothesiometer and electrophysiology . results : joint mobility was reduced at both sites in groups 1 and 2 compared with groups 3 , 4 , and 5 ( p less than 0.001 ) . plantar foot pressures were significantly higher in groups 1 and 2 compared with groups 3 , 4 , and 5 ( p less than 0.001 ) . no differences in plantar foot pressures were observed between groups 1 and 2 . there were strong correlations between plantar foot pressures and joint mobility in the foot ( r = -0.7 , p less than 0.001 ) . previous foot ulceration was present in 65 % of patients in group 1 , none in group 2 , and 5 % in group 3 . conclusions : 1 ) ljm may be a major factor in causing abnormally high plantar foot pressures , 2 ) abnormal plantar foot pressures alone do not lead to foot ulceration , and 3 ) ljm contributes to foot ulceration in the susceptible neuropathic foot . 
archaeology of niddm . excavation of the " thrifty " genotype . since the 1940s , numerous cases of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) have been observed in certain american indian populations . extremely high prevalence rates of niddm occur most strikingly in several tribes of paleo-indians , whose ancestors migrated to north america greater than 11,000 yr ago . archaeological evidence from that period indicates that certain groups of paleo-indians maintained an arctic-like hunter-gatherer life-style in an area in temperate north america ranging from wyoming to arizona . this life-style featured a reliance on unpredictable big game species as a major food source . however , at this time , big game species were becoming extinct . it is hypothesized that those paleo-indians who relied on big game as a food source developed a " thrifty " genotype that allowed a selective advantage during the periods of fasting that occurred between big game kills . it also is hypothesized that this thrifty genotype in these indians may contribute to niddm when a sedentary life-style is adopted and food sources are constant . because insulin resistance in muscle is a major feature of niddm , it is possible that insulin resistance per se is the phenotypic expression of the thrifty genotype . 
banting lecture 1990 . beta-cells in type ii diabetes mellitus . in 1960 , immunoassays of insulin first demonstrated significant quantities of circulating hormone in non-insulin-dependent ( type ii ) diabetes and for 30 yr have fostered debate as to whether a beta-cell abnormality plays an etiological role in this syndrome . early efforts to determine the adequacy of islet beta-cell function showed that obesity and its associated insulin resistance were major confounding variables . subsequently , it was recognized that glucose not only directly regulated insulin synthesis and secretion but moderated all other islet signals , including other substrates , hormones , and neural factors . when both obesity and glucose are taken into account , it becomes clear that patients with fasting hyperglycemia all have abnormal islet function . type ii diabetes is characterized by a defect in first-phase or acute glucose-induced insulin secretion and a deficiency in the ability of glucose to potentiate other islet nonglucose beta-cell secretagogues . the resulting hyperglycemia compensates for the defective glucose potentiation and maintains nearly normal basal insulin levels and insulin responses to nonglucose secretagogues but does not correct the defect in first-phase glucose-induced insulin release . before the development of fasting hyperglycemia , only first-phase glucose-induced insulin secretion is obviously defective . this is because progressive islet failure is matched by rising glucose levels to maintain basal and second-phase insulin output . the relationship between islet function and fasting plasma glucose is steeply curvilinear , so that there is a 75 % loss of beta-cell function by the time the diagnostic level of 140 mg/dl is exceeded . this new steady state is characterized by glucose overproduction and inefficient utilization . insulin resistance is also present in most patients and contributes to the hyperglycemia by augmenting the glucose levels needed for compensation . decompensation and absolute hypoinsulinemia occur when the renal threshold for glucose is exceeded and prevents further elevation of circulating glucose . the etiology of the islet beta-cell lesion is not known , but a hypothesis based on basal hyperproinsulinemia and islet amyloid deposits in the pancreas of type ii diabetes is reviewed . the recent discovery of the islet amyloid polypeptide ( iapp ) or amylin , which is the major constituent of islet amyloid deposits , is integrated into this hypothesis . it is suggested that pro-iapp and proinsulin processing and mature peptide secretion normally occur together and that abnormal processing , secondary to or in conjunction with defects in hormone secretion , lead to progressive accumulation of intracellular iapp and pro-iapp , which in cats , monkeys , and humans form intracellular fibrils and amyloid deposits with a loss of beta-cell mass . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
risk factors for development of diabetic nephropathy and retinopathy in jewish iddm patients . risk factors associated with diabetic microvascular complications , with special reference to ethnic origin , were looked for in 231 young jewish insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) patients with duration of diabetes greater than or equal to 10 yr . median age at diagnosis of diabetes was 9.2 yr ( range 0.04-26 .2 yr ) , and median duration of the disease was 15.3 yr ( range 10.0-37 .2 yr ) . sixty-three percent of the patients were ashkenazi jews , and 37 % were non-ashkenazi jews . hba1 was evaluated every 3 mo in the last 10 yr of follow-up , and albumin excretion rate was tested in three 24-h urine collections . direct and indirect ophthalmoscopy was performed every year since diagnosis of diabetes , and if retinal pathology was suspected , color photographs were taken . microalbuminuria was detected in 31 % and macroalbuminuria in 7 % of the patients . nonproliferative and proliferative retinopathy was found in 44 and 12 % of the patients , respectively . on logistic regression analysis , two variables were significantly and independently associated with diabetic nephropathy -- non-ashkenazi origin and mean hba1 values over the first 5 of 10 yr of follow-up . variables significantly and independently related to diabetic retinopathy were non-ashkenazi origin , mean hba1 values over the last 10 yr of follow-up , and duration of diabetes . because non-ashkenazi jews in israel are of lower socioeconomic status than ashkenazi jews , we stratified our patients according to their socioeconomic parameters , median hba1 values , and duration of diabetes . non-ashkenazi patients were at a higher risk to develop complications in all strata . 
decreased growth velocity before iddm onset . diabetes can retard growth . growth was studied prospectively in 12 nondiabetic identical twins aged less than 14 yr and in their co-twins with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) to determine whether changes in growth occur before the onset of iddm . seven of the 12 nondiabetic twins subsequently developed iddm ; the remainder are now unlikely to become diabetic . a significantly reduced growth velocity was observed more frequently in the nondiabetic twins ( 7 of 12 ) than in their diabetic co-twins ( 1 of 12 ; p = 0.03 ) . of the 7 nondiabetic twins who were prediabetic , 6 had a reduction in growth velocity to below the 3rd percentile before the onset of diabetes compared with 1 of their diabetic co-twins ( p = 0.03 ) . however , only 1 of the 5 nondiabetic twins who did not develop diabetes showed a reduction in growth velocity . the nadir of growth in the twins who developed diabetes occurred a mean of 1.2 yr before diagnosis ( range 0.3-2 .3 yr ) . all 7 of the prediabetic twins had islet cell antibodies when first seen , and 3 had them before they showed either decreased growth velocity or impaired glucose tolerance . in 4 prediabetic twins , the decreased growth preceded impaired glucose tolerance . the prediabetic twins tested had lower testosterone or estradiol levels at the time they showed decreased growth than their diabetic twins . we conclude that decreased growth velocity is an early sensitive marker of iddm . 
altered behavior and neurochemistry during short-term insulin withdrawal in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats . amphetamine-induced stereotypy and turnover of dopamine ( da ) and serotonin ( 5-ht ) in the cns were assessed in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats 48 h after withdrawal from insulin treatment and compared with nondiabetic controls , diabetic rats receiving continued insulin treatment , and chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats . stereotypy was attenuated in chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats but normalized in insulin-treated diabetic rats . stereotypy in insulin-withdrawn rats was intermediate , being attenuated significantly relative to controls but not significantly different from either insulin-treated diabetic rats or chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats . da turnover was significantly reduced in striatum and hypothalamus in all diabetic groups . 5-ht turnover was reduced in chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats in all four brain regions but normalized in insulin-treated diabetic rats . insulin-withdrawn diabetic rats had significantly reduced 5-ht turnover in frontal cortex . taken together , the findings indicate that insulin replacement does not normalize diabetes-induced reduction in da turnover and that short-term insulin withdrawal , e.g. , occurring clinically with noncompliance , affects both 5-ht turnover in some brain regions and behavior . 
reduced neuroendocrine and symptomatic responses to subsequent hypoglycemia after 1 episode of hypoglycemia in nondiabetic humans . to test the hypothesis that hypoglycemia itself causes reduced neuroendocrine and symptomatic responses to subsequent hypoglycemia , we measured those responses during clamped hypoglycemia ( 2.8 mm ) on consecutive mornings on two occasions , with interval afternoon ( 1400-1600 ) hypoglycemia ( 3 mm ) on one occasion and interval afternoon euglycemia ( 5 mm ) on the other , in nine nondiabetic humans . none of the measured responses were reduced by interval euglycemia . in contrast , plasma epinephrine ( p less than 0.005 ) , glucagon ( p less than 0.005 ) , pancreatic polypeptide ( p less than 0.01 ) , cortisol ( p less than 0.02 ) , and total ( p less than 0.001 ) , neurogenic ( p less than 0.001 ) and neuroglycopenic ( p less than 0.05 ) symptom responses to morning hypoglycemia were reduced after interval afternoon hypoglycemia . thus , a single episode of hypoglycemia caused a generalized reduction of the neuroendocrine and symptomatic responses to subsequent hypoglycemia , a finding that may be important to the pathogenesis of iatrogenic hypoglycemia in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . 
impairment of glycerol phosphate shuttle in islets from rats with diabetes induced by neonatal streptozocin . in islets from adult rats injected with streptozocin during the neonatal period , the oxidative and secretory responses to d-glucose are more severely affected than those evoked by l-leucine . a possible explanation for such a preferential defect was sought by comparing the rate of aerobic glycolysis , taken as the sum of d - [ 3,4-14c ] glucose conversion to labeled co2 , pyruvate , and amino acid , with the total glycolytic flux , as judged from the conversion of d - [ 5-3h ] glucose to 3h2o . a preferential impairment of aerobic relative to total glycolysis was found in islets from diabetic rats incubated at either low or high d-glucose concentration . this coincided in islet mitochondria of diabetic rats with a severe decrease in both the basal ( no-ca2 + ) generation of 3h2o from l - [ 2-3h ] glycerol-3-phosphate and the ca2 ( + ) - induced increment in [ 3h ] glycerophosphate detritiation . the mitochondria of diabetic rats were also less efficient than those of control animals in generating 14co2 from [ 1-14c ] -2 - ketoglutarate . the diabetes-induced alteration of 2-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase in islet mitochondria was less marked , however , than that of the fad-linked glycerophosphate dehydrogenase and was not associated with any change in responsiveness to ca2 + . sonicated islet mitochondria of diabetic rats displayed normal to slightly elevated glutamate dehydrogenase activity . we propose , therefore , that the preferential impairment of the oxidative and secretory responses of islet cells to d-glucose in this experimental model of diabetes may be at least partly attributable to an altered transfer of reducing equivalents into the mitochondria as mediated by the glycerol phosphate shuttle . 
effects of pp-56 and vitamin e on platelet hyperaggregability , fatty acid abnormalities , and clinical manifestations in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats . the effects of vitamin e and d-myo-inositol 1,2,6-trisphosphate ( pp-56 ) were investigated in long-term studies in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats fed a purified diet with 33 % lipids and a polyunsaturated-to - saturated fatty acid ratio of 1 . a supplement of vitamin e decreased plasma triglycerides , platelet lipid biosynthesis , some of the delta 6 - and delta 5-desaturase abnormalities , and urine ketone bodies but did not affect the response of platelets to aggregation . pp-56 completely normalized the platelet reactivity to adp and thrombin . this was accompanied by normalization of platelet lipid biosynthesis and diabetes-induced abnormalities in delta 6 - and delta 5-desaturases . pp-56 treatment also reduced the mortality rate and to a certain extent urinary ketone bodies . the protective effect of pp-56 on platelet aggregation and mortality rate were dose related . pp-56 , a molecule derived from phytic acid , seems to exert potent protective effects on some of the manifestations associated with diabetes in rats . 
insulin-receptor cdna sequence in niddm patient homozygous for insulin-receptor gene rflp . resistance to insulin action is a well-established feature of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) and is believed to contribute to the etiology of this condition . a strong genetic contribution to the etiology of niddm exists , and we previously identified an insulin-receptor gene restriction-fragment-length polymorphism ( rflp ) associated with the niddm phenotype . in an attempt to elucidate whether structural defects in the insulin receptor could be a primary cause of insulin resistance in niddm , we analyzed the insulin-receptor cdna sequence in a subject with niddm who is also homozygous for this rflp . the insulin-receptor cdna was sequenced with the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) . mrna from transformed lymphocytes was reverse transcribed and amplified with five overlapping sets of primers that span the coding sequence of both alpha - and beta-subunits . no difference was found in the predicted amino acid sequence of the subject 's insulin receptor compared with the normal insulin receptor . at nucleotide positions 831 and 2247 , the subject is heterozygous for silent nucleotide polymorphisms that do not affect the amino acid sequence . exon 11 encodes a 12-amino acid insert in the alpha-subunit , which , due to alternate splicing , is not expressed in lymphocyte insulin-receptor mrna . consequently , exon 11 was amplified from genomic dna by pcr ; the sequence of exon 11 was found to be normal . in addition , when this patient 's transformed lymphocytes were maintained in culture , no abnormalities in insulin binding were observed . we conclude that the insulin resistance seen in this niddm subject is not due to a structural alteration in the insulin receptor itself . 
production of inhibitor of insulin-receptor tyrosine kinase in fibroblasts from patient with insulin resistance and niddm . although non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) is associated with defects in insulin action , the molecular basis of this resistance is unknown . we studied fibroblasts from a markedly insulin-resistant patient with niddm but without acanthosis nigricans . her fibroblasts were resistant to insulin when alpha-aminoisobutyric acid uptake was measured . fibroblasts from this patient demonstrated normal insulin-receptor content as measured by both insulin-receptor radioimmunoassay and by scatchard analysis . however , when compared with nondiabetic control subjects , insulin-receptor kinase assays of wheat-germ-purified receptors prepared from her fibroblasts showed very low basal and no insulin-stimulated tyrosine kinase activity . the insulin receptor was then removed from the wheat-germ fraction by monoclonal antibody affinity chromatography . this insulin-receptor-deficient fraction inhibited both basal and insulin-stimulated tyrosine kinase activity of highly purified insulin receptors . when the specificity of this inhibition was tested , less inhibition was seen with insulinlike growth factor i-receptor tyrosine kinase , and even less inhibition was seen with the proto-oncogene p60c-src tyrosine kinase . thus , these studies indicate that fibroblasts from an insulin-resistant patient with niddm produce a relatively specific glycoprotein inhibitor of insulin-receptor tyrosine kinase . therefore , these studies raise the possibility that this inhibitor may play an important role in the insulin resistance seen in this patient . 
effects of glucagon on free fatty acid metabolism in humans . to determine whether physiological changes in plasma glucagon concentrations are important in regulating basal adipose tissue lipolysis , ffa flux ( [ 1-14c ] palmitate ) was measured in response to increases and decreases in plasma glucagon . eight volunteers with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) and nine healthy nondiabetic volunteers were studied using the pancreatic clamp technique to control plasma insulin , gh , and glucagon concentrations at desired levels . palmitate flux at the chosen euglucagonemic hormone infusion rates was similar to baseline values ( 1.73 + / - 0.12 vs. 1.75 + / - 0.23 and 1.35 + / - 0.18 vs. 1.35 + / - 0.16 mumol/kg . min , respectively , in iddm and nondiabetic subjects ) . no significant changes in palmitate flux occurred in response to glucagon withdrawal or mild ( nondiabetic volunteers ) or high physiological ( iddm volunteers ) hyperglucagonemia . thus , under conditions of normal ffa availability , changes in plasma glucagon concentrations within the physiological range have little or no effect on adipose tissue lipolysis . 
acute changes in serum osteocalcin during induced hypocalcemia in humans . although levels of serum osteocalcin are thought to be an indicator of osteoblastic activity and bone formation , there is little information regarding the acute effects of changes in calcium or pth levels on circulating osteocalcin concentrations . to study the effect of stepwise decreases in ionized calcium ( cai ) on osteocalcin levels , we infused six normal subjects with citrate for four 30-min intervals using two different protocols . one protocol ( pulse infusion ) used alternating rates of infusion and resulted in rapid stepwise decrements in serum cai . the second protocol ( continuous infusion ) used constant intermediate rates of citrate infusion and produced slower decrements in cai , but with similar changes in magnitude . we monitored serum cai , intact pth , and osteocalcin concentrations during the course of these infusions . during each step of the pulse infusion the osteocalcin responses to changes in cai in general were parallel to the changes in pth ( r = 0.462 ; p = 0.02 ) and were inversely correlated to cai ( r = -0.562 ; p = 0.003 ) . the osteocalcin concentrations at the end of each 30-min period were higher than at the beginning of that period ; over the total 120 min , osteocalcin levels rose from 3.46 + / - 0.63 to 6.88 + / - 1.08 micrograms/l ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , during the first two periods of the continuous infusion , osteocalcin concentrations changed slightly . only during the last two periods of the continuous infusion did osteocalcin respond in a manner characteristic of that observed with the pulse infusion . these data indicate that osteocalcin concentrations in the circulation may be acutely regulated by calcium and/or pth . 
nocturnal elevation of glucose levels during fasting in noninsulin-dependent diabetes . to define the spontaneous diurnal variations in glucose regulation during fasting in noninsulin-dependent diabetes ( niddm ) , we measured circulating levels of glucose , insulin , c-peptide , gh , cortisol , and glucagon at 15-min intervals in 11 patients with untreated diabetes and 7 matched control subjects studied during a 24-h period . the rates of insulin secretion were derived from the concentrations of c-peptide by deconvolution using a two-compartment mathematical model for c-peptide distribution and metabolism . in both groups of subjects , despite continued fasting , glucose levels stopped declining in the evening and subsequently rose throughout the night to reach a morning maximum . elevated levels persisted until noon . the morning glucose maximum corresponded to a relative increase of 23.8 + / - 5.5 % above the evening nadir in niddm patients and 13.2 + / - 4.6 % in nondiabetic subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) . in niddm patients , insulin levels and insulin secretion rates did not parallel the nocturnal glucose changes . in contrast , in control subjects , this nocturnal glucose rise coincided with a similar increase in insulin secretion rates . cortisol concentrations in patients with niddm were higher than those in control subjects throughout the study period ( p less than 0.001 ) and rose earlier in the evening than in control subjects , thus failing to demonstrate the normal nocturnal suppression . in both groups of subjects , the nighttime glucose elevation was temporally and quantitatively correlated with the circadian cortisol rise . gh secretion was increased in the evening and nighttime periods compared to the daytime values , and in niddm patients , but not in control subjects , the size of the morning glucose elevation was directly related to the magnitude of this increase in gh secretion ( r = 0.88 ; p less than 0.01 ) . glucagon concentrations were similar in both groups of subjects and remained essentially constant throughout the study period . we hypothesize that the nocturnal glucose rise that occurs during fasting represents a normal diurnal variation in the set-point of glucose regulation amplified by counterregulatory mechanisms activated by the fasting condition . 
proglucagon products in plasma of noninsulin-dependent diabetics and nondiabetic controls in the fasting state and after oral glucose and intravenous arginine . we investigated the major products of proglucagon ( pg ) processing in plasma in the fasting state , after intravenous arginine and after an oral glucose load in noninsulin-dependent diabetics ( niddm ) and in weight matched controls using specific radioimmunoassays and analytical gel filtration . in the fasting state the glucagonlike peptide-1 ( glp-1 ) immunoreactivity was significantly elevated in the niddm group compared with the control group . both after intravenous arginine and after an oral glucose load a rise in the plasma concentrations of all immunoreactive moieties measured was seen . all integrated incremental responses after intravenous arginine were identical in the two groups . after oral glucose the insulin concentrations in plasma were lower and the concentrations of all proglucagon products were higher in the niddm group compared to the control group . the gel filtration analysis showed that arginine stimulated the secretion of pancreatic glucagon ( pg 33-61 ) , major proglucagon fragment ( pg 72-158 ) and probably glp-1 ( pg 72-107 amide ) in both groups , whereas oral glucose stimulated the secretion of glicentin ( pg 1-69 ) and intestinal glp-1 ( pg 78-107 amide ) , an insulinotropic hormone . the elevated levels of immunoreactive glp-1 in diabetics in the fasting state were mainly due to an increased concentration of major proglucagon fragment . 
advanced glycosylation products quench nitric oxide and mediate defective endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in experimental diabetes . nitric oxide ( an endothelium-derived relaxing factor ) induces smooth muscle relaxation and is an important mediator in the regulation of vascular tone . advanced glycosylation end products , the glucose-derived moieties that form nonenzymatically and accumulate on long-lived tissue proteins , have been implicated in many of the complications of diabetes and normal aging . we demonstrate that advanced glycosylation products quench nitric oxide activity in vitro and in vivo . acceleration of the advanced glycosylation process in vivo results in a time-dependent impairment in endothelium-dependent relaxation . inhibition of advanced glycosylation with aminoguanidine prevents nitric oxide quenching , and ameliorates the vasodilatory impairment . these results implicate advanced glycosylation products as important modulators of nitric oxide activity and endothelium-dependent relaxation . 
normalization of blood glucose in diabetic rats with phlorizin treatment reverses insulin-resistant glucose transport in adipose cells without restoring glucose transporter gene expression . evidence is emerging for a direct role of glucose , independent of changes in insulin , in the regulation of cellular glucose transport and glucose utilization in vivo . in this study we investigate potential cellular and molecular mechanisms for this regulatory effect of glucose by determining how normalization of glycemia without insulin therapy in diabetic rats influences 3-o-methylglucose transport and the expression and translocation of two genetically distinct species of glucose transporters ( gts ) in adipose cells . these results are compared with alterations in glucose disposal in vivo measured by euglycemic clamp . in rats rendered diabetic by 90 % pancreatectomy , insulin-stimulated glucose transport in adipose cells is decreased 50 % in parallel with reduced insulin-mediated glucose disposal in vivo . levels of adipose/muscle gts measured by immunoblotting are decreased in adipose cell subcellular membrane fractions , as are the corresponding mrna levels assessed by northern blotting of total adipose cell rna . normalization of blood glucose in diabetic rats with phlorizin , which impairs renal tubular glucose reabsorption and thus enhances glucose excretion , restores insulin-stimulated glucose transport in adipose cells and insulin-mediated glucose disposal in vivo . importantly , levels of the adipose/muscle gt protein remain 43 % reduced in the low-density microsomes in the basal state and 46 % reduced in the plasma membranes in the insulin-stimulated state . adipose/muscle gt mrna levels remain approximately 50 % depressed . levels of the hepg2/brain gt protein and mrna are unaltered by diabetes or phlorizin treatment . thus , changes in ambient glucose independent of changes in ambient insulin can regulate the glucose transport response to insulin in isolated adipose cells and changes in responsiveness parallel alterations in glucose uptake in vivo . since this effect can occur without alteration in the expression of the two species of glucose transporters present in adipose cells or in their translocation to the plasma membrane in response to insulin , it may result from changes in gt functional activity . 
role of increased cytosolic free calcium in the pathogenesis of rabbit proximal tubule cell injury and protection by glycine or acidosis . to assess the role of increased cytosolic free calcium ( caf ) in the pathogenesis of acute proximal tubule cell injury and the protection afforded by exposure to reduced medium ph or treatment with glycine , fura-2-loaded tubules were studied in suspension and singly in a superfusion system . the ca2 + ionophore , ionomycin , increased caf to micromolar levels and rapidly produced lethal cell injury as indicated by loss of lactate dehydrogenase to the medium by suspended tubules and accelerated leak of fura and failure to exclude trypan blue by superfused tubules . decreasing medium ca2 + to 100 nm prevented the ionomycin-induced increases of caf and the injury . reducing medium ph from 7.4 to 6.9 or adding 2 mm glycine to the medium also prevented the cell death , but did not prevent the increase of caf to micromolar levels . cells treated with 1799 , an uncoupler of oxidative phosphorylation which produced severe adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) depletion , did not develop increases of caf until just before loss of viability . preventing these increases of caf with 100 nm ca2 + medium did not protect 1799-treated cells . reduced ph and glycine protected 1799-treated cells without ameliorating the increases of caf . these data demonstrate the toxic potential of increased caf in the proximal tubule and show that caf does sharply increase prior to loss of viability in an atp depletion model of injury , but this increase does not necessarily contribute to the outcome . the potent protective actions of decreased ph and glycine allow the cells to sustain increases of caf to micromolar levels in spite of severe , accompanying cellular atp depletion without developing lethal cell injury . 
no evidence for serological autoimmunity to islet cell heat shock proteins in insulin dependent diabetes . recent studies in nonobese diabetic mice have implicated the autoimmune destruction of pancreatic islet cells with immunity to a beta cell protein cross-reactive to mycobacterium tuberculosis heat shock protein 65 ( hsp 65 ) . therefore , our studies examined serological immunity to islet cell hsp in humans with insulin-dependent diabetes ( idd ) . heat shock of human islet cells in vitro markedly increased the synthesis of proteins of 72,000 , 75,000 , and 90,000 mr. no autoantibodies reactive to these hsp , nor to the constituently expressed islet cell hsp 65 protein ( identified as 60,000 mr ) were observed in idd patients . the islet cell 64,000-mr autoantigen and hsp 65 proteins were physiologically and immunocompetitively distinct . these experiments do not support the hypothesis that idd in humans is associated with autoimmunity to islet cell heat shock proteins . 
a single base substitution in the coding region for neurophysin ii associated with familial central diabetes insipidus . to elucidate the molecular mechanism of familial central diabetes insipidus ( fdi ) , we sequenced the arginine vasopressin-neurophysin ii ( avp-npii ) gene in 2 patients belonging to a pedigree that is consistent with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance . 10 patients with idiopathic central diabetes insipidus ( idi ) and 5 normals were also studied . the avp-npii gene , locating on chromosome 20 , consists of three exons that encode putative signal peptide , avp , npii , and glycoprotein . using polymerase chain reaction , fragments including the promoter region and all coding regions were amplified from genomic dna and subjected to direct sequencing . sequences of 10 patients with idi were identical with those of normals , while in 2 patients with fdi , a single base substitution was detected in one of two alleles of the avp-npii gene , indicating they were heterozygotes for this mutation . it was a g ---- a transition at nucleotide position 1859 in the second exon , resulting in a substitution of gly for ser at amino acid position 57 in the npii moiety . it was speculated that the mutated avp-npii precursor or the mutated npii molecule , through their conformational changes , might be responsible for avp deficiency . 
expression of rat renal na/h antiporter mrna levels in response to respiratory and metabolic acidosis . the mammalian proximal tubule is an important mediator of the renal adaptive response to systemic acidosis . in chronic metabolic and respiratory acidosis the bicarbonate reabsorptive ( or proton secretory ) capacity is increased . this increase is mediated , at least in part , by an increase in vmax of the luminal na/h antiporter . to determine whether this adaptation involves increased mrna expression , na/h antiporter mrna levels were measured by northern analysis in renal cortex of rats with metabolic ( 6 mmol/kg body wt nh4cl for 2 or 5 d ) and respiratory ( 10 % co2/air balanced for 2 or 5 d ) acidosis and of normal , pair-fed rats . na/h antiporter mrna levels were unchanged after 2 d of both metabolic and respiratory acidosis . after 5 d , however , na/h antiporter mrna expression was increased 1.76 + / - 0.12-fold in response to metabolic acidosis ( p less than 0.005 , n = 8 ) , but was not different from normal in response to respiratory acidosis : 1.1 + / - 0.2 ( ns , n = 8 ) . thus , the renal adaptive response to metabolic acidosis involves increased cortical na/h antiporter mrna levels . in contrast , the enhanced proximal tubule na/h antiporter activity and bicarbonate reabsorption in respiratory acidosis seem to involve mechanisms other than increased na/h antiporter gene expression . 
nutrition management for individuals with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in the 1990s : a review by the diabetes care and education dietetic practice group . noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , or type ii diabetes , is characterized by two primary defects : insulin resistance and insulin secretion . the two major goals of management of niddm are to achieve near normal metabolic control and to prevent/delay the microvascular and macrovascular complications of diabetes . nutrition , exercise , and , if necessary , medication are the three primary treatment modalities used in niddm . treatment regimens need to be individualized and developed with consideration for diabetes management goals and quality-of-life issues . lean individuals with niddm should be encouraged to maintain their body weight and modify food composition and eating pattern to minimize glucose excursions . the primary treatment goal for an obese individual with niddm is weight loss . the process of teaching nutrition and meal planning involves developing a cooperative alliance , gathering information , setting realistic goals , intervention , and maintaining change . nutrition intervention involves providing information in stages , beginning with " survival skill " information and progressing to in-depth information . the dietitian 's responsibility is to promote continuity of learning by introducing new ideas and concepts and altering the learning environment . dietitians can expand their role in the 1990s to that of a diabetes educator taking a leadership role to ensure that the individual with niddm receives comprehensive and individualized care . 
a dietary education program for hypercholesterolemic children and their parents . a parent-child autotutorial dietary education program for 4 - to 10-year-old , hypercholesterolemic children and their families was developed and pilot tested . the 10-lesson program , designed for weekly use at home , uses a " talking-book " approach ( audiotapes with accompanying picture booklet ) for the child . parents are provided with information on ways to make recommended dietary changes , along with hands-on activities to do with the children . to help match the instructional approach to the wide developmental range within the children 's age span , materials are divided into three program levels that use different story characters and concept presentations . during program development , evaluation by two children ( and their parents ) for each of the program levels guided the design and refinement of the lessons . a pilot test among 22 hypercholesterolemic children ( whose treatment was limited to diet modification ) revealed that children within the 4 - to 10-year age range liked the " talking-book " approach and identified positively with the story characters . parents indicated that their materials were clear and helpful . between the baseline and 3-month follow-up visits , the children exhibited a significant increase in knowledge of heart healthy foods , a decrease in total fat consumption that approached significance , and a significant decrease in plasma low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol values . 
is the recommended daily allowance for vitamin d too low for the homebound elderly ? a population of sunlight-deprived elderly was studied to determine the daily intake of vitamin d and whether dietary intake was sufficient to maintain a normal vitamin d status . twenty-two subjects over 65 years old with serum creatinine less than 180 mumols/l and confined indoors for more than 6 months were chosen from the community and a nursing home in southeast baltimore . three-day food records were obtained along with serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d ( 25-ohd ) , 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d ( 1,25 - ( oh ) 2 d ) , and intact parathyroid hormone ( pth ) . the mean daily vitamin d intake was over twofold greater than the adult recommended daily allowance ( rda ) of 200 iu . the mean 25-ohd level was 40 nmol/l ( normal 25-138 nmol/l ) with seven patients less than 25 nmol/l . of these participants with 25-ohd values less than 25 nmol/l , the mean vitamin d intake was 467 iu ( range 36-1096 iu ) . we conclude that the current rda seems inadequate for many older individuals who do not get sun exposure . this particular population of elderly is at risk to develop vitamin d deficiency and the associated complications . 
a new syndrome : hearing loss and familial salivary gland insensitivity to aldosterone in two brothers . two male siblings presented in infancy with hyponatremia . the levels of plasma renin activity and aldosterone were elevated . sodium supplement was necessary to maintain normal sodium balance . the salivary sodium concentrations were markedly elevated , with sweat sodium levels being in the upper normal range . urinary sodium concentration and renal epithelial exchange between sodium and potassium were normal . this was felt to be due to an autosomal recessive disorder . both siblings were later diagnosed as having a bilateral moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss with intermittent conductive overlay due to middle ear fluid . the sensorineural loss was also felt to be autosomal recessive in origin , but the possibility of a disturbance of sodium balance in the inner ear has been questioned . 
the relationship between symptomatic and biochemical hypoglycaemia in insulin-dependent diabetic patients . the relationship between symptomatic ( subjective feelings ) and biochemical ( blood glucose concentration less than 3 mmol l-1 ) hypoglycaemia was studied in 66 randomly selected insulin-dependent diabetic out-patients under normal conditions of daily life with conventional insulin injection regimens . the patients ( a ) collected 7-point diurnal blood glucose profiles at home on three consecutive days and then once weekly for 3 weeks , ( b ) indicated whether they felt hypoglycaemic at sampling times , and ( c ) collected extra samples if they felt hypoglycaemic at any time during the study period . the weekly frequencies of symptomatic and biochemical hypoglycaemia were 0.99 and 1.75 per patient , respectively . biochemical hypoglycaemia was present in 29 % of the symptomatic episodes , and symptomatic hypoglycaemia accompanied 16 % of the biochemical episodes . symptomatic hypoglycaemia was experienced at a median blood glucose concentration of 3.4 mmol l-1 ( range 1.4-14 .9 mmol l-1 ) . fifty per cent of both symptomatic and biochemical episodes occurred before lunch , while the remainder were evenly distributed throughout the day . the occurrence of biochemical hypoglycaemia , but not of symptomatic hypoglycaemia , was inversely correlated with hba1c and median blood glucose concentration . thus symptomatic hypoglycaemia is an unreliable indicator of biochemical hypoglycaemia and of the degree of glycaemic control . blood glucose measurements are a prerequisite for the diagnosis of hypoglycaemia . 
forty years of neuroglycopenia : neuropsychiatry for the internist . the case of a 65-year-old patient with an insulin-secreting pancreatic tumour and a 40-year history of neuropsychiatric disease is reported . the physiopathology and clinical features of acute , subacute , and chronic neuroglycopenia in patients with endogenous insulin hypersecretion are discussed . 
modulation by dietary vitamin e of i-compounds ( putative indigenous dna modifications ) in rat liver and kidney . i ( indigenous ) - compounds are age-related , carcinogen adduct-like , putative indigenous dna modifications detectable by 32p-postlabeling assay in untreated animals . to investigate the origins of these dna derivatives , we examined the effects of dietary vitamin e , a natural antioxidant , on i-compounds of rat liver and kidney dna . weanling female sprague-dawley rats were fed draper 's diets containing 0 , 100 , 1000 , or 10,000 mg/kg alpha-tocopheryl acetate for 6 mo . the dna from four individual rats of each group was analyzed by a nuclease p1-enhanced version of the 32p-postlabeling assay for dna adducts . the amount of vitamin e in the liver was measured by high performance liquid chromatography . rats fed vitamin e-deficient diet ( 0 mg/kg ) showed identical profiles and similar levels of i-compounds as those fed the 100 mg/kg diet . most i-spots were significantly intensified and one tissue-specific extra spot was found in both liver and kidney dna of rats fed the 1000 or 10,000 mg/kg vitamin e diet . however , one of the five major i-spots detected in the kidney was weaker in the 1000 and 10,000 mg/kg groups than in the 0 and 100 mg/kg groups . these results show that formation of most i-compounds was not affected by vitamin e-deficient diet , and that long-term feeding of diet containing high levels of vitamin e may cause metabolic alterations leading to an increased formation of dna-reactive ( potentially mutagenic or carcinogenic ) electrophiles . 
somatostatin analogue , octreotide , reduces increased glomerular filtration rate and kidney size in insulin-dependent diabetes . to determine whether treatment with a somatostatin analogue can reduce kidney hyperfiltration and hypertrophy in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , we studied 11 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and glomerular hyperfiltration . the patients were assigned randomly to receive continuous subcutaneous infusion of either octreotide , 300 micrograms/24 h ( five patients ) or placebo ( six patients ) for 12 weeks . at baseline , mean glomerular filtration rate and mean total kidney volume were not significantly different in the two groups . however , after 12 weeks of treatment , the mean glomerular filtration rate was significantly lower in the octreotide group ( 136 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ; range , 91 to 158 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ) than in the placebo group ( 157 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ; range , 138 to 184 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ) . furthermore , the mean total kidney volume was significantly lower after treatment in the octreotide group ( 379 ml/1 .73 m2 ; range , 307 to 454 ml/1 .73 m2 ) than in the placebo group ( 389 ml/1 .73 m2 ; range , 347 to 465 ml/1 .73 m2 ) . glycemic control did not change significantly in either group . we conclude that subcutaneous infusion of octreotide for 12 weeks reduces increased glomerular filtration rate and kidney size in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus despite the fact that glycemic control remains unchanged . 
lovastatin efficacy in reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels on high - vs low-fat diets . the effectiveness of lovastatin was compared with both a high-fat vs low-fat diet . hypercholesterolemic subjects were studied under metabolic ward conditions for diet periods of 3 weeks while receiving lovastatin ( 40 mg/d ) or placebo . multiple lipoprotein levels were measured during the final week of each diet period . nineteen subjects completed the study on the high-fat ( 43 % of kilojoules ) diet and 16 on the low-fat ( 25 % of kilojoules ) diet . lovastatin reduced total cholesterol by 23 % and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 30 % , compared with placebo on both diets , with no significant diet-drug interaction . high-density lipoprotein cholesterol was raised by 7 % to 8 % on the diet regimens . addition of lovastatin to the low-fat diet permitted 80 % of subjects on this diet , but less than 50 % of those on the high-fat diet , to achieve current guidelines . although lovastatin produces a comparable percentage reduction in lipoprotein profiles on either diet , the accompanying low-fat diet remains advisable for additional reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels to specified goals . 
relation of central obesity and insulin resistance with high diabetes prevalence and cardiovascular risk in south asians . the hypothesis that the high mortality from coronary heart disease ( chd ) in south asians settled overseas compared with other populations is due to metabolic disturbances related to insulin resistance was tested in a population survey of 3193 men and 561 women aged 40-69 years in london , uk . the sample was assembled from industrial workforces and general practitioners ' lists . in comparison with the european group , the south asian group had a higher prevalence of diabetes ( 19 % vs 4 % ) , higher blood pressures , higher fasting and post-glucose serum insulin concentrations , higher plasma triglyceride , and lower hdl cholesterol concentrations . mean waist-hip girth ratios and trunk skinfolds were higher in the south asian than in the european group . within each ethnic group waist-hip ratio was correlated with glucose intolerance , insulin , blood pressure , and triglyceride . these results confirm the existence of an insulin resistance syndrome , prevalent in south asian populations and associated with a pronounced tendency to central obesity in this group . control of obesity and greater physical activity offer the best chances for prevention of diabetes and chd in south asian people . 
aggravation of subclinical diabetes insipidus during pregnancy background . transient polyuria and polydipsia during pregnancy are rare , and their cause is not entirely clear . possible explanations include the exacerbation of preexisting abnormalities in the secretion or action of vasopressin and abnormally large increases in plasma vasopressinase activity . methods . we studied two women in whom overt polyuria and polydipsia developed during the third trimester of pregnancy and disappeared after delivery . the secretion and action of vasopressin were studied both when the women had polyuria and polydipsia and later , when their water intake and urine volume were normal . results . one patient had partial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus . she had little increase in urine osmolality in response to water deprivation , hypertonic-saline infusion , and vasopressin injection and no response to desmopressin acetate ( 1-deamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin ) during the immediate postpartum period . her basal and stimulated plasma vasopressin concentrations were high ( 16.5 to 203.4 pmol per liter ) before and during hypertonic-saline infusion 30 months post partum . the other patient had partial neurogenic diabetes insipidus . she had subnormal basal plasma vasopressin concentrations , a subnormal increase in the plasma vasopressin level and a subnormal decrease in urine flow in response to the administration of vasopressin , and a normal response to desmopressin . after pregnancy , when her urine volume was normal , she had no increase in plasma vasopressin in response to hypertonic-saline infusion , but she had a normal rise in the plasma vasopressin level and a normal renal response to vasopressin administration . conclusions . pregnancy may unmask subclinical forms of both nephrogenic and neurogenic diabetes insipidus . this exacerbation may result from both increased vasopressinase activity and diminished renal responsiveness to vasopressin . 
renal hemodynamics in normal and hypertensive pregnancy : lessons from micropuncture . rats are an excellent animal model in which to study the changes in renal hemodynamics associated with normal pregnancy . midterm pregnant rats exhibit a maximal renal vasodilation leading to increases in glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) and renal plasma flow ( rpf ) . micropuncture studies in midterm pregnant munich-wistar rats have shown that single-nephron gfr ( sngfr ) increases , due entirely to increases in plasma flow and , importantly , glomerular capillary blood pressure ( pgc ) remains unchanged in normotensive pregnancy , due to parallel and proportionally similar reductions in preglomerular ( ra ) and efferent ( re ) arteriolar resistance . despite the chronic gestational renal vasodilation , pregnancy in normotensive rats with either normal kidneys or a variety of underlying diseases , causes no adverse changes in renal function , perhaps because the glomeruli are protected from damaging high pgc . in the presence of systemic hypertension , the renal vasodilation of pregnancy could put the maternal kidney at risk of injury due to increases in pgc . there are few renal functional studies in preexisting , essential hypertension , but micropuncture studies in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrs ) have shown that repetitive pregnancies in shrs cause no functional impairment . surprisingly , shrs demonstrated no gestational renal vasodilation , although gestational decreases in peripheral resistance certainly occur in the shr . this absence of gestational renal vasodilation may be a protective mechanism ; it remains to be determined whether hypertensive states in which renal vasodilation does occur are associated with increased risk to the maternal kidney . 
transient postpartum diabetes insipidus . diabetes insipidus may first present before , during , or immediately after pregnancy . the characteristics of two unusual cases of transient postpartum diabetes insipidus are described and discussed . 
neonatal complications at term as related to the degree of umbilical artery acidemia . the degree of umbilical arterial acidemia associated with immediate newborn morbidity has not been determined . therefore we compared 358 term infants with umbilical artery acidemia ( ph less than 7.20 ) with 358 term , nonacidotic matched control infants , to evaluate immediate neonatal complications in both groups . nonacidotic was defined as an umbilical artery ph greater than or equal to 7.20 . complications included seizures , persistent hypotonia , and/or signs of end-organ damage such as renal or cardiac dysfunction . none of the 693 newborns with an umbilical artery ph greater than or equal to 7.00 had such complications . two of 23 infants with an umbilical artery ph less than 7.00 had sequelae related to intrapartum asphyxia . in these two infants the umbilical artery ph was less than 7.00 , the 1-minute and 5-minute apgar scores were less than or equal to 3 and the acidemia was metabolic in nature . 
posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation in eyes with inactive and active proliferative diabetic retinopathy . we reviewed the records of 2,100 consecutive eyes that had undergone extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation between january 1981 and december 1989 . of these eyes , 21 had inactive and four had active proliferative diabetic retinopathy at the time of cataract extraction . twenty-one eyes with inactive proliferative diabetic retinopathy received extracapsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation , and four eyes with active proliferative diabetic retinopathy had both extracapsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation and pars plana vitrectomy with endophotocoagulation . the mean follow-up period was 27 months . final visual acuity was 20/40 or better in 12 of 25 eyes ( 48 % ) . of 25 eyes , five ( 20 % ) showed progression of the retinopathy after the operation , and two ( 8 % ) developed macular edema . extracapsular cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation was well tolerated in most eyes . 
pancreas transplantation . a new program . sixteen pancreatico-duodenal transplants were performed on 15 insulin-dependent diabetics , aged 25-46 , during a 20-month period beginning may 1 , 1988 . fourteen patients received a combined cadaveric pancreas/renal transplant with bladder drainage . one patient received a second pancreas transplant 24 hours after the first pancreas graft failed due to portal vein thrombosis . one patient received a pancreas graft 3 years after kidney transplantation . complications included five cases of hematuria , two bladder leaks , two wound infections , one cytomegalovirus pneumonia , three cases of graft pancreatitis , one pseudocyst , one urine reflux pancreatitis requiring conversion to pancreatico-enterostomy , and two late deaths . average time to discharge was 17 days following transplant , with 2.9 re-hospitalizations per patient and an average of 38 in-hospital days during the first 6-12 months . seventeen rejection episodes occurred in 12 patients , diagnosed by declining urine amylase and ph and/or finding of rejection on kidney biopsy . patient and kidney graft survival is 87 per cent . pancreas graft survival is 81 per cent ( 1-20 months follow-up ) . all patients are insulin-independent and normoglycemic . mean glycosylated hemoglobin concentration is 4.0 + / - 0.9 post-transplant vs. 7.5 + / - 0.6 pretransplant . mean serum creatinine is 1.4 + / - 0.7 mg/dl . a new program of pancreas transplantation can be successful in carefully selected diabetic patients , with special attention to avoidance of preservation injury to the pancreas during multiorgan donor procurement . combined pancreatic/renal transplantation is believed to be the therapeutic treatment of choice in type i diabetic patients who have impaired renal function and have no significant cardiovascular disease . 
diets enriched with n-3 fatty acids ameliorate lactic acidosis by improving endotoxin-induced tissue hypoperfusion in guinea pigs . the effect of 6 weeks dietary lipid manipulation on the acute physiologic response to 7-hour continuous endotoxin infusion in guinea pigs was examined . one diet was enriched with n-3 fatty acids , whereas the other contained n-6 fatty acids , primarily linoleic acid . animals fed n-6 fatty acids developed significant lactic acidemia , microvascular muscle hypoperfusion , and pulmonary infiltrates in response to endotoxin infusion . n-3 fatty acid-fed animals demonstrated improved lactate levels , microvascular muscle perfusion , and lung morphology compared to n-6 fatty acid-fed animals after endotoxin infusion . there was no significant change in cardiac output , pao2 , or mean arterial blood pressure at the end of the endotoxin infusion in either group . pretreatment with indomethacin , or bm 13505 , a specific thromboxane a2 receptor blocker , ameliorated the development of metabolic acidosis in n-6 fatty acid-fed animals , demonstrating a role for prostanoids in the sequelae of endotoxemia . the ability of dietary pretreatment with n-3 fatty acids to influence favorably the physiologic response to endotoxin represents a novel nutrient-metabolic interaction with potential therapeutic implications . 
lipids , vascular disease , and dementia with advancing age . epidemiologic considerations . elevated plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease in middle-aged men and women . it is still not clear , however , whether lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities continue to be risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the elderly population . it is not even clear what normal lipid values are in the elderly , and whether diet or drug therapy should be advised on the basis of lipid values established in middle-aged populations . ischemic heart disease does remain the leading cause of death in the elderly , and there is now preliminary evidence from epidemiologic studies that relative elevations of levels of lipid and lipoprotein fractions in an elderly population might be associated with an independent and increased risk of coronary heart disease , stroke , and possibly dementia . intervention studies are about to begin that will assess various lipid-and lipoprotein-modifying therapies and their ability to reduce vascular disease risk in the elderly . 
comparative study of a microporous cholestyramine analogue ( filicol ) and gemfibrozil for treatment of severe primary hypercholesterolemia . short - and long-term results . the hypolipidemic effect of gemfibrozil in severe hypercholesterolemia is not well established . fifty patients with primary hypercholesterolemia ( including 18 patients with familial hypercholesterolemia ) and stable low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels greater than 3.90 mmol/l ( greater than 150 mg/dl ) ( 6.10 + / - 1.30 [ sd ] mmol/l ; 236 + / - 50 mg/dl ) while on a hypolipidemic diet were assigned to treatment for 12 weeks with either 9 g/d of filicol , a microporous cholestyramine analogue , or 1.2 g/d of gemfibrozil in a randomized clinical trial . tolerance was good with both drugs . filicol and gemfibrozil caused similar decrements of total cholesterol ( 14 % for both ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( 20 % and 18 % , respectively ) , and apolipoprotein b ( 16 % and 21 % , respectively ) . close to 40 % of the patients had decreases of greater than 25 % in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels with both drugs . gemfibrozil , but not filicol , significantly increased plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( 16 % ) and apolipoprotein a-i ( 17 % ) levels and reduced triglyceride levels ( 35 % ) . no loss of efficacy was observed with either drug in subsets of patients who had a good 12-week response rate and had extended therapy for up to 12 months . this study demonstrates that gemfibrozil may have a beneficial effect on all aspects of the plasma lipid profile in patients with severe hypercholesterolemia , a clinical situation where it can be used with potential advantages over standard doses of anion-exchange resins . 
sensitivity of exercise electrocardiography for acute cardiac events during moderate and strenuous physical activity . the lipid research clinics coronary primary prevention trial . we determined whether the exercise electrocardiogram predicted acute cardiac events during moderate or strenuous physical activity among 3617 asymptomatic , hypercholesterolemic men ( age range , 35 to 59 years ) who were followed up in the coronary primary prevention trial . submaximal exercise test results were obtained at entry and at annual follow-up visits in years 2 through 7 . st-segment depression or elevation ( greater than or equal to 1 mm or 10 microv-sec ) was considered to be a positive test result . the circumstances that surrounded each nonfatal myocardial infarction and coronary heart disease death were determined through a record review . the cumulative incidence of activity-related acute cardiac events was 2 % during a mean follow-up period of 7.4 years . the risk was increased 2.6-fold in the presence of clinically silent , exercise-induced , st-segment changes at entry ( 95 % confidence interval [ cl ] , 1.3 to 5.2 ) after adjustment for 11 other potential risk factors . of 62 men who experienced an activity-related event , 11 had a positive test result at entry ( sensitivity , 18 % ; 95 % cl , 8 to 27 ) . the specificity of the entry exercise test was 92 % ( 95 % cl , 91 to 93 ) . the sensitivity and specificity were similar when the length of follow-up was restricted to 1 year after testing . for a newly positive test result on a follow-up visit , the sensitivity was 24 % ( 95 % cl , 12 to 36 ) , and the specificity was 85 % ( 95 % cl , 84 to 86 ) ; for any positive test result during the study ( mean number of tests per subject , 6.2 ) , the sensitivity was 37 % ( 95 % cl , 25 to 49 ) , and the specificity was 79 % ( 95 % cl , 77 to 80 ) . our findings suggested that the presence of clinically silent , exercise-induced , ischemic st-segment changes on a submaximal test was associated with an increased risk of activity-related acute cardiac events . however , this test was not sensitive when used to predict the occurrence of activity-related events among asymptomatic , hypercholesterolemic men . for this reason , the utility of the submaximal exercise test to assess the safety of physical activity among asymptomatic men at risk of coronary heart disease is likely to be limited . 
parathyroid hormone secretion and target organ response in experimental acute pancreatitis . to determine changes in parathyroid hormone secretion and target organ response caused by acute pancreatitis before the development of systemic toxic conditions , experimental acute pancreatitis was induced in rats with a choline-deficient , ethionine-supplemented diet . after 7 days , the rats were weighed and bled , and one kidney was assayed for 25-hydroxyvitamin d1 hydroxylase activity . several manifestations of pancreatitis were observed in rats given the diet : weight loss ( from 29.6 to 26.3 g vs that for control rats , from 29 to 52.8 g ) and lower dietary intake ( 15.5 vs 47 g per rat per 7 days ) . serum amylase levels fell from 1794 to 350 u/l in rats given the choline-deficient , ethionine-supplemented diet compared with levels of 1800 to 2100 u/l in control rats . the pancreases of rats given the choline-deficient , ethionine-supplemented diet showed degeneration , necrosis , and hemorrhaging . serum levels of calcium , phosphorus , chloride , and parathyroid hormone did not change significantly throughout the experiment . renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d1 hydroxylase activity was higher than in control rats ( 8.9 + / - 0.8 vs 7.6 + / - 0.6 fmol/mg of kidney per minute ) . acute pancreatitis in this experimental animal model does not alter serum levels of calcium and parathyroid hormone or reduce target organ responsiveness to the hormone . 
effects of recombinant human macrophage colony-stimulating factor on plasma cholesterol levels . recombinant human macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( rhm-csf ) is a hematopoietic growth factor that stimulates the growth , differentiation , proliferation , and activation of cells of the monocyte/macrophage lineage . rhm-csf was administered to rabbits and nonhuman primates to evaluate effects on cholesterol homeostasis . decreases in plasma cholesterol concentrations were observed during rhm-csf administration . the observed mean ( + / - sd ) decreases over a range of doses in nonhuman primates receiving rhm-csf by continuous intravenous infusion ( civi ) or intravenous bolus ( ivb ) injection were approximately 16 % + / - 8 % and 43 % + / - 10 % , respectively . low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol levels decreased 55 % + / - 9 % from pretreatment baseline values in the animals receiving rhm-csf by ivb . normocholesterolemic new zealand white rabbits receiving rhm-csf over a range of doses by civi showed a decrease from baseline in total cholesterol of approximately 28 % + / - 17 % , with ldl cholesterol levels decreasing by approximately 72 % + / - 33 % , while high-density lipoprotein levels showed variable changes , including increased values . a decrease of 36 % + / - 26 % in total plasma cholesterol was observed in watanabe heritable hyperlipidemic rabbits receiving rhm-csf by civi for 7 days . this decrease was attributable almost entirely to decreases in ldl cholesterol , which fell approximately 34 % + / - 24 % from baseline . although the mechanism of this cholesterol-lowering effect is unknown , these results strongly suggest that rhm-csf may provide a novel treatment for hypercholesterolemia and may be useful in investigations into the mechanisms of cholesterol homeostasis and atherogenesis . 
risk of disability and mortality due to overweight in a finnish population [ published erratum appears in bmj 1990 nov 3 ; 301 ( 6759 ) :1027 ] objective -- to investigate the effect of overweight on premature mortality and work disability in young and middle aged finns . design -- prospective cohort study based on data collected in the multiphasic health examinations by the social insurance institution of finland from 1966 to 1972 and follow up until 1982 . setting -- 34 communities throughout finland . subjects -- 12,053 women and 19,076 men who were employed and aged 25-64 at baseline . main outcome measures -- mortality and work disability pensions from all and specified causes . results -- body mass index was a weak predictor of death but a strong predictor of early work disability , which increased linearly with body mass index . after adjustment for age , geographical region , occupation , and smoking the relative risks of work disability for women and men with a body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2 were , respectively , 2.0 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.8 to 2.3 ) and 1.5 ( 1.3 to 1.7 ) when compared with those of subjects with body mass index less than 22.5 kg/m2 . the increased risks were due to an excess of cardiovascular and musculoskeletal diseases but not of mental diseases . one fourth of all disability pensions from cardiovascular and musculoskeletal causes in women and half as many in men could be attributed to overweight ( body mass index greater than 25 kg/m2 ) alone . conclusions -- though modest overweight has little impact on mortality it predicts severe functional impairment . a considerable proportion of work disability pensions could probably be prevented by efficient weight control . 
the differential diagnosis of crigler-najjar disease , types 1 and 2 , by bile pigment analysis . phenobarbital response , bile pigment composition , and the fractional biliary excretion ratio of bilirubin were studied in nine children with crigler-najjar disease . in five children , serum bilirubin levels decreased during phenobarbital treatment by 26 % or more and the pigment composition in bile changed with a decrease in the proportion of unconjugated bilirubin from 33 % + / - 12 % to 13 % + / - 1 % and an increase in monoconjugates and diconjugates from 57 % + / - 14 % and 10 % + / - 2 % , respectively , to 72 % + / - 4 % and 16 % + / - 3 % . in four children , serum bilirubin levels did not change significantly during phenobarbital treatment . in these patients , bile pigments comprised 91 % + / - 10 % unconjugated bilirubin , 9 % + / - 11 % monoconjugates , and 1 % + / - 1 % diconjugates . on the basis of these differences , the former group can be classified as having type 2 crigler-najjar disease and the latter , type 1 . bile pigment analysis in parents of patients with crigler-najjar disease showed an increased proportion of monoconjugates in at least one of the partners in three of four couples tested , despite normal serum bilirubin levels . serum bilirubin levels were about the same in type 1 and 2 patients and amounted to 236 + / - 62 mumol/l and 214 + / - 82 mumol/l , respectively . in addition the fractional bilirubin excretion ratio , calculated as the ratio ( [ bilirubin in bile ] / [ bilirubin in serum ] ) / ( [ bile acid in bile ] / [ bile acid in serum ] ) could not differentiate between these two groups . however , there was a 10-fold and 100-fold difference of this ratio between patients with crigler-najjar disease and those with gilbert 's syndrome and between patients with crigler-najjar disease and controls . the fractional bilirubin excretion ratio proved an excellent tool to differentiate between gilbert 's syndrome and crigler-najjar disease , whereas crigler-najjar disease types 1 and 2 could be differentiated on the basis of bile pigment analysis . 
microvillus inclusion disease . in vitro jejunal electrolyte transport . microvillus inclusion disease is an inherited intestinal brush border membrane defect that causes severe fluid and electrolyte malabsorption . in an infant with microvillus inclusion disease ( confirmed by electron microscopic evaluation of rectal , jejunal , and gallbladder mucosae ) , basal stool output was massive ( greater than 125 ml . kg-1 . day-1 ) and was not altered by treatment with clonidine or octreotide . a proximal jejunostomy with mucous fistula was placed , allowing separation of proximal from distal tract outputs ( 60 ml . kg-1 . day-1 and 100 ml . kg-1 . day-1 , respectively ) . a 10-cm jejunal segment was excised during surgery and mounted in ussing chambers for determination of transepithelial na + and cl fluxes . compared with intestine of normal infants , this infant 's epithelium showed transmural conductance and unidirectional ion fluxes that were only 30 % of normal . with respect to both na + and cl , the excised jejunum was in a net secretory state . theophylline ( 5 mmol/l ) increased net cl secretion slightly . in response to mucosal d-glucose ( 30 mmol/l ) , jejunal mucosal-to-serosal na + flux doubled . in the infant , glucose-electrolyte solution administered intrajejunally did not significantly change stool output , suggesting that all of the solution ( 40 ml/kg ) was absorbed . subtotal enterocolectomy , in theory , could have decreased purging by 66 % in this infant with microvillus inclusion disease , but diarrhea would still have been significant . 
hypomagnesemia and the parathyroid hormone-vitamin d endocrine system in children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus : effects of magnesium administration . because insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus is associated with altered electrolyte metabolism and a derangement of the parathyroid hormone ( pth ) - vitamin d endocrine system , we studied 23 children with diabetes ( age 9.4 + / - 2.5 years ) and found lower serum values for total and ionized calcium , magnesium , intact pth , calcitriol , and osteocalcin than in age - and sex-matched control subjects . all patients were given magnesium orally ( 6 mg/kg daily of elemental magnesium ) for up to 60 days . during treatment , serum magnesium , total and ionized calcium , intact pth , calcitriol , and osteocalcin concentrations significantly increased , reaching control values . after a 3-day low-calcium diet , the patients had a significantly reduced delta-increment of pth and calcitriol in comparison with values obtained during hypomagnesemia . after magnesium repletion , the delta-increments of both pth and calcitriol , in response to the low-calcium diet , were not significantly different from control values . these data suggest that magnesium deficiency plays a pivotal role in altering mineral homeostasis in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . 
ossified chronic subdural hematoma : case report . a case of ossified chronic subdural hematoma is presented in a 13-year-old male in whom the mass was surgically removed . his neurological deficits continued afterward but were less severe . 
juvenile intervertebral disc calcification : recognition , management , and pathogenesis . juvenile intervertebral disc calcification is an uncommon disorder of childhood , characterized by calcification of the nucleus pulposus of one or more intervertebral discs . calcification may remain dormant or subsequently become symptomatic . the symptoms include fever , malaise , and neck pain and are associated with an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and , occasionally , leukocytosis . although disc protrusion occurs in 38 % of patients , neurological signs are distinctly uncommon . we report the case of a patient with a herniated t2-t3 calcified intervertebral disc and compressive myelopathy . juvenile intervertebral disc calcification is generally a self-limiting disease that seldom requires an operation . the symptoms are transient , and resorption of the disc calcification is the rule once symptoms occur . neither the cause of the disc calcification nor the trigger for the onset of symptoms is known . an inflammatory response within the disc appears to give rise to clinical symptoms and is associated with eventual resorption of the disc calcification . 
diabetic amyotrophy without pain . a puzzling clinical picture . a patient with weight loss and weakness presents a diagnostic challenge . drs moeser and kent describe an unusual case of diabetic amyotrophy that required extensive workup to arrive at the diagnosis and rule out more serious disease . symptoms were dramatic , and recovery was spontaneous following conservative treatment . 
an analysis of the results of mammographically guided biopsies of the breast . three hundred and fifty-three women underwent 358 biopsies of the breast for nonpalpable mammographic lesions during a five year period . cancer was identified in 95 ( 27 per cent ) . mammographic findings in the patients with cancer were calcifications only ( 54 per cent ) , a mass ( 27 per cent ) , a mass with calcifications ( 15 per cent ) , an asymmetric distortion ( 1 per cent ) and an asymmetric distortion with calcifications ( 3 per cent ) . cancer was identified in 29 per cent of the biopsies done for calcifications , 20 per cent of those done for a mass with calcifications , 6 per cent of those done for an asymmetric distortion and 38 per cent of those done for an asymmetric distortion with calcifications . forty-nine per cent of the mammographically suspicious calcifications were cancer , while 100 per cent of the indeterminate calcifications were benign . forty-five per cent of the spiculated masses were cancerous , while only 3 per cent of the circumscribed masses were malignant . for those patients with carcinoma undergoing axillary lymph node dissection , 13 per cent had one or more positive nodes . a strategy for increasing the effectiveness of mammographically guided biopsies of the breast is presented . 
the national cholesterol education program : guidelines , status , and issues . the 1987 report of the adult treatment panel ( atp ) of the national cholesterol education program ( ncep ) was concerned with who should be treated for high blood cholesterol levels and how they should be treated . total cholesterol levels were classified for identification of cases . low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were classified for decisions about treatment . the atp guidelines emphasize diet as the primary approach to treating patients with high blood cholesterol levels . the recommendations of the report are being widely publicized through physician and patient educational programs and the mass media . the report of the population panel of the ncep provides recommendations and guidelines for the public health approach to the problem of high cholesterol levels . when the recommendations of both reports are fully implemented , it is expected that substantial reductions in the incidence of coronary heart disease will be achieved . 
evolving natural history of coronary artery disease in diabetes mellitus . white diabetic patients are at high risk of developing coronary artery disease ( cad ) . the natural history of cad in insulin-dependent ( id ) and noninsulin-dependent ( nid ) diabetes mellitus ( dm ) is reviewed to gain insight into the mechanisms responsible for the development of premature or accelerated atherosclerosis in diabetic patients . in both iddm and niddm , the risk of cad increases with lengthening duration of diabetes ; the risk , however , does not grow as a constant multiple of the nondiabetic risk of cad , suggesting that the cumulative exposure to diabetes plays a significant role as a risk factor for cad only in a subset of patients . this is consistent with the hypothesis that the diabetic milieu has an impact on the progression of atherosclerotic lesions but not on their initiation . this hypothesis is corroborated further by the observation that cad does not occur in diabetic patients in populations with a low risk of cad among nondiabetic patients . the component of the diabetic milieu responsible for promotion of atherosclerotic lesions is unknown . there is evidence , however , of a direct or indirect role of hyperinsulinemia in this process . 
insulin as a mitogenic factor : role in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease . evidence has been accumulating that insulin has actions that may promote the development of atherosclerosis . research has involved three broad areas : actions of insulin on cultured arterial cells , the effect of insulin on isolated artery preparations , and the development of lipid-containing lesions in the arteries of experimental animals . insulin , in concentrations similar to those found in physiologic conditions , stimulates proliferation of cultured arterial smooth muscle cells from a number of species , including humans . insulin also stimulates migration of smooth muscle cells . cholesterol synthesis and low-density lipoprotein interaction with its receptor in smooth muscle cells are stimulated by insulin . insulin 's mitogenic action appears to be mediated by the insulin-like growth factor receptor . endothelial cells cultured from large vessels are resistant to the actions of insulin , but hyperglycemia inhibits their proliferation . insulin deficiency protects animals from experimental atherosclerosis ; this protection is lost with insulin treatment . insulin administration results in lipid-containing lesions in chickens and rats fed a normal diet , and in increased lipid synthesis in the arteries of pigs and dogs . isolated artery preparations from insulin-deficient or insulin-treated animals undergo lipid metabolism at a rate that correlates with the insulin concentrations in the donor animals . the biological actions of insulin ( and glucose ) on arterial tissue suggest that hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia may promote the development of atherosclerosis . 
diabetic retinopathy : can we modify its course ? with the exception of panretinal laser photocoagulation , no therapy has been shown to modify the course of diabetic retinopathy . success in developing new therapies for diabetic retinopathy will depend on how well the disease process is understood and on whether interventions can be identified that ameliorate or circumvent critical stages in the development of the disease . a model of the disease process is presented to serve as a frame-work on which pieces of the puzzle can be placed and new areas of potential interventional therapy can be conceptualized . 
diabetic nephropathy : can the natural history be modified ? those diabetic patients who progress to advanced kidney disease constitute a subpopulation that is particularly vulnerable to the angiotoxic effects of the insulin-dependent disorder . until the predisposing factors are identified , the most effective way to arrest renal deterioration is by controlling those currently recognized risk factors that accelerate the glomerulopathy . treatments that normalize blood pressure , reduce dietary protein intake , and control hyperglycemia have been shown to retard the progression of diabetic nephropathy . 
a history of phlebotomy therapy for hemochromatosis . hemochromatosis was recognized as an iron-storage disease for 50 years before it was proposed to treat it by removing hemoglobin . davis and arrowsmith are credited with the first report that demonstrated its value . larger series have provided statistically valid evidence of improved quality of life and increased longevity . the earlier the disease is discovered , the less risk of morbidity and mortality . screening tests ( serum iron , total iron-binding capacity , serum ferritin ) are recommended for all blood relatives of index cases of this hereditary disease and for all clinics where complications of hemochromatosis may be treated : liver disorder however mild , diabetes mellitus , heart disease , arthropathies , sterility , impotence , premature menopause , and abnormal pigmentation of the skin . 
iron and the liver . iron is essential for life , but iron overload is toxic and potentially fatal . the liver is a major site of iron storage and is particularly susceptible to injury from iron overload , especially when ( as in primary hemochromatosis ) the iron accumulates in hepatocytes . iron can be taken up by the liver in several forms and by several pathways including : ( 1 ) receptor-mediated endocytosis of diferric or monoferric transferrin or ferritin , ( 2 ) reduction and carrier-facilitated internalization of iron from transferrin without internalization of the protein moiety of transferrin , ( 3 ) electrogenic uptake of low molecular weight , non-protein bound forms of iron , and ( 4 ) uptake of heme from heme-albumin , heme-hemopexin , or hemoglobin-haptoglobin complexes . normally , pathway 2 is probably the major one for uptake of iron by hepatocytes . iron is stored in the liver in the cores of ferritin shells and as hemosiderin , an insoluble product derived from iron-rich ferritin . iron in hepatocytes stimulates translation of ferritin mrna and represses transcription of dna for transferrin and transferrin receptors . the major pathologic effects of chronic hepatic iron overload are : ( 1 ) fibrosis and cirrhosis , ( 2 ) porphyria cutanea tarda , and ( 3 ) hepatocellular carcinoma . although precise pathogenetic mechanisms remain unknown , iron probably produces these and other toxic effects by increasing oxidative stress and lysosomal lability . vigorous efforts at diagnosis and treatment of iron overload are essential since the pathologic effects of iron are totally preventable by early vigorous iron removal and prevention of iron re-accumulation . 
comparison of stainable liver iron between symptomatic and asymptomatic hemochromatosis homozygotes and their homozygous relatives . the authors compared the amount of hepatic parenchymal cell stainable iron in 159 hemochromatosis homozygotes . they were separated into four groups . group 1 : 59 symptomatic hemochromatosis probands with hemochromatosis ( mean age 49 years ) who were identified because of symptoms and signs of iron overload . group 2 : 38 asymptomatic probands with hemochromatosis ( mean age 29 years ) identified during population screening studies or during routine health maintenance evaluation . group 3 : 47 homozygous relatives ( mean age 43 years ) of group 1 probands . group 4 : 15 homozygous relatives ( mean age 30 years ) of group 2 probands . the symptomatic probands ( group 1 ) were 20 years older and had much more stainable hepatic iron ( p less than 0.0001 ) than the asymptomatic probands ( group 2 ) . the homozygous relatives ( group 3 ) of the symptomatic probands also were older and had much more stainable hepatic iron than the homozygous relatives ( group 4 ) of asymptomatic probands ( p less than 0.0002 ) . the results of this study suggest that population screening studies can result in early identification of individuals with hemochromatosis before massive hepatic iron overload occurs and before symptoms of iron overload develop . 
the immunogenetics of hereditary hemochromatosis . hereditary hemochromatosis ( hh ) , an iron overload disease caused by unregulated intestinal iron absorption , is a recessive hla-linked disease . hh is the most common inherited metabolic disorder with one of every 400 to 500 individuals having both genes and being likely to develop the disease . thus , although the product of the hemochromatosis gene is unknown , its mode of inheritance allows hla-genotyping of the proband and his/her siblings to be highly predictive of the genetic propensity to develop the clinical features of hh . in view of the known immunoregulatory properties of iron and its binding proteins , it is important to determine if the high levels of storage iron in hh influence the immunosurveillance network in hh patients and whether that has any clinical relevance . we have defined certain alterations of the effector cells of the cellular arm of the immune system and have studied a patient with hh who had specific immune alterations , including delayed cutaneous-type hypersensitivity anergy , and was diagnosed with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the stomach four years after his hh diagnosis . those findings are consistent with the interpretation that in certain clinical situations of elevated body iron stores , the immunoregulatory balance or environment may be tipped in favor of growth and development of cancer cells . 
the immune system in hereditary hemochromatosis : a quantitative and functional assessment of the cellular arm . the objective of this investigation was to evaluate certain quantitative and functional characteristics of the effector cells of the cellular arm of the immune system in hereditary hemochromatosis ( hh ) with respect to treatment status . two observations were consistent with the postulate that the elevated levels of storage iron has in vivo immunoregulatory properties : ( 1 ) the absolute number of cd8-positive t cells were significantly elevated in untreated hh patients ( n = 7 ) and reduced in treated patients ( n = 7 ) , as compared with controls ; and ( 2 ) the proliferative response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from untreated hh patients to mitogens was suboptimal but the response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbm ) from treated hh patients was normal . furthermore , immunoglobulin secretion by pbm from treated hh patients as compared to controls was altered . finally , one t effector cell abnormality was unrelated to treatment status in that a subset of mature , non-activated t lymphocytes aberrantly formed thermostable erythrocyte-rosettes ( te-r ) , a lymphoid surface marker usually expressed on thymocytes or activated t cells . taken together these data define certain immune alterations that are consistent with the interpretation that cellular immunity may be influenced by the high level of storage iron in hh patients . 
psychosocial factors in maternal phenylketonuria : prevention of unplanned pregnancies . background . women with phenylketonuria ( pku ) not treated prior to conception can have a pregnancy that results in serious fetal damage . in this report , factors associated with preventing unplanned ( and hence late treated ) pregnancies are described . methods . subjects included 60 phenylketonuric women and two comparison groups composed of female acquaintances and diabetic women . all were interviewed and administered tests of intelligence , general well-being , knowledge , and personality . results . thirty-five percent of the sexually active women with pku used contraception only sporadically . the variables that best predicted reported frequency of birth control use were the extent to which women felt social support to use contraception ( r = .64 ) along with positive attitudes about birth control ( r = .66 ) and knowledge of family planning ( r = .43 ) . for the comparison groups , a different pattern of variables predicted contraceptive use , with locus of control figuring most prominently for the diabetics ( r = .39 ) and social support for birth control being most important for the acquaintances ( r = .46 ) . conclusions . as more girls with pku enter childbearing ages , there will be an increased need for specific programs that address psychosocial factors in maternal pku . 
saltpeter ingestion . a 37-year-old man presented to the emergency department after an attempt to self-treat his priapism with saltpeter ( k+no 3 ) . initially he had a potassium of 7.6 with electrocardiographic changes and a markedly elevated co2 . the potassium and carbon dioxide normalized in less than 24 hours with standard treatment for hyperkalemia . hyperkalemia is expected with large oral potassium ingestion ; and the elevated co2 was spurious , caused by the misreading of serum nitrates by the ektachrom 700 system . ingestion of k+no 3 should be added to the differential of hyperkalemia with a markedly elevated co2 . 
laser photocoagulation control of diabetic macular oedema without fluorescein angiography . this study included 40 eyes in 22 diabetic patients with focal macular oedema . laser photocoagulation was directed at decompensated or leaking microvascular lesions clinically detected without using pretreatment fluorescein angiograms . post-treatment fluorescein angiograms performed after adequate clinical control of disease showed complete resolution of the macular oedema in 25 eyes ( 62.5 % ) , whereas persistent leakage from microvascular lesions closer than 500 microns from the centre of the foveola was noted in 15 eyes ( 37.5 % ) . these were clinically detected during the pretreatment examination and were found not to impair or threaten the patient 's vision . our data confirm the clinical impression that fluorescein angiography is not necessary for effective treatment and should be used only if necessary . 
prenatal diagnosis of metabolic disease . early detection of metabolic disease affords the possibility of the best possible outcome for affected infants . prenatal diagnostic capabilities allow for the institution of prenatal therapy , when indicated , and postnatal optimal management . special formulas , supplemental nutritional therapies , and avoidance of dangerous substrates can be begun in the delivery room , if the affected status of the patient is known . such therapies are the current mainstay of treatment of inborn errors of metabolism . earliest possible institution of these therapies allows hope for the best possible outcome for affected infants . 
a form of familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia not due to a mutation in the apolipoprotein b gene . familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia ( fhbl ) is a dominant disorder of lipoprotein metabolism characterized by levels of apolipoprotein b-carrying lipoproteins ( vldl , idl and ldl ) which are 50 % of the normal levels in the heterozygotes and almost absent in the homozygotes . several reports have recently shown that the underlying defect in fhbl involves different mutations in the apo b gene which lead to reduced levels of apo b mrna or to the production of truncated forms of apo b having either a lower synthetic rate or a higher catabolic rate than normal apo b. we here present a three-generation family with several fhbl members in which the linkage analysis shows absence of co-segregation between apo b gene alleles and the hypocholesterolaemic phenotype . we conclude that a dominantly transmitted mutation in a gene other than that for apo b is responsible for the low plasma cholesterol levels . 
hypoglycaemic episodes during intensified insulin treatment : increased frequency but no effect on cognitive function . ninety-seven patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) were randomized to intensified conventional treatment ( ict , n = 44 ) or regular treatment ( rt , n = 53 ) . the mean hba1c level ( + / - sem ) was reduced from 9.5 + / - 0.2 % to 7.4 + / - 0.1 % in the ict group ( p less than 0.001 ) , and from 9.4 + / - 0.2 % to 9.0 + / - 0.2 % ( p less than 0.01 ) in the rt group . the difference between the groups was significant ( p less than 0.001 ) . during a period of 3 years , 57 % of the ict patients ( 95 % confidence interval 44-73 % ) and 23 % of the rt patients ( 95 % ci , 11-34 % ) ( p less than 0.001 ) had at least one episode of serious hypoglycaemia , with the need for third-party assistance or resulting in coma . eighteen of the 32 ict patients who initially had adrenergic symptoms during hypoglycaemia changed to predominantly neuroglycopenic symptoms . this was the case with only 8 of 38 rt patients ( p less than 0.01 ) . the change in symptoms was related to the increased frequency of serious hypoglycaemia , but neither symptoms nor frequency of hypoglycaemia bor any relationship to insulin dose , body mass index , duration of diabetes or autonomic nerve function . the results of several neuropsychological tests did not differ between the groups at baseline , and did not change during the study . there were no signs of deteriorating cognitive function in the patients with serious hypoglycaemic episodes . 
potential role of insulin in the clearance of remnant lipoproteins in dysbetalipoproteinaemia . dysbetalipoproteinaemia is a genetic disorder characterized by accumulation of lipoprotein remnant particles in the plasma , accelerated atherosclerosis , and the abnormal apoprotein e2 . uncontrolled diabetes mellitus can aggravate the hyperlipidaemia associated with this disorder , presumably by increasing triglyceride synthesis and reducing very low density lipoprotein catabolism by lipoprotein lipase . this report documents the gradual amelioration of dysbetalipoproteinaemia in uncontrolled diabetes mellitus following therapy with exogenous insulin alone . although the beneficial effects of insulin therapy in this patient may include inhibition of triglyceride synthesis and improved triglyceride catabolism , we propose that insulin may also stimulate clearance of atherogenic remnant lipoprotein particles . 
risk factors for disability among u.s. adults with arthritis . this article studies risk factors for physical and social disability among u.s. adults ages 55 + who have arthritis , compared to non-arthritis persons of those ages . the dependent variables refer to difficulties in walking , physical functioning ( motions and strength ) , personal care , and household care . the data set is the supplement on aging ( soa ) ( n = 16,148 ) that accompanied the 1984 national health interview survey . the soa data are cross-sectional ; relationships of risk factors to disability suggest causation but do not directly demonstrate it . logistic regressions show that risk factors are similar for arthritis and non-arthritis people , with one important exception . ( 1 ) the similarities are : for both groups , odds of disability rise with age , diminish with education , and are higher for non-whites and non-married persons . disability rises with number of chronic diseases and impairments , and it is elevated for underweight persons ( body mass index ( bmi ) less than 20 ; further analysis indicates this reflects incomplete control of their severe illness status ) . long duration of arthritis and recent medical care for it are associated with disability . ( 2 ) the exception is : severe overweight ( bmi greater than or equal to 30 ) is a disability risk factor for arthritis people , but not for non-arthritis people . previous research has shown that obesity/overweight is a risk factor for etiology of osteoarthritis ; our analysis now shows its continued importance for disability when the disease is present . 
regional obesity and risk of cardiovascular disease ; the framingham study . risk of cardiovascular events was determined over 24 years of surveillance in relation to general adiposity reflected by relative weight and by regional obesity estimated by skinfolds and waist girth per inch of height . upper quintile values of relative weight , subscapular skinfolds and waist girth were each associated with increased risks of cardiovascular disease in both sexes . risk of total cardiovascular events increased with the degree of regional , central or abdominal obesity . mortality from cardiovascular disease was also increased . increased relative weight and central obesity were both associated with increased risk factors including cholesterol , blood pressure , glucose and uric acid . changes in weight were mirrored by changes in risk factors with linear trends over a 15 lb range of weight fluctuations . subscapular skinfold and the ratio of subscapular-to-triceps skinfold , measures of central obesity , were in either sex also associated with an increased probability of coronary attacks in particular . the subscapular skinfold contributed to chd risk independent of body mass index ( bmi ) . multivariate analyses taking all the risk factors into account indicate an independent effect of abdominal obesity on stroke , cardiac failure and cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in men . in women , only the subscapular-to-triceps skinfold ratio independently contributes to chd , cardiovascular and all cause mortality . regional obesity appears to be an independent contributor to cardiovascular disease at a given level of general adiposity , its effect only partially mediated through promotion of other known risk factors . these data suggest that cardiovascular disease is as closely linked to abdominal as to general adiposity . 
short-term effects of dehydroepiandrosterone treatment in rats on mitochondrial respiration . administration of dehydroepiandrosterone ( dhea ) to rats results in alterations in liver and serum factors . this study was undertaken to determine the earliest metabolic change ( s ) associated with dhea treatment . serum cholesterol , triacylglycerol , glucose , insulin , glucagon , thyroid hormones and hepatic glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity were , in general , unaltered in obese zucker rats after 7 d and 24 , 12 and 3 h of dhea treatment . malic enzyme , long-chain fatty acyl-coenzyme a hydrolase and catalase activities and peroxisomal beta-oxidation rates were elevated after 7 d and 24 h in dhea treatment , but not after 12 h. mitochondrial beta-oxidation was not altered . hepatic mitochondrial state 3 respiration per g liver with glutamate-malate was elevated after 7 d and 24 , 12 and 3 h in dhea-treated rats and was elevated per mg protein except after 7 d. succinate-supported state 3 respiration per g liver was also elevated after 7 d and 24 and 12 h of dhea treatment . mitochondria from rats treated for 7 d had lower levels of cardiolipin and phosphatidylethanolamine and an increase in phosphatidylcholine . changes in fatty acid composition of these phospholipids occurred after 7 d and 24 h of dhea treatment . in an additional study , rats were treated with dhea or dhea plus ethidium bromide for 3 d. ethidium bromide inhibited the increase in mitochondrial protein and respiration associated with dhea treatment . these findings indicate that mitochondrial respiration is the earliest factor affected by dhea and may be associated with protein synthesis . 
endotoxin and lipid peroxidation in vivo in selenium - and vitamin e-deficient and - adequate rats . the effect of salmonella typhimurium endotoxin injected intraperitoneally ( 0.5 mg/kg body weight ) on lipid peroxidation in vivo was assessed . peroxidation was monitored by measuring ethane production , an autoxidation product of ( n-3 ) unsaturated fatty acids . weanling rats were fed a selenium - and vitamin e-deficient basal diet or one supplemented with 0.2 mg se/kg and/or 200 mg vitamin e/kg . after 11 to 13 wk of feeding , ethane production was tripled in lps-treated se - and vitamin e-deficient rats compared to saline-treated deficient rats . in both doubly deficient and adequate rats , lps increased ethane production , but it did so to a greater extent in se - and vitamin e-deficient rats . dietary se or vitamin e supplementation alone significantly reduced ethane production from lps-treated rats . vitamin e was more protective than se against lps-induced lipid peroxidation . escherichia coli and salmonella minnesota lps also increased ethane production in se - and vitamin e-deficient rats . these results show that low doses of lps stimulate lipid peroxidation in vivo in se - and vitamin e-deficient rats . 
endotoxin and lipid peroxidation in vitro in selenium - and vitamin e-deficient and - adequate rat tissues . the effect of salmonella typhimurium endotoxin injected intraperitoneally into rats ( 0.5 mg/kg of body weight ) on subsequent lipid peroxidation in vitro was assessed . peroxidation was monitored by measuring ethane production from tissue slices , as well as thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances and conjugated dienes in tissue homogenates . weanling rats were fed a selenium - and vitamin e-deficient basal diet or one supplemented with 0.2 mg of se/kg of diet and 200 mg of vitamin e/kg . after 9 to 16 wk , ethane production and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in liver and lung generally were increased by lps treatment of se - and vitamin e-deficient rats . conjugated dienes were increased by lps treatment in liver of se - and vitamin e-deficient rats , but paradoxically , were higher in se - and vitamin e-adequate liver tissue . daily injections of 1 g of hydroxyurea/kg of body weight , a cell proliferation inhibitor , for 2 d prior to lps injection significantly decreased the lps-induced ethane production in se - and vitamin e-deficient rat liver and lung . these results show that low doses of lps injected into rats stimulated lipid peroxidation in vitro in se - and vitamin e-deficient rat liver tissue . hydroxyurea decreased lps-induced lipid peroxidation in vitro ; this suggests that neutrophils or macrophages are involved in lps-induced lipid peroxidation . 
obesity and colorectal adenomatous polyps . obesity has been investigated as a risk factor for various malignancies , including colon cancer . a case-control study was conducted on patients in three colonoscopy practices in new york city to determine possible risk factors for colorectal adenomatous polyps , a known precursor lesion for most cases of colorectal cancer . among 301 case subjects with incidence adenomatous polyps ( 174 men and 127 women ) and 506 control subjects ( 223 men and 283 women ) , an increased risk was observed with increasing body mass index in women ( odds ratio 2.1 , 95 % confidence interval 1.1-4 .0 ; for highest versus lowest quartile , linear trend p = .02 ) . a nonsignificant trend was observed for men . the increased risk seen in women is consistent with prior observations regarding reproductive hormonal and dietary risk factors for colorectal cancer . 
effects of dehydration on gastric emptying and gastrointestinal distress while running . gastrointestinal distress is commonly reported by athletes after ingestion of a beverage . we speculate that ingestion may be occurring after dehydration has taken place . the high prevalence of gi disorders in marathon runners who have lost greater than or equal to 4 % body weight supports this theory . to test this theory , the effects of dehydration , and dehydration in combination with endurance running , on gastric emptying ( ge ) and frequency of gastrointestinal ( gi ) complaints were tested in this experiment . a complete cross-over study was designed . sixteen subjects ingested 8 ml.kg bw-1 of a 7 % carbohydrate ( 296 mosm.kg-1 ) , solution after a euhydration or dehydration regime . dehydration ( 4 % bw loss ) was produced by 60 % maximal speed running at 30 degrees c or by intermittent sauna exposure at 100 degrees c. euhydration experiments were conducted with a 2 h rest period with water administered at 20 and 40 min . gastric drink volumes were measured every 10 min for 40 min . emptying curves were compared using semi-log transformation of the percentage emptying data and simple linear regression . the slope of each line was used as a measure of average ge rate . dehydration-exercise resulted in slower ge than in all other treatments ( p less than 0.05 ) . anova revealed significant effects of dehydration ( p less than 0.05 ) and exercise ( p less than 0.05 ) , these two effects being additive in delaying ge . gi complaints were reported by 37.5 % of the subjects during dehydration-exercise experiments . no gi disturbance was reported in other tests . 
mechanism of glucoregulatory responses to stress and their deficiency in diabetes . during exercise , increased energy demands are met by increased glucose production that occurs simultaneously with the increased glucose uptake . we had previously observed that , during exercise , metabolic clearance rate of glucose ( mcr ) increases markedly in normal , but only marginally in poorly controlled diabetic dogs . we wished to determine ( i ) whether in a more general model of stress matched increases in rate of appearance of glucose and mcr also occur , or if mcr is suppressed , as during catecholamine infusion ; and ( ii ) whether diabetes affects stress-induced changes in rate of glucose appearance and mcr . therefore , we injected carbachol ( 27 nmol/50 microliters ) , an analog of acetylcholine , intracerebroventricularly in seven conscious dogs before and after induction of alloxan diabetes . in normal dogs , plasma epinephrine and cortisol increased 4 - to 5-fold , whereas norepinephrine and glucagon doubled . plasma insulin , however , remained unchanged . tracer-determined hepatic glucose production increased rapidly , but transiently , by 2.5-fold . this increment can be fully explained by the observed increments in the counterregulatory hormones . surprisingly , however , mcr also promptly increased , and therefore , plasma glucose changed only marginally . after induction of diabetes , the animals were given intracerebroventricular carbachol while plasma glucose was maintained at moderate hyperglycemia ( 9.0 + / - 0.4 mm ) . increments in counterregulatory hormones were similar to those seen in normal dogs , except for exaggerated norepinephrine release . peripheral insulin levels were higher in diabetic than in normal dogs ; however , mcr was markedly reduced and the lipolytic response to stress increased , indicating insulin resistance . interestingly , the hyperglycemic response to stress was 6-fold greater in diabetic than normal animals , relating mainly to the failure of mcr to rise . plasma lactate increased equivalently in diabetic and normal animals despite suppression of mcr in the diabetics , indicating either greater muscle glycogenolysis and/or impairment in glucose oxidation . we conclude that in this stress model mcr increases as in exercise in normal but not in diabetic dogs . we speculate that glucose uptake in stress could be mediated through an insulin-dependent neural mechanism . 
efficacy of celiprolol in the elderly hypertensive patient . with the rapidly increasing average age of the population of the western world , care and treatment of the elderly are becoming increasingly important . cardiovascular diseases are major causes of death and disability in the elderly ; hence , identification of cardiovascular risk factors and effective treatment are essential . evidence indicates that these risk factors in the elderly are similar to those in the young ; namely , high blood pressure , hyperlipidemia , glucose intolerance , hyperfibrinogenemia , obesity , and cigarette smoking . the latter two relate to general patient management , whereas the remainder can be significantly influenced by modern drug therapy such as celiprolol . this drug is a third-generation highly selective beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with beta 2-agonist and vasodilatory activity giving a unique and advantageous pharmacologic profile for antihypertensive therapy with particular benefits for the elderly . the impact of therapy with celiprolol on the cardiovascular risk factors in the elderly hypertensive patient is reviewed . 
nephrotic proteinuria without hypoalbuminemia : clinical characteristics and response to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition . although hypoalbuminemia is a fundamental characteristic of nephrotic syndrome ( ns ) , there are many patients with massive proteinuria that do not develop hypoalbuminemia . we have studied the clinical and biochemical characteristics of 19 patients with persistent massive proteinuria ( greater than 5 g/d ) and normal serum albumin ( group i ) in comparison with 16 patients with similar proteinuria excretion , but persistent hypoalbuminemia ( group ii ) . most of group i patients had diagnoses suggesting glomerular hyperfiltration ( focal glomerulosclerosis [ fgs ] associated with vesicoureteral reflux [ vur ] , reduction of renal mass , proteinuria associated with obesity , sclerotic phase of idiopathic crescentic glomerulonephritis [ gn ] in contrast with those of group ii , in which membranous gn was the most frequent diagnosis . we prospectively investigated differences in the antiproteinuric effect of captopril , an antiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor ( acei ) ; after 6 months of treatment , proteinuria decreased clearly in group i ( 7.1 + / - 1.7 to 3.7 + / - 1.7 g/d ; p less than 0.001 ) , whereas no significant changes were observed in group ii ( 8.1 + / - 2.4 to 8.8 + / - 4 g/d ) . serum creatinine ( scr ) remained stable during captopril treatment in group i , whereas three patients in group ii showed a worsening of renal function . 
circulating interferon-alpha levels and hypertriglyceridemia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . purpose : the metabolic disturbances seen during infection are thought to be due to cytokines , modulators of the immune response . the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is characterized by a high prevalence of hypertriglyceridemia and at times depletion of body cell mass ( wasting ) . elevated circulating levels of cytokines have also been reported in aids . therefore , we determined the relationship between circulating cytokine levels and lipid levels and between circulating cytokine levels and wasting in aids and human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . patients and methods : serum samples from 45 patients with aids , 13 subjects with evidence of hiv infection by presence of antibody but without aids ( hiv positive ) , and 17 seronegative control subjects who had previously undergone body composition analysis were analyzed for triglyceride , cholesterol , interferon , tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , and interleukin-1 levels . eleven subjects with aids or hiv infection had sequential measurements . interferon was analyzed by bioassay with identification using specific antibodies . tnf and interleukin-1 were assayed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . lean body mass was assessed by total body potassium . results : serum interferon-alpha levels were significantly elevated in patients with aids ( p less than 0.001 compared to controls ) , with detectable levels in 84 % of aids patients . interferon-alpha was not detectable in serum from controls , while three of 13 hiv-positive subjects had detectable interferon-alpha levels . there was a significant correlation between interferon-alpha levels and serum triglyceride levels in aids and hiv-positive patients ( r = 0.446 , p less than 0.002 ) . there was no relationship between interferon-alpha and serum cholesterol levels ( r = -0.039 , ns ) . in contrast only 11 % of aids patients had detectable circulating tnf levels ; the mean value for and the prevalence of detectable serum tnf levels were not significantly different from those of control subjects . interleukin-1 was not detected in the circulation . there was no correlation between the presence of circulating tnf and serum triglycerides . there was no relationship between circulating interferon-alpha or tnf levels and the presence of wasting as measured by total body potassium . conclusion : these studies suggest that interferon-alpha , which has previously been shown to modulate lipid metabolism in vivo and in vitro , may be responsible for the hypertriglyceridemia found in aids . 
combined hepatic and renal transplantation in primary hyperoxaluria type i : clinical report of nine cases . purpose and patients and methods : the purpose of this article is to report the experience of three centers with combined hepatic and renal transplantation for pyridoxine-resistant primary hyperoxaluria type i ( alanine : glyoxylate aminotransferase [ ec 2.6.1.44 ] deficiency ) , with particular emphasis on the selection criteria and timing of the operation . nine patients with this inherited disease were treated by combined hepatic and renal transplantation . the former replaces the enzyme-deficient organ while the latter replaces the functionally affected organ . results : one patient with gross systemic oxalosis died in the immediate postoperative period and another died 8 weeks postoperatively of a generalized cytomegalovirus infection , having shown evidence of biochemical correction . one patient with particularly severe osteodystrophy at the time of the operation died 14 months postoperatively from renal failure due to progressive calcium oxalate nephrocalcinosis involving the transplanted kidney , plus thromboembolic disease . he also had very extensive systemic oxalosis . an additional patient with severe osteodystrophy died 9 months postoperatively . one patient developed hyper-rejection of the kidney and died later of gastrointestinal hemorrhage . the four long-term survivors ( 22 to 38 months ) have remained asymptomatic from the standpoint of their renal disease , with resolution of any manifestations of systemic oxalosis that they may have had . they are either employed or continuing their education . conclusions : a prolonged period of end-stage renal failure treated by dialysis regimens that are suitable for non-hyperoxaluric renal failure and extensive systemic oxalosis , particularly oxalotic osteodystrophy , are poor prognostic features . we propose that hepatic transplantation should be considered as definitive treatment before end-stage renal failure develops . this should be supplemented by renal transplantation with vigorous pre - and perioperative hemodialysis to deplete the body stores of oxalate . although some authorities would reserve hepatic transplantation for patients in whom renal transplantation has failed , we suggest that combined liver and kidney transplantation is appropriate in patients who have never had a renal graft . furthermore , the time has come to consider hepatic transplantation before any irreversible renal damage has occurred in these patients . 
a two-step model for development of non-insulin-dependent diabetes . both insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction occur during the development of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , but controversy exists about which lesion is primary . based on longitudinal studies in the pima indians , a population with the world 's highest reported prevalence of niddm , a two-step model for development of the disease is proposed . the first step is transition from normal to impaired glucose tolerance , for which insulin resistance is the main determinant , and the second and later step is worsening from impaired glucose tolerance to diabetes , in which beta-cell dysfunction plays a critical role . this hypothesis is consistent with findings from other ethnic groups from many parts of the world . 
two cases of adult t-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis due to hypercalcemia . we report two cases of adult t-cell leukemia associated with acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia . after sudden onset of epigastralgia , acute pancreatitis and hypercalcemia were found in both patients . there were no diseases that could explain the acute pancreatitis except for hypercalcemia probably due to adult t-cell leukemia . thus we considered that hypercalcemia due to adult t-cell leukemia had led to acute pancreatitis . this is the first report of such a complication in adult t-cell leukemia . 
correction of metabolic acidosis in experimental cpr : a comparative study of sodium bicarbonate , carbicarb , and dextrose . study objective : carbicarb , sodium bicarbonate , and 5 % dextrose were compared for effects on resuscitability in a canine model of electromechanical dissociation after ventricular fibrillation . design/interventions : 21 healthy mongrel dogs were anesthetized with pentobarbital , intubated , and mechanically supported . they were instrumented to measure heart rate , arterial pressure , pulmonary artery pressure , right atrial pressure , cardiac output , and arterial and mixed venous blood gases . the dogs were then subjected to a protocol that consisted of three successive cpr episodes . during each episode they were treated with repeated injections of one of the three substances , randomly chosen . after two minutes of ventricular fibrillation and four minutes of electromechanical dissociation , cpr was started with a thumper ( rate , 60 ; duty cycle , 50 % ) . if recovery was not obtained after five minutes of cpr , 1 meq/kg carbicarb or sodium bicarbonate or 5 ml d5w was injected in the right atrium . half the dose of the same substance was injected every five minutes thereafter ; 1 mg epinephrine was also injected every five minutes until recovery . hemodynamic and gasometric evaluations were performed five and 20 minutes after recovery . this later evaluation served as baseline for the next cpr episode . measurements and main results : the duration and success rates of cpr are similar in the three cpr groups . hemodynamic parameters were also similar during recovery . bicarbicarb and sodium bicarbonate increased bicarbonate levels and corrected ph in the arterial and mixed venous blood . there was no difference in the blood gas values after carbicarb and sodium bicarbonate . conclusion : in this model of cardiac arrest , carbicarb was not superior to sodium bicarbonate in the correction of metabolic acidosis during cpr . 
nutrition and bronchopulmonary dysplasia twenty two babies who developed bronchopulmonary dysplasia were compared with 22 babies matched for gestational age who did not . those with bronchopulmonary dysplasia weighed less at birth and had lower energy intakes from day 7 to day 56 . undernutrition before and after birth is a major problem in babies who develop bronchopulmonary dysplasia . 
the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia in neuroleptic-treated diabetics . a controlled study . in a controlled study , we compared the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia in 38 neuroleptic-treated diabetics with the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia in a group of 38 nondiabetic neuroleptic-treated controls , matched for age , sex , psychiatric diagnosis , and dose and duration of neuroleptic treatment . members of each group were evaluated for movement disorders by a rater who used standard rating scales and was " blind " to all diagnoses and treatments . neuroleptic-treated diabetics had a significantly higher prevalence and severity of tardive dyskinesia . there were no differences between groups on other possible risk factors for tardive dyskinesia , including parkinsonism , anticholinergic drug treatment , or cognitive function . these data suggest that diabetes mellitus should be examined further as a risk factor for tardive dyskinesia . 
review of clinical experience with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) . following the development of methods for eliciting and purifying digoxin-specific fab fragments with high affinity and specificity for cardiac glycosides , clinical studies were undertaken as a multicenter , open-label trial to test safety and efficacy in patients with advanced and potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity that failed to respond to conventional therapeutic measures . one-hundred fifty such patients were treated with digoxin-specific antibody fragments purified from immunoglobulin g ( igg ) produced in sheep . doses of fab were equivalent to the amount of digoxin or digitoxin in the patient 's body , as estimated from the medical history or serum concentration measurements . of 150 patients included in this trial , detailed information is available on 148 . one-hundred nineteen ( 80 % ) had resolution of all signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity following specific fab fragment infusions , 14 ( 10 % ) improved , and 15 ( 10 % ) showed no response . among 14 patients with adverse events possibly or probably caused by fab , the most common events were development of hypokalemia and exacerbation of congestive heart failure . analysis of the available clinical data indicates that a treatment response was observed in at least 90 % of patients with convincing evidence of advanced and potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity . the data from this multicenter trial have been augmented by findings from an observational surveillance study conducted to monitor the safety and effectiveness of treatment with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) following commercial availability . in this experience , 74 % of patients were judged to have a complete or partial response to treatment , and 12 % no response . the response for the remaining 14 % was not reported or reported as uncertain . in this clinical experience , digoxin-specific fab was generally well tolerated and clinically effective in patients with potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity . 
which cardiac disturbances should be treated with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) antibody ? digoxin excess can produce characteristic bradyarrhythmias , tachyarrhythmias , and hyperkalemia . the bradyarrhythmias , which consist of disturbances in conduction and block at the level of the atrioventricular and sinus nodes , are mediated by a direct and vagotonic effect . the vagotonic effect of excess digoxin may also result in a marked slowing of the sinus rate in the setting of severe toxicity . digoxin increases automatic and triggered electrical activity in atrial muscle , his-purkinje system , and ventricular muscle , which predisposes to tachycardias . many of the tachyarrhythmias are relatively specific for the toxic effects of digoxin . atrial tachycardias with variable atrioventricular block , accelerated junctional rhythms ( especially in the setting of atrial fibrillation ) , and fascicular tachycardias are characteristic digoxin toxic rhythms . digoxin-specific antibody fragments should be considered the treatment of choice for any digoxin toxic arrhythmia associated with hemodynamic compromise or the threat of hemodynamic compromise . hyperkalemia , when due to acute severe digoxin toxicity , is also an appropriate indication for digoxin-specific fab fragment therapy . when assessing the risk : benefit ratio for using digoxin-specific fab fragment therapy , one needs to determine , in addition to the electrocardiographic manifestations and patient 's hemodynamic status ( 1 ) the severity of toxicity , as indexed by the amount ingested and/or the serum digoxin concentration ; ( 2 ) the expected time course for reversal of toxicity , which is usually determined by the status of renal function ; ( 3 ) the need for digoxin to provide ventricular rate control or improved ventricular contractility and therapeutic alternatives to digoxin ; ( 4 ) the presence of a strong allergy history ; ( 5 ) the presence of such factors as increased age and severity of heart disease that may predispose to digoxin toxicity . 
experimental diabetes , insulin treatment , and femoral neck morphology and biomechanics in rats . to investigate the effects of diabetes and insulin treatment on trabecular bone , the morphologic and biomechanical characteristics of the femoral neck in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes were studied . young sprague-dawley rats were divided into three groups , control , diabetic ( dm ) , and diabetic with insulin ( di ) , and maintained for ten weeks . cantilever-bending tests to failure were conducted on the proximal femur , and fracture-surface cross sections were analyzed . morphologically , the femoral necks in diabetic rats decreased in the relative size of their cortical shell and increased their trabecular core . structurally , the load and the energy at the proportional limit and the total energy in diabetic femoral necks were significantly less than controls . in material properties , the diabetic femoral necks had significantly less stress at the proportional limit . compared to the dm group , the di femoral necks had significantly greater load and energy at the proportional limit and significantly greater total energy . femoral neck mechanical and morphologic properties in diabetic rats were significantly lower than controls , but insulin treatment ameliorated diabetic osteopathy in the rat femoral neck . 
feasibility and effects of a diabetes type ii protocol with blood glucose self-monitoring in general practice . a diabetes protocol characterized by self-monitoring of blood glucose was introduced in four general practices with the aim of making the frequency of consultations dependent on the metabolic regulation and emphasizing body weight reduction . the feasibility of the programme was investigated and the results after 1 year were compared with those of conventional care in four control practices . in the experimental practices , 13 patients switched from a medical specialist 's to a general practitioner 's supervision , 20 remained under supervision of their gp and 33 started self-monitoring . the self-monitoring rate , the consultation frequency according to protocol , the low number of dropouts and inadequate referrals and adherence to the therapeutic scheme showed that the protocol was feasible for both the gps and the patients . at the initial assessment , the regulation of the diabetes was worse in patients of the experimental group , compared with those of the control group ( mean hba1 9.7 % vs 8.9 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . on average , patients in the experimental group ( n = 56 ) lost 0.4 kg of body weight , whereas those in the control group ( n = 73 ) gained 0.1 kg ( n.s. ) . the mean change in hba1 , adjusted for the initial value , was -0.4 % in the experimental and +0.5 % in the control group ( p less than 0.05 ) . the results of the protocol can be attributed to a combination of greater participation of the patient , the individualized consultation frequency and the prescription of oral hypoglycaemic agents according to body weight development . 
plasma intact parathyroid hormone ( pth ) and pth-related peptide in familial benign hypercalcemia : greater responsiveness to endogenous pth than in primary hyperparathyroidism . the cause of hypercalcemia in familial benign hypercalcemia ( fbh ; also called familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia ) is unclear , although it is pth dependent . it is also uncertain how plasma pth levels are related to the severity of biochemical abnormalities in fbh . because the pth-related peptide ( pthrp ) has many pth-like actions , it might have a role in the hypercalcemia of fbh . thus , we studied 29 patients with fbh from 11 families , 29 age - and sex-matched controls , and 42 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism ( 1 degree hpt ) , measuring pth with a highly sensitive two-site immunochemiluminometric assay and the hypercalcemic tumor factor pth-related peptide ( pthrp ) with an extraction/concentration ria . plasma pth values were elevated in 86 % of 1 degree hpt patients ( 36 of 42 ) , but in only 20 % of fbh patients , ( 6 of 29 ) . plasma pthrp was elevated in 1 fbh patient , and the group mean value was normal . plasma pth was positively correlated with calcium ( ca ) in 1 degree hpt ( r = 0.66 ; p less than 0.0001 ) and in fbh ( r = 0.53 ; p less than 0.004 ) , but the slopes of the regressions were markedly different : 1 degree hpt , 6.72 ; fbh , 1.61 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . there was a negative correlation between pth and phosphorus ( p ) in 1 degree hpt ( r = -0.39 ; p less than 0.01 ) and in fbh ( r = -0.41 ; p less than 0.03 ) , but , again , the slopes differed greatly : 1 degree hpt , -6.57 ; fbh , -1.95 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . there were no correlations between pthrp and ca or between pth and pthrp . the sums and products of pth and pthrp were not better correlated with ca than pth alone . thus , pth values are lower at given ca and p levels in patients with fbh than in those with 1 degree hpt , suggesting that pth is more effective in raising ca and lowering p in fbh than in 1 degree hpt . the enigma of fbh remains : what molecular defect can simultaneously cause parathyroid cell insensitivity to ca , enhanced renal tubular reabsorption of ca , increased renal rejection of p , and enhanced or retained sensitivity to pth ? . 
the influence of simvastatin on adrenal corticosteroid production and urinary mevalonate during adrenocorticotropin stimulation in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia . the adrenal gland requires a continuous supply of cholesterol for the biosynthesis of adrenal corticosteroids , which can be supplied by low density lipoprotein receptor-mediated uptake or local synthesis . the present study examined whether hypolipidemic therapy with a potent hmg coa reductase inhibitor , simvastatin , compromises the adrenal response to acth stimulation in adult patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia . the adrenal response to a 36-h continuous acth infusion was determined at baseline and after 2 months of simvastatin treatment ( 40 mg , twice daily ) in eight patients . simvastatin reduced total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels by 36 % and 45 % , respectively . the time course of the increase in serum cortisol concentrations with continuous acth infusion was the same before and during simvastatin therapy , as were the rates of urinary excretion of free cortisol , 17-hydroxycorticosteroids , and 17-ketosteroids . urinary excretion of mevalonate , which correlates with rates of whole body cholesterol synthesis , decreased from 3.8 + / - 0.42 ( + / - sem ) mu , ol/24 h at baseline to 2.75 + / - 0.56 on simvastatin ; no significant changes were seen in the urinary mevalonate levels before and after simvastatin therapy during acth stimulation . we conclude that the hypolipidemic effects of simvastatin in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia are paralleled by a decrease in urinary mevalonate , but that the drug does not adversely affect acth-stimulated adrenal corticosteroid production . 
suppression of chromogranin-a release from neuroendocrine sources in man : pharmacological studies . chromogranin-a ( cga ) is an acidic soluble protein with a virtually ubiquitous occurrence in normal human neuroendocrine tissues . of the many potential tissue sources of cga immunoreactivity , which contribute to basal ( unstimulated ) circulating cga ? to explore this question we studied the effects of selective and nonselective suppression of secretion at several sites within the neuroendocrine system . selective disruption of sympathetic outflow by trimethaphan decreased basal cga by 25 % , suggesting that sympathetic neurons contribute to circulating cga . plasma cga in patients with unilateral and bilateral adrenalectomy fell within the range observed in normal subjects , weighing against the adrenal medulla as a major source of basal circulating cga . selective suppression of a variety of anterior and posterior pituitary cell types decreased plasma levels of the usual resident peptide hormones , but left plasma cga unperturbed . after propranolol treatment , plasma cga remained unaltered . secretin suppressed plasma pth and calcitonin , but did not alter plasma cga levels . on the other hand , widespread nonselective suppression of a variety of neuroendocrine secretory cells by somatostatin decreased plasma cga by 48 % . plasma catecholamines were unaltered by somatostatin infusion , suggesting that somatostatin inhibited cga release from nonsympathoadrenal sources . during the infusion of somatostatin , the plasma epinephrine increment in response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia was maintained , and plasma cga did not fall , nor did it rise after somatostatin cessation . taken together , these findings suggest that somatostatin did not inhibit transport of stimulation-released cga from the adrenal medulla to the circulation . in conclusion , although the adrenal medulla is the major tissue source of cga immunoreactivity in man , other neuroendocrine sites , including sympathetic axons and multiple endocrine glands , appear to influence the basal circulating concentration of cga . 
subclinical vitamin d deficiency in postmenopausal women with low vertebral bone mass . to define the potential role of subclinical vitamin d deficiency in postmenopausal bone loss , we analyzed the levels of circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin d ( 25ohd ) in 539 midwestern caucasian women screened for osteoporosis . low 25ohd ( less than 38 nmol/l ) was found in 49 subjects ( aged 52-77 yr ) . women with low 25ohd had a reduced vertebral bone density ( vbd ) , assessed by quantitative computed tomography , compared to age-matched controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . they also had significantly lower levels of serum calcium and phosphate , lower urinary calcium , higher serum alkaline phosphatase , and , in most cases , increased immunoreactive pth ( ipth ) concentrations , suggesting secondary hyperparathyroidism . furthermore , only in the low 25ohd group did vbd correlate directly with 25ohd ( r = 0.41 ; p less than 0.01 ) , and inversely with ipth ( r = -0.47 ; p less than 0.01 ) . multivariate analyses revealed that ipth was the major determinant of the observed decrease in vbd . seasonal variations of serum 25ohd were noted only in the control population ; in this group the 25ohd levels also correlated with sunlight exposure ( r = 0.48 ; p less than 0.01 ) , as assessed by an outdoor score . thus , vitamin d deficiency develops when both the endogenous and exogenous sources are insufficient and contributes to a reduced bone mass in elderly women . 
hla antigens in hungarian patients with idiopathic haemochromatosis . thirteen unrelated patients with idiopathic haemochromatosis ( eight men , five women ) were studied . the diagnosis was based on clinical , biological , and histochemical findings . hla typing was performed in all 13 and in all of their available first degree relatives ( n = 31 ) . hla a3 was present in nine of 13 probands ( 69.2 % compared with 18.8 % in the group of 53 healthy blood donors and 22.4 % in a selected hungarian population ( n = 1910 ) . hla b7 was present in five of 13 probands ( 38.4 % compared with 11.3 % and 14.6 % ) . an a3b7 antigen association was found in five of 13 patients . the a3b7 haplotype was found in three , a2b12 and a2b38 haplotypes were found twice in 10 genotyped probands . pedigree studies showed that there was one unaffected homozygote , 24 heterozygotes , and six non-carriers . extended family and population studies are necessary to establish the prevalence of the gene in hungary and an association with haplotypes other than a3b7 . 
inpatient and post-discharge course of the malnourished patient . a retrospective review of the medical records of 114 malnourished and 106 non-malnourished male veterans assessed the inpatient and 1 year post-discharge dietetic care given for the treatment of malnutrition . the malnourished sample consisted of subjects discharged with a protein-energy or protein malnutrition comorbidity . subjects in the diagnosis-matched and age-matched control sample were discharged without a malnutrition comorbidity during the same period . data collected from progress notes included diagnoses , inpatient dietetic feedings and services provided , discharge dietetic care , intervening clinic visits , and rehospitalizations . on initial admission , 79 % of the diagnoses for the malnourished group fell into five diagnosis categories : neoplasms ; respiratory system diseases ; digestive system diseases ; endocrine , nutritional , and metabolic diseases ; and mental disorders ( including alcohol-related disorders ) . malnourished subjects received more specialized feedings and dietetic services than did the controls on initial admission . however , the discharge and post-discharge care received by surviving members of both groups was similar . fewer than half the members of either group received post-discharge care . fifty-four malnourished and 54 control patients were hospitalized more than once . the findings indicate that levels of inpatient and outpatient dietetic care need to be coordinated to alleviate malnutrition . 
relationship of obesity and physical fitness to cardiopulmonary and metabolic function in healthy older men . the relationship of obesity and physical fitness ( vo2max ) to cardiopulmonary and metabolic function was examined in 132 healthy obese , nonsmoking men age 45-79 . obese men with higher vo2max had lower % body fat and waist-to-hip ratio ( whr ) than obese men with low vo2max . the obese subjects with high whr ( upper body fat distribution ) had higher systolic blood pressure , hyperinsulinemia and impaired glucose tolerance , lower high density lipoprotein cholesterol ( hdl-c ) , and higher triglyceride ( tg ) . vo2max ( ml/kg ffm.min ) was lower in the older men ( r = -0.54 , p less than .001 ) , and 32 % of the variation was accounted for by age and the one-second forced expiratory volume . although pulmonary function was normal , 50 % of the variability was predicted by age , height , and vo2max or whr . glucose tolerance and insulin correlated better with vo2max and indices of body composition than with age , while plasma tg and hdl-c correlated with body composition , not vo2max or age . thus , while age affects the cardiopulmonary and metabolic function of obese older men , physical inactivity , obesity , and an abdominal body fat distribution ( increased whr ) contributed significantly to their reductions in physiological function . 
contrasting effects of lisinopril and nifedipine on albuminuria and tubular transport functions in insulin dependent diabetics with nephropathy . an open , randomized , cross-over study was undertaken to assess the effects of lisinopril and nifedipine on albumin excretion , renal haemodynamics and segmental tubular reabsorption in overt diabetic nephropathy . the study consisted of a 4-week run-in period , a 3-week active treatment period , a 4-week wash-out period and a second 3-week active treatment period . twelve patients with type 1 diabetes with albuminuria , mild to moderate hypertension and a serum creatinine level of less than 200 mumol l-1 were included . lisinopril reduced albumin excretion from 1343 + / - 337 micrograms min-1 to 879 + / - 299 micrograms min-1 ( p less than 0.01 ) , whereas nifedipine was without effect , 1436 + / - 336 micrograms min-1 vs. 1319 + / - 342 micrograms min-1 . glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) was unchanged by either drug . both drugs increased effective renal plasma flow ( erpf ) by about 20 % . no differences between the drugs were observed with regard to their effect on renal haemodynamic parameters . by contrast , nifedipine exerted an inhibitory effect on several proximal tubular transport markers , whereas lisinopril was without effect . the different actions on tubular transport mechanisms exerted by lisinopril and nifedipine may contribute to the observed effect on albumin excretion . 
familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia complicated by cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex . a 55-year-old man with cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex was found to have reduced serum concentrations of total cholesterol , betalipoprotein and apolipoprotein b. computed tomography revealed atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem . of the six family members examined , four had hypobetalipoproteinaemia , and one had mild ataxia . similar skin lesions were noted in five male relatives . this case represents a rare combination of familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia , cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex . 
dependency and eating disorders in female psychiatric inpatients . research indicates that oral dependent and eating-disordered individuals have similar personality traits , attitudes , and behaviors , suggesting that dependency may be a factor in the dynamics of anorexia and bulimia . to investigate this issue , we compared the proportions of dependent and food-related percepts in the rorschach protocols of matched samples of eating-disordered ( n = 16 ) , obese ( n = 18 ) , and non-eating-disordered , normal-weight female psychiatric inpatients ( n = 17 ) . eating-disordered patients reported significantly more dependent rorschach imagery than did obese or normal-weight control patients , but no difference in the proportion of food-related imagery was found among the three groups . these results support the hypothesis that unresolved dependency issues underlie anorexia and bulimia . 
hypoglycemia due to antiinsulin receptor antibodies in systemic lupus erythematosus . an elderly woman with unexplained episodic fasting hypoglycemia was hospitalized for ascites . evaluation revealed polyserositis , arthritis and immunologic abnormalities that suggested the diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . antibodies to insulin receptor with insulin binding inhibitory activity were detected in her serum . treatment with prednisone was accompanied by resolution of hypoglycemic episodes and disappearance of the antireceptor antibodies . autoantibody mediated alterations in serum glucose may be included in the growing list of autoimmune phenomena in sle . antiinsulin receptor antibodies should be sought in patients with sle and idiopathic hypoglycemia . 
recurrent calcific periarthritis , erosive osteoarthritis and hypophosphatasia : a family study . we describe a mother and 2 daughters with familial recurrent calcific periarthritis in a family with an inherited tendency to develop generalized osteoarthritis ( oa ) . low levels of serum alkaline phosphatase were found in 1 of the daughters while the mother developed erosive oa in later life . hla typing was noncontributory . however , the 3 individuals with periarthritis possessed blood group a + , while the 6 unaffected family members were o + . the experience of this family adds weight to the case that recurrent calcific periarthritis may be due to an inherited abnormality of alkaline phosphatase production and suggest that this may also be responsible for the recently observed association of calcific periarthritis and erosive oa . 
direct co2 laser " revascularization " of the myocardium . evidence of regional myocardial perfusion and contractile function after direct co2 laser myocardial revascularization ( dlr ) is lacking . we examined myocardial segment shortening , adenine nucleotide concentrations , and regional blood flow after dlr of the left anterior descending coronary artery ( lad ) distribution before and after its proximal ligation in seven anesthetized conditioned dogs . sonomicrometry assessed myocardial fiber shortening and radioactive microspheres were used to estimate baseline regional blood flows . cardiopulmonary bypass was followed by cardioplegia arrest . laser channels ( 1 mm diameter ) were made every 3 to 5 mm in the lad region with an 80 watt laser-sonics co2 unit . bypass was terminated , the lad occluded , and parameters reassessed . core samples of myocardium from the lased lad and control circumflex area were taken to assess adenine nucleotides . after occlusion , lad distribution blood flow and myocardial shortening were reduced to pre-lasting ischemic controls . adenine nucleotides were reduced in the lad region relative to the control cmx area . dlr can not be relied upon to acutely revascularize the ischemic myocardium . 
transient hypoparathyroidism during acute alcohol intoxication . background . persons with chronic alcoholism frequently have hypocalcemia , hypomagnesemia , and osteoporosis . the short-term effects of alcohol ingestion on calcium and magnesium metabolism are poorly understood , however . methods . we measured serum calcium , magnesium , and phosphate concentrations in 17 normal men and 7 normal women before and at intervals up to 16 hours after the ingestion of 1.2 to 1.5 g of alcohol per kilogram of body weight over a 3-hour period ( doses sufficient to cause acute intoxication ) . urinary excretion of calcium , magnesium , and phosphate and serum calciotropic hormone levels were measured in 16 of these subjects . as a control , the same measurements were made after the ingestion of fruit juice instead of alcohol . results . the mean ( + / - se ) peak blood alcohol level in the men was 37.5 + / - 1.6 mmol per liter , and in the women it was 38.0 + / - 3.2 mmol per liter . in the men the mean serum parathyroid hormone concentration decreased from 16.1 + / - 2.1 to 6.8 + / - 0.9 ng per liter at the end of the three-hour drinking period . the value at this time was 30 percent of that at the end of the three-hour session during which the men drank fruit juice ( p = 0.004 ) . the serum concentration of ionized calcium reached a nadir eight hours after the beginning of alcohol administration ( decreasing from 1.18 + / - 0.01 to 1.15 + / - 0.01 mmol per liter ; p less than 0.001 as compared with values during the fruit-juice study ) , and urinary excretion of calcium increased from 0.34 + / - 0.08 to 0.36 + / - 0.08 mmol per hour ( p less than 0.01 as compared with values during the fruit-juice study ) . serum parathyroid hormone levels exceeded base-line values during the last 4 hours of the 16-hour study period ; this increase was accompanied by a decrease in the urinary excretion of calcium . both serum levels of magnesium ( in the first 6 hours ) and urinary levels ( in the first 12 hours ) increased after the ingestion of alcohol . in the women , serum parathyroid hormone levels decreased from 29.2 + / - 2.8 to 17.3 + / - 2.6 ng per liter two hours after the administration of alcohol was begun ( p less than 0.001 ) and increased above base-line values during the last four hours of the study period . the serum concentration of ionized calcium decreased from 1.20 + / - 0.01 to 1.16 + / - 0.01 mmol per liter , reaching a nadir 8 to 12 hours after alcohol administration was begun ( p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions . short-term alcohol administration causes transitory hypoparathyroidism . this decline in the secretion of parathyroid hormone accounts at least in part for the transient hypocalcemia , hypercalciuria , and hypermagnesuria that follow alcohol ingestion . 
grinspan 's syndrome : a drug-induced phenomenon ? three cases of apparently drug-induced grinspan 's syndrome involving the triad of oral lichen planus , diabetes mellitus , and hypertension are reported . because drug therapy for diabetes mellitus and hypertension is capable of producing lichenoid reactions of the oral mucosa , the question arises as to whether grinspan 's syndrome is an iatrogenically induced syndrome . 
abnormalities of glucose tolerance following gestational diabetes . glucose tolerance and insulin secretion were studied in 56 women 6-12 years following a pregnancy complicated by gestational diabetes , and in 23 matched controls . at recall 14 women were known to have diabetes and five were again pregnant with recurrent gestational diabetes . the early development of diabetes was associated with a fasting plasma glucose greater than 6 mmol/l during pregnancy and with a high plasma glucose response to oral glucose which persisted after delivery . obesity was predictive of non-insulin-dependent diabetes whereas those that later required insulin were not obese . at recall , seven of the remaining 37 women were found to have unrecognized diabetes , 13 had impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) and 17 were normal by who criteria using a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test . in these 37 women , fasting plasma glucose and the glucose response to oral glucose in pregnancy were not predictive of subsequent diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance . obesity in pregnancy and subsequent weight gain were associated with non-insulin-dependent diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance at recall . insulin deficiency was observed during the oral glucose tolerance test in the diabetics ( the mean + / - sem ratio insulin area : glucose area 4.1 + / - 1.3 diabetics , 10.7 + / - 1.8 controls , p less than 0.05 ) , whereas in the group with impaired glucose tolerance insulin levels were high and in proportion to their hyperglycaemia ( insulin area : glucose area 10.9 + / - 1.4 igt , 9.4 + / - 1.4 controls ) . women with normal glucose tolerance and previous gestational diabetes had significantly lower insulin responses than their controls , despite mild hyperglycaemia ( insulin area : glucose area 4.0 + / - 0.7 normal glucose tolerance , 7.6 + / - 1.1 controls , p less than 0.02 ) . abnormalities of glucose tolerance and insulin secretion are present following a gestational diabetic pregnancy . gestational diabetes identifies women at risk for developing diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance , both of which are risk factors for premature vascular disease . 
incidence , causes and mechanism of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in hong kong . to determine the incidence and causes of hypercalcaemia in a hospital population in hong kong , all 29,107 samples received in the laboratory in one year were analysed for plasma calcium and albumin , and samples with a plasma calcium concentration adjusted for albumin greater than 2.55 mmol/l were investigated . plasma calcium greater than 2.55 mmol/l was found in 462 patients . repeat samples were received from 302 of these and hypercalcaemia was confirmed in 183 . the main causes of hypercalcaemia were malignancy ( 72.1 per cent ) , tuberculosis ( 6.0 per cent ) , and primary hyperparathyroidism ( 5.5 per cent ) . in the malignant hypercalcaemia group , carcinoma of lung was the most common ( 31.8 per cent ) and carcinoma of breast was uncommon ( 3.0 per cent ) . secondary deposits in bone were detected in 35 of the 122 solid tumours . in order to identify the mechanism of hypercalcaemia the contributions of renal tubular reabsorption and increased bone resorption to the plasma calcium concentration were calculated . increased tubular reabsorption was the main contributor to hypercalcaemia in primary hyperparathyroidism and carcinoma of liver ( none of whom had bony metastases ) and it contributed significantly to hypercalcaemia in carcinoma of lung without bony metastases and carcinoma of oesophagus . we conclude that in hong kong ( a ) primary hyperparathyroidism is uncommon , ( b ) tuberculosis is an important cause and ( c ) humoral factors may be responsible for a relatively high proportion of cases of malignant hypercalcaemia . 
expanded clinical evaluation of lovastatin ( excel ) study results . ii . assessment of the human lens after 48 weeks of treatment with lovastatin . the crystalline lenses of hypercholesterolemic patients were assessed before and after 48 weeks of treatment with lovastatin or placebo to determine the effect of lovastatin on the human lens . patients were given a biomicroscopic ( slit-lamp ) examination of the lens , and a previously validated , standardized classification system was used to describe the findings . a total of 8,245 patients were randomly assigned in equal numbers to treatment with placebo or lovastatin 20 or 40 mg once or twice daily in this double-blind , parallel-group study . statistical analyses of the distribution of cortical , nuclear and subcapsular opacities at 48 weeks , adjusted for age and presence of an opacity at baseline , showed no significant differences ( p less than 0.01 ) between the placebo and lovastatin-treated groups . visual acuity assessments at week 48 were also not found to have significantly different distributions among treatment groups . moreover , no significant differences were found among the groups in the frequencies of greater than or equal to 2-line worsening in visual acuity with concurrent progression in lenticular opacity , cataract extraction , or any spontaneously reported adverse ophthalmologic experience . no evidence was found for an effect of lovastatin on the human lens after 48 weeks of treatment . 
comparison of the efficacy of questran light , a new formulation of cholestyramine powder , to regular questran in maintaining lowered plasma cholesterol levels . sixty-one men with known hypercholesterolemia ( plasma cholesterol greater than 265 mg/dl ) , most of whom were previous participants in the coronary primary prevention trial of the u.s. lipid research clinic program , were chosen to take part in this study to test the effectiveness of a new low-calorie ( questran light ) cholestyramine formulation against the proven effectiveness of the currently marketed formulation questran in maintaining lowered plasma cholesterol levels . the study recorded changes in fasting plasma lipids , total cholesterol , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , triglycerides , and calculated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol . after establishing baseline lipid/lipoprotein levels in a 3-week period during which all participants received the currently marketed formulation , the men were randomized into 2 groups , 1 group ( n = 31 ) taking the new questran light formulation of 4 g of cholestyramine in 5 g of powder per pack , while the other group ( n = 30 ) continued to take the marketed questran formulation of 4 g of cholestyramine in 9 g of powder per pack . each group consumed a total of 24 g/day of cholestyramine in 2 divided doses . at the end of the maintenance phase of the study there were no statistically significant mean changes in percentage from baseline to end-point lipid/lipoprotein levels within either group , nor were there any significant differences between the questran light group or the currently marketed questran formulation group . the new low-calorie cholestyramine formulation appears to be equally as effective in maintaining lowered plasma cholesterol levels as the currently marketed formulation . 
effect of educational program and interview on adoption of guidelines for the management of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia . objectives : to determine ( a ) whether physicians are adhering to the guidelines for the management of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia , ( b ) what influences their decisions to investigate and treat the condition and ( c ) the effect of an educational program and clinical recall interview on compliance with the guidelines . design : retrospective chart audit . setting : urban tertiary care hospital . participants : all term neonates who received phototherapy but were not admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit . interventions : educational program and clinical recall interview . measures : charts were reviewed from march to may 1986 ( period i , before publication of the guidelines ) and from november 1986 to january 1987 ( period ii , after publication and after the educational program ) . the audits were repeated from april to june 1989 ( period iii , during the interview phase ) and from october to december 1989 ( period iv , 6 months after the interviews ) . two criteria determined the appropriate use of phototherapy : the serum bilirubin level and the postnatal day on which phototherapy was started . results : the proportion of infants receiving phototherapy for whom there were orders for complete blood counts to investigate hyperbilirubinemia increased from 20 % in period i to 37 % in period iv . the frequency of orders to determine the proportion of reticulocytes did not change significantly . the number of infants receiving phototherapy decreased over the study periods . the proportion receiving phototherapy in accordance with the criteria for the serum bilirubin level increased from 10 % to 17 % after the educational program ( insignificant difference ) and to 31 % after the interviews ( p = 0.02 ) . compliance with the guidelines was greater before the infants were 2 days old than when they were 3 days old or more ( p = 0.01 ) . of the 45 physicians who prescribed phototherapy ( for 94 infants ) during period iv 26 never prescribed in accordance with the guidelines . the other 19 prescribed in accordance with the guidelines for 30 of 52 infants . decisions to investigate and treat with phototherapy were affected by clinical and parental factors in addition to the guidelines . two of the 25 physicians interviewed stated that the interview would influence their management of future cases of hyperbilirubinemia . conclusion : a clinical recall interview can have a greater impact on changing physician management practices than factual communication on a group basis . 
arginine restores cholinergic relaxation of hypercholesterolemic rabbit thoracic aorta background . reduced synthesis of endothelium-derived relaxing factor ( edrf ) may explain impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation in hypercholesterolemia . accordingly , we designed studies to determine if endothelium-dependent relaxation in hypercholesterolemic rabbits may be restored by supplying l-arginine , the precursor of edrf . methods and results . normal or hypercholesterolemic rabbits received intravenous l-arginine ( 10 mg/kg/min ) or vehicle for 70 minutes . subsequently , animals were killed , thoracic aortas were harvested , and vascular rings were studied in vitro . rings were contracted by norepinephrine and relaxed by acetylcholine chloride or sodium nitroprusside . vasorelaxation was quantified by determining the maximal response ( expressed as percent relaxation of the contraction ) and the ed50 ( dose of drug inducing 50 % relaxation ; expressed as - log m ) . in vessels from hypercholesterolemic animals receiving vehicle , there was a fivefold rightward shift in sensitivity to acetylcholine compared with normal animals ( p = 0.05 , n = 5 in each group ) . in vessels from hypercholesterolemic animals , l-arginine augmented the maximal response to acetylcholine ( 83 + / - 16 % versus 60 + / - 15 % , p = 0.04 versus vehicle ) and increased the sensitivity to acetylcholine ( ed50 value : 6.7 + / - 0.2 versus 6.2 + / - 0.2 , p less than 0.05 versus vehicle ) . arginine did not affect maximal and ec50 responses to acetylcholine in vessels from normal animals . arginine did not potentiate endothelium-independent responses in either group . conclusions . we conclude that the endothelium-dependent relaxation is normalized in hypercholesterolemic rabbit thoracic aorta by in vivo exposure to l-arginine , the precursor for edrf . 
variable phosphate-mediated regulation of vitamin d metabolism in the murine hypophosphatemic rachitic/osteomalacic disorders . the familial hypophosphatemic ( vitamin d-resistant ) disorders are a variety of genetic and acquired syndromes that exhibit unexpected biochemical heterogeneity , manifest as variably abnormal or apparently normal regulation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d [ 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d ] production . recently , we observed that hyp and gy mice , murine homologs of x-linked hypophosphatemic rickets , exhibit similarly disparate regulation of vitamin d metabolism . while gy mice under basal conditions maintain an appropriate elevation ( relative to hypophosphatemia ) of renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d ( 25ohd ) -1 alpha-hydroxylase , hyp mice manifest only normal , not increased , enzyme activity . whether such diversity results from maintenance of phosphate ( p ) - regulated 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d production in gy mice and loss of this function in hyp mice or from other variations remains unknown . therefore , we examined the integrity of p-regulated enzyme activity in the gy and hyp mice by testing the effects of enzyme inhibition and alteration of the serum phosphorus concentration on 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d production . initially , we discovered that inhibition of renal 25ohd-1 alpha-hydroxylase suppressed enzyme function in hyp mice , but did not prevent expression of p-mediated activity in gy mice . in this regard , while administration of a high calcium diet or 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d ( 0.4 ng/h , sc , for 48 h ) resulted in a comparable inhibition of enzyme activity in hyp ( 5.9 + / - 0.5 vs. 2.8 + / - 0.7 fmol/mg . min ) and normal mice ( 4.4 + / - 0.6 vs. 2.0 + / - 0.2 fmol/mg . min ) , similar treatment did not effect complete inhibition of 25ohd-1 alpha-hydroxylase in gy ( 10.3 + / - 0.6 vs. 4.9 + / - 0.3 fmol/mg . min ) or p-depleted mice ( 10.2 + / - 0.5 vs. 5.1 + / - 0.4 fmol/mg . min ) . in accord with the apparent persistence of p-mediated stimulation of enzyme function in gy mice , dietary p repletion in this mutant resulted in a serum phosphorus concentration similar to that of normal mice and decreased enzyme activity ( 4.0 + / - 0.8 fmol/mg . min ) to a level no different from that expressed in controls ( 3.4 + / - 0.3 fmol/mg . min ) . however , in the absence of apparent p-mediated stimulation of enzyme activity , identical treatment of hyp mice increased the serum phosphorus level comparably , but paradoxically enhanced 25ohd-1 alpha-hydroxylase ( 3.1 + / - 0.4 vs. 11.7 + / - 2.0 fmol/mg . min ) . collectively , these data indicate that enhanced renal 25ohd-1 alpha-hydroxylase expressed in gy mice and probably in related human diseases results from normally maintained p regulation of enzyme activity , an action absent or mutated in the genetically distinct hyp mouse . 
comparison of the effects of hypertonic sucrose and intracellular potassium depletion on growth hormone receptor binding kinetics and down-regulation in im-9 cells : evidence for a sequential block of receptor -- mediated endocytosis . to better understand the complex kinetics of human gh ( hgh ) binding to its receptors , we have further investigated , in im-9 cultured human lymphocytes , the cellular locus corresponding to the slowly dissociating component of hormone binding , and to the homologous down-regulation of hgh receptors . first , we have detailed the biphasic kinetics of dissociation of bound hormone in control cells at 30 c. when the association at 30 c was extended from 0.5 to 3 h , the time required for half-dissociation of the fast component was slightly decreased ( from 30 to 15 min ) but that of the slow component increased considerably ( from 6 h to 30 h ) . concomitantly , the size of the slowly dissociating component increased from 50 to 80 % of total . this indicates a maturation of bound hormone , from a rapidly to a slowly dissociating pool and , in the latter , an increase in the apparent affinity that may reflect a molecular rearrangement . next , we have compared the effect of two procedures reported to inhibit receptor-mediated endocytosis at the level of coated pits . as previously reported , depletion of intracellular k + abolished the slowly dissociating component and the down-regulation of hgh receptors . in contrast , upon incubation with 0.4 m sucrose , which like k + depletion virtually abrogated hgh internalization , the dissociation kinetics remained non-first order , and the down-regulation of hgh-receptor was only slightly reduced . thus , these procedures appear to block receptor-mediated endocytosis at two successive compartments of the cell surface . in conclusion , we propose that some conformational change of hgh-receptor at the cell surface ( possibly associated with clustering ) may considerably slow down their dissociation and may be sufficient for down-regulation . 
defective tolerance to the toxic and metabolic effects of interleukin 1 . the effect on food intake , body weight , and survival of mice given recombinant lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) , tumor necrosis factor/cachectin ( tnf ) , or interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) ( 5 micrograms/mouse , ip , twice daily ) was studied . all agents induced a rapid reduction of food intake and body weight after 1 day of treatment . unlike tnf and lps , il-1 given as two daily administrations of 5 micrograms was lethal within 3 days . mice treated with lps or tnf rapidly developed tolerance to their anorectic effect , whereas tolerance to il-1 required a longer time to develop and was not complete . we investigated the possible roles of changes in serum corticosterone and glucose in the effects of lps , tnf and il-1 . a single injection of lps , tnf , or il-1 markedly increased serum corticosterone levels after 2 h. after only 2 days of chronic treatment , mice given lps or tnf were refractory to induction of serum corticosterone by a subsequent injection of lps or tnf , but mice given il-1 for 2 days were still fully responsive to il-1 . il-1 , unlike tnf and lps , induced a marked hypoglycemic response . repeated administration of il-1 sensitized to its hypoglycemic effect . this lack of adaptation to the increase of serum corticosterone and hypoglycemia was also observed when il-1 was given at lower , nonlethal doses ( 0.25-1 .0 microgram ) and for a longer period ( up to 8 days ) . the defective tolerance to the metabolic and toxic effects of il-1 in this experimental model indicates that there are major differences between the in vivo biological responses to il-1 and tnf . 
islet cell antibodies in patients with autoimmune thyroid disease . islet cell antibodies ( icas ) were assayed in 316 patients with autoimmune thyroid disease ( aitd ; 190 with graves ' disease , 126 with hashimoto 's thyroiditis ) , 53 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) , and 144 healthy control subjects . icas were measured by an immunohistochemical method with peroxidase-labeled protein a and human pancreatic tissues . the prevalence of icas in patients with aitd was 7.6 % ( 24 of 316 ) , whereas the prevalence in control subjects was 0.7 % ( 1 of 144 ) . among 24 ica + patients , 20 ( 83 % ) had iddm . in these 20 patients , the duration of diabetes from clinical onset was 5.4 + / - 5.1 yr . icas in patients with iddm alone were positive in 90.9 % at 1 yr and 7.7 % at 5 yr after the onset of diabetes . these data have shown that most ica + patients with aitd have iddm and that the prevalence of icas in patients with aitd in japanese is as high as that found among whites , whereas the incidence of iddm in japanese is approximately one-thirtieth or one-fiftieth of that in whites . 
frequency and effects of apolipoprotein e polymorphism in mexican-american niddm subjects . we typed 254 non-insulin-dependent diabetic ( niddm ) mexican americans living in starr county , texas , for the three common apolipoprotein e ( apoe ) alleles . typing was performed via dna amplification and hha i restriction . the allele frequencies ( epsilon 2 = 0.041 , epsilon 3 = 0.860 , epsilon 4 = 0.099 ) were in hardy-weinberg equilibrium ( chi 2 = 0.60 , df = 3 ) and did not differ from a random sample from the same population ( chi 2 = 0.16 , df = 2 ) . analysis of variance was used to test for mean differences in lipid , lipoprotein , and glucose levels among apoe types . significant differences among types were detected for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( ldl-chol ; p = 0.042 , r2 = 2.6 ) and beta-lipoprotein cholesterol ( p = 0.019 , r2 = 3.3 ) levels . mean ldl-chol in e2/3 individuals was 2.69 mm , e3/3 was 3.26 mm , and e4/3 was 3.36 mm . mean beta-lipoprotein cholesterol in e2/3 individuals was 3.05 mm , e3/3 was 3.64 mm , and e4/3 was 3.67 mm . based on these results , we conclude that the effects of the apoe polymorphism on lipid profiles and glucose levels are the same in niddm subjects as in nondiabetic mexican americans and other populations . other studies investigating the role of apoe polymorphism in diabetic subjects have found increased triglyceride levels in individuals possessing an epsilon 2-allele and an increased frequency of the epsilon 2-allele in hyperlipidemic diabetic subjects . we found no significant difference in mean triglyceride levels among genotypes . possible reasons for this discrepancy are discussed , including dna - versus protein-typing methods . 
blunted diuretic and natriuretic responses to central administration of clonidine in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats . the purpose of this study was to determine whether diuretic and natriuretic effects are altered in response to intracerebroventricular ( icv ) infusion of clonidine in diabetic rats . diabetes was induced in male sprague-dawley rats by 65 mg/kg i.p. injection of streptozocin , and control rats were injected with vehicle 2 wk before the experiment . blood glucose levels were significantly elevated in the diabetic group ( 26.3 + / - 1.3 mm ) compared with the control group ( 8.4 + / - 1.6 mm ) . before and during icv infusion of clonidine ( 2 micrograms.kg-1 . min-1 for 45 min ) , urine flow and sodium excretion were measured from intact and denervated kidneys in anesthetized diabetic and control rats . the icv infusion of clonidine significantly increased urine flow in both innervated and denervated kidneys from control rats but not from diabetic rats . there was a significant increase in sodium excretion during icv infusion of clonidine from innervated kidneys of control rats , and denervation abolished this effect . in diabetic rats , clonidine failed to promote natriuresis from intact kidneys , and similar to control rats , did not promote natriuresis in denervated kidneys . this study demonstrates that 1 ) the diuretic response to the icv infusion of clonidine is blunted in diabetic rats , and 2 ) a natriuretic response to the icv infusion of clonidine is blunted in innervated kidneys of diabetic rats . 
changes in hepatic glutathione metabolism in diabetes . glutathione is important in the regulation of the redox state , and a decline in its tissue level has often been considered to be indicative of increased oxidative stress in diabetes . in this study of diabetic rats , the level of hepatic glutathione was normal unless food intake was restricted . thus , the previous report of a reduction in hepatic glutathione in diabetes is likely to be the result of food deprivation rather than diabetes alone . in contrast to changes characteristic of oxidative stress , the efflux of glutathione in bile from diabetic animals was significantly decreased , whereas hepatic mixed disulfides were unchanged , and the hepatic gamma-glutamyltransferase activity was considerably increased . these changes were not reproduced by food deprivation . the decrease in biliary excretion of glutathione in diabetes may reflect an attempt to conserve glutathione by activation of the hepatic gamma-glutamyl cycle . we conclude that the disturbances of glutathione metabolism in diabetes are not typical of those seen in oxidative stress or food restriction . 
lack of evidence for improvement in long-term glycemic control by pulsatile insulin infusion in streptozocin-induced diabetic baboon . to assess the potential therapeutic use of pulsatile intravenous insulin delivery , five streptozocin-induced diabetic baboons were treated with alternate 3 - to 6-wk periods of pulsatile and continuous insulin infusion . time-averaged insulin concentrations were matched during two pulsatile administration periods ( p1 and p2 ) and an intervening period of continuous insulin administration ( c ) . there were no significant differences among the overall means of four daily glucose determinations performed during the three periods ( p1 , 5.7 + / - 1 mm ; c , 5.6 + / - 0.9 mm ; p2 , 5.3 + / - 0.9 mm ) ; the mean m value , a measure of the stability of glycemic control ( p1 , 4 + / - 1.7 ; c , 3.9 + / - 1.8 ; p2 , 3.6 + / - 1.5 ) ; the percentage of glucose values less than 2.8 mm ( p1 , 13 + / - 8.5 % ; c , 14 + / - 12 % ; p2 , 13 + / - 9.1 % ) ; or the glycosylated hemoglobin levels determined at the end of the p1 and c ( 7.5 + / - 3.4 and 6.5 + / - 1.8 % , respectively [ all values are means + / - sd ] ) . fasting hepatic glucose production was suppressed to a similar degree during pulsatile and continuous insulin infusion ( p1 , 23 + / - 3 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ; c , 24 + / - 8 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) . arterial glucagon levels were similar during pulsatile and continuous insulin infusion , both in the fasting state ( 84 + / - 29 and 84 + / - 31 ng/l , respectively ) and postprandially ( 30 + / - 14 and 27 + / - 12 ng/l , respectively ) . pulsatile insulin infusion failed to entrain a corresponding glucagon secretory rhythm . these data suggest that the metabolic consequences of long-term pulsatile and continuous insulin infusion in an animal model of human non-insulin-dependent diabetes are comparable . 
independent effects of youth and poor diabetes control on responses to hypoglycemia in children . to evaluate the effects of childhood and poorly controlled insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) on counterregulatory hormone and symptomatic responses to hypoglycemia , we studied 16 nondiabetic children ( 13 + / - 2 yr ) , 19 nondiabetic adults ( 26 + / - 3 yr ) , and 13 children with iddm ( 14 + / - 2 yr , hba , 15.1 + / - 3.3 % ) during a gradual reduction in plasma glucose with the glucose-clamp technique . plasma glucose was reduced from approximately 5 to approximately 2.8 mm over 240 min with serial assessment of counterregulatory hormone levels and symptom awareness . the plasma glucose level that triggered a sustained rise in plasma epinephrine was consistently higher in nondiabetic children than in adults ( 3.9 + / - 0.06 vs. 3.2 + / - 0.06 mm , p less than 0.001 ) . poorly controlled iddm further elevated the glucose threshold for epinephrine release to normoglycemic levels ( 4.9 + / - 0.2 mm , p less than 0.001 vs. both control groups ) . age and iddm also produced an upward shift in the glucose level at which growth hormone release and symptom awareness were initiated . in contrast to the effect on glucose thresholds , maximal epinephrine responses and symptom scores were increased only by age and not iddm ( 2-fold higher in children ) . we conclude that childhood and poor diabetes control independently contribute to an upward shift in glucose thresholds for counterregulatory hormone release and symptom awareness during mild hypoglycemia . normoglycemic counterregulation may interfere with efforts to control diabetes in young patients . 
immunobiological consequence of regulation of insulin receptor on alloactivated lymphocytes in normal and obese subjects . acute manipulations of insulin in vivo regulate the display of insulin receptors induced on activated t lymphocytes after presentation of alloantigen . this study explored the immunobiological consequences of regulation of insulin-receptor display by acute manipulations of insulin achieved during the hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp in healthy normal individuals and obese subjects . t lymphocytes were isolated at 0 , 1 , and 4 h of hyperinsulinemia from seven normal volunteers and seven obese individuals and studied for their capacity to 1 ) synthesize a complement of insulin receptors on cell membrane , 2 ) respond to alloantigen in the mixed-lymphocyte culture ( an immunologic activity unrelated to manipulations in insulin concentrations in complete medium ) , and 3 ) respond to the lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity reaction ( an immunologic activity known to be modulated by insulin ) . in the face of a reduction in receptor numbers to 25 % of baseline in normal individuals , alloreactivity in the mixed-lymphocyte culture was not affected ( 95 + / - 9 % of time 0 after 4 h of hyperinsulinemia ) , whereas lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity fell from 14 + / - 4 at time 0 to 2 + / - 2 % sp cr release ( p less than 0.02 ) . hyperinsulinemia achieved by the clamp in seven obese subjects did not alter the synthesis of insulin receptors on cell membrane after presentation of alloantigen . in the absence of further reduction of insulin-receptor membrane display , neither the mixed-lymphocyte culture nor lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity reaction was affected . it is concluded that those immunologic activities of lymphocytes that can be modulated by insulin are affected by regulation of insulin-receptor display on activated lymphocytes . therefore , receptor regulation is not effete but carries significant immunologic consequence . 
use of x-ray diffraction in study of human diabetic and aging collagen . extensive investigations of the solubility and fluorescence of collagen fibers in diabetes have revealed that there are significant changes in their physical properties . these changes are associated with increased cross-link formation . we used x-ray diffraction to study these changes in human extensor tendons at a molecular level in relation to both aging and diabetes . our results indicate that diabetes induces significant alterations in the ultrastructure of collagen in the lateral packing of the molecules and the axial structure of the specimen . these changes can be induced in normal tendon by incubation in ribose and glucose-6-phosphate but are different from those associated with the normal process of aging . 
pretranslational suppression of a glucose transporter protein causes insulin resistance in adipocytes from patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and obesity . a major portion of insulin-mediated glucose uptake occurs via the translocation of glut 4 glucose transporter proteins from an intracellular depot to the plasma membrane . we have examined gene expression for the glut 4 transporter isoform in subcutaneous adipocytes , a classic insulin target cell , to better understand molecular mechanisms causing insulin resistance in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) and obesity . in subgroups of lean ( body mass index [ bmi ] = 24 + / - 1 ) and obese ( bmi = 32 + / - 2 ) controls and in obese niddm ( bmi = 35 + / - 2 ) patients , the number of glut 4 glucose transporters was measured in total postnuclear and subcellular membrane fractions using specific antibodies on western blots . relative to lean controls , the cellular content of glut 4 was decreased 40 % in obesity and 85 % in niddm in total cellular membranes . in obesity , cellular depletion of glut 4 primarily involved low density microsomes ( ldm ) , leaving fewer transporters available for insulin-mediated recruitment to the plasma membrane ( pm ) . in niddm , loss of glut 4 was profound in all membrane subfractions , pm , ldm , as well as high density microsomes . these observations corresponded with decrements in maximally stimulated glucose transport rates in intact cells . to assess mechanisms responsible for depletion of glut 4 , we quantitated levels of mrna specifically hybridizing with human glut 4 cdna on northern blots . in obesity , glut 4 mrna was decreased 36 % compared with lean controls , and the level was well correlated ( r = + 0.77 ) with the cellular content of glut 4 protein over a wide spectrum of body weight . glut 4 mrna in adipocytes from niddm patients was profoundly reduced by 86 % compared with lean controls and by 78 % relative to their weight-matched nondiabetic counterparts ( whether expressed per rna , per cell , or for the amount of cho-b mrna ) . interestingly , glut 4 mrna levels in patients with impaired glucose tolerance ( bmi = 34 + / - 4 ) were decreased to the same level as in overt niddm . we conclude that , in obesity , insulin resistance in adipocytes is due to depletion of glut 4 glucose transporters , and that the cellular content of glut 4 is determined by the level of encoding mrna over a wide range of body weight . in niddm , more profound insulin resistance is caused by a further reduction in glut 4 mrna and protein than is attributable to obesity per se . suppression of glut 4 mrna is observed in patients with impaired glucose tolerance , and therefore , may occur early in the evolution of diabetes . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
differential regulation of adipose tissue glucose transporters in genetic obesity ( fatty rat ) . selective increase in the adipose cell/muscle glucose transporter ( glut 4 ) expression . adipocytes from young obese zucker rats exhibit a hyperresponsive insulin-mediated glucose transport , together with a marked increase in cytochalasin b binding as compared with lean rat adipocytes . here , we examined in these cells the expression of two isoforms of glucose transporter , the erythroid ( glut 1 ) and the adipose cell/muscle ( glut 4 ) types , in rats aged 16 or 30 d , i.e. , before and after the emergence of hyperinsulinemia . glut 1 protein and mrna levels were identical in the two genotypes at both ages . in contrast , the levels of glut 4 protein in obese rat adipocytes were 2.4 - and 4.5-fold those of lean littermates at 16 and 30 d of age , respectively , in perfect agreement with the genotype effect on insulin-stimulated glucose transport activity . the levels of glut 4 mrna per fat pad were increased 2.3 - and 6.2-fold in obese vs. lean rats 16 - and 30-d-old , indicating a pretranslational level of regulation . the obese phenotype was not associated with overexpression of glut 4 mrna in gastrocnemius muscle . this work indicates that the fa gene exerts a differential control on the expression of glut 1 and glut 4 in adipose tissue and provides evidence that independent of hyperinsulinemia , genotype is a major regulatory factor of glut 4 expression in this tissue . 
infantile form of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiency with hepatomuscular symptoms and sudden death . physiopathological approach to carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii deficiencies . reported cases of carnitine palmitoyltransferase ii ( cpt ii ) deficiency are characterized only by a muscular symptomatology in young adults although the defect is expressed in extra-muscular tissues as well as in skeletal muscle . we describe here a cpt ii deficiency associating hypoketotic hypoglycemia , high plasma creatine kinase level , heart beat disorders , and sudden death in a 3-mo-old boy . cpt ii defect ( -90 % ) diagnosed in fibroblasts is qualitatively similar to that ( -75 % ) of two " classical " cpt ii-deficient patients previously studied : it resulted from a decreased amount of cpt ii probably arising from its reduced biosynthesis . consequences of cpt ii deficiency studied in fibroblasts differed in both sets of patients . an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids was found in the proband but not in patients with the " classical " form of the deficiency . the metabolic and clinical consequences of cpt ii deficiency might depend , in part , on the magnitude of residual cpt ii activity . with 25 % residual activity cpt ii would become rate limiting in skeletal muscle but not in liver , heart , and fibroblasts . as observed in the patient described herein , cpt ii activity ought to be more reduced to induce an impaired oxidation of long-chain fatty acids in these tissues . 
evidence that tumor necrosis factor plays a pathogenetic role in the paraneoplastic syndromes of cachexia , hypercalcemia , and leukocytosis in a human tumor in nude mice . recently , we have established a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla ( called mh-85 ) associated with hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia in culture . mh-85 tumor cells caused the same paraneoplastic syndromes in tumor-bearing nude mice . we found that there was a sixfold increase in splenic size in mh-85 tumor-bearing mice . this increase paralleled tumor growth and was reversed by surgical removal of the tumor . splenectomy in nude mice 1 wk before or 6 wk after tumor inoculation resulted in a decrease in tumor growth , and impairment of hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia . in mh-85 tumor-bearing animals that had been pretreated by splenectomy , intravenous injection of fresh normal spleen cells caused an immediate reversal of leukocytosis , hypercalcemia , and cachexia . since the presence of cachexia in both the patient and the mice carrying the tumor suggested tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) may be overproduced , we injected polyclonal neutralizing antibodies raised against murine tnf into tumor-bearing mice . there was a rapid and reproducible decrease in blood ionized calcium , accompanied by suppression of osteoclast activity . no changes in blood ionized calcium were seen in mice injected with normal immune sera . in addition , there was an increase in body weight and decrease in white cell count . plasma immunoreactive tnf was increased almost fourfold in tumor-bearing nude mice compared with control nude mice . although tnf activity was undetectable in mh-85 culture supernatants , cells of the macrophage lineage , including spleen cells , released increased amounts of tnf when cultured with mh-85 tumor-conditioned media . these results suggest that splenic cytokines such as tnf may influence the development of the paraneoplastic syndromes of hypercalcemia , leukocytosis , and cachexia in these animals , as well as tumor growth . they also show that paraneoplastic syndromes may be due to factors produced by normal host cells stimulated by the presence of the tumor . 
hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis . a case is presented of 14 year old female with hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis . evidence of hypothalamic obesity included 1 ) acute hyperphagia and weight gain , 2 ) neuroradiology showed hydrocephalus with focal enlargement of the third ventricle , 3 ) endocrinological studies revealed hyperinsulinaemia and impaired growth hormone ( gh ) response to arginine , but normal gh response to growth hormone-releasing factor ( grf ) and 4 ) torkildsen 's ventriculo-cisternal shunting resulted in improvement in hyperphagia and obesity . 
occurrence of hypercalcemia and leukocytosis with cachexia in a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla in athymic nude mice : a novel experimental model of three concomitant paraneoplastic syndromes . hypercalcemia and leukocytosis may occur in conjunction as paraneoplastic syndromes associated with malignant disease . here we describe a human squamous cell carcinoma of the maxilla that was associated with hypercalcemia and leukocytosis , and also cachexia . the primary tumor was surgically removed and established in permanent cell culture . when either primary tumors or cultured tumor cells were inoculated into nude mice , the nude mice developed the same paraneoplastic syndromes as those which occurred in the patient from whom the tumor was originally derived . the plasma calcium was increased two and one-half-fold and the wbc count 30-fold , and the body weight was decreased by 45 % in tumor-bearing animals . each of these paraneoplastic syndromes was alleviated by surgical excision of the tumor , indicating that the paraneoplastic syndromes were due to a factor or factors produced by the primary tumor . the development of each of these paraneoplastic syndromes in nude mice correlated positively with the other two syndromes . we examined the organs of tumor-bearing mice and found striking histopathologic abnormalities in the bones , spleen , and liver , but no infiltration with tumor cells . the bones showed marked evidence of osteoclastic bone resorption . this model of a human tumor associated with the hypercalcemia-leukocytosis paraneoplastic syndrome , together with cachexia , should make it possible to determine the mechanisms responsible for these paraneoplastic syndromes and their relationship to each other . 
gastrointestinal dysfunction and disaccharide intolerance in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus . because gastrointestinal dysfunction is a major problem in children with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , we utilized breath hydrogen measurements to determine the relationship between disaccharide malabsorption and gastrointestinal dysfunction in hiv-infected children . we found a strong association between lactose intolerance and persistent diarrheal disease in this population ( p less than 0.007 , mann-whitney u test ) . we also found evidence of sucrose malabsorption and persistent diarrheal disease in three of the children . extensive microbiologic evaluations failed to reveal an etiologic agent related to the occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms . our findings indicate that disaccharide intolerance is a common occurrence in hiv-infected children with persistent diarrheal disease . careful attention to dietary intake may be required to ameliorate clinical symptoms and to maintain adequate nutrition . 
randomised prospective study of short-term and long-term initial stay in hospital by children with diabetes mellitus . to assess how an isolated change in the pattern of care influences outcome of care and hospital use , a randomised prospective 2-year study was done in which 31 of 61 consecutive children with newly diagnosed insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) were admitted to hospital at disease onset for about a week and compared with the other 30 children who were admitted for about 4 weeks . insulin treatment and education about diabetes were similar in the two groups . duration of initial stay in hospital had no effect on metabolic control during the 2 years but time since diagnosis was significant with respect to effect on haemoglobin a1 ( p = 0.001 ) , haemoglobin a1c ( p = 0.004 ) , and insulin dose ( p less than 0.001 ) . at 2 years , 45 % of the children in the short-term group and 29 % in the long-term group were c-peptide positive ( p = ns ) ; c-peptide positivity correlated with age . a change in the pattern of care of children with iddm , led to a pronounced decrease in hospital use by this patient group . irrespective of the length of initial stay in hospital , equally good metabolic control was obtained in both groups for 2 years . 
hypoglycemia , hypotonia , and cardiomyopathy : the evolving clinical picture of long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency . inherited defects in fatty acid oxidation , which have been described and diagnosed with increasing frequency in the last decade , are most commonly attributed to a deficiency in the activity of medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase . few cases of the related enzyme defect of long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase activity have been reported . an infant with documented long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency is described with a detailed metabolic profile , long-term clinical follow-up , and response to treatment . this patient is compared with the seven previously published cases of this disorder in order to stress the unique features of the initial presentation , more subtle late manifestations of the disease , and clinical and biochemical differentiation from the more common medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency . this report stresses the enlarging spectrum of the clinical presentation and natural history of this defect in fatty acid oxidation . 
meniscal injuries . the knee is the largest and one of the strongest joints in the body . it is used in all forms of vigorous activity and is relatively unprotected . this lends it to being one of the most injured joints in the body . in addition to being traumatized , there are several other forms of pathology that can manifest symptoms of pain , swelling , and instability . fortunately , most of the problems can be treated with conservative methods or by arthroscopy . 
intensive management of type ii diabetes . the goals of intensive treatment of type ii diabetes are to restore blood glucose levels to normal ; correct hyperlipidemia , hypertension , and other cardiovascular risk factors ; and prevent hyperinsulinemia . treatment should begin with attempts to reduce weight through diet and exercise . in fact , diet and exercise should be stressed as vital components of a diabetic patient 's life-style no matter what treatment method is used . drug treatment may consist of a sulfonylurea to increase insulin secretion and improve insulin resistance or of exogenous insulin to achieve glucose control and avoid the dangers of chronic hyperglycemia . a combination of the two appears attractive but is still under investigation . control of hypertension is mandatory and may require use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or calcium channel blocker . normalization of serum lipid levels is also important in these patients , and agents that adversely affect glucose levels must be avoided . 
long-term medical consequences of incest , rape , and molestation . one hundred thirty-one patients who gave a history of childhood sexual abuse were seen in a general medical practice decades after the event and were compared with a control group . the subject patients were found to be distinct for chronic depression , morbid obesity , marital instability , high utilization of medical care , and certain psychosomatic symptoms , particularly chronic gastrointestinal distress and recurrent headaches . it is clear that these remote events can underlie difficult chronic medical problems . questions about childhood sexual abuse must become part of the practitioner 's review of systems in these difficult cases , if not routinely . 
duodenal stricture : a complication of chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis . over the past 10 years , one of us ( m.c.a. ) has treated 92 patients who required operation for symptoms associated with alcohol-induced chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis . four of these patients had duodenal obstruction . all four had had lateral pancreaticojejunostomy to relieve pancreatic ductal obstruction and associated chronic abdominal pain ; three of the four also required biliary diversion for stenosis of the intrapancreatic portion of the common bile duct . each duodenal stricture required reoperation and gastrojejunostomy to bypass the site of obstruction . a review of the english language literature revealed that duodenal obstruction in patients with chronic fibrocalcific pancreatitis is uncommon , only 58 previous cases having been reported . all of those patients had pancreatic ductal obstruction , and more than half had concomitant distal biliary stenosis . two thirds of the duodenal obstructions were treated by gastroenterostomy , and one third were resected . duodenal obstruction in patients with chronic pancreatitis and biliary stricture appears to reflect an advanced form of the disease . combined lateral pancreaticojejunostomy and biliary diversion has emerged as the preferred surgical procedure for this problem . careful preoperative assessment for evidence of duodenal stenosis also is needed in this group of patients , and gastroenterostomy is indicated in appropriate cases . 
hypercalcemia in malignancy . the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in malignancy has been enigmatic until recent years . since the realization in 1980 that bioassays for parathyroid hormone detected a cross-reacting substance in malignancy , progress has been remarkably rapid . a parathyroid hormone-related protein was purified and identified by molecular cloning as a 141-amino acid peptide with limited homology to parathyroid hormone itself . nonetheless , both peptides activate the parathyroid hormone receptor to produce hypercalcemia . it is now clear that the parathyroid hormone-related protein is the cause of hypercalcemia in most solid tumors , particularly squamous and renal carcinomas . new assays for the hormone as well as the related peptide have greatly simplified the differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia . at the same time , new agents for the treatment of hypercalcemia are becoming available , most notably the bisphosphonate drugs . 
postheparin lipolytic activity and plasma lipoprotein response to omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in patients with primary hypertriglyceridemia . the hypotriglyceridemic action of omega-3 ( n-3 ) fatty acids is attributed primarily to reduction in hepatic triglyceride synthesis and reduced secretion of very-low-density lipoproteins ( vldls ) . however , increased catabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins was reported and could be due to increased availability of peripheral lipoprotein lipase ( lpl ) or hepatic lipase ( hl ) . in this study plasma lipoproteins and postheparin activities of lpl and hl were determined in 12 patients with primary hypertriglyceridemia before and during isocaloric substitution of omega-3 fatty acids ( 10 g/d ) for 4 wk . omega-3 polyunsaturates resulted in 53 % and 61 % reductions in plasma triglyceride and vldl-cholesterol concentrations , respectively ( p less than 0.0001 ) . however , low-density-lipoprotein ( ldl ) - cholesterol concentrations increased by 26 % ( p less than 0.001 ) . activities of postheparin lpl and hl essentially remained the same . thus , in patients with primary hypertriglyceridemia , reduction in plasma triglyceride concentrations and increase in ldl-cholesterol concentrations mediated by omega-3 polyunsaturates seem to occur without an increase in lpl or hl activities . 
fat absorption in neonates : comparison of long-chain-fatty-acid and triglyceride compositions of formula , feces , and blood . we studied malabsorption of fat in neonates who were fed either a lard-modified formula ( n = 22 , gestational age , 33.6 + / - 3.9 wk ) or an unmodified formula ( n = 14 , gestational age , 34.1 + / - 3.7 wk ) . in both groups fecal lipid consisted almost completely ( greater than 90 % ) of free fatty acids , whose composition was highly correlated with the corresponding formula 's fatty acid composition [ r = 0.96 ( lard modified ) and r = 0.99 ( standard ) ] . both groups had similar relative amounts and compositions of fecal cholesterol esters and triglycerides . plasma and , to a lesser extent , erythrocyte membrane long-chain-fatty-acid compositions correlated with those of the corresponding formulas . we suggest that the extensive intestinal hydrolysis and limited absorption of dietary lipids is , at least partly , due to lipolysis in the colon . appearance of triglycerides in the colon may be due to a rapid small-intestinal passage in relation to small-intestinal lipolysis . 
lactose maldigestion and milk intolerance in healthy greek schoolchildren . the prevalence of lactose maldigestion in greek adults is 75 % but the age at which the lactase activity starts declining is not known . the prevalences of lactose maldigestion and intolerance were investigated in 150 randomly selected greek children 5-12 y old by using breath-hydrogen analysis after ingestion of lactose ( 2 g/kg body wt , maximum 50 g ) or 0.240 l of milk . prevalence of lactose maldigestion increased with age ( y = -7.30 + 6.49 x , r = 0.88 , p = 0.004 ) , being 29.4 % and 80.0 % at ages 5 and 12 y , respectively . before testing , the reported prevalences of milk-related symptoms by children with high and low lactose-digestion capacity were 21.1 % and 39.7 % ( chi 2 = 5.96 , p = 0.015 ) , respectively . however , the corresponding prevalences of lactose intolerance after ingestion of milk were 7.3 % and 8.6 % ( chi 2 = 0.1 , p = 0.72 ) and only three children had a delta h2 greater than or equal to 20 ppm postprandially . although intestinal lactase activity declines before age 5 y and many greek children report milk-related symptoms , true malabsorption and intolerance of lactose after a glass of milk is rarely seen at this age . 
extremely low serum pyridoxal 5 ' - phosphate in children with familial hypophosphatemic rickets . the apparent vitamin b-6 status of 31 children with familial hypophosphatemic rickets ( fhr ) was determined . all children had alkaline phosphatase activity that was high-normal to elevated for their ages . a sensitive assay for pyridoxal 5 ' - phosphate ( plp ) indicated that 15 of the 31 children had an undetectable ( less than 0.2 nmol/l ) concentration of the vitamer -- the lowest values yet reported in human serum . the 16 remaining children had concentrations of the vitamer so low that they indicated a potential severe vitamin b-6 deficiency . however , none of the children had ever presented with any of the classical vitamin b-6-deficiency symptoms . treatment of three additional fhr children with 100 mg pyridoxine.hcl / d resulted in a moderate and transient elevation of their serum plp concentrations , a dramatic elevation of their erythrocyte plp concentrations , and no improvement in clinical condition . serum or plasma plp concentrations are an inappropriate index for determining vitamin b-6 status in people with fhr and perhaps in others with elevated alkaline phosphatase activity . 
nutritional supplementation and the development of linear enamel hypoplasias in children from tezonteopan , mexico . the purpose of this study was to compare the effect of nutritional intake during tooth-crown formation on the subsequent development of linear enamel hypoplasias ( lehs ) in mexican nonsupplemented ( control ) adolescents ( n = 42 ) and adolescents who had received daily nutritional supplements since birth ( n = 42 ) . the proportion of individuals with lehs was nearly two-fold greater ( 74.4 % ; 95 % ci 64.7-84 .1 % ) in the control than in the supplemented group ( 39.5 % ; 95 % ci 28.6-50 .4 % ; chi 2 = 9.44 ; p = 0.001 ) . although the estimated peak age at formation , approximately 2-2 .5 y , is similar in both groups , the proportion of early ( before 1.5 y ) and late ( after 3.0 y ) lehs was greater in the control group . leh was also more common in females and was associated with an increase in illness days and a decrease in growth velocity . results of this study suggest that mild to moderate undernutrition during enamel formation is causally linked to the formation of lehs . 
brain uptake of glucose in diabetes mellitus : the role of glucose transporters . it is not known if the diabetes-related reduction in blood-brain barrier ( bbb ) transport of glucose is due to a change in the functional capacity of transporters or to an as yet unidentified mechanism occurring at the plasma membrane or cytoplasm . to increase our understanding of this problem , the cerebral blood flow , the brain uptake index ( bui ) of 3-o-methyl glucose and the concentration of 3h-cytochalasin b binding sites were determined in diabetic rats and diabetic rats treated with insulin . the bui of 3-o-methyl glucose was significantly reduced ( less than 0.001 ) in diabetic rats ( 32.7 + / - 1.2 % ) compared to control rats ( 41.9 + / - 1.0 % ) . this change could not be attributed to an alteration in cerebral blood flow or to a non-specific change in bbb permeability . normalization of blood glucose with insulin therapy corrected the bui measurements in diabetic rats ( 42.2 + / - 1.4 % ) . the level of measurable glucose transporters measured with 3h-cytochalasin b binding assay did not appear to be reduced in the diabetic brain microvessels . the data indicate that the reduced brain uptake of glucose in chronic hyperglycemia can occur in the absence of a change in glucose transporter concentration . 
hypercalcemia with excess serum 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d in lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma . hypercalcemia has been described in a variety of granulomatous and lymphoproliferative disorders in association with elevated serum levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d. in such cases , hypercalcemia appears to be the consequence of excessive production of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d by the lymphocyte/macrophage line . the authors report a patient with lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma who developed hypercalcemia with extreme elevation in serum 1,25 ( oh ) 2d . therapy with steroids reduced the serum calcium and 1,25 ( oh ) 2d levels to normal . hypercalcemia has not previously been reported in lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma . the distinctive features of this malignancy , and the derangement in the metabolism of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d in lymphoproliferative disorders in general , are discussed . 
indapamide : a diuretic of choice for the treatment of hypertension ? in recent years , the therapeutic approach to mild hypertension has evolved from a stepped care approach to one including varied , initial monotherapies , with the selection of drug based on factors present in an individual patient , followed by combination therapy . the greatest cumulative experience of the value of antihypertensive therapy has been obtained with diuretics . the reduction in risk of cardiovascular disease with successful antihypertensive therapy using conventional agents , including diuretics , is not as great as might have been anticipated by the magnitude of change in blood pressure . this could be due to antecedent cardiovascular injury prior to therapy or to risk factors induced by therapy . the recent introduction of a new generation of drugs with combined diuretic and hypotensive effects that reduce blood pressure without inducing the biochemical changes associated with thiazides , offers an opportunity to evaluate this question . indapamide is the first of this new generation to be released . its pharmacologic characteristics show that it has the prerequisites to be considered a first-line drug for use in hypertension . it meets the requirements of a phase ii or second generation drug in that it has similar efficacy , but less short term toxicity than first generation drugs . it has been introduced at a cost that is competitive with thiazides and potassium-sparing combination drugs and is cheaper than many other classes of antihypertensive drugs . the major caution in promoting its use is that its long term effect on morbidity and mortality in hypertensive disease has not yet been evaluated . in summary , this is a promising new drug that has the potential to replace first generation thiazides in the routine management of hypertension . 
