factor xiii deficiency and intracranial hemorrhages in infancy . we report an infant with factor xiii deficiency who had 2 seemingly spontaneous intracranial hemorrhages . it is important to consider factor xiii deficiency as a possible cause of unexplained intracranial hemorrhages in infancy . ongoing factor replacement therapy is recommended to prevent further bleeding episodes . 
ritual circumcision ( umkhwetha ) amongst the xhosa of the ciskei . the umkhwetha is an ancient custom of ritual circumcision still practised by the xhosa people of southern africa . in 45 consecutive youths who required hospital admission the mortality rate was 9 % . the complication seen over the years are reviewed and their management discussed . 
is corneal deposition of antimalarial any indication of retinal toxicity ? ninety-five percent of patients on chloroquine demonstrate corneal deposition of the drug with the pupil dilated ; less than 10 % of patients on hydroxychloroquine show any corneal changes when so examined . i describe one patient on chloroquine and two on hydroxychloroquine who demonstrated large amounts of corneal antimalarial drug , leading to the early diagnosis of definite retinopathy . examination of the cornea with the pupil dilated may reveal the presence of retinal toxicity in some patients . 
physicians ' perception of personal risk of hiv infection and aids through occupational exposure . physicians ' response to acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) is poorly understood and often attributed to fear of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection through occupational exposure . we surveyed 268 physicians from three geographic regions in north american with different specialties and responsibilities for hiv-positive patients . an important difference was found between the published risk and the physicians ' perceived risk of infection after a single occupational exposure . almost half of the respondents stated that they feared contracting aids more than other diseases . the physicians who perceived themselves to be at high physical risk were more likely than the others to report that aids had changed the way they interact with their patients ( r = 0.26 , p less than 0.001 ) . no relation was found between the perception of physical risk and the number of hiv-infected patients ( r = -0.07 , p = 0.15 ) . however , the perception of social risk showed a small inverse correlation ( r = -0.15 , p less than 0.02 ) , in which the physicians with more hiv-infected patients reported less concern about negative social consequences . the physicians who perceived themselves to be at high personal risk were more likely than the others to report that surgeons have the right to refuse patients who do not wish to undergo hiv antibody testing ( r = -0.16 , p less than 0.01 for physical risk ; r = -0.29 , p less than 0.001 for social risk ) . multiple regression analyses indicated that physicians ' perception of physical risk was not related to age or sex but was modestly related to income source . the perception of social risk was related to sex and income source . physicians ' perception of personal risk is a crucial , yet often unacknowledged , component of the fight against aids . our findings suggest that lack of attention to this issue is seriously compromising initiatives designed to facilitate physician participation in aids care . 
treatment of patients with isolated axillary nodal metastases from an occult primary carcinoma consistent with breast origin . the records of 42 patients who had axillary metastases compatible with a clinically occult breast primary were reviewed . forty patients had mammography performed as part of their evaluations . mastectomy yielded the primary tumor in one of 13 patients ; biopsy yielded positive results in one of five . among the 29 patients who did not undergo mastectomy , 16 received breast irradiation , and 13 were simply observed for signs of the primary tumor . for the patients who did not undergo mastectomy , the 5-year actuarial risk for appearance of a primary was 17 % in the irradiated group versus 57 % in the nonirradiated group ( p = 0.06 ) . patterns of failure are correlated with stage and local and systemic therapy . the results affirm our belief that patients with axillary metastases histologically consistent with breast tumor should be treated identically to patients with similar nodal stages and proven breast primaries . 
sacral plexus injury after radiotherapy for carcinoma of cervix . a 42-year-old woman developed lower extremity weakness and sensory loss 1 year after external and intracavitary radiotherapy for stage ib carcinoma of cervix . she has been followed for 5 years posttreatment , and the neurologic abnormalities have persisted , but no evidence of recurrent carcinoma has been found . we believe this to be a rare case of sacral plexus radiculopathy developing as a late complication after radiotherapy . suggestions are made for improving the radiotherapy technique to prevent this complication in future cases . 
the normal mediastinum in blunt traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta and brachiocephalic arteries . in a review of 52 articles , published between 1953 and 1989 , 656 patients with blunt traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta or brachiocephalic arteries were identified . of these , 608 ( 92.7 % ) had an abnormal mediastinum on initial chest radiographs obtained in the emergency department , thus allowing early detection of the vascular injury . unfortunately , 48 ( 7.3 % ) of these patients had a normal mediastinum on their initial chest radiographs . this appears to occur when the traumatic pseudoaneurysm is not accompanied by associated mediastinal hemorrhage or hematoma formation , and the pseudoaneurysm is either small or is situated in such a way that it does not alter the mediastinal contour . the use of accessory clinical and radiographic signs to indicate the need for aortography has been shown to be of very low yield , but would have allowed the early detection of an additional 5.6 % of the reported cases . performing aortography solely on the basis of a history of major decelerating blunt trauma to the thorax remains the only way , in the acute emergency department setting , to detect the 1.7 % of patients with aortic or brachiocephalic arterial rupture who have no mediastinal abnormality or accessory clinical or radiographic signs of vascular injury . there is evidence from the literature , however , to suggest that the evaluation of serial chest radiographs obtained at close intervals for the first month following trauma for the development of mediastinal abnormality or large hemothorax is an acceptable alternative to the routine performance of aortography in those blunt chest trauma victims with no clinical or radiographic suspicion of vascular injury . 
recruitment of mononuclear cells by endothelial cell binding into wounded skin is a selective , time-dependent process with defined molecular interactions . wound healing involves a complex series of interactions between cells in the dermis and epidermis , and important relationships exist between keratinocytes and resident dermal cells . monocytes and lymphocytes secrete cytokines that are capable of stimulating dermal repair and influencing keratinocyte and fibroblast migration and proliferation , although the mechanism by which mononuclear cells are recruited into the wound is unknown . we have tested the hypothesis that in wounded skin specialized endothelial cells are induced to mediate peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) emigration from the vasculature into the dermis . for this purpose , partial-thickness wounds made with a keratome on the backs of domestic pigs were excised 0 to 9 , 12 , 15 , and 21 d after wounding . the biopsies were then tested for the capacity to adhere selectively to pbmc . the results indicated that pbmc overlaid onto sections of wounds from day 4 to 15 adhered selectively to dermal endothelium , with two distinct peaks of adherence observed on day 7 and day 12 . in contrast , pbmc did not adhere to the tissue sections when overlaid onto frozen sections of normal skin or 0 - , 1 - , 2 - , 3 - , and 21-d-old wounded skin . additional studies on the binding properties of pbmc subsets revealed that monocytes adhered maximally at day 7 , whereas t cells adhered optimally at day 12 post-wounding . furthermore , the adhesion process was energy and magnesium dependent but not calcium dependent and involved surface protein and carbohydrate moieties on pbmc surface . pre-treatment of pbmc with monoclonal antibodies against the lfa-1 adhesive receptors inhibited the binding by greater than 80 % , suggesting that lfa-1 adhesive receptors play an important role in the binding process . these studies provide evidence that the recruitment of monocytes and lymphocytes into wounds is an active , dynamic , and regulated process mediated at least in part by specific adhesive interactions between mononuclear leukocytes and dermal endothelial cells . 
low plasma iron status and akathisia . thirty patients were examined to test the hypothesis that a depletion of iron levels is associated with symptoms of akathisia . fifteen akathisic patients were pair-matched with 15 non-akathisic patients . plasma ferritin levels were significantly decreased in the akathisic patients , and there was a significant inverse correlation between plasma iron levels and akathisia rating . in addition , akathisia ratings were found to be correlated with a scale measuring symptoms of tardive dyskinesia . 
extradural implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators . a technique for extradural deafferentation of the s2 to s5 segments and extradural implantation of stimulating electrodes is described , and its application to twelve patients with spinal cord lesions is reported . nine patients use their implants for micturition , and seven are fully continent . the advantages and disadvantages of this technique compared with the more usual intrathecal procedure are discussed . 
the treatment of gilles de la tourette syndrome by limbic leucotomy . a patient with gilles de la tourette syndrome and severe self-injurious compulsions who had failed to respond to drug treatment and behavioural therapy obtained a complete and sustained resolution of his destructive behaviour and improvement in his tics following bilateral limbic leucotomy . 
bone marrow transplantation for myelodysplasia and secondary acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia . twenty-three patients with primary myelodysplasia ( mds ) or secondary myelodysplasia/acute nonlymphocytic leukemia ( mds/anll ) were treated with allogeneic or syngeneic bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) . only one patient was in a chemotherapy-induced hematologic remission . graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis included methotrexate , methotrexate plus cyclosporine , cyclosporine , or t-cell depletion using one of two anti-cd5 monoclonal antibodies . for patients with primary mds , the median age was 19 years ( range , 11 to 41 years ) and the actuarial disease-free survival was 56 % + / - 21 % ( median follow-up , 2 years ; range , 0.8 to 5 years ) . there were three graft failures ( two with autologous recovery ) and two early deaths . outcome appeared to be related to french-american-british ( fab ) classification . for patients with secondary mds/anll , the median age was 28 years ( range , 3 to 16 years ) and the actuarial disease-free survival was 27 % + / - 13 % ( median follow-up , 5 years ; range , 2.5 to 8.5 years ) . there were no graft failures , two relapses , and four early deaths . the presence of marrow fibrosis per se did not predict for graft failure ( p = .21 ) ; however , the use of t-cell depleted marrow in patients with marrow fibrosis resulted in graft failure in three of five individuals . our results suggest that in patients with primary mds or secondary mds/anll , bmt should be considered early in the course of the disease , and that attempts at inducing a remission prior to bmt appeared to be unnecessary . in mds patients with marrow fibrosis , t-cell depletion should be avoided . 
adaptive and remodeling changes in the fractured mandibular condyle after open reduction using the kirschner pin . six cases of fracture of the mandibular condyloid process in which there was osteosynthesis using the kirschner pin were followed radiographically for more than 1 year . tracings were made to analyze the remodeling process . the clinical course of all patients was satisfactory , without functional disturbance or asymmetries of the mandible . 
morbidity associated with incompletely erupted third molars in the line of mandibular fractures . a retrospective analysis of 105 mandibular fractures associated with incompletely erupted third molars was undertaken . it was found that there was no difference in the rates of complication if the teeth were retained or extracted , or if an open or closed reduction was performed . the combination of tooth retention with open reduction , however , shows a trend toward being the treatment most prone to postoperative complications . 
factors associated with soft - and hard-tissue compromise of endosseous implants . this prospective analysis identifies factors associated with endosseous implant removal as well as factors associated with implant morbidity resulting in nonscheduled patient visits . treatment of the latter conditions is discussed . the most important factors identified for implant success were surgery without compromise in technique , placing implants into sound bone , avoiding thin bone or implant dehiscence at the time of implant placement , avoiding premature implant exposure during the healing period , establishing a balanced restoration , and insuring appropriate follow-up hygiene care . in the posterior mandible , the presence of keratinized gingiva was strongly correlated with optimal soft - and hard-tissue health . 
comparison of functional recovery after nonsurgical and surgical treatment of condylar fractures . this article evaluates 16 cases of condylar fracture treated surgically , comparing them with the 20 cases treated nonsurgically , with a 2-year follow-up . although severely displaced and luxated fractures were involved in the surgical group with rigid internal fixation , satisfactory postoperative function and occlusion were achieved at the same level as in the nonsurgical group , without severe complications . 
neonatal body proportionality and body composition after in utero exposure to cocaine and marijuana . the relationship of maternal use of marijuana and cocaine during pregnancy to measures of neonatal body proportionality and body composition was assessed in a multiethnic sample of 1082 newborn infants . maternal use of marijuana and cocaine during pregnancy was ascertained by self-report and by an enzyme-multiplied immunoassay technique for screening of urine samples obtained prenatally and again post partum . after each substance was analytically controlled for use of the other and for other potentially confounding variables , detection of marijuana metabolites in maternal urine was associated ( p less than 0.05 ) with depressed mean arm muscle circumference and nonfat area of the arm but not with any measure of neonatal fatness . in contrast , detection of cocaine in maternal urine was associated ( p less than 0.05 ) with decrements of subscapular fat folds and of the fat and nonfat areas of the arm . although both substances were associated with depressed birth weight , there was no decrement of neonatal ponderal index or of the arm circumference/head circumference ratio in association with exposure to either substance . we conclude that both marijuana exposure and cocaine exposure during pregnancy are associated with symmetric intrauterine growth retardation , but that deficits are in differing compartments of intrauterine growth . these findings suggest that marijuana may retard fetal growth through maternal-fetal hypoxia , whereas cocaine may alter nutrient transfer to the fetus and fetal metabolism . 
monte carlo simulation of hiv infection in an intravenous drug user community . intravenous drug users are crucial to the understanding and control of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) transmission . we have developed a population-based simulation of a community of intravenous drug users . this model was implemented using monte carlo techniques , which permit great flexibility in creating realistic social structures , to describe the needle-sharing network of drug users . we present the baseline behavior of this model in a generic community and demonstrate the model 's utility for assessing public health interventions . our early results demonstrate the powerful effects of social networks on hiv transmission and the importance of prevalence levels in assessing the effectiveness of interventions in the drug-injecting community . 
effects of long-term administration of haloperidol on electrophysiologic properties of rat mesencephalic neurons . haloperidol ( 1.5-1 .7 mg/kg/day ) was administered to rats via their drinking water for periods of either 4 weeks or 13 to 14 months , after which the animals were withdrawn from the neuroleptic for 1 or 2 weeks , respectively . rats given haloperidol for 13 to 14 months exhibited significantly more perioral dyskinesias than controls . single-unit extracellular recordings were obtained from the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area in subjects under urethane anesthesia . after 1 month and after 1 year of treatment , a significant decrease in the mean firing rate of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons was found . subtle changes in the response of pars reticulata neurons to striatal stimulation were seen after extended haloperidol intake . no consistent effects of haloperidol administration for 4 weeks or 13 to 14 months were found for either the number of spontaneously active dopamine neurons or their firing rates . histopathologic assessment of tissue from dorsomedial , dorsolateral and ventrolateral sectors of the striatum revealed no significant effect of long-term haloperidol treatment on neuronal cell counts . the results are discussed with reference to neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesias . 
prevalence of tendinitis and related disorders of the upper extremity in a manufacturing workforce . a cross sectional survey of a randomly selected population of 2,261 textile workers form an overall population of 8,539 eligible workers was performed to evaluate the prevalence of tendinitis in related upper extremity disorders . of the sample , 2,047 respondents ( 91.3 % ) participated in a nurse screening history and examination : 1,091 ( 53 % ) had no upper extremity symptoms or abnormalities on examination ; 959 ( 47 % ) with positive findings were examined by trained physicians . of these , 347 ( 36.5 % ) were found to have no abnormality , whereas , 548 ( 57.3 % ) workers were assigned a diagnosis . of these 227 were considered to fall into the categories of tendinitis ( n = 69 ) or related disorders ( n = 158 ) . the projected prevalence of tendinitis and related disorders for the overall group was 11.6 % ( carpal tunnel syndrome 1.1 % , epicondylitis 2.0 % , tendinitis 3.5 % , shoulder condition 2.3 % , ganglion 2.3 % , neck conditions 4.0 % ) . tendinitis was less frequent in the older age group and those employed for a longer time . the prevalence of tendinitis was found to be statistically higher in physically demanding job categories . ninety-four percent of ailments were of mild or moderate severity . although our study provides prevalence data for these conditions in a large manufacturing workforce across several job categories . 
progress in characterizing anatomic injury . a three-valued description of anatomic injury is presented . anatomic profile ( ap ) components a , b , and c summarize serious injuries ( greater than ais 2 ) to the head/brain or spinal cord ; to the thorax or front of the neck ; and all remaining serious injuries . relationships between ap components and survival rate reaffirm the seriousness of head injury . logistic function models relating ap components and the injury severity score ( iss ) to survival probability were based on 20,946 major trauma outcome study ( mtos ) patients ( 9.2 % mortality rate ) submitted through 1986 . model performance comparisons were based on 5,939 mtos patients ( 7.8 % mortality rate ) submitted during 1987 . the ap better discriminated survivors from nonsurvivors and provided a 31 % increase in sensitivity when compared with the iss . neither the iss nor the ap alone reliably predict patient outcome . the predictive power of methods for estimating patient survival probability which include physiologic indices or profiles , patient age , and an anatomic profile should be compared with current methods . the ap , which is based on the severity and location of all serious injuries , provides a more rational basis for comparing patient samples than the iss . 
injured drivers and alcohol use : culpability , convictions , and pre - and post-crash driving history . the culpability , crash-related traffic convictions , and pre - and post-crash driving records of a group of injured impaired ( blood alcohol level greater than 80 mg/dl ) drivers ( n = 58 ) who were admitted to a level i trauma center were compared with a group of admitted unimpaired drivers ( n = 92 ) . both groups of drivers were 21 years of age or older , sustained moderate injuries ( defined as having no injury of the brain , spinal column or cord , extremity , or pelvis with an abbreviated injury score of greater than 2 ) , and were discharged home . in the 140 crashes in which culpability was clearly defined , the impaired drivers caused a significantly greater percentage of their crashes ( 92.7 % ) compared to unimpaired ( 64.7 % ) drivers ( p less than 0.001 ) . of the 55 unimpaired drivers who were considered culpable of causing their crashes , 12.7 % received a traffic conviction compared with 39.2 % of the 51 culpable impaired drivers . the mean number of total pre-crash traffic violations was higher for impaired drivers than for unimpaired drivers ( p less than 0.01 ) . while the mean number of total post-crash convictions for unimpaired and impaired was not significantly different , the mean number of pre - and post-crash alcohol convictions was significantly higher for impaired drivers compared to unimpaired drivers ( p less than 0.02 ) . the data suggest that injury protects from legal prosecution and does not alter impaired driving practices . 
the effect of prehospital fluids on survival in trauma patients . the effect of prehospital intravenous fluids upon survival was studied in 6,855 trauma patients . mean prehospital time was 36 minutes in both the group of patients who received fluids and the group that did not . the volume of fluid administered was not significantly different in the group who survived compared to those who died . eighty-five per cent of the patients had an injury severity score ( iss ) less than 25 and the mortality rate in the 56 % of patients in this group who received fluids was similar to that of the patients who did not receive fluids ( 0.7 % vs. 0.5 % ) . twelve per cent of the patients had an iss between 25 and 50 . sixty per cent of these patients received fluids and the mortality rates were similar to the patients who received fluids compared to those who did not ( 23 % vs. 22 % ) . three per cent of patients had an iss of greater than 50 and the mortality rate was highest in this group but was not influenced by the administration of fluids ( 90 % vs. 86 % ) . comparison of groups with similar probability of survival according to the triss methodology also failed to show an influence of fluid administration on survival . the mortality rate in patients with an initial systolic blood pressure ( bp ) of 90 torr or greater was compared to the rate in patients with an admission bp less than 90 torr . although hypotension was associated with a significantly higher mortality rate , the administration of fluids had no influence on this rate . 
the prophylactic use of antibiotic impregnated beads in open fractures . four hundred four compound fractures were reviewed in 339 patients treated between august 1983 and november 1987 . the 252 males and 87 females had a mean age of 33 years ( range , 14-86 ) . one hundred twenty-seven ( 31.4 % ) fractures were classified as grade i , 153 ( 38.9 % ) as grade ii , and 124 ( 30.7 % ) as grade iii by gustilo 's classification . the mean injury severity score was 15 ( range , 9-57 ) . three hundred thirty-four of the open fractures ( 82.7 % ) were managed with antibiotic-impregnated bead chains ( tobramycin ) and systemic antibiotic prophylaxis ( cefazolin , tobramycin , and penicillin ) . seventy open fractures ( 17.3 % ) received systemic antibiotic prophylaxis ( cefazolin , tobramycin , and penicillin ) without supplemental use of the antibiotic beads . all open fractures underwent acute irrigation and debridement . in the 404 fractures 46.5 % of wounds were closed primarily , 12.9 % underwent delayed primary closure , 7.9 % were left open , and 32.7 % were temporized by the antibiotic bead pouch technique until definitive flap coverage and skin grafting were performed . of the 404 fractures evaluated , 17 ( 4.2 % ) developed an acute wound infection . of these wound infections , eight ( 11.4 % ) were in the group managed with systemic antibiotics alone . by comparison , nine ( 2.7 % ) of open fractures treated with combined systemic antibiotics and antibiotic-impregnated beads developed an infection . chronic osteomyelitis developed in 18 of 404 open fractures ( 4.5 % ) . ten ( 14.3 % ) open fractures which developed osteomyelitis were managed with systemic antibiotics whereas eight ( 2.4 % ) fractures managed with systemic antibiotics and antibiotic-impregnated beads developed a chronic infection . 
blunt trauma in adults and children : a comparative analysis . trauma remains the major cause of death in children and young adults . adult and pediatric patients differ significantly in both mechanism of and physiologic response to injury . we reviewed the records of all consecutive adult and pediatric blunt trauma patients admitted to a major metropolitan trauma center for a 10-year period . an extensive computerized database has been maintained for all patients since 1977 . a comparative statistical analysis of mechanism of injury , specific organ injury , and clinical outcome was performed . altogether , 1,722 adults and 289 children were treated during the study period . blunt trauma accounted for 82.8 % of adult and 94.3 % of pediatric injury ( p = 0.00005 ) , and only these patients were considered for analysis . diagnostic peritoneal lavage was performed in 249 children and 1,464 adults , with a respective accuracy of 99.6 % and 97.2 % . mechanism of injury was comparable for both groups , although children were far more likely to be injured by falls , bicycle accidents , or struck by an automobile . comparative analysis of specific injuries demonstrated significantly fewer pediatric chest ( p = 0.001 ) , spine ( p = 0.03 ) , and pelvic ( p = 0.003 ) injuries . central nervous system ( cns ) injury in children was a strong determinant of outcome : serious pediatric cns trauma was associated with a tenfold increase in mortality . mortality for children in the absence of cns injury was less than 3 % . spinal injury also appeared to be a predictor of poor outcome in the pediatric population , with an associated mortality of greater than 50 % . overall , survival was age independent ( 82.5 % of adults and 85.8 % of children were survivors . 
alcohol intoxication , injuries , and dangerous behaviors -- and the revolving emergency department door . suicides , homicides , motor vehicle crashes , and other violent deaths and injuries are linked inextricably to alcoholism . the association of injury and alcoholism should be particularly obvious to emergency department ( ed ) physicians . we sought to determine the extent to which intoxicated patients in an ed were properly diagnosed , counselled , and referred for substance abuse care . we reviewed the charts of 153 consecutive patients seen in a teaching hospital ed who had blood alcohol levels above 100 mg % . most were male ( 70 % ) , white ( 62 % ) , young ( mean age , 34 years ) and severely intoxicated ( mean bal , 245 ; range , 109-558 mg % ) . forty-six per cent of visits were for trauma ; half of the patients were victims of violent assaults . the intoxicated patients received extensive medical and surgical management : an average of five tests or x-rays were performed per patient ; 75 % received at least one medication ; at discharge 48 % were referred for followup to medical or surgical clinics . in contrast , few patients were evaluated for dangerous behaviors or referred for treatment of alcoholism : only 19 patients ( 12.5 % ) were asked about depression , suicide , or homicide ; 15 % were advised to stop drinking ; 13 % received a referral to a psychiatrist , mental health worker , or alcohol rehabilitation facility . forty-seven per cent of patients received " stat " intravenous thiamine ( although the wernicke-korsakoff syndrome is rare ) . in contrast , only 16 % received a stat on-site psychiatric consultation ( although dangerous behaviors are common in alcoholics ) . there was a strong , statistically significant negative association between the occurrence of an injury and the decision to initiate treatment and referrals for alcoholism . 
oxygen delivery and consumption in head-injured and multiple trauma patients . critically ill patients often demonstrate that whole body oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) is dependent on oxygen delivery ( do2 ) . in this retrospective study , the relationship of vo2 to do2 in patients with isolated head injury ( hi , n = 18 ) was compared to that in patients with multiple trauma ( mt , n = 60 ) without serious head injury . mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , central venous pressure , arterial pco2 , cardiac index , and oxygen delivery were significantly lower in hi , but oxygen consumption was not different in the groups . in both groups , changes in do2 ( delta do2 ) within each patient were significantly correlated with changes in vo2 ( delta vo2 ) in that same patient . this relationship was not different between the hi patients , ( delta vo2 = ( 0.20 + / - 0.02 ) delta do2 ) , and the mt patients ( delta vo2 = ( 0.17 + / - 0.01 ) delta do2 ) . when these groups were further divided into those with high hematocrit ( greater than 32 % ) and low hematocrit ( less than 32 % ) , hi patients with a low hematocrit demonstrated a steeper regression slope , with 26 + / - 3 % of the do2 change being reflected in the vo2 change . this was significantly greater than the slope in hi patients with high hematocrit ( 13 + / - 3 % ) and the mt patients at high ( 19 + / - 2 % ) or low ( 16 + / - 2 % ) hematocrits . these data show a correlation between changes in oxygen delivery and consumption that is similar in both head-injury patients and multiple trauma patients without serious head injury . this relationship was greatest in head-injured patients at low hematocrit . this relationship of vo2 and do2 in both groups suggests an influence of neurohumoral factors rather than local tissue phenomena . 
skeletal transfixation in treatment of comminuted fractures of the distal end of the radius in the elderly . ninety-five patients ( 71 females and 24 males ) , average age , 69 years ( 35-92 years ) , with comminuted distal radial fractures were treated with transfixation wires ( kirschner wires ) through the bases of metacarpals ii-v and an above-elbow plaster cast . two cases of early infections and four of sudeck 's dystrophy ( 4.2 % ) were encountered . followup studies which lasted an average of 24 months ( 9-50 months ) could be conducted on 77 patients . using sarmiento 's ratings 27 patients fell into the very good category , 44 , good , eight , fair , and two , poor . although most of the cases were of the comminuted intra-articular fracture types , good results were achieved with this simple and quite straightforward method . 
serum phospholipase a2 in patients with multiple injuries . catalytic phospholipase a2 activity ( ca-pla2 ) and the concentration of immunoreactive pancreatic pla2 ( ir-pla2 ) were measured in serum samples from 12 patients with multiple injuries ( median injury severity score : 41 ) . ca-pla2 was increased in all patients and positive correlations were found between the extent of the increase of ca-pla2 , mortality , and impairment of pulmonary function . ir-pla2 values were slightly increased in the serum of nine patients with multiple injuries . of these nine patients , eight had an additional blunt abdominal trauma . on the other hand , no relationship was found between ir-pla2 and ca-pla2 values . this finding was confirmed by immunoadsorption experiments with an antiserum to human pancreatic pla2 , which demonstrated that the increased serum levels of ir-pla2 were not responsible for the increased ca-pla2 values . the results suggest the existence of at least two immunologically different phospholipase a2 enzymes in sera of patients with multiple injuries . 
a reassessment of the peritoneal lavage leukocyte count in blunt abdominal trauma . nine hundred and three patients undergoing diagnostic peritoneal lavage ( dpl ) over a 6-year period were retrospectively reviewed to evaluate the utility of the white blood cell ( wbc ) count in the lavage fluid . eleven patients ( 1.2 % ) had dialysate wbc counts greater than 500/mm3 , with erythrocyte counts less than 10 ( 5 ) / mm3 . nine of these patients who were lavaged within 4 hours of injury had no intra-abdominal pathology . two patients , lavaged after 4 hours , demonstrated intra-abdominal injury . two hundred twenty-three patients ( 24.7 % ) had grossly clear dialysate which was not sent for laboratory analysis . none of these patients required laparotomy . we conclude that the wbc count in dpl fluid is of no diagnostic value in victims of blunt abdominal trauma who are lavaged within 4 hours of injury . in addition , laboratory analysis of clear dialysate is not required in these patients . 
analysis of 46 intra-abdominal aortic injuries from blunt trauma : case reports and literature review . blunt trauma causing aortic injury is infrequent and primarily involves the thoracic aorta . abdominal aortic injury after blunt trauma is much less frequent and has a varied presentation . within a 3-month period , our trauma unit diagnosed and treated two cases of abdominal aortic injury secondary to blunt trauma . one was a belted passenger in a motor vehicle accident , and one was secondary to a crush injury . the addition of these two cases brings the number found in the literature to 46 . reviewing these cases has emphasized the need for prompt recognition and treatment of this vascular catastrophe . 
reduced dependency on arteriography for penetrating extremity trauma : influence of wound location and noninvasive vascular studies . indications for arteriography in penetrating extremity trauma remain controversial . we reviewed our clinical experience in 454 patients ( 514 extremities ) with penetrating trauma admitted during a prior 3 1/2 - year period . injuries were caused by stab wounds in 60 ( 11.7 % ) extremities and by gunshot wounds in 454 ( 88.3 % ) extremities . thirty-three of the 60 stab wounds ( 55 % ) required urgent exploration , and 27 underwent arteriography . no arteriograms were positive for unsuspected arterial injury in this group . forty-two of 454 gunshot wounds ( 9.3 % ) underwent mandatory exploration ; arteriograms were performed on 412 extremities . forty-four arteriograms ( 10.7 % ) demonstrated evidence of unsuspected arterial injuries . during the last year , randomly selected extremities ( n = 23 ) have been studied with b-mode ultrasonography and segmental doppler pressure measurements . using the subsequent arteriography as the " gold " standard , sensitivity was 83 % and specificity was 100 % . gunshot wounds were categorized according to location and positive arteriograms . injuries to the lateral thigh and arm resulted in no positive arteriograms , while positive studies were observed in 11 % of medial and posterior arm , 14 % of antecubital fossa , 25 % of forearm , 7.5 % of medial and posterior thigh , 8 % of popliteal fossa , and 26 % of calf injuries . we recommend arteriography for gunshot injuries to identified high-risk areas , while clinical evaluation alone is accurate in all stab wounds to the extremities and gunshot wounds to the lateral thigh and outer arm . preliminary data suggest expanded use of b-mode ultrasonography may further reduce our dependency on arteriography in these cases . 
the impact of volume on outcome in seriously injured trauma patients : two years ' experience of the chicago trauma system . the american college of surgeons has stated that in considering the development of trauma systems it is important to ensure an appropriate volume of seriously injured patients be seen by each trauma center in order to achieve acceptable mortality rates . clinical data supporting this recommendation are lacking . an analysis was performed on 1,643 seriously injured trauma patients to determine the relationship between volume and mortality rates . three separate statistical methods were used : pearson correlation coefficients , mortality odds ratios , and direct pairwise mortality comparisons . in addition , tobit analysis was introduced as a method to analyze the relationship between volume and mortality . mortality rates were adjusted for the confounding variable of serious head injury . pearson correlation coefficients for volume vs. adjusted mortality was -0.65 . mortality odds ratios comparing the low-volume ( less than 140 pts ) trauma centers vs. the high-volume ( greater than 200 pts ) trauma centers was 1.3 for adjusted mortality rates ( 95 % ci = 1.01-1 .66 ; p = 0.04 ) . categorical analysis showed significantly different mortality rates in the centers before and after adjusting for patient mix . tobit analysis showed the relationship between volume and mortality to be significant , accounting for 30-40 % of the observed variation in mortality rates . in addition , tobit analysis allowed construction of a model to predict mortality rates , given specific volumes of patients . our data suggest that an inverse relationship exists between volume and mortality , and support the necessity of configuring trauma systems in a manner that will ensure designated trauma centers will see a high volume of seriously injured patients . 
acute hospital costs of trauma in the united states : implications for regionalized systems of care . as part of a larger effort to determine total direct and indirect costs of injury in the united states , national estimates of the numbers and expenditures associated with acute hospitalization due to traumatic injury were derived using data from the 1984 , 1985 , and 1986 national hospital discharge surveys ( nhds ) . estimates of the numbers of hospital episodes and total expenditures are reported in this paper for subgroups of patients defined by age , sex , and body region and ais severity of the injuries sustained . in 1985 2.1 million individuals sustained a traumatic injury which resulted in hospitalization . hospital expenditures totaled $ 11.4 billion inclusive of professional fees . adolescents and young adults aged 15-44 years accounted for nearly one half of all discharges and total hospital costs . the elderly , who represent only 12 % of the population , accounted for an additional one quarter of total discharges and hospital costs . nearly three quarters of the hospitalizations and one half of total expenditures were for minor ( icd/ais = 1 , 2 ) injuries . moderate ( icd/ais = 3 ) and severe ( icd/ais = 4 , 5 ) , injuries respectively accounted for 23 % and 3 % of total episodes and 37 % and 11 % of total expenditures . only 12 % of patients and 25 % of trauma care dollars involved injuries sufficiently severe to require treatment at a trauma center . 
geographic patterns of urban trauma according to mechanism and severity of injury . the purpose of this study was to investigate the distribution of various mechanisms of injury and the relative severity of such injury cases throughout the different geographic zones of a large urban area using a computerized emergency medical services ( ems ) dispatch/patient record database . the study city ( population , 2 million residents ) was divided into 156 geographic grids ( each 4.5 by 3 miles ) and the incidence and relative severity of various injury mechanisms were determined for each zone . results : in one year ( 1988 ) , there were more than 115,000 separate ems incidents involving more than 150,000 patients , 26,000 of whom were transported for injuries incurred in 10,064 motor vehicle accidents , 4,587 falls , 4,015 lacerations/stabwounds , 1,796 beatings , 1,270 gunshots , and 952 auto-pedestrian accidents . analysis of the 156 zones showed a disproportionate number of ems responses in the city center with two centralmost grids accounting for about 25 % of all responses . call volume then progressively diminished toward the periphery of the city . however , with some very minor exceptions , the relative incidence and severity of the various injury mechanisms remained proportionally uniform within each zone , regardless of geographic location . therefore , contrary to popular notoriety , the incidence and associated severity of any given injury type generally was not necessarily predicted by any particular neighborhood predilection for it , but rather by the overall demand for ems in that zone of the city . 
the lap belt complex : intestinal and lumbar spine injury in children . the " seatbelt syndrome " describes intestinal and spinal injury caused by lap-style automotive restraints . more than 2,600 children were admitted to children 's national medical center with blunt injury in 3 years ; 395 were involved in a motor vehicle crash . ninety-five of the crash occupants ( 24 % ) were known to be wearing safety belts . ten children sustained a " lap belt injury " : five with lumbar spine injury , four with combined lumbar spine and intestinal injuries , and one child with intestinal injury . all ten children presented with a characteristic transverse abdominal ecchymosis . the ct scan was unreliable in evaluation of both spinal and intestinal injury . lateral radiographs were required for definitive diagnosis in eight of nine children with lumbar spinal injury . ct scan was clearly diagnostic in only one of five children with intestinal injury . children wearing lap belts are at risk of a " lap belt complex . " lateral spine x-rays , peritoneal lavage , and early laparotomy are recommended to establish an accurate diagnosis and to decrease morbidity . 
the role of antibiotic therapy in the prevention of empyema in patients with an isolated chest injury ( iss 9-10 ) : a prospective study . the purpose of this study was to determine the impact of an antibiotic regimen on the incidence of empyema in patients admitted with isolated chest trauma ( iss 9/10 ) and hemopneumothorax requiring tube thoracostomy . all patients with isolated chest trauma and hemopneumothorax ( estimated iss 9 or 10 ) seen in our trauma center were considered eligible for this study . patients were excluded for the following reasons : age less than 18 years , presence of shock at the time of initial resuscitation , ongoing antibiotic therapy for unrelated disease , documented pre-existing infection or documented abnormal immune status . ninety patients were randomized to two treatment limbs : antibiotics and tube thoracostomy or tube thoracostomy alone . all patients had the procedure performed in the trauma center in a standard fashion . wound care and tube care were identical . antibiotic therapy consisted of a first-generation cephalosporin ( cefazolin ) , one dose given just before the procedure and then q 6 h into the tube removal . injury severity scores were established as described by schwab after the manner of baker . statistical analysis was performed using fisher 's exact test of binary outcome . in this study , antibiotics were able to reduce the incidence of empyema in patients with isolated chest trauma and for such patients antibiotic treatment appears justified . further work is required to determine the effect on patients with more severe injury and multisystem involvement . 
management of complex perineal soft-tissue injuries . debridement , fecal diversion , and rectal washout have been proposed as the primary therapy for complex perineal lacerations , but , in most series , survivors have a pelvic sepsis rate of 40-80 % . in a retrospective study , six of 18 patients sustaining severe perineal lacerations died within the first few hours of injury due to exsanguination from pelvic injuries . the remaining 12 patients underwent sigmoidoscopy , diversion of the fecal stream with irrigation of the distal rectal stump , and radical initial debridement of necrotic soft tissue . enteral access was obtained in two patients . in the patients with mandatory daily debridement and pulsatile irrigation , no pelvic sepsis occurred . in three patients without daily debridement , pelvic sepsis complicated recovery . the ability of patients to resume oral nutrition was significantly delayed , necessitating total parenteral nutrition in three patients . we conclude that sigmoidoscopy , total diversion of the fecal stream with irrigation of the distal rectal stump , enteral access for feeding , radical initial debridement of necrotic soft tissue , and mandatory daily debridement with pulsatile irrigation optimize recovery from this devastating injury . 
intra-abdominal and retroperitoneal organ injuries diagnosed on dynamic computed tomograms obtained for assessment of renal trauma . the efficacy of dynamic computed tomography in assessment of renal , intra-abdominal , and retroperitoneal organ injuries is analyzed in some 444 patients . this technique contributed most valuable information toward the diagnosis of such coexistent injuries in patients who sustained blunt trauma . ct identified associated abdominal or retroperitoneal organ injuries in 85 % of the patients ( 277 of 324 ) , clinical examination in only 26 % . ct proved invaluable for assessment of injury to bowel and mesentery , pancreas , and retroperitoneal vascular structures , giving rise to hematomas . ct diagnosed all such injuries , clinical examination from 0 % ( pancreas ) to 11 % ( retroperitoneal hematomas ) . in patients with penetrating injury , dynamic cts added valuable information on the status of viability of the injured organs . a relatively high number of false positive diagnoses resulted in only four unnecessary explorations . in all other patients , the erroneous diagnosis was revealed on repeat cts undertaken because of inconsistency of the clinical course and clinical findings with the initially suggested ct diagnosis or at time of exploration undertaken for correction of other confirmed injuries . discovery of associated intra - or retroperitoneal organ injuries , particularly in patients who sustained blunt trauma , has resulted in modification of treatment which prevented late sequelae and complications and thereby substantially reduced hospitalization time . 
traumatic rupture of the aorta -- critical decisions for trauma surgeons . the diagnosis and initial stabilization of patients with traumatic rupture of the aorta ( tra ) is performed by trauma surgeons . the resuscitations of 54 tra patients at a level i trauma center are reviewed . although the survival of patients who underwent attempted repair was good ( 75 % ) , 21/27 ( 78 % ) deaths occurred during phases of treatment controlled by a trauma surgeon . the techniques and sequencing of resuscitation can affect outcome . pneumatic antishock garments were not beneficial in the prehospital setting for patients with tra . in fact , pasg were on and inflated in all patients who presented in cardiac arrest . awake , unanesthetized intubation caused fatal aortic rupture in three patients . pharmacologic control of blood pressure during intubation is necessary . the amount of fluid , blood transfusion , and changes in blood pressure secondary to therapy did not statistically affect outcome . the average time from arrival in the er to angiogram was 64.7 minutes . the average time er to operating room was 159.7 minutes . seven cases of tra had delayed diagnosis usually for a misinterpreted cxr ( 5/7 ) . delay in diagnosis did not directly contribute to any deaths . associated abdominal injuries are a common cause of preventable deaths . fourteen patients with combined abdominal injuries and tra were identified . four of six deaths occurred with potentially reparable injuries . operative and diagnostic sequences must be adjusted to allow rapid control of all potentially fatal injuries . 
an effective treatment protocol for intraarterial drug injection . between 1972 and 1988 , 48 patients with extremity ischemia after an intraarterial drug injection were treated with the following protocol : heparin , dextran 40 , dexamethasone , elevation , and early mobilization of the extremity . a tissue ischemia score , derived by assessing the color , capillary refill , sensory function , and temperature of the extremity , was used to assess the ischemic injury . each sign was scored either normal = 0 or abnormal = 1 ; then summed to provide the tissue ischemia score ( range , 0 to 4 ) . twenty-four ( 50 % ) patients had an extremity tissue ischemia score less than or equal to 2 . after treatment 22 of the 24 patients had a normal extremity , and 2 required limited digital amputations . in this group , outcome was comparable regardless of the time interval from intraarterial drug injection to treatment . ten of 24 ( 50 % ) patients with an extremity tissue ischemia score greater than 2 had a normal extremity , 3 had a functional deficit , and 11 required digital amputations . twelve of the 24 patients were treated within 24 hours and had a significantly superior outcome when compared to the 12 who were treated more than 24 hours after intraarterial drug injection ( p less than 0.001 , fisher 's exact test ) . the tissue ischemia score is a useful predictor of extremity outcome in patients with intraarterial drug injection . the outlined treatment protocol is effective in minimizing tissue injury caused by intraarterial drug injection . institution of treatment within 24 hours of intraarterial drug injection is particularly important in patients who manifest severe ischemia . 
changes in quality of care for five diseases measured by implicit review , 1981 to 1986 we measured quality of care before and after implementation of the prospective payment system . we developed a structured implicit review form and applied it to a sample of 1366 medicare patients with congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction , pneumonia , cerebrovascular accident , or hip fracture who were hospitalized in 1981-1982 or 1985-1986 . very poor quality of care was associated with increased death rates 30 days after admission ( 17 % with very good care died vs 30 % with very poor care ) . the quality of medical care improved between 1981-1982 and 1985-1986 ( from 25 % receiving poor or very poor care to 12 % ) , although more patients were judged to have been discharged too soon and in unstable condition ( 7 % vs 4 % ) . except for discharge planning processes , the quality of hospital care has continued to improve for medicare patients despite , or because of , the introduction of the prospective payment system with its accompanying professional review organization review . 
prospective payment system and impairment at discharge . the ' quicker-and-sicker ' story revisited since the introduction of the prospective payment system ( pps ) , anecdotal evidence has accumulated that patients are leaving the hospital " quicker and sicker . " we developed valid measures of discharge impairment and measured these levels in a nationally representative sample of patients with one of five conditions prior to and following the pps implementation . instability at discharge ( important clinical problems usually first occurring prior to discharge ) predicted the likelihood of postdischarge deaths . at 90 days postdischarge , 16 % of patients discharged unstable were dead vs 10 % of patients discharged stable . after the pps introduction , instability increased primarily among patients discharged home . prior to the pps , 10 % of patients discharged home were unstable ; after the pps was implemented , 15 % were discharged unstable , a 43 % relative change . efforts to monitor the effect of this increase in discharge instability on health should be implemented . 
rehabilitative techniques for athletes after reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament [ published erratum appears in mayo clin proc 1991 jan ; 66 ( 1 ) :114 ] a wide spectrum of protocols is available for rehabilitation after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction , and little agreement exists on the specifics of strengthening exercises or the sequence of activities . in this article , we discuss the current rehabilitative techniques used at the mayo clinic for athletes who have undergone anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction . these techniques are based on established principles of rehabilitation , clinical experience , and new information about the related biomechanics of the knee . an illustrative case reflects the benefits of this rehabilitation program , which lasts up to 1 year and is divided into five stages . the early stages focus on protected mobilization and a strengthening program that emphasizes closed rather than open kinetic chain exercises . later , neuromuscular-proprioceptive training and sport-specific agility training redevelop the reaction time and the " coordination engrams " necessary for athletic competition . high-quality surgical care and a closely supervised rehabilitation program , based on kinesiologic and biomechanical factors as they pertain to the anterior cruciate ligament , are necessary for a successful outcome . 
preliminary report : complement activation in wasp-sting anaphylaxis . the generation of the anaphylatoxin c3a was measured after a wasp-sting challenge in eight patients with previous anaphylactic reactions to wasp stings . whereas there was no change in c3a in one patient who showed no reaction and only a slight rise in three patients with mild reactions , c3a rose substantially in the four patients with severe anaphylactic reactions . this complement activation is the first in-vitro variable which correlates with the severity of wasp-sting anaphylactic reactions . a role for complement activation in the pathophysiology of wasp-sting anaphylaxis is therefore suggested . 
specialist versus general practitioner treatment of problem drinkers the efficacy of specialist versus general practitioner ( gp ) treatment of problem drinkers was assessed in a randomised controlled trial . 40 problem drinkers referred consecutively to a specialist alcohol clinic by their gp were , after assessment , randomly allocated to either gp or specialist clinic treatment groups . all subjects received initial advice and counselling in the clinic about their drinking . the specialist clinic group received continued care from the clinic including , if necessary , admission to hospital . patients in the gp group were returned to the care of the gp who was contacted and supported by the specialist . after 6 months of follow-up , there were significant reductions in alcohol consumption and alcohol-related problems in both groups . no significant difference was found between the two groups with respect to the main outcome measures . no differential treatment effect was found with the more severely dependent drinkers . the findings show that after an initial detailed assessment and advice session , the treatment provided by gps is at least as effective as that from a specialist clinic with respect to improvements in drinking behaviour and alcohol-related problems . after initial assessment and advice , specialist clinics should encourage gps to become more involved in the subsequent care of problem drinkers . such a practice should be based on the individual patient 's needs and the adequacy of support offered to gps . 
managing segmental facial nerve injuries by surgical repair . this report describes our experiences and evolving philosophy with regard to managing segmental facial nerve injuries . we present the results of 13 facial nerve repairs of traumatic injury to a segment of the facial nerve . all peripheral facial nerve branches contribute essential elements to normal mimetic facial movement ; therefore , we recommend early , appropriate repair of the nerve segment . this recommendation is based on principles established for managing disruptions of the main trunk of the facial nerve . it offers the patient the chance for complete recovery of facial function . 
vaginal birth after cesarean delivery : results of a 5-year multicenter collaborative study . cesarean delivery has become the most frequently performed major operation in the united states . widespread use of vaginal birth after previous cesarean delivery could potentially eliminate up to one-third of cesareans . however , many physicians have been reluctant to adopt this policy without large studies conclusively demonstrating its safety . this study evaluated the maternal and perinatal outcomes of over 5000 cases of labor after previous cesarean delivery . this multicenter study began in 1984 and initially included nine california hospitals . during the first 2 years , there were 1776 trials of labor resulting in 1314 vaginal births . in january 1986 two additional hospitals joined the collaborative project . over the next 3 years , there were 3957 trials of labor resulting in 2977 vaginal births at the 11 participating hospitals . during the entire study period , 5733 patients opted for a trial of labor and 4291 ( 75 % ) delivered vaginally . there were no maternal deaths in the trial-of-labor group , and perinatal mortality was not significantly different from that of the general obstetric population . these results support the findings of numerous smaller studies that have concluded that the policy of routine repeat cesarean delivery should be abandoned . 
rectovulvar fistula in a child secondary to an unusual foreign body . foreign bodies in the female genital tract are well recognized as a cause of pain , discharge , secretions , and infection . in the small child , the presence of a vaginal discharge is usually associated with either a common object which has been inserted or sexual abuse complicated by a sexually transmitted disease . a 3-year-old child presented with a recurrent labial secretion and drainage due to an unusual foreign body . it was only during a second operation that the possibility of a foreign body was entertained , and diagnostic testing was begun . a third operation permitted removal of the foreign body , a large bone probably of animal origin . the fistula tract was closed after a colostomy was performed . this represents the first reported case of a rectovulvar fistula not of a congenital nature . 
combined vesicovaginal-ureterovaginal fistulas associated with a vaginal foreign body . a case is presented of vesicovaginal-ureterovaginal fistulas associated with a neglected vaginal foreign body . the patient complained of a foul-smelling vaginal discharge and was found to have a 4-cm hard vaginal mass on examination . urinary incontinence developed subsequently . examination under anesthesia was performed , and an aerosol deodorant cap was operatively removed from her posterior vagina/perirectal space . subsequent work-up demonstrated the presence of both a vesicovaginal fistula and a right ureterovaginal fistula . the patient underwent a combined vaginal repair of the vesicovaginal fistula and abdominal ureteroneocystostomy . the frequency , types , etiology , and treatment of genitourinary fistulas are reviewed with particular attention to those associated with a vaginal foreign body . 
infant survival following delayed postmortem cesarean delivery . a 19-year-old multipara was delivered of a living infant by postmortem cesarean 22 minutes after documented maternal cardiac arrest and 47 minutes from the fatal injury . neonatal follow-up at 18 months of age demonstrated no evidence of neurologic damage . 
a histologic evaluation of the accuracy of tmj diagnostic arthroscopy . sixty-seven temporomandibular joints with internal derangement were examined with arthroscopy , and synovial biopsies were taken for histologic evaluation . histologically , in 10 cases , the synovium appeared to be normal in appearance , 24 cases had moderate to severe synovitis , 11 cases showed hyperplastic synovitis , 13 cases showed synovial fibrosis , and foreign body granuloma was found in 9 cases . correlation between arthroscopic observation and histologic findings disclosed an 89.1 % specificity and 100 % sensitivity . 
a unique indexing splint for use in combined le fort and nasal injuries to avoid tracheostomy . midface fractures with associated displaced and/or comminuted nasal fractures can require tracheostomy for a general anesthetic airway if these fractures are to be reduced simultaneously . we describe a unique indexing splint that allows oral intubation yet also allows simultaneous reduction of midface and nasal fractures under one anesthetic . furthermore , tracheostomy with its potential complications is avoided . the case report illustrates the technique , and alternative treatments for these injuries are discussed . 
patient compliance -- a factor in facial trauma repair . the clinical records of 25 consecutive patients who were treated for facial trauma were reviewed and analyzed to ascertain what effect patient cooperation had on the outcome of facial fracture repair . the study was designed to establish the incidence of complications and to discover what factors contributed to untoward sequela in such patients . overall , 15 patients ( 60 % ) were noncompliant in one or more aspects of their care . six patients ( 24 % ) had significant postoperative complications associated with their facial injuries . four of these patients were not fully cooperative . 
tibial defects . reconstruction using the method of ilizarov as an alternative . although used in the ussr since the 1950s , the method of ilizarov has only recently been employed in north america to manage bone defects . seven cases of patients with tibial bone defects are presented ( five with deep infection ) that were treated by gradual compression at the defect with one or two transported tibial segments that not only filled the tibial defect but preserved or regained the original bone length . six of the seven patients had their defect obliterated while leg length was maintained . the method is minimally invasive , allows immediate weight-bearing and permits modifications in strategy while treating the bone defects but requires close attention to detail and has a steep learning curve . 
tibial nonunions . treatment tactics with the ilizarov method . the key to the success of the ilizarov method is that the rigid systems , such as plates and traditional external fixators that bypass the nonunion , have been replaced by the axially elastic system of ilizarov . the cyclic axial telescoping mobility , not rigidity , at the nonunion or fracture site is an important requirement for the formation of reparative callus . as we gain more experience with the method , we find ourselves capable of solving increasingly more difficult problems with a level of success rarely , if ever , achieved with more conventional methods . 
the use of the ilizarov concept with the ao/asif tubular fixateur in the treatment of segmental defects . for the treatment of segmental defects of less than 4 cm , cancellous autografting remains the treatment of choice . pedicled or free cortical grafts ( fibula , ribs , iliac crest ) often are not strong enough , particularly when used in the femur . allografts , especially appealing because of the theoretic unlimited supply , should not be considered for segmental diaphyseal defects because they remain dead spacers , remodelled only very slowly and incompletely , and are often complicated by late infection . the technique of distraction histogenesis used by putti and anderson , improved and further differentiated towards corticotomy and fragment transport by ilizarov , is a further possibility of treating long , segmental bone defects . already clinical and experimental data clearly show that the effect of distraction histogenesis can be obtained using many different types of external fixators . therefore , we should use as simple a fixator construction as possible . the standard unilateral sagittal frame we suggest is derived from a two-tube ao fixator using only a few additional elements . the majority of cases with segmental defects and minor additional axial or rotational deformities ( which can be corrected primarily ) can be treated with such a fixator . the quality of the regenerate may be improved with a motorized , continuous transport system and by better soft-tissue coverage using early flaps . interface healing is very probably improved by cancellous grafting and internal fixation after the transport period , thus decreasing the fixator time . 
treatment of malunions and mal-nonunions of the femur and tibia by detailed preoperative planning and the ilizarov techniques . internal fixation has been the mainstay of treatment for post-traumatic deformities . external fixation has been used for correction of deformity in malunions and mal-nonunions . treatment goals of achieving complete deformity correction with restoration or improvement of function were successful in this very complex group of malunions despite the numerous problems , obstacles , and complications of treatment . 
preoperative planning for the treatment of nonunions and the correction of malunions of the long bones . a detailed analysis of the steps of preoperative planning as employed in our clinic has been presented . we have found these techniques to be of great value in anticipating the requirements that must be fulfilled to correct malalignments and obtain healing when the malalignments occur alone or are associated with nonunion . besides helping one to decide where a malalignment is best corrected to anatomically match the normal extremity , tracings aid in allowing the surgeon to appreciate the kinetics of the operative procedure , as well as to define the best methods of stabilizing the resulting correction . 
treatment of tibial malunions and nonunions with reamed intramedullary nails . reamed intramedullary nailing is an effective , relatively low-risk technique for the management of delayed union , nonunion , and malunion of the tibia . closed technique should be used where possible and open realignment , when necessary , should be executed with minimal dissection . bone grafting is rarely indicated . the use of interlocking nails provides an added degree of security in the control of rotation . 
the treatment of nonunions and pseudarthroses of the humeral shaft . in summary , if one follows the ao/asif principles of open reduction and stable internal fixation of nonunions and pseudarthroses of the humerus , mostly with plate fixation supplemented by shingling or petaling , cement for loose screws when necessary , and bone grafting of defects or atrophic nonunions , then successful healing with one operative procedure can be achieved in over 95 % , with almost full correction of preoperative deformity . return of useful function and range of motion can also be achieved in 75 % to 90 % by early active exercises , physiotherapy , and occasional continuous passive motion , supported by hinged braces or cast braces in the postoperative period until union occurs . union was achieved in an average of 6.6 months after the operative procedure . 
intraarticular malunions and nonunions . the principles of intraarticular fracture care and stable internal fixation , when applied to intra-articular nonunions and malunions , can result in the restoration of an amazing function to joints that seem almost totally doomed to either an arthrodesis or an arthroplasty . the high degree of success achieved in almost all cases illustrates the amazing recuperative powers of human joints once articular cartilage congruence and stability is re-established together with correction of axial deformities and the mobilization of joints . 
pauwels osteotomy for nonunions of the femoral neck . the concept of the pauwels osteotomy seems to be a valuable method of treating nonunions of the femoral neck . if there is concomitant avascular necrosis , the involved area should be small and the patient younger than 60 years old . 
diagnosis and treatment of nonunions and malunions of acetabular fractures . the surgical treatment of nonunions and malunions of acetabular fractures is often a challenge . the diagnosis of a nonunion or malunion rests on clinical and radiologic examination . apart from the union troubles involving only one column , all other cases justify the use of the extensile approach . 
heat illness . fluid and electrolyte issues for pediatric and adolescent athletes . the primary mechanism for maintaining normal body temperature during physical exercise in the heat is the evaporation of sweat . with profuse sweating , water loss far exceeds electrolyte loss . rigorous exercise in the heat places the athlete at risk for thermoregulatory dysfunction from dehydration . because children are inherently less efficient thermoregulators than adults , they are at even greater risk for heat illness . the three primary syndromes of heat illness are heat cramps , heat exhaustion , and heat stroke . treatment of heat illness is based on reduction of body temperature and rehydration . heat stroke is a true medical emergency with a high mortality rate ; immediate reduction of body temperature is critical to the survival of these patients . prevention of heat illness is based on reducing known risk factors . physical activity should be modified in the face of high ambient temperature and humidity . the athlete should begin exercise well hydrated ; frequent consumption of cold water during exercise decreases likelihood of significant dehydration . after exercise , the athlete should continue drinking to replace fluid losses . clothing should be lightweight ; the more skin exposed , the greater the available evaporative surface . a preseason conditioning program , when combined with an 8 - to 14-day period of acclimatization , further reduces the risk of heat injury . although athletes engaged in endurance sports may benefit from drinking carbohydrate/electrolyte-containing solutions , for the majority of young athletes , cold water remains the preferred choice for fluid replacement during exercise . the relatively greater body surface area of young athletes also places them at risk for hypothermia . special attention should be given when these athletes are competing under cold environmental conditions . 
a review of the use of prophylactic knee braces in football . a review of nine studies of prophylactic knee braces worn by players in american tackle football lends some support for the use of double-hinged braces at the high-school level . evidence for their use at the college level seems less persuasive . caution should be exercised in interpreting these studies owing to the probable presence of bias and confounding variables and to difficulty in generalizing results beyond the study populations . the two studies that assigned braces randomly found lower injury rates for knees and knee ligaments among high-school and high-school size players . conversely , a large , multiteam collegiate study found a significantly higher rate of knee injuries among brace users , a difference that remained when controlled for position , skill , and previous injury . 
strength training in children and adolescents . strength is the ability to exert muscular force against resistance . it is a fundamental requirement of most daily physical activities of children and of adults . strength training is the use of progressive resistance exercise methods specifically to increase strength . strength training for children and adolescents is not without risk . proven medical concerns relate to back , shoulder , and other joint injuries and to hypertension and related diseases . however , the rate of injury is probably rather low , comparable to many youthful activities that are considered safe . also , the incidence and severity of injury can probably be minimized by adherence to the guidelines presented . children may be expected to become stronger with appropriate training . increased strength can enhance their performance in those athletic activities in which strength , power , or speed are required . it may reduce the incidence and severity of overuse injury in sport . however , it can not reasonably be expected to protect against serious , acute injury in sport . 
substance abuse education in pediatrics . historically , physicians have received little formal education related to alcohol or other drug abuse and dependence . a survey of all pediatric programs in the united states was conducted to assess the current status of alcohol/drug education in pediatrics . at the medical student and residency training levels , only 44 % and 40 % of programs , respectively , required any formal instruction , and only 27 % and 34 % , respectively , offered an elective for medical students or residents . although most respondents endorsed the inclusion of both required and elective alcohol and drug education in the curriculum , few programs that did not include it already had a future plan for it . major impediments identified were curriculum time constraints ( 86 % medical student level , 68 % resident level ) and the lack of a qualified instructor ( 55 % medical student level , 50 % resident level ) . the survey results suggest a strong need for development of faculty and structured alcohol and drug abuse educational plans specific to pediatrics . 
predictive value of visible lesions ( cheeks , lips , oropharynx ) in suspected caustic ingestion : may endoscopy reasonably be omitted in completely negative pediatric patients ? the relationship between absence or presence of grossly visible lesions in the cheeks , lips , and oropharynx ( c.l.o. burns ) and the incidence , site , and degree of visceral burns was evaluated in all children referred to our hospital for a suspected caustic ingestion during a 10-year period . all children underwent eso-gastro-duodenoscopy within 24 hours . of the 156 children , 96 ( 61.6 % ) showed no visible signs of contact with the caustic substance ; however , in 36/96 ( 37.5 % ) , endoscopy revealed burns in one or more visceral sites . eight of 36 children ( 22.2 % ) sustained potentially dangerous lesions ( second to third degree ) . sixty of 156 children ( 38.4 % ) showed visible lesions ; in 30/60 ( 50 % ) , endoscopy revealed other burns in one or more visceral sites . fourteen of 30 patients ( 46.6 % ) sustained potentially dangerous lesions ( second to third degree ) . a total of 50 esophageal burns have been recorded : first degree ( e1 ) , 32 ; second degree ( e2 ) , 12 ; third degree ( e3 ) , 6 . two of 12 patients with e2 lesions and 6/6 with e3 lesions developed esophageal stenosis . one patient in this latter group died because of complications related to a tracheostomy . a total of 31 gastric burns have been recorded : g1 ( 22 ) , g2 ( 6 ) , g3 ( 3 ) . one gastric perforation was observed in the g3 group , whereas the remaining two lesions healed with residual asymptomatic scarring . minimal scarring was observed in two of six patients with g2 burns . a total of eight lesions have been recorded in the larynx [ l1 ( 3 ) , l3 ( 1 ) ] and in the duodenum [ d1 ( 2 ) , d2 ( 2 ) ] . 
emergency intraosseous infusion in severely burned children . severely burned patients require rapid administration of large volumes of isotonic fluids . obtaining adequate intravenous ( iv ) access in children with greater than 70 % total body surface area burns may be difficult , time-consuming , and sometimes impossible . this report describes the use of intraosseous infusion technique as a life-saving means of establishing iv access in two severely burned children . 
avulsion of the rectus femoris tendon : an unusual type of pelvic fracture . we present the case of a 15-year-old boy evaluated in the emergency department after sustaining an acute hip injury during track and field practice . pelvic radiograph demonstrated an avulsion fracture of the anterior inferior iliac spine . review of the literature reveals this to be a well recognized , yet unusual and interesting injury . 
outpatient management of burns in children . the majority of burn wound management can be performed on an outpatient basis by the primary care physician or emergency physician . the physician , however , needs to know when to refer the patient for surgical evaluation and must be reasonably certain that the family will be compliant with wound care and follow-up . fire prevention counselling still remains one of the most important aspects of burn management . 
chest pain in teenagers . when is it significant ? chest pain in teenagers often has no obvious organic cause . onset of symptoms with an emotionally stressful situation may indicate psychogenic chest pain . the differential diagnosis also includes cardiac , musculoskeletal , gastrointestinal , and respiratory disorders . routine testing generally does not help to establish a diagnosis and may even do harm by reinforcing a patient 's unspoken fear of serious illness . most teenagers with chest pain have no such illness , and symptoms usually resolve without therapy . an important role for primary care physicians is to provide support during evaluation and follow-up . 
initial management of trauma . the first 5 minutes . trauma is the leading cause of death in young americans and is responsible for the loss of more productive years of life than heart disease and cancer combined . initial management of trauma consists of the establishment or maintenance of a patent airway , ensurance of adequate breathing , and resuscitation of the circulation . all of these are accomplished simultaneously with a cursory survey to identify immediately life-threatening injuries and to prevent permanent disability . 
initial management of trauma . the next 60 minutes . if and when hemodynamic stability has been achieved in a trauma patient , a detailed physical examination and appropriate diagnostic studies are performed . the successful management of trauma demands that immediately life-threatening problems receive top priority and that patients be continuously reexamined and problems reprioritized as conditions change . finally , it is imperative that appropriate surgical evaluation and treatment be undertaken as soon as possible . trauma patients should not be allowed to languish or undergo extensive examination in a hospital lacking surgical or other specialists trained to treat the problems identified . transfer to another facility , whether for specialized diagnostic tests or for evaluation and treatment by surgical specialists , should be accomplished as quickly as possible . 
long-term survival after chest-wall reconstruction with musculocutaneous flaps . reconstruction of chest-wall defects with musculocutaneous flaps permits resection of advanced chest-wall tumors and of tissues severely damaged by radiotherapy in patients who in a previous era were not surgically treatable . to determine the long-term outcome from this surgery , the records of 96 patients who had undergone chest-wall resection with musculocutaneous flap reconstruction were reviewed . median survival for the entire group was 20.5 months , but a more accurate prediction of outcome could be obtained by dividing the patients into three groups . in group i , patients free of known malignancy and undergoing resection of radionecrotic tissues , median survival was 60.0 months . in group ii , patients with resectable disease and free of tumor following surgery , median survival was 31.1 months . in group iii , patients incompletely resected or known to have metastatic disease following surgery , median survival was only 12.5 months . even in group iii , however , some individuals achieved prolonged survival and lasting benefits from the surgery , so these data should not be used to exclude patients from undergoing necessary palliative procedures . 
recurrent anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel . recurrent anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel is reported in two patients . this was due to traumatic attenuation of the flexor carpi ulnaris retinaculum . the mechanism of injury in both patients was a fall with the shoulder abducted and the elbow acutely flexed . both patients had relief of their neurologic symptoms following anterior submuscular transposition of the ulnar nerve . 
a trilaminar skin coverage technique for treatment of severe degloving injuries of the extremities and torso . a 60 percent degloving injury involving the torso and lower extremities of an 8-year-old boy is described . successful management employed the use of a new trilaminar skin coverage technique . with the avulsed flap still attached to its bed , a 0.14-inch split-thickness graft of epithelium and superficial dermis is raised with a power-driven dermatome . from the same harvest site , one level deeper , a second layer consisting of split-thickness dermis ( 0.14 inch ) is taken . both the first and second layers are meshed and expanded . the remaining degloved flap is excised and , on a sterile bench , defatted to produce a third layer of deep dermis . in our case , this third layer was ultimately lost , but it functioned well as a temporary biologic dressing . depending on donor-site morbidity , other potential applications of this method ( i.e. , major burn injuries ) may be feasible . 
vertebral hemangiomas : fat content as a sign of aggressiveness . thirty-two vertebral hemangiomas ( vhs ) were evaluated with nonenhanced computed tomography ( ct ) , t1-weighted magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging , ct enhanced with contrast material , and selective spinal arteriography . the stroma between the osseous trabeculae was found to correspond to either fatty tissue or soft tissue or both . all 11 asymptomatic vhs showed complete fatty stroma at ct and increased signal intensity at mr imaging . in contrast , all four compressive vhs had soft-tissue attenuation at ct . three compressive vhs showed low signal intensity on mr images . predominantly fatty stroma at ct and increased signal intensity at mr imaging were associated with normal or only slightly increased vascularization at selective spinal arteriography or contrast-enhanced ct , while soft-tissue stroma at ct and low signal intensity at mr imaging were associated with distinct hypervascularization . the authors ' experience suggests that fatty vhs may represent inactive forms of vh , while soft-tissue content at ct and low signal intensity at mr imaging may indicate a more active vascular lesion with potential to compress the spinal cord . ct and mr imaging may be especially valuable for evaluating patients with clinical signs or symptoms of uncertain origin and findings compatible with vh at plain radiography . 
brachial plexus injury associated with chest restraint seatbelt : case report . rapid deceleration while wearing a lap-shoulder strap seatbelt may result in a traction injury to the brachial plexus on the side of the shoulder strap . occult vascular injury should be considered in patients with this injury pattern . the deficit will recover after a neuropraxic type injury . 
biochemical analysis of electroejaculates in spinal cord injured men : comparison to normal ejaculates . to address the consistent finding of asthenospermia in spinal cord injured men we compared the biochemical constituents of antegrade fractions of electroejaculates of 6 such patients with the manual ejaculates of 6 volunteers . semen samples in each group were analyzed for 19 biochemical parameters , ph and osmolality . organic components included triglycerides , glucose , fructose , uric acid , creatinine , urea , total protein , albumin and cholesterol . metabolic enzymes , including glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase ( got ) , glutamic pyruvic transaminase , lactate dehydrogenase and alkaline phosphatase , were measured . inorganic constituents included chloride , sodium , potassium , zinc and phosphorous . although not significant , higher levels of blood urea nitrogen and creatinine were demonstrated in most electroejaculates suggesting urinary contamination of the antegrade specimens . in electroejaculates significantly lower levels ( p less than 0.05 ) of fructose , albumin , got and alkaline phosphatase as well as significantly higher levels ( p less than 0.05 ) of chloride were noted . no significant difference in osmolality or ph was found . moreover , in the electroejaculates the levels of glucose , uric acid and all inorganic constituents approached their corresponding levels in serum . we conclude that biochemical abnormalities of the seminal plasma may contribute to seminal dysfunction of spinal cord injured men and may result from neurological injury to the accessory sex glands or from the electroejaculation procedure itself . 
population and pedigree studies reveal a lack of association between the dopamine d2 receptor gene and alcoholism . using the dopamine d2 receptor clone lambda hd2g1 , blum et al recently found that the d2/taq i allele ( a1 ) was present in 69 % of 35 deceased alcoholics but in only 20 % of an equal number of controls . to assess this association further , we evaluated the d2/taq i polymorphism and a single-strand conformation polymorphism detected by polymerase chain reaction and nondenaturing gel electrophoresis ( pcr-sscp ) of the 3 ' noncoding region of the d2 receptor gene . we studied 40 unrelated white alcoholics , 127 racially matched controls , and two white pedigrees . the schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia-lifetime version ( sads-l ) clinical diagnostic interviews were rated blindly by two clinicians . the sads-l interviews and other data were then used to ascertain diagnoses according to the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders , revised third edition ( dsm-iii-r ) criteria . alcoholics were subtyped according to age of onset , severity , presence of antisocial personality , and family history . no significant differences in either d2/taq i or pcr-sscp allele frequencies were observed between alcoholics , subpopulations of alcoholics , or controls . the pcr-sscp polymorphism provided independent information against linkage at the d2 receptor locus . several recombinants between the d2/taq i locus and alcoholism were observed in two white families with an alcoholic parent who possessed the a1 allele . this study does not support a widespread or consistent association between the d2 receptor gene and alcoholism . 
environmental illness . a controlled study of 26 subjects with ' 20th century disease ' environmental illness is a polysymptomatic disorder believed by " clinical ecologists " to result from immune dysregulation brought on by common foods and chemicals . we systematically evaluated 26 subjects who had been assigned a diagnosis of environmental illness . the subjects indicated a strong interest in their diagnosis , were generally satisfied with their clinical ecologist , and were dissatisfied with traditional medical approaches . subjects reported varying treatments , including dietary restrictions , avoidance of offending agents , and physical treatments . using the diagnostic interview schedule , we found that 15 ( 65 % ) of 23 subjects met criteria for a current or past mood , anxiety , or somatoform disorder compared with 13 ( 28 % ) of 46 age - and sex-matched community controls . we conclude that patients receiving this diagnosis may have one or more commonly recognized psychiatric disorders that could explain some or all of their symptoms . 
acute water intoxication as a complication of urine drug testing in the workplace urine drug testing is now mandatory in many industries . we report the first case , to our knowledge , of an adverse consequence of drug testing in the workplace : acute water intoxication . we discuss normal water metabolism and the adverse effects of water loading and impaired renal function on free water clearance . we present a literature review of seven other cases of acute voluntary water intoxication in patients without chronic psychiatric or neurologic illness . for workers undergoing urine drug testing we conclude that risk factors for acute water intoxication include ( 1 ) intake of more than 1 l of water and ( 2 ) impaired urine dilution . in a recently drug-tested worker , symptoms of cerebral dysfunction should suggest the possibility of water intoxication . 
nicotine-replacement therapy with use of a transdermal nicotine patch -- a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial the rate of smoking was significantly reduced in volunteer subjects by providing effective nicotine replacement , self-help material , and weekly visits with a nurse for 6 weeks . nicotine-replacement therapy with a transdermal nicotine patch ( nicolan ) almost doubled the 6-week smoking-cessation rate in comparison with that in a placebo group ( 77 % versus 39 % ; p = 0.002 ) among subjects who were smoking at least 20 cigarettes per day at baseline . although most subjects who used the active nicotine patches had skin reactions , the reactions were primarily mild . for use of both active and placebo patches , the level of patient compliance was high . among subjects who continued to smoke , the use of cigarettes was decreased to less than 50 % of the baseline smoking level in 7 of 7 with active nicotine patches and in 15 of 19 with placebo patches . outcomes beyond 6 weeks showed a substantial relapse rate in both groups . thus , when nicotine-replacement therapy is provided , a need exists for concurrent behavioral intervention and training for prevention of a relapse , neither of which was part of this protocol . 
a randomized study of the effect of withdrawing hydroxychloroquine sulfate in systemic lupus erythematosus . the canadian hydroxychloroquine study group background . the antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine is thought to be effective in controlling some of the manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus , but its effectiveness has not been demonstrated conclusively . methods . we conducted a six-month , randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study of the effect of discontinuing hydroxychloroquine sulfate treatment in 47 patients with clinically stable systemic lupus erythematosus . the patients were randomly assigned to continue their same dose of hydroxychloroquine ( n = 25 ) or to receive placebo ( n = 22 ) for 24 weeks . ten patients in each group were also taking prednisone . results . the relative risk of a clinical flare-up , defined as the development of specific clinical manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus or an increase in their severity , was 2.5 times higher ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.08 to 5.58 ) in the patients taking placebo than in those continuing to take hydroxychloroquine ( 16 of 22 patients vs. 9 of 25 had flare-ups ) , and the time to a flare-up was shorter ( p = 0.02 ) . the relative risk of a severe exacerbation of disease that required withdrawal from the study was 6.1 times higher ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.72 to 52.44 ) for the patients taking placebo ( 5 of 22 patients vs. 1 of 25 had severe exacerbations of disease ) . changes in the dose of prednisone were not different in the two groups . conclusions . patients with quiescent systemic lupus erythematosus who are taking hydroxychloroquine are less likely to have a clinical flare-up if they are maintained on the drug . 
transcatheter arterial embolization in the management of postpartum hemorrhage due to genital tract injury . six patients with uncontrollable postpartum hemorrhage due to genital tract injury were treated with transcatheter arterial embolization . the causes of hemorrhage were laceration of the cervix and vagina in five cases and rupture of the uterus in one . four cases included a large hematoma in the paravaginal and/or retroperitoneal space . two women had a hysterectomy before arterial embolization . angiography revealed extravasation in five cases . all six subjects had their hemorrhage arrested dramatically using transcatheter arterial embolization with gelatin sponge particles . no major complication was encountered in any case . normal menstruation resumed in the women who did not undergo a hysterectomy . transcatheter arterial embolization therapy seems to be the treatment of choice in patients with uncontrollable hemorrhage . 
retained intraocular foreign bodies and endophthalmitis . retained intraocular foreign bodies ( iofbs ) are associated with endophthalmitis in approximately 7 to 13 % of cases . the role of prompt surgical removal of the foreign body along with the use of intravitreal antibiotics in reducing this figure is uncertain . retained iofbs presenting to the medical college of wisconsin between july 1986 and june 1989 were reviewed . a total of 27 cases were evaluated and surgically treated . none of the 27 cases presented with or developed clinical signs of endophthalmitis , yet bacterial cultures of the removed intraocular material were positive in seven cases ( foreign body in 5 cases , the aqueous fluid and the vitreous fluid in 1 case each ) . all eyes presenting within 24 hours of injury underwent immediate surgery ( average , 4.5 hours after presentation ) . of the seven eyes with positive intraocular cultures , all had pars plana vitrectomy removal of the iofb and three of these eyes received intravitreal antibiotics at the time of surgery over concern of a high risk of infection . two of these eyes eventually grew out the bacillus sp . all eyes received subconjunctival antibiotics and postoperative topical and systemic antibiotics . even after the positive cultures , no signs of clinical infection developed in any of the eyes . all seven eyes retained excellent visual acuity of 20/70 or better at an average of 10 months ' follow-up . follow-up ranged from 1 to 31 months . prompt surgical intervention , the use of intravitreal antibiotics in high-risk-type injuries , and the possible use of vitrectomy surgery may reduce the incidence and severity of endophthalmitis . 
prefabrication of composite free flaps through staged microvascular transfer : an experimental and clinical study . the feasibility of prefabricating free flaps by inducing , through the process of staged reconstruction , an arteriovenous bundle and its surrounding fascia to perfuse a selected block of tissue was investigated experimentally and clinically . sixteen rat knee joints were wrapped with their ipsilateral superficial inferior epigastric ( sie ) fascia . in 8 joints , the composite flaps were resected en bloc and were immediately replaced orthotopically pedicled upon the superficial inferior epigastric vessels . in the remaining joints , the resection and orthotopic transfer were performed 2 weeks later . only the joints in the latter group , which benefited from the staging period , were found to be perfused . the long finger proximal interphalangeal joint of a child was reconstructed by the staged microvascular transfer of his second toe proximal interphalangeal joint . at the first stage , a temporalis fascia flap was wrapped around the toe proximal interphalangeal joint and revascularized to the dorsalis pedis vessels . six weeks later , the joint and its temporalis fascia envelope were dissected , and the " prefabricated " joint flap was transferred to the hand and revascularized to the wrist vessels . bony union progressed uneventfully with excellent recovery of the range of motion . we conclude that regardless of the indigenous vascular anatomy , an unlimited array of composite free flaps can be constructed and transferred based on induced large vascular pedicles . 
a multivariate approach to the treatment of peripheral nerve transection injury : the role of electromagnetic field therapy . a multivariate approach to the treatment of peripheral nerve transection injury has been used in a rat model . a pilot study ( 48 animals , 8 groups ) examined variables associated with the method and timing of surgical repair , the arrest of wallerian degeneration , and the role of pulsing electromagnetic field therapy ( pemf ) in functional recovery . a second phase ( 90 animals , 6 groups ) then studied the timing and duration of pulsing electromagnetic field therapy as the only variable in larger groups of animals . the pilot study revealed that a vein-graft conduit did not improve functional recovery compared with standard epineurial repair . additionally , delayed repair compared favorably with immediate repair . the use of chlorpromazine to inhibit the toxic effects of calcium influx appeared to enhance early functional recovery , and the combination of delayed nerve repair and pulsing electromagnetic field therapy seemed to consistently improve function . the second phase of the study has demonstrated ( for the first time ) statistical improvement in ambulation in animals treated with delayed surgical repair and prolonged pulsing electromagnetic field therapy . we postulate that future treatment of nerve transection injuries will involve a combined treatment regimen consisting of the immediate arrest of wallerian degeneration , delayed surgery , and pulsing electromagnetic field therapy . 
blunt trauma in children : significance of peritoneal fluid . seven hundred ninety consecutively seen children who had not undergone peritoneal lavage underwent imaging with computed tomography ( ct ) after blunt trauma . collections of peritoneal fluid were prospectively characterized as small ( 51 children ) , moderate ( 32 children ) , or large ( 40 children ) . associated injuries included hepatic or splenic injury in 74 % , isolated renal or pancreatic injury in 5 % , isolated pelvic fracture in 5 % , isolated hollow viscus injury in 5 % , and a combination of the above in 7 % . peritoneal fluid was the only ct abnormality in three children . a significant correlation was found between presence and increasing size of peritoneal fluid collections and clinical signs of hemodynamic instability such as lower trauma score ( p = .0008 by analysis of variance ) , the presence of arterial hypotension ( p = .0001 by chi 2 test ) , and hematocrit less than 30 % ( 0.30 ) ( p = .0001 by chi 2 test ) . additionally , the presence and amount of peritoneal fluid correlated with need for laparotomy and with mortality ( p = .0001 by chi 2 test for both ) . 
the clinical efficacy of triple-injection wrist arthrography . triple-injection wrist arthrography has been demonstrated to increase the likelihood that all the ligamentous perforations in an injured wrist will be diagnosed . however , compared with imaging after single injection of contrast material into the radiocarpal joint , triple-injection arthrography not only increases patient expense but also significantly increases the time required of both patients and arthrographers to obtain the diagnosis . with the goal of decreasing the number of triple injections , the author reviewed 50 consecutive triple-injection wrist arthrograms . using a technique based on high-volume injection of contrast material to achieve complete distention of the joint , the author achieved a false-negative rate for demonstration of complete perforations with radiocarpal injection alone of only 2 % ( 10 % if partial perforations were included ) . in none of these cases was patient treatment altered by the additional information provided by the second and third injections . this false-negative rate is significantly lower than that reported previously and raises the question of whether there are circumstances in which the easier and less time-consuming single radiocarpal injection might be appropriate . 
occult posttraumatic osteochondral lesions of the knee : prevalence , classification , and short-term sequelae evaluated with mr imaging . the prevalence , characterization , and classification of acute , post-traumatic , occult subcortical fractures of the knee , identified at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging , were evaluated prospectively in 120 consecutive patients first seen with acute posttraumatic hemarthrosis of the knee . occult subcortical femoral and tibial fractures were identified in 72 % of patients . a modified mr imaging classification is suggested based on a combination of the appearances of such lesions at mr imaging and their short-term osteochondral sequelae . among 67 % of a cohort of 21 patients first seen with what have been described as occult geographic subcortical fractures , osteochondral sequelae were seen at follow-up mr imaging 6-12 months later . the evidence from this study indicates that specific subcategories of occult subcortical knee fractures are associated with an inordinately high prevalence of osteochondral sequelae , especially significant cartilage damage . 
accumulation of erythrocyte nucleotides and their pattern in lead workers . nucleotides in erythrocytes of lead-exposed subjects were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography ( hplc ) . most of the pyrimidine levels correlated well with blood lead concentrations ( pb-b ) and pyrimidine 5 ' - nucleotidase ( p5n ) activity . highly significant correlations were found between pb-b and uridine 5 ' - diphosphate-glucose ( udpg ) , cytidine 5 ' - triphosphate ( ctp ) , or cdp-choline ( cdpc ) . the levels of these compounds were sharply elevated when p5n activity was reduced to levels less than 7 mumole/h . g hemoglobin ( hb ) , which corresponded to a pb-b of 60 micrograms/100 g. therefore , concentration of these nucleotides may provide a useful index of lead poisoning . adenosine 5 ' - triphospate ( atp ) concentrations were correlated negatively with pb-b , whereas adenosine 5 ' - monophosphate ( amp ) concentrations were correlated positively with pb-b . these results suggest that lead affects not only pyrimidine nucleotide metabolism but also purine nucleotide metabolism ( energy production system ) . 
occult exposure to asbestos in steel workers revealed by bronchoalveolar lavage . to investigate the asbestos burden in a steelplant environment , we counted asbestos bodies ( abs ) in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( balf ) of 65 steel workers who had retired during the previous 5 y. they had worked for at least 15 y in the same area of the plant ( coke oven or blast furnace ) as maintenance or production workers . on the basis of occupational anamnesis , 28 had occasional past professional exposure to asbestos ; the remaining 37 workers denied any contact with asbestos . a total of 54 white-collar workers who had no occupational exposure to asbestos were included in the study as controls . an increased prevalence and concentration of abs was found in the balf of steel workers . electron microscopy and edax analysis of ab from steel workers revealed that the core fibers were mainly amphiboles . more abs were found in the balf of maintenance workers than in production workers . however , the balf from steel workers who denied any contact with asbestos revealed an increased ab burden v. controls . this demonstrates that steel workers may be subject to an occult exposure to amphiboles in the steelplant environment . 
high mortality and shortened life-span in patients with itai-itai disease and subjects with suspected disease . a follow-up study was conducted from 1967 to 1987 for patients diagnosed as having itai-itai disease , subjects who were suspected of having the disease , and controls . ninety-five subjects per category were selected after matching for age , sex , and residential area . the cumulative survival rate of the patients who had a definite diagnosis of itai-itai disease was significantly lower than that of the control group in every period after the first 3 y. the cumulative survival rate of the subjects who were suspected of having itai-itai disease and who had severe renal dysfunction due to cadmium pollution was significantly lower than that of the control group . these results demonstrate ( 1 ) the enduring negative influence of itai-itai disease on prognosis and ( 2 ) that the cadmium pollution-induced renal disorder adversely affects the health of the inhabitants of a cadmium-polluted area . 
respiratory health of plywood workers occupationally exposed to formaldehyde . this study was undertaken to enlarge our understanding of the adverse health effects of formaldehyde exposure in the workplace and community environment . the respiratory health status of 186 male plywood workers was evaluated by spirometric tests , respiratory questionnaires , and chest x-rays . area concentrations of formaldehyde were measured in the work environment and found to range from 0.28 to 3.48 ppm . the average personal exposure was to 1.13 ppm of formaldehyde . exposure to formaldehyde was associated with decrements in the baseline spirometric values , i.e. , forced expiratory volume in 1 sec ( fev1 .0 ) , forced expiratory volume/forced vital capacity ( fev/fvc ) , and fef25 % -75 % , and with several respiratory symptoms and diseases , including cough , phlegm , asthma , chronic bronchitis , and chest colds . the results of the study support the hypothesis that chronic exposure to formaldehyde induces symptoms and signs of chronic obstructive lung disease . 
blunt traumatic cardiac rupture . a 5-year experience . blunt traumatic cardiac rupture is associated with a high rate of mortality . a review of the computerized trauma registry ( 1983 to 1988 ) identified 32 patients with this injury ( ages 19 to 65 years ; mean age , 39.5 years ; 21 men and 11 women ) . twenty-one patients ( 65.6 % ) were injured in vehicular crashes , 3 ( 9.4 % ) in pedestrian accidents , 3 ( 9.4 % ) in motorcycle accidents ; 3 ( 9.4 % ) sustained crush injury ; 1 ( 3.1 % ) was injured by a fall ; and 1 ( 3.1 % ) was kicked in the chest by a horse . anatomic injuries included right atrial rupture ( 13 [ 40.6 % ] ) , left atrial rupture ( 8 [ 25 % ] ) , right ventricular rupture ( 10 [ 31.3 % ] ) , left ventricular rupture ( 4 [ 12.5 % ] ) , and rupture of two cardiac chambers ( 3 [ 9.4 % ] ) . diagnosis was made by thoracotomy in all 20 patients presenting in cardiac arrest . in the remaining 12 patients , the diagnosis was established in seven by emergency left anterolateral thoracotomy and in five by subxyphoid pericardial window . seven of these 12 patients ( 58.3 % ) had clinical cardiac tamponade and significant upper torso cyanosis . the mean injury severity score ( iss ) , trauma score ( ts ) , and glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) score were 33.8 , 13.2 , and 14.3 , respectively , among survivors and 51.5 , 8.3 , and 7.0 for nonsurvivors . the overall mortality rate was 81.3 % ( 26 of 32 patients ) , the only survivors being those presenting with vital signs ( 6 of 12 patients [ 50 % ] ) . all patients with rupture of two cardiac chambers or with ventricular rupture died . the mortality rate from myocardial rupture is very high . rapid prehospital transportation , a high index of suspicion , and prompt surgical intervention contribute to survival in these patients . 
the role of inhalation injury in burn trauma . a canadian experience . from 1977 to 1987 , 1705 thermally injured patients were admitted to the firefighters ' burn center at the university of alberta hospitals . thirteen hundred forty-four were male ( 78.8 % ) and 361 were female ( 21.2 % ) , with a mean total burn surface area ( tbsa ) of 15.1 ( sem + / - 0.4 % ) and a range of 1 % to 99 % tbsa . sixteen hundred thirty-five patients survived to be discharged from hospital , with an overall survival rate of 95.9 % . one hundred twenty-four burn patients ( 7.3 % ) suffered concomitant inhalation injury diagnosed by bronchoscopy . patients with inhalation injury suffered from larger tbsa ( 39.7 % + / - 2.8 % versus 12.2 % + / - 0.3 % ; p less than 0.01 ) than those without inhalation injury . inhalation injury increased the number of deaths from burn injury ( 34.7 % versus 1.7 % ; p less than 0.01 ) independent of age and tbsa . inhalation injury was associated with a threefold prolongation of hospital stay ( 23.7 + / - 0.7 versus 74.4 + / - 6.2 days ; p less than 0.01 ) and was independent of age and tbsa . multifactorial probit analysis was performed for both inhalation - and noninhalation-injured burned patients to allow tbsa and age adjusted rates of mortality for the burn population presented . the maximum detrimental effects of inhalation injury in burn patient outcome occurred when it coexisted with moderate ( 15 % to 29 % tbsa ) to large ( 30 % to 69 % tbsa ) thermal injuries . these data demonstrate that inhalation injury is an important comorbid factor in burn injury that increases the number of deaths substantially . most importantly such injuries also independently prolong the duration of hospitalization in a highly unpredictable fashion as compared to patients with cutaneous burns only . as such our data illustrate the extreme importance of inhalation injury as a comorbid factor following thermal injury and reveal the present limitations for accurate quantification of the magnitude of respiratory tract injury accompanying thermal trauma . 
removal of radiation-induced cataracts in patients treated for retinoblastoma . experience with removal of radiation-induced cataract in patients treated for retinoblastoma is limited . we retrospectively reviewed the records of 38 patients with retinoblastoma ( 42 eyes ) who underwent removal of radiation-induced cataract from 1973 to 1989 . nineteen eyes ( 45 % ) without macular tumors or severe radiation complications had final visual acuities in the range of 20/20 to 20/50 . one eye ( 2.4 % ) developed a rhegmatogenous retinal detachment and four eyes ( 9.5 % ) were noted to have amblyopia after cataract removal . three eyes ( 7 % ) developed retinoblastoma recurrence , one with extension of retinoblastoma into the subconjunctival space through the previous sclerotomy . exenteration was performed and the patient was alive after 8 years . cataract removal can be visually beneficial in selected patients with radiation-induced cataracts . 
pars plana vitrectomy for acute retinal detachment in penetrating ocular injuries . we studied 41 eyes with acute retinal detachment after penetrating ocular trauma in a retrospective cohort analysis . pars plana vitrectomy was performed in 28 eyes , while the remaining 13 eyes had only primary repair and closure of the wound . the two groups differed in the type of trauma ( more gunshot wounds in the vitrectomy group and more blunt injuries in the nonvitrectomized group ) . visual success ( visual acuity of 5/200 or better ) was observed in 10 ( 37 % ) of the eyes treated by vitrectomy compared with one ( 8 % ) of the eyes in the nonvitrectomy group . anatomic success was achieved in 21 ( 75 % ) of the eyes in the vitrectomy group but in only one ( 8 % ) of those in the nonvitrectomy group . enucleation or phthisis was observed in seven ( 54 % ) of the eyes in the nonvitrectomy group compared with only five ( 18 % ) in the vitrectomy group . significant prognostic factors for anatomic outcome in the vitrectomy group were the location of the laceration and the presence of the lens . 
traumatic synovitis analysed by arthroscopy and immunohistopathology . the synovitis induced in previously healthy subjects by knee joint trauma was investigated at arthroscopic surgery performed after 3-70 days . synovitis was confined to the areas of the synovial membrane bordering the cartilage lesion and displayed a varied intensity of inflammation . biopsies were sampled under direct vision from the area of the peak inflammatory intensity within each joint and analysed by immunohistopathology . only sparse lymphocytic infiltration and a slight increase of lining cell layers were found in the biopsies after as long as 70 days . the restricted extent and limited intensity of the inflammatory changes contrast with previous findings in rheumatoid arthritis . however , the arthroscopic and immunohistopathological signs of synovitis were no different . 
post-traumatic osteoarthritis -- a medico-legal minefield . a consensus view has been obtained from 108 colleagues about four major questions relating to post-traumatic osteoarthritis ( oa ) posed by a retired judge . in determining the likelihood of oa developing after a fracture , several factors must be taken into account . these include whether the fracture goes through the joint , the resulting angular deformity , the degree of soft tissue damage , the ensuing laxity of the joint , the presence of generalized oa , the involvement of nearby blood vessels supplying the bones of the joint and possibly the degree of immobilization . lower limb joints are more likely to develop arthritis after injury than arm joints as they carry more load ( although it would be wrong to think that arm joints were not load bearing ) . occupation is a further factor . age is thought to be important , with the elderly more at risk immediately , but the younger having longer in which to develop the disease . younger people are less likely to develop post-traumatic oa , unless there is involvement of the epiphysis or residual angular deformity . whilst in animals and in some fractures , degenerative changes begin immediately after damage to the joint , in most adults they take at least 2 years . the span is 2-5 years in more severe cases , including fractures of the joint line with a step in the surface , and associated dislocation . otherwise it may take 10 years . most of these data are anecdotal or obtained from retrospective surveys . there is great need for prospective work in this field . 
predictive index for optimizing empiric treatment of gram-negative bacteremia . in a survey of 296 episodes of gram-negative bacteremia in 286 patients ( aged 13-99 years ) , four clinical variables were found to predict both significantly and independently the subsequent isolation of a multiresistant strain ; hospital acquisition of the infection , antibiotic treatment before the bacteremic episode , endotracheal intubation , and thermal trauma as the cause of hospitalization . these variables were combined in an index that served to classify the patients into four groups with an increasing prevalence of multiresistant strains , pseudomonas isolates , and isolates resistant to each of the antibiotic drugs in common use . for example , the percentage of isolates susceptible to cefuroxime in the four groups were 79 % , 56 % , 34 % and 25 % , and to gentamicin , 89 % , 79 % , 46 % , and 33 % ( p less than .001 for both comparisons ) . the performance of the index was validated in a second group of 144 episodes of gram-negative bacteremia . the index kept its discriminative power . compared with the prescriptions of the attending physicians , the index could probably have improved empiric antibiotic treatment in 24 % of patients . 
antibody to human retroviruses among drug users in three east coast american cities , 1972-1976 . between 1972 and 1976 , 585 persons attending methadone maintenance clinics at east coast veterans hospitals were enrolled in a survey of hepatitis antibody prevalence . sera were tested for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and human t lymphotropic virus ( htlv ) using both htlv-i and htlv-ii immunoblots . clinical and death records were also reviewed . none of the sera had hiv antibodies ( upper 95 % confidence limit , 0.5 % ) ; however , 103 ( 18 % ) had reactivity to htlv . the profile of reactivity suggested that these subjects had been exposed to htlv-ii rather than to htlv-i . prevalence was as high in the early 1970s as today and correlated with duration of drug use rather than age . neither cancers , specific neurologic diseases , nor excess deaths from any cause ( overall 14 % ) could be ascribed to seropositivity . therefore , htlv ( probably htlv-ii ) has been a common infection of drug users for many years but adverse outcomes following infection were not demonstrated . 
basilar impression in osteogenesis imperfecta tarda . case report . a case is presented of basilar impression secondary to osteogenesis imperfecta tarda , associated with hemifacial spasm and brain-stem compression syndrome . the symptoms improved with posterior fossa decompression and posterior fusion . 
movement of hemostatic clips from the ventricles through the aqueduct to the lumbar spinal canal . case report . the authors report a patient in whom rebleeding after operation for a left temporal arteriovenous malformation resulted in the dislocation of multiple hemostatic clips . several clips , including a yasargil aneurysm clip , were detected incidentally in the lumbar spinal canal . no clinical signs or symptoms were noted . retrospectively , passage of the aneurysm clip through the aqueduct could be detected on computerized tomography scans performed to evaluate a series of epileptic seizures . 
idiopathic and glucocorticoid-induced spinal epidural lipomatosis . pathological overgrowth of the epidural fat in the spine has been described and reported nearly exclusively in patients either with cushing 's syndrome or on chronic intake of glucocorticoids for a variety of clinical disorders . the authors report four patients with documented spinal lipomatosis ( three pathologically and one radiologically ) . only one of these patients received corticosteroids , and none had an underlying endocrinological abnormality . all four patients were adult males with a mean age at onset of symptoms of 43 years ( range from 18 to 60 years ) . the symptoms ranged from simple neurogenic claudication and radicular pain to frank myelopathy . myelography followed by computerized tomography were instrumental in the diagnosis of the first three patients ; the fourth was diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging . the thoracic spine was involved in two cases and the lumbosacral area in the other two . the different treatment modalities were tailored according to the symptomatology of the patients . these included weight reduction of an overweight patient with minimal neurological findings in one case and decompressive laminectomy and fat debulking to achieve adequate cord decompression in the remaining three cases . two patients improved significantly , the condition of one stabilized , and the fourth required a second decompression at other spinal levels . the various modalities of treatment and their potential complications are discussed . 
pediatric spinal epidural metastases . a total of 2259 children with solid malignant tumors were treated at st. jude children 's research hospital between the years 1962 and 1987 . of these , 112 ( 5 % ) developed spinal epidural metastasis with spinal cord compression during the course of their disease process . metastatic epidural spinal cord compression was caused most commonly by ewing 's sarcoma and neuroblastoma , followed by osteogenic sarcoma , rhabdomyosarcoma , hodgkin 's disease , soft-tissue sarcoma , germ-cell tumor , wilm 's tumor , and ( rarely ) hepatoma . there was no significant difference in outcome between patients with small-cell tumors ( neuroblastoma , hodgkin 's disease , and germ-cell tumors ) who received only chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy and the patients with similar lesions who received a decompressive laminectomy alone or prior to chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy . patients with spinal cord compression from metastatic sarcoma ( ewing 's sarcoma , soft-tissue sarcoma , osteogenic sarcoma , and rhabdomyosarcoma ) showed a significant improvement with decompressive laminectomy alone or before medical therapy , compared to those who received radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy without posterior decompression . pediatric tumors invade the spinal canal via the neural foramen , compressing the spinal cord in a circumferential manner , allowing decompressive laminectomy ( posterior approach ) to be an effective surgical approach . sixty-six percent of children who had no evidence of motor or sensory function below the level of the compression became ambulatory after surgical decompression and medical treatment , regardless of tumor type . 
supplemental emergent chest computed tomography in the management of blunt torso trauma . the efficacy of conventional chest x-ray ( cxr ) in comparison to chest computed tomography ( cct ) in acutely injured blunt trauma patients was examined . over a 21-month period , 50 patients underwent cxr and cct according to a standard protocol , and their films and records were reviewed retrospectively . hemo - and/or pneumothorax ( hptx ) was noted in 12 patients ( five by cxr , 12 by cct ) . pulmonary contusion ( pc ) was identified in ten patients ( four by cxr , ten by cct ) . three additional false positive pc were diagnosed by cxr . therapy changes based upon cct findings occurred in seven of seven hptx and five of six pc . the two imaging techniques were complementary in detecting fractures . atelectasis was a common cct finding ( 58 % incidence ) . chest x-ray is less sensitive than chest computed tomography in the detection of hptx ( 42 % vs. 100 % ) and pc ( 40 % vs. 100 % ) . emergent chest computed tomography is recommended in stable patients with : 1 ) blunt high-energy torso trauma , 2 ) " cross-body " injury pattern , and/or 3 ) a mechanism of injury suggestive of chest trauma . 
penetrating iliac vascular injuries : recent experience with 233 consecutive patients . during a recent 11-year period , 233 consecutive patients with 358 penetrating iliac vascular injuries were treated at our institution . injuries of the common and external iliac arteries were most often repaired with lateral suture ( 31 % ) although several other techniques were also employed . lateral suture and ligation were used with nearly equal frequency in the management of venous injuries . the hospital mortality rate for the series was 28 % , and 56/66 deaths ( 85 % ) were due to exsanguination or shock . one patient , initially treated with an end-to-end anastomosis of the iliac artery , died a year after discharge from a ruptured false aneurysm . two patients treated with lateral suture of venous injuries died of pulmonary embolism . arterial complications occurred in 15 % of patients with arterial injuries and three patients required amputation . no graft infections occurred in 16 patients treated with ptfe interpositions , including four with associated colorectal injuries . venous complications occurred in 12 % of patients with venous injuries , and most were noted in those treated with ligation . four patients treated by venous ligation developed chronic venous insufficiency . the prevention of death from exsanguination is the greatest problem in the management of patients with iliac vascular injuries . although some late deaths and many complications may be related to the technique of vascular repair , circumstances often prohibit alternative methods . despite two deaths from pulmonary embolism , insufficient data exist to condemn lateral suture of venous injuries . 
the management of flail chest injury : factors affecting outcome . the records of 57 patients presenting with flail chest injury from 1981 through 1987 were reviewed to determine factors affecting morbidity and mortality . fifteen patients ( 26 % ) had 8 + rib fractures with a unilateral flail and seven ( 12 % ) had multiple rib fractures with a bilateral flail . thirty-two ( 56 % ) had moderate-severe pulmonary contusions and 44 ( 77 % ) required chest tubes for hemo-pneumothorax . ventilatory assistance was used in 36 ( 63 % ) . the major factors determining the need for ventilatory assistance were : an iss greater than or equal to 23 , blood transfusions in the first 24 hours , moderate-severe associated injuries ( fractures , head injuries or truncal organs requiring operation ) , and shock on admission ( p less than 0.001 ) . an adverse outcome occurred in 15 ( 28 % ) ; nine required ventilatory assistance greater than or equal to 14 days and six died of sepsis with pneumonia . the main factors associated with an adverse outcome were : an iss greater than or equal to 31 ( p less than 0.001 ) , moderate-severe associated injuries ( p less than 0.001 ) , and blood transfusions ( p less than 0.005 ) . although the primary determinants of an adverse outcome were the associated injuries and blood loss , a bilateral flail ( p less than 0.01 ) and age greater than or equal to 50 years ( p less than 0.02 ) were contributing factors . 
conservative management of duodenal trauma : a multicenter perspective . the experience of eight trauma centers with duodenal injuries was analyzed to identify trends in operative management , sources of duodenal-related morbidity , and causes of mortality . during the 5-year period ending december 1988 , 164 duodenal injuries were identified . patient ages ranged from 5 to 78 years . there were 38 class i , 70 class ii , 48 class iii , four class iv , and four class v injuries . injury mechanism was penetrating in 102 ( 62 % ) patients and blunt in 62 . primary repair of the duodenal injury was performed in 117 ( 71 % ) patients , including 27 patients also managed with pyloric exclusion and 12 with tube duodenostomy . duodenal resection with primary anastomosis was used in six ( 4 % ) patients and pancreatoduodenectomy was necessary in five ( 3 % ) . there were 30 ( 18 % ) deaths . the cause of death was uncontrolled hemorrhage from severe hepatic or vascular injuries in 22 ( 73 % ) patients . in only two ( 1 % ) patients could death be attributed to the duodenal injury ; each as the result of duodenal repair dehiscence and subsequent sepsis . duodenal-related morbidity was documented in 29 ( 18 % ) patients , including 22 patients with intra-abdominal abscess , six with duodenal fistula , and five with frank duodenal dehiscence . in summary , this analysis demonstrated : 1 ) the great majority of duodenal injuries can be managed by simple repair ; 2 ) tube duodenostomy is not a mandatory component of operative treatment ; 3 ) pyloric exclusion is a useful adjunct for more complex injuries ; 4 ) pancreatoduodenectomy is rarely necessary for civilian duodenal trauma ; 5 ) morbidity following duodenal trauma is more dependent on associated intra-abdominal injuries than the extent of duodenal trauma ; and 6 ) mortality following duodenal injuries is primarily related to associated vascular and hepatic trauma . 
mortality in trauma patients : the interaction between host factors and severity . data on host factors influencing mortality in trauma patients is sparse and contradictory . to develop a model for health policy decisions , we examined all trauma admissions to acute care hospitals in the state of california in the year 1986 . we looked at the influence of the following host factors : age , gender , and preinjury medical conditions , on mortality stratified by injury severity . the study group ( n = 199,737 ) had an overall mortality rate of 1.9 % . mortality increased starting at age 40 years and was independently influenced by gender , the presence of pre-existing disease , and the body region injured . in patients with minor injury , mortality rates became higher in the elderly at age 65 + . however , in patients with injuries of moderate severity , mortality increased in both middle age ( 40-64 ) and elderly groups ( 65 + ) . male gender was also a risk factor , present in both the elderly and middle age groups . while the presence of both pre-existing medical disease or injury to head or abdomen was related to increased mortality in middle-aged patients at all severity levels , neither accounted for the effect of gender . conclusion . age and gender influence mortality in trauma patients . these effects are not explained by documented pre-existing disease or region of injury . age and gender serve only as observable markers for subgroups of patients with impaired response to injury . middle-aged males comprise a previously unrecognized high-risk subgroup for this impaired response . 
the management of large soft-tissue defects following close-range shotgun injury . large soft-tissue defects following close-range shotgun blasts remain a major technical challenge to trauma surgeons . during the period 1980 through 1988 , 43 patients who survived greater than 48 hours following this injury were managed in our center . the locations of their soft-tissue defects were : extremity , 22 ; abdomen/chest , 18 ; and head/neck , three . all patients underwent immediate surgical exploration and wide debridement of all devitalized tissue along with repair of associated injuries . management included mandatory frequent dressing changes , debridement , irrigation in the operating room , and the perioperative administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics . four patients whose abdominal wall defects could not be initially closed had temporary placement of rayon cloth to prevent evisceration . overall , four patients underwent delayed primary closure , eight were covered with split-thickness skin grafts , nine had closure with myocutaneous flaps , and 19 closed by secondary intent . two patients , who were transferred to us following initial management , developed wound sepsis due to inadequate debridement and both eventually required amputation as did one patient who developed early myonecrosis following lengthy arterial repair . frequent operative dressing changes , adequate debridement , and irrigation minimize sepsis following close-range shotgun blasts and should be the treatment of choice for this devastating injury . techniques of wound closure need to be individualized to the particular situation . 
nonoperative management of blunt liver injuries in adults : the need for continued surveillance . computed tomography ( ct ) scanning after blunt abdominal trauma has allowed nonoperative management of selected patients with liver injuries . this report describes 52 adult patients with liver injuries who were treated without immediate surgery . thirty-four of these hepatic injuries were relatively minor ( grade i-ii ) , and 18 were considered major ( grade iii-v ) . free intraperitoneal blood in small to large amounts was evident on ct in 37 patients . there were no deaths in this series , no major complications , no known missed intra-abdominal injuries , and no delayed hemorrhage . while most liver injuries appear to heal rapidly by serial ct scans , a small percentage of these patients have residual liver defects persisting for several months and may be at risk for future complications . 
dynamic computerized tomography of the occiput-atlas-axis complex in trauma patients with odontoid lateral mass asymmetry . over a 23-month period , 25 patients aged 11 to 74 years presented to our level i trauma center with odontoid lateral mass asymmetry of 2 to 5 mm on properly centered ap open-mouth x-rays : 32 % of patients were asymptomatic , 68 % had cervical pain , and 32 % had limited range of motion . patients with cervical spine fractures or dislocations and those with fixed deformity were excluded . the clinical significance of asymmetry was determined utilizing dynamic axial ct scanning of the occiput ( c0 ) , atlas ( c1 ) and axis ( c2 ) with the head neutral and with 15 degrees to 30 degrees active rotation . nineteen patients demonstrated greater than 5 degrees of relative motion of c1 on c2 bilaterally . three patients had less than 5 degrees of relative motion bilaterally and three patients had less than 5 degrees relative motion with left rotation only . no patient had formal treatment and all had nearly normal cervical range of motion on clinical examination at the time of hospital discharge . the finding of an asymmetric odontoid-lateral mass interspace on properly centered open-mouth ap x-rays in the presence of otherwise normal cervical spine x-rays , in conscious patients without fixed deformity , appears to be incidental and requires no further evaluation or treatment . 
complications in evaluating abdominal trauma : diagnostic peritoneal lavage versus computerized axial tomography . we reviewed our experience with 2,809 dpl 's and 1,331 ct 's obtained in the resuscitative phase over a 3-year period in our trauma system to determine the significant complications associated with each modality . there were 25 dpl complications : eight false negatives , three false positives , and 14 technical errors . there were 46 ct complications including 25 false negative scans , three false positive scans , and 18 delays to the operating room from obtaining abdominal ct evaluation , with two of these delays resulting in preventable deaths . although both modalities had low complication rates ( 0.9 % dpl vs. 3.4 % ct ) , dpl was associated with less preventable mortality and morbidity than ct in the evaluation of abdominal trauma . 
blunt carotid artery dissection : incidence , associated injuries , screening , and treatment . blunt carotid dissection ( bcd ) is a rare injury occurring in less than one in 1,000 victims of blunt injuries . using a 4-year experience in a trauma system with 14 cases of bcd , we performed a matched blunt trauma patient case-control analysis to determine if there were patterns of injuries that were associated with increased risk of bcd . patients with combinations of head , facial , and cervical spine injuries with or without extremity fractures proved to be at significantly increased risk for bcd . duplex scanning appears to be a useful screening tool for these patients . anticoagulation was the preferred treatment once neurologic deficits were present . 
the effect of alcohol in isolated blunt splenic trauma . the effect of alcohol on trauma patients is controversial , with numerous authors citing no difference in mortality in acutely intoxicated patients . the purpose of our study was to retrospectively investigate the effect of alcohol in adult patients with isolated blunt splenic injury . from 1980 through 1989 , 47 adult patients with splenic trauma as the only major injury were admitted to the trauma service . there were 37 males and ten females with a mean age of 29 years ( range , 15 to 61 ) . motor vehicle accidents were responsible for 44 ( 94 % ) of the injuries . group 1 consisted of 24 patients with a mean blood alcohol level of 185 mg/dl ( range , 15 to 380 ) . in group 2 there were 23 patients without detectable blood alcohol . there were no statistically significant differences between the two groups in age , abbreviated injury severity score , initial hematocrit , and grade of splenic injury . hypotension was present in 13 patients ( 55 % ) in group 1 versus six patients ( 26 % ) in group 2 ( p less than 0.05 ) . significant abnormalities in clotting studies were present on admission in six patients ( 25 % ) in the alcohol-detected group versus one in the other group ( p less than 0.05 ) . blood transfusion requirements in the first 24 hours were significantly greater in group 1 ( mean , 3.9 units ) versus group 2 ( mean , 0.5 units ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . if alcohol was present , there was much less chance for splenic conservation , as 18 patients ( 75 % ) underwent splenectomy versus seven patients ( 30 % ) in the nonalcohol group ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was one death and this occurred in a patient acutely intoxicated who suffered a cerebral infarct . 
treatment of candidosis in severely injured adults with short-course , low-dose amphotericin b. thirty-three ( 0.7 % ) of 4,818 trauma patients admitted between january 1 , 1987 , and july 1 , 1989 , developed invasive candidosis requiring iv antifungal therapy . all patients were seriously traumatized . before developing candidosis , all patients had documented bacterial infections . these infections were generally polymicrobial and were treated with multiple broad-spectrum antibiotics ( an average of 5.4 antibiotics for 17.2 days ) . twenty-eight ( 85 % ) of 33 patients received enteral feedings for an average of 11 days + / - 1.5 ( sem ) before developing candidosis and 24 ( 73 % ) received ng/oral nystatin for an average of 7.6 days + / - 0.9 before developing candidosis . all patients with candidosis were treated with intravenous amphotericin b : cumulative dose of 157.3 mg + / - 31.3 mg given over 10 days + / - 1.1 . one patient developed recurrent candidosis despite ng/oral prophylaxis and enteral feedings . six patients ( 18 % ) died due to sepsis and multiple organ failure . the patients who died did not objectively differ from the survivors . candidosis is an infrequent infection in severely injured patients . candidosis was invariably preceded by treatment with multiple broad-spectrum antibiotics for a variety of polymicrobial bacterial infections . ng/oral nystatin and enteral feedings did not prevent candidosis , in contrast to widely accepted beliefs . amphotericin b therapy was safe . recurrent candidosis was unusual . candida infections had a high mortality rate associated with multiple blood transfusions and prolonged hospitalization . candidosis represents a sign of severe injury and illness but can be amenable to prompt , aggressive treatment . 
unintentional injury death rates in rural appalachia . rural unintentional injury ( ui ) death rates are higher than rates for urban regions . our trauma center serves 49 rural appalachian ( ap ) counties in a 120-county rural state . we investigated the impact of prehospital and hospital resources on ui death rates in our referral area . age-adjusted and average age - and sex-specific ui death rates from 1979-1985 were compared among 49 rural ap counties , the 71 non-appalachian ( nap ) counties , and the united states . counties were grouped for comparisons by level of prehospital care ( advanced life support [ als ] vs. basic life support [ bls ] ) and by presence ( h ) or absence ( nh ) of a hospital . death rates were calculated using data from the 1980 population census , the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) , and state vital statistics . within ap , all 49 counties have ambulance service . only 9/49 ( 18 % ) have als service and 13/49 ( 26 % ) have no hospital . age-specific ap rates were higher than nap and us rates in the 25-44 and 45-64 year age groups . ap death rates were highest for bls and nh counties across all age groups . rural ui death rates in the region remain unacceptably high . the reason ( s ) that ap death rates exceed the nap rates is uncertain . als service and an available hospital were associated with lower death rates . we propose both educational and epidemiologic programs to better identify and define additional problems . 
do trauma centers improve outcome over non-trauma centers : the evaluation of regional trauma care using discharge abstract data and patient management categories . development of regional medical care systems to treat patients who sustain major accidental injuries ( trauma victims ) has been based on autopsy studies which demonstrate that hospitals that meet certain accepted criteria of readiness ( trauma centers ) can prevent needless deaths of trauma victims . however , since only autopsy data have been available from non-trauma centers , it has not previously been possible to compare morbidity data between trauma centers and non-trauma hospitals . this study examines discharge abstract data and a new patient classification system called patient management categories ( pmc ) which are generated from this abstract data to evaluate length of stay ( los ) , complications , and death to compare morbidity and mortality data from trauma centers and non-trauma centers . discharge abstracts for 1,332 patients with the pmc of femoral shaft fracture with operation were obtained from all hospitals in western pennsylvania and maryland for 1 year . data from trauma centers were identified and compared to non-trauma centers using the following criteria : time to or ( less than or equal to 2 days vs. greater than 2 days ) , age ( 0-12 , 13-55 , greater than 55 years ) , associated injuries , and development of complications and death . patients treated in trauma centers had significantly fewer complications ( 21 % vs. 33 % ; p less than 0.001 ) and lower mortality rates ( p less than 0.05 ) than those treated in non-trauma centers . associated injuries , age , complications , and/or delay in time to or significantly increased intensity and length of stay in both trauma and non-trauma centers . this significantly increased the cost of care provided to these patients in both types of centers . 
central venous oxygen saturation : a useful clinical tool in trauma patients . an accurate method of estimating acute blood loss is essential in the evaluation of injured patients . central venous oxygen ( cvo2 ) saturation has been shown to be a sensitive and reliable correlate of blood loss in an animal model but its clinical validity is unproven . we evaluated 26 consecutive patients with an injury mechanism suggesting blood loss but who were deemed stable after initial evaluation . vital signs ( pulse , blood pressure , pulse pressure , urine output , cvp ) and cvo2 saturation were serially measured . blood loss was estimated by direct intracavitary collection or serial hematocrits and acute transfusion requirements . despite stable vital signs , ten patients ( 39 % ) had cvo2 saturations under 65 % . these patients had more serious injuries , significantly larger estimated blood losses , and required more transfusions than those patients with cvo2 saturation greater than 65 % . linear regression analysis demonstrated the superiority of cvo2 saturation to predict blood loss with a p value less than 0.005 relative to any of the normally followed parameters . cvo2 saturation is a reliable and sensitive method for detecting blood loss . it is a useful tool in the evaluation of acutely injured patients . 
management issues for trauma patients with alcohol . an estimated 20-25 % of patients treated in emergency departments or as inpatients for trauma have been drinking and most of them have bacs of 0.10 gm/dl ( 22 mmol/l ) or higher . many are problem drinkers or alcoholics , smokers , and also abuse other drugs . both acute ingestion and chronic abuse of alcohol increase the frequency and severity of injury , and may complicate patient management by mimicking head trauma , masking intra-abdominal injury , causing circulatory collapse , reducing immune response , altering hepatic metabolism , or causing delirium tremens . proper management of a trauma patient with alcohol includes bac determination , careful history taking for alcoholism with referral for further evaluation or treatment when indicated , and determination whether other drugs are also being misused . failure to do these may put a physician at legal risk both for improper care of the patient and for exposing others to injury if the patient crashes after being discharged from the emergency department while still impaired by alcohol . 
metabolism of platelet activating factor ( paf ) and lyso-paf in polymorphonuclear granulocytes from severely burned patients . we studied the metabolism of 3h-platelet activating factor ( paf ) and lyso-paf in human polymorphonuclear granulocytes ( pmn ) from severely burned patients ( n = 6 ) on days 1 , 5 , 9 , 15 , and 25 post-trauma . all patients suffered from a severe burn trauma of more than 30 % total body surface area . stimulation of pmn in healthy donors ( n = 10 ) with the ca-ionophore resulted in the conversion of 3h-lyso-paf into paf ( 18 + / - 2 % of total radioactivity ) and alkyl-acyl-glycero-phosphorylcholine ( alkyl-acyl-gpc , 50 + / - 6 % ) . in burned patients a significantly reduced formation of 3h-paf was observed between days 1 and 15 post-trauma ( day 9 : 1 + / - 1 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . this pattern was normalized again in patients ( n = 5 ) who survived the trauma after septic periods and was observed during the second week post-trauma . in one patient who succumbed to his injuries a sustained inhibition of paf formation was observed up to his death . the decreased formation of paf correlated weakly with the appearance of immature granulocytes within the analyzed cell fraction ( ratio of immature cells versus paf-formation , r = -0.55 , p = 0.02 ) . 
conservative management of aortic lacerations due to blunt trauma . three patients with angiographically documented thoracic aortic lacerations were managed conservatively over 8 years due to the nonthreatening appearance of the injuries in two and the presence of an associated major closed head injury in a third . the lesion ( s ) resolved in one , diminished in another , and remained unchanged in the third . at least ten other cases managed similarly are recorded in the literature . in certain selected circumstances this approach may represent a viable alternative to the current standard of immediate surgical correction of aortic injuries . 
management of close-range shotgun injuries to the chest by diaphragmatic transposition : case reports . a method of reconstructing the chest wall following close-range shotgun injuries is described . this technique requires detaching the diaphragm peripherally and suturing it above the chest wall defect , resulting in an intact chest cavity and an abdominal wall defect . this latter problem can then be addressed by a variety of standard methods . two patients are presented with excellent long-term results of diaphragmatic transposition , which should be in the armamentarium of all surgeons who deal with trunk trauma . 
fracture-dislocation of the base of the fifth metacarpal with an ulnar motor nerve lesion : case report . we report a case of delayed diagnosis of a fracture dislocation of the base of the fifth metacarpal with a resultant ulnar motor nerve lesion . the patient achieved marked improvement after fracture reduction and ulnar neurolysis . 
carotid-esophageal fistula following a penetrating neck injury : case report . carotid arterial injuries frequently are associated with injuries to adjacent structure of the neck , particularly the esophagus and trachea . complications from these repairs are common and fistula formation is herein described between the carotid artery and esophageal repair . 
traumatic left renal artery stenosis managed with splenorenal bypass : case report . splenorenal arterial bypass is a well established technique for the treatment of left renal artery occlusive disease . the following is a case report of the use of splenorenal bypass in the management of concomitant traumatic left renal artery intimal dissection and splenic laceration . arteriographic and intraoperative findings are presented as well as a review of pertinent literature . 
fractures of the coracoid process : presentation of seven cases and review of the literature . coracoid process fracture is a rare and uncommon clinical entity . seven cases of the base of the coracoid process are presented . this fracture was isolated in one case , being in the other six cases combined with injuries , either to acromioclavicular dislocation or to fracture of the superior glenoid cavity disorder . one of these patients had associated fractures of the clavicle and the coracoid process . the treatment was conservative in all cases . results were satisfactory and therefore nonoperative management is advocated . 
septic hip in pelvic fracture with urologic trauma : case report . urologic injuries occur in 10 % of pelvic fractures and hip sepsis is a rare complication . the symptoms of a septic hip are often not as dramatic when found in the setting of an acute pelvic fracture and may be overlooked . a case is presented with a review of the literature . early recognition and aggressive surgical debridement are important to prevent the long-term sequelae of septic arthritis . 
delayed , exsanguinating pelvic hemorrhage after blunt trauma without bony fracture : case report . we present a case of a young man who developed a delayed , life-threatening hemorrhage after blunt pelvic trauma . he did not have a bony fracture . successful management of the hemorrhage with angiographic embolization and the complex subsequent course are discussed . 
intra-aortic balloon pump for combined myocardial contusion and thoracic aortic rupture . the coexistence of myocardial contusion and thoracic aortic injury is probably more common than recognized following rapid deceleration multisystem trauma . this report describes the successful application of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation in a critically injured patient requiring emergent repair of a thoracic aortic tear complicated by ventricular failure due to cardiac contusion . 
intramyocardial shotgun pellets diagnosed on initial emergency room chest x-ray : case report . the diagnosis of retained intracardiac missile is usually made at thoracotomy or fluoroscopy . close inspection of plain chest x-rays may reveal blurring of radiopaque objects that are moving with the beating heart . in a gunshot wound victim who is initially stable , observation of this phenomenon should prompt a very high index of suspicion for cardiac injury . invasive hemodynamic monitoring is indicated , and thoracotomy should be performed if penetrating cardiac injury is confirmed . 
thiazide diuretics and the risk of hip fracture . results from the framingham study . thiazide diuretics may preserve bone mass and prevent elderly women 's osteopenic fractures , but studies have not distinguished between thiazide preparations or examined former users . we performed a case-control study looking at thiazide use and subsequent hip fracture in postmenopausal female members of the framingham study cohort . cases who had experienced a first hip fracture ( n = 176 ) were compared with age-matched controls ( n = 672 ) . results showed a modest protective effect of any recent thiazide use ( not significant ) . however , recent pure thiazide users experienced significant protection against fracture ( adjusted odds ratio , 0.31 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.11 to 0.88 ) , whereas recent users of combination drugs containing thiazides experienced no protection ( adjusted odds ratio , 1.16 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.44 to 3.05 ) . combination drugs generally contained only 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide , suggesting that the small amount of thiazide was insufficient to preserve bone mass . former thiazide users were not protected against fracture . in sum , recent pure thiazide use in women protects against hip fracture . 
rapid sequence treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract : a pilot study . a review of the literature suggested that prolonged treatment time may lessen the probability of cure for patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the upper aerodigestive tract . to shorten treatment time , rapid sequence treatment ( rst ) was devised in which chemotherapy , surgery , and irradation were administered in a total treatment time of 8 weeks . twelve patients were treated and followed 3 years or longer . medical complications were minor . osteonecrosis occurred in each of the first five patients and was the only major complication of the protocol . surgical techniques were modified , and no additional patient developed osteonecrosis . no patient developed local or regional recurrence . two patients developed distant metastases and three other patients developed second primaries . absolute survival was 50 % . rapid sequence treatment is an aggressive and potentially hazardous protocol that yielded encouraging results in this pilot study . 
surgical outcome in 435 patients who sustained missile head wounds during the iran-iraq war . variables important in predicting the final postsurgical outcome of 435 patients who sustained missile head wounds during the iran-iraq war were evaluated over a 99-month period . the type of projectile , site of injury , and presence or absence of foreign material did not seem to have a significant effect on the final outcome . of the patients with a perforating type of injury , 48.8 % had a poor surgical outcome as compared with 19.9 % with a penetrating type and 15.6 % with a tangential type . this difference is statistically significant ( chi 2 = 14.7 and 17.1 , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) . the most important factor in predicting overall outcome was the glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) score at the time of admission . mortality and morbidity contributing to a poor surgical outcome were noted in only 6 % of patients with a gcs score at admission of 13 to 15 , in 24.6 % of those with a gcs score of 9 to 12 , in 57 % of those with a gcs score of 6 to 8 , and in 65 % of those with a gcs score of 3 to 5 . of the 71 patients who died , 75 % had a score of 3 to 8 . perforating projectiles or those traversing two or more dural compartments were statistically significant in contributing to mortality and morbidity ( chi 2 = 17.2 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the incidence of focal neurological deficit was 100 , 90.6 , 88 , and 52.2 % in patients with gcs scores of 3 to 5 , 6 to 8 , 9 to 12 , and 13 to 15 , respectively . the two best predictors of mortality in this group of patients were a low gcs score and infection . 
civilian gunshot wounds to the head : a prospective study . previous retrospective studies of cranial gunshot wounds have failed to determine whether aggressive field resuscitation , triage to a neurosurgical center , and early surgical intervention can improve the assumed poor outcome of these severely injured patients . therefore , we studied 100 consecutive patients prospectively to establish a systematic approach to treatment . if the patient retained two or more neurological signs after aggressive field resuscitation/intubation , a computed tomographic scan was performed . rapid surgical debridement was done unless the patient deteriorated to clinical brain death . the glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) score after resuscitation was 3 to 5 in 58 patients , 6 to 8 in 8 patients , 9 to 12 in 12 patients , and 13 to 15 in 22 patients . seventy-six computed tomographic scans and 43 craniotomies were performed . the glasgow outcome scale scores showed that 60 patients died , 2 were vegetative , 6 were severely disabled , 20 were moderately disabled , and 13 had good outcomes . there were 10 postoperative deaths . no patient with a gcs score of 3 to 5 had a satisfactory outcome ; however , outcome progressively improved as the gcs score increased . we conclude that all cranial gunshot patients should initially receive aggressive resuscitation . patients with stable vital signs should be examined by computed tomographic scan . if the patient 's gcs score after resuscitation is 3 to 5 and no operable hematomas are present , then no further therapy should be offered . all patients with a gcs score greater than 5 should receive aggressive surgical therapy . 
a detachable balloon procedure for a traumatic internal carotid-internal jugular fistula : report of a case a case of a traumatic fistula between the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein is reported . the fistula was treated by detachable balloon occlusion and clipping of the internal carotid artery . 
syringomyelia secondary to compression of the cervical spinal cord by an extramedullary lymphoma . a case of syringomyelia secondary to an extramedullary cervical spinal cord compression by a non-hodgkin 's lymphoma is described . after radiotherapy , the syrinx was no longer seen . the pathogenesis of this type of syrinx is discussed , and the potential benefit of radiotherapy in these cases is suggested . 
injuries of the external ear . ear injuries occur in people of all ages but predominate in active people such as wrestlers , boxers , and bike riders . the types and extent of injury are a function of the force causing the injury . shearing forces of moderate intensity cause hematoma formation , whereas greater force causes lacerations or even amputation . sharp objects cause lacerations determined by the force , direction , and point of impact . the high ratio of surface area to mass makes the auricle vulnerable to extremes of temperature . people participating in high-risk activities should wear protective headgear . the goal of treatment is to restore the normal contours while preventing infection . hematoma results in disfigurement by organization or chondritis . evacuation and pressure dressings using sterile technique correct the condition . second-degree burns are treated by regular cleansing and application of topical antimicrobials . deeper burns require debridement , biologic dressings , or burying the cartilage subcutaneously for later reconstruction . simple lacerations are closed under aseptic technique using either skin-to-skin sutures only or sutures of the skin combined with intercartilage sutures . extensive and complex lacerations require meticulous care to match all fragments and prevent infection or loss of tissue . bare cartilage must be covered with vascularized tissue . the treatment of total amputation is controversial . some advocate reattachment as a composite graft using intravenous low molecular weight dextrans and heparin as adjuvants . mladick dermabrades the amputated pinna , reattaches it with sutures , and then slips it into a pocket of elevated postauricular skin for 2 weeks . others urge microvascular reanastomosis of the small nutrient vessels . brent and byrd separate the cartilage from its overlying skin and envelope it first with vascularized temporoparietal fascia and then a split-thickness skin graft . chondritis is the most feared complication of injury or surgery of the pinna . it is an aggressive process , and prompt removal of pus and necrotic cartilage is required . exteriorization and removal of all cartilage is effective but disfiguring . removal of only affected cartilage and constant irrigation with antibiotic solutions is effective but requires prolonged hospitalization . iontophoresis of antibiotics into the auricle may be effective and conserve tissue . traumatic deformities are corrected with composite grafts from the opposite ear , costal cartilage , and local pedicled flaps . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
concepts of soft-tissue trauma repair . the proper evaluation and treatment of soft-tissue trauma to the face is extremely important because of the psychologic , cosmetic , and functional sequelae that can occur from these injuries . the facial trauma surgeon should have a wide armamentarium of techniques to manage soft-tissue facial trauma and should approach the repair in a meticulous and scientific fashion . although the best possible repair of the acute trauma is the goal , it is usually necessary to perform later some camouflage or revision procedures on the scar because of the high likelihood of hypertrophic scarring or inappropriate healing in the trauma scar . 
unsupervised children in vehicles : a risk for pediatric trauma . in this study , a series of instances of children injured by a motor vehicle set in motion by an unsupervised child are reviewed . during a 24-month period , nine such children were identified through a multihospital and coroner 's office monitoring system in a single urban county . injuries ranged from multiple abrasions and contusions to serious leg and head injuries . three children died . the typical circumstance involved a child releasing the brake or placing the vehicle in gear in a private driveway which resulted in the vehicle striking or rolling over the victim . in four of the nine cases , the child who set the vehicle in motion fell or jumped from the vehicle and then became the injured victim . the extent of these unusual motor vehicle-related injuries is unknown because they are unlikely to be reported in official police statistics . according to the study findings , there is a need to educate the public and health professionals about the risks associated with leaving a child unattended in a motor vehicle and the hazardous environment of the private driveway . preventive measures would include not leaving a child unattended in a vehicle , locking unattended vehicles to prevent access , and redesigning of private driveways . 
delayed anterior decompression in patients with spinal cord and cauda equina injuries of the thoracolumbar spine . forty-nine patients with complete and incomplete injuries of the spinal cord or cauda equina who had undergone anterior decompression at a minimum of 3 months after injury were examined . follow-up was from 12 months to 19 years . postoperative neurologic improvement occurred in 46.5 % of patients with incomplete injuries . if the surgery was performed less than 2 years after injury , neurologic improvement occurred in 68 % with an improvement in frankel grade of 32 % . bladder function improved in 27 % of patients and if operated on less than 2 years after injury improvement occurred in 43 % . conus medullaris decompression resulted in a 50 % improvement . there was an 83 % improvement in the pattern of pain after decompression . of 23 patients with preoperative spasticity , 10 improved but 6 were worse after surgery . 
sagittal index in management of thoracolumbar burst fractures . in an effort to quantify the risk for late progression in burst fractures , the sagittal index ( si ) was defined to help to assess the segmental deformity at the level of the fracture . the si is a measurement of the kyphotic segmental deformity corrected for the normal sagittal contour at the level of the deformed segment . a prospective study was devised in 1986 for burst fracture treatment . complete data were available on 35 patients ( 22 males , 13 females ) , with an average follow-up of 27 months . si was greater than 15 degrees in the first group , the members of which were treated surgically . the technique is described . si was less than 15 degrees in the third group , the members of which were treated conservatively . the second control group included patients with si greater than 15 degrees but who were not treated according to the authors protocol for independent reasons . the results suggest that si is a useful criteria to assess deformity and predict progression of segmental kyphosis . 
nonoperative observation of clinically occult arterial injuries : a prospective evaluation forty-seven patients with 50 clinically occult injuries of major arteries were studied prospectively to determine the natural history of these lesions and the safety of nonoperative management . penetrating trauma was the predominant mechanism and lower extremity arteries were most commonly involved . the morphology of these arterial injuries included 22 cases of intimal flaps , 21 cases of segmental arterial narrowing , 6 pseudoaneurysms , and 1 acute arteriovenous fistula . there was one death as a result of unrelated causes and another three injuries operated on immediately after arteriographic diagnosis . the remaining 46 injuries were followed up nonoperatively by serial arteriography ( 39 ) or clinical examination ( 7 ) during a mean interval of 3.1 months ( range , 3 days to 27 months ) . complete resolution was documented for 29 injuries ( 63 % ) , whereas 3 improved , 9 remained unchanged , and 5 worsened during the period of follow-up . all worsened cases involved small or occult pseudoaneurysms that subsequently enlarged and then underwent immediate surgical repair without subsequent morbidity . because 89 % of the followed injuries never required surgery , nonoperative observation appears to be a safe and effective management option for clinically occult arterial injuries . 
tardive dyskinesia . tardive dyskinesia is a potentially irreversible syndrome of involuntary hyperkinetic movements that occur in predisposed persons receiving extended neuroleptic ( antipsychotic ) drug therapy . it is usually characterized by choreoathetoid dyskinesias in the orofacial , limb , and truncal regions , but subtypes of this syndrome may include tardive dystonia and tardive akathisia . although the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of this disorder are unproven , altered dopaminergic functions will likely play a role in any explanation of it . tardive dyskinesia develops in 20 % of neuroleptic-treated patients , but high-risk groups such as the elderly have substantially higher rates . risk factors include age , female sex , affective disorders , and probably those without psychotic diagnoses , including patients receiving drugs with antidopaminergic activity for nausea or gastrointestinal dysfunction for extended periods . total drug exposure is positively correlated with tardive dyskinesia risk . management strategies include a careful evaluation of both the psychiatric and neurologic states , a broad differential diagnosis , and adjustment of neuroleptic agents to the lowest effective dose that controls psychosis and minimizes motor side effects . no drug therapy is uniformly safe and effective for treating this disorder . a favorable long-term outcome of improvement or resolution correlates with younger age , early detection , lower drug exposure , and duration of follow-up . 
axis ii comorbidity in substance abusers objective : to assess the complex relationship between substance abuse and personality disorders , the authors determined the prevalence of personality disorders in a group of middle-class substance abusers and compared the subjects who had personality disorders with those who did not . method : the subjects were drawn from patients consecutively admitted to an inpatient substance abuse program in a private psychiatric hospital ; they were the first 100 who agreed to participate . substance dependence was diagnosed according to dsm-iii-r , and the patients were assessed with the structured clinical interview for dsm-iii-r personality disorders , alcohol use inventory , mmpi , health and daily living form , shipley institute of living scale , and measures of chemical use and life satisfaction . results : of the 100 substance abusers , 57 had personality disorders . these patients differed significantly from the 43 patients without personality disorders in several ways : they had greater involvement with illegal drugs , had different patterns of alcohol use , had greater psychopathology , were less satisfied with their lives , and were more impulsive , isolated , and depressed . conclusions : because of the marked differences between the substance abusers with and without personality disorders , a uniform approach to substance abuse treatment may be inadequate . 
psychiatric morbidity in adult inpatients with childhood histories of sexual and physical abuse . objective : to extend the knowledge on long-term effects of childhood abuse in psychiatric patients to a large sample , the authors explored childhood sexual and physical abuse in adult inpatients over 1,040 consecutive admissions . method : the 947 patients were admitted to a tertiary-care military medical center . each patient was interviewed , and abuse history , dsm-iii-r diagnosis , and other characteristics were recorded . results : the prevalence of reported childhood abuse was 18 % overall : 9 % for sexual abuse ( with or without physical abuse ) , 10 % for physical abuse ( with or without sexual abuse ) , and 3 % for combined abuse . more female than male patients reported abuse . alcohol use disorders were more common in victims of physical or combined abuse than in sexually abused or nonabused patients . axis ii diagnoses , particularly borderline personality disorder , were more frequent in abuse victims than in nonabused patients . histories of drug and alcohol abuse were more common in patients reporting physical or combined abuse than in nonabused patients . suicidality was also more frequent in abused than nonabused inpatients and was noted in 79 % of the patients with histories of combined abuse . combined abuse in women and physical abuse in men were associated with a family history of psychiatric illness , most commonly alcoholism in male relatives . conclusions : these findings emphasize the need for greater attention to family dynamics , aggressive diagnosis and treatment of alcoholism within the family , and , especially , determination of patients ' abuse histories , even if repeated questioning is necessary . 
accidental firearm fatalities among new mexico children . study hypothesis : risk factors associated with unintentional gunshot fatalities among children include gender and race of the decedent , type of firearm used , and whether loaded guns are stored within the home . study population : all new mexico children 0 to 14 years old unintentionally killed by a firearm between 1984 and 1988 . methods : the new mexico office of the medical investigator master mortality file was reviewed retrospectively to identify all unintentional firearm fatalities occurring in new mexico children during a five-year period . medical investigator , autopsy , and police reports were analyzed to identify epidemiologic factors associated with these deaths . chi-square and fisher 's exact tests were used to analyze the data . results : twenty-five unintentional firearm fatalities were identified . these deaths occurred most frequently among children playing with loaded firearms found within the home . a disproportionate number involved handguns . conclusions : the study results provide a basis for preventive strategies that limit accessibility or decrease lethality of loaded firearms within the home . 
under-reporting of contaminated needlestick injuries in emergency health care workers . study hypothesis : there is considerable under-reporting of contaminated occupational needlestick and other sharp object injuries among emergency health care workers . population : a convenience sample of emergency physicians , emergency nurses , and emergency medical technicians ( emts ) . methods : a survey instrument eliciting demographic and work-related factors was developed and administered ; survey items included age , sex , occupation , years in occupation , number of procedures performed per week , number of contaminated needlestick ( and other " sharps " ) injuries recalled , and number of these injuries formally reported during the previous five years . nonsegmented visual analog scales were used to assess eight attitudes possibly associated with nonreporting . analysis was by analysis of variance and multiple linear regression with stepwise variable election . results : two hundred fifty-nine subjects recalled 643 contaminated exposures during the five-year study period , but only 228 ( 35 % ) were formally reported . one or more injuries occurred in 55 % of emts compared with 72 % of nurses and 80 % of physicians ( p less than .05 ) . physicians recalled a mean of 3.8 contaminated exposures , whereas nurses recalled 2.8 and emts recalled only 1.8 ( p less than .05 ) . physicians formally reported a mean of 0.26 exposures , whereas emts reported 0.85 and nurses reported 1.25 ( p less than .05 ) . physicians formally reported only one eighth of their injuries compared with emts and nurses , who each reported two thirds of these events ( p less than .05 ) . perception of risk , occupation , years in occupation , and concern about excessive paperwork were the most powerful predictors of low reporting rate ( p less than .05 ) . conclusions : work-related contaminated sharp object injuries are under-reported by emergency health care workers , especially emergency physicians . 
hangman 's fracture in a 7-week-old infant . the " hangman 's fracture " in infancy and childhood is a bilateral avulsion of the pedicles or their synchondroses from the c-2 vertebral body , frequently with anterior dislocation of c-2 or c-3 . we present the case of the youngest infant in the medical literature with a hangman 's fracture and discuss anatomy , kinematics of injury , radiographic diagnosis , and treatment . 
fatal capnocytophaga canimorsus septicemia in a previously healthy woman . a previously healthy 47-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with septic shock five days after a small dog bite on the dorsum of her hand . capnocytophaga canimorsus was isolated from blood cultures . despite intensive therapy , multiple organ failure developed , and the patient died 27 days after admission . characteristics of capnocytophaga ( formerly cdc group dysgonic fermenter-2 ) infection are briefly discussed . this unusual outcome in a previously healthy patient and the need for careful management of dog bite wounds , even if initially very small , is emphasized . 
heterogeneity in the inheritance of alcoholism . a study of male and female twins . genetic influence on risk for alcoholism was examined in a us treatment sample of 50 monozygotic ( mz ) and 64 dizygotic ( dz ) male and 31 mz and 24 dz female same-sex twin pairs . for the dsm-iii composite diagnosis of alcohol abuse and/or dependence , statistically significant mz/dz differences in concordance were found with male , but not female , twins . for specific diagnoses , mz/dz differences were found in male subjects for both alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence , while mz/dz differences in female subjects were found only for alcohol dependence . the male mz/dz concordance difference for composite diagnosis but not for alcohol dependence could be accounted for statistically by differences in age of onset between mz and dz probands . as with alcohol , differences in mz/dz concordance were found for dsm-iii composite diagnoses of other substance abuse and/or dependence with male , but not female , twins . using epidemiological catchment area data to estimate the population base rates of both alcohol and other substance use disorders allowed for heritability analyses that showed genetic factors to have only a modest influence on overall risk in both sexes ( heritability estimates of approximately 0.35 for male subjects and 0.24 for female subjects ) . however , evidence for heterogeneity in the pattern of inheritance was also found , suggesting forms of alcoholism that may be moderately to highly heritable . 
psychiatric disorders in relatives of probands with opiate addiction . previous research has documented high rates of major depression and antisocial personality in opiate addicts . this study was designed to investigate the relationship of dual diagnosis in opiate-addicted probands to family history of psychiatric disorders and substance use disorders in biological relatives . psychiatric disorders and substance use disorders were evaluated using direct interview and family history in a sample of 877 first-degree relatives of 201 opiate addicts and 360 relatives of 82 normal controls . results indicate that ( 1 ) compared with relatives of normal subjects , opiate addicts ' relatives had substantially higher rates of alcoholism , drug abuse , depression , and antisocial personality ; ( 2 ) relatives of depressed opiate-addicted probands had elevated rates of major depression and anxiety disorders but not of other disorders , suggesting the validity of subtyping opiate addicts by the presence or absence of major depression ; and ( 3 ) in contrast , relatives of antisocial opiate addicts had rates of disorders that were not significantly different from those of relatives of opiate addicts without antisocial personality . implications of these findings for the classification and treatment of substance abuse are discussed . 
psychiatric diagnoses of treatment-seeking cocaine abusers . in a sample of 298 cocaine abusers seeking inpatient ( n = 149 ) or outpatient ( n = 149 ) treatment , rates of psychiatric disorders were determined by means of the schedule for affective disorders and research diagnostic criteria . overall , 55.7 % met current and 73.5 % met lifetime criteria for a psychiatric disorder other than a substance use disorder . in common with previous reports from clinical samples of cocaine abusers , these overall rates were largely accounted for by major depression , minor bipolar conditions ( eg , hypomania , cyclothymic personality ) , anxiety disorders , antisocial personality , and history of childhood attention deficit disorder . affective disorders and alcoholism usually followed the onset of drug abuse , while anxiety disorders , antisocial personality , and attention deficit disorder typically preceded drug abuse . 
symptoms of tobacco withdrawal . a replication and extension . smokers ( n = 315 ) who wished to quit were randomly assigned in a double-blind manner to groups using either nicotine or placebo gum . self-reported and observed symptoms of tobacco withdrawal were collected before cessation and at follow-ups of 1 to 2 weeks , 1 month , and 6 months . self-reported and/or observed anger , anxiety , craving , difficulty concentrating , hunger , impatience , and restlessness were the most prominent symptoms of tobacco withdrawal . these symptoms had returned to precessation levels by 1 month except increased weight , hunger , and craving continued for 6 months in many smokers . nicotine gum decreased most symptoms , including craving and hunger but not weight . abstinent smokers with more intense withdrawal were not more likely to relapse . abstinent smokers who gained more weight were less likely to relapse . 
changes in plasma homovanillic acid concentrations in schizophrenic patients following neuroleptic discontinuation . changes in plasma levels of the dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid have been reported to correlate with changes in the severity of schizophrenic symptoms during neuroleptic administration and after neuroleptic discontinuation . this study examined the effects of discontinuation of neuroleptic treatment on plasma homovanillic acid levels in 23 patients with chronic schizophrenia . it was hypothesized that clinical decompensation would be associated with increased plasma homovanillic acid levels . plasma homovanillic acid was measured during administration of neuroleptic medication and during a subsequent 6-week drug-free period . nine patients decompensated during the drug-free period and 14 patients did not . following drug discontinuation , plasma homovanillic acid concentrations were higher in schizophrenic patients who decompensated than in those who did not . furthermore , peak plasma homovanillic acid elevation after discontinuation of neuroleptic medication was significantly correlated with peak brief psychiatric rating scale increase . the data suggest that , in some schizophrenic patients , symptomatic decompensation after discontinuation of neuroleptic treatment is associated with increases in dopamine turnover . 
hyperactive boys almost grown up . v. replication of psychiatric status . we previously reported a prospective follow-up study of 101 young adult males whose conditions had been diagnosed as hyperactivity in childhood . compared with controls , probands had significantly higher rates of attention-deficit , antisocial , and drug use disorders at follow-up ( mean age , 18 years ) . the present study was an attempt to replicate these findings on an independent sample of 94 hyperactive boys who were seen at the same clinic , compared with 78 normal controls . assessments were made by clinicians who were blind to group membership . information was obtained for 90 % of the original cohort . as in the previous study , significantly more probands than controls were given ongoing diagnoses of attention-deficit disorder ( 43 % vs 4 % ) , antisocial disorders ( 32 % vs 8 % ) , and drug use disorders ( 10 % vs 1 % ) . furthermore , the absolute rates of these disorders were comparable for corresponding groups across studies , and the adjusted odds ratios did not differ significantly . as previously , there was no increased risk for affective disorders in the grown hyperactive children . the present study provides a powerful replication of the nature of the young adult outcome of childhood hyperactivity . 
clinical and pathologic studies of twenty-six patients with penetrating foreign body injury to the joints , bursae , and tendon sheaths . foreign body synovitis has been neglected in the rheumatology literature . we describe 26 patients in whom arthritis , bursitis , or tenosynovitis appeared within 1 day to 7 years after an initial injury by a penetrating foreign body . twenty-two patients presented with acute synovitis , which was followed by chronic or recurrent inflammation mimicking septic arthritis , osteomyelitis , monarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis , bone tumor , or apatite deposition disease . foreign bodies were not seen in 5 inflammatory synovial fluids studied , but were seen in the synovium or periarticular tissues of 17 patients . excisional biopsy was required in most patients for precise diagnosis and treatment . 
monitoring hiv trends in injecting drug users : an italian experience . to examine the incidence and prevalence of hiv infection , we studied a large sample of intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) attending a drug dependency unit in rome over the period 1985-1989 . the annual prevalence of hiv antibodies remained stable over the 5-year period . however , a seroconversion study conducted on 302 subjects consistently attending the same facility showed a continued occurrence of hiv seroconversion , although the incidence declined from 8.9 per 100 person-years in 1985-1987 to 5.3 per 100 person-years in 1987-1989 . the cumulative incidence of hiv seropositivity , estimated by the kaplan-meier survival technique , was higher in female than in male ivdus . the findings show that the use of both incidence and prevalence data to monitor the trend of hiv infection allows a better understanding of the current viral spread among ivdus . 
seroepidemiology of hiv-1 infection in a catalonian penitentiary . a seroepidemiological study of hiv-1 infection was carried out among all the subjects who were imprisoned in a correctional centre in catalonia ( spain ) between october 1987 and april 1988 . six hundred and thirty-one inmates ( male , mean age 19.1 + / - 1.7 years ) were surveyed . the overall prevalence of hiv-1 infection was 33.6 % . statistically significant differences were observed between intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) and non-ivdus ( p less than 0.0000001 ) and between regular and irregular ivdus ( p less than 0.000001 ) . the age at which the person started using drugs and the length of time spent in prison were also significantly associated with the prevalence of infection . no other variables , except the higher prevalence among the gipsy ethnic group , showed any statistically significant association with hiv-1 infection . 
immunological and serological markers predictive of progression to aids in a cohort of hiv-infected drug users . we have performed a prospective 33-month follow-up of the evolution of hiv infection in a cohort of 76 hiv-positive intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) . we report on immunological and serological variables that proved to be highly predictive of development to aids . in a stepwise multivariate analysis of the actuarial progression rate we found the number of cd4 + lymphocytes to be the most powerful predictor of progression to aids . we found no independent predictive effects associated with any other variable with predictive power : loss of antibody to p24 antigen , anergy , hiv p24 antigenaemia , loss of antibody to p53 ( reverse transcriptase ) , decreased number of cd8 + t cells , loss of antibody to p31 , loss of antibody to p17 , beta 2-microglobulin level , loss of antibodies to gp41 and p64 , or immunoglobulin a level . we have found that our data differ from those obtained in studies in homosexual men in the different prognostic value of those predictive markers . our findings should help to identify high risk of progression to clinical aids among ivdus , thereby assisting in the selection of patients for prophylaxis and therapy . 
poverty and hiv seropositivity : the poor are more likely to be infected . we analyzed demographic and behavioral risk factors for hiv seropositivity using data from 3601 clients of the main hiv counseling and testing clinic for high-risk people in seattle , washington , usa . clients with lower income were found to be more likely to be hiv seropositive , before and after controlling for other demographic and risk factors with logistic regression . this result supports the hypothesis that the impoverished are at increased risk for hiv infection due to the physical and social circumstances in which their poverty places them . these may include poor access to risk-reduction information and less support for implementation of risk-reduction strategies . 
extensor tendon rupture after osteoarthrosis of the wrist associated with nonrheumatoid positive ulnar variance . rupture of the extensor tendon after osteoarthrosis of the wrist associated with nonrheumatoid , positive ulnar variance is uncommon . eight cases were seen in the last five years . they included five men and three women , whose ages ranged from 54 to 82 years ( average , 70 years ) . in all the cases , roentgenograms revealed osteoarthrotic changes in the wrist and dorsal subluxation or dislocation of the ulnar heads . seven cases had operations . friction with the dorsally subluxated or dislocated ulnar head and the osteophytes surrounding it caused these tendons to rupture . it was impossible to use end-to-end sutures , so tendon transfers or tendon grafts were performed . the patients were evaluated one to four years after surgery . three patients complained of some disability in their daily lives , notably , limited flexion of their fingers . it is important that during surgery the reconstructed tendons should not be strained excessively . 
treatment of scaphoid nonunion by radical curettage , trapezoidal iliac crest bone graft , and internal fixation with a herbert screw . ten adult male patients with scaphoid nonunions were treated by radical curettage , trapezoidal iliac crest bone grafting , and internal fixation with a herbert screw . the mean patient age was 24.7 years , and the mean duration of the nonunion before surgery was 37.3 months . mean follow-up time was 30.4 months . nine of the ten nonunions healed , although one patient required a second bone-grafting procedure . the mean postoperative grip strength was 45.0 kg , and the mean postoperative pinch strength was 11.5 kg . the mean postoperative range of motion was volar flexion , 76.1 degrees ; dorsiflexion , 74.2 degrees ; radial deviation , 22.1 degrees ; and ulnar deviation , 40.1 degrees . the scapholunate angle decreased from a mean of 72.8 degrees preoperatively to 60.6 degrees postoperatively ( p less than 0.025 ) . the mean carpal index was 0.57 postoperatively . mean scaphoid length increased postoperatively and was within 0.2 mm of the opposite ( normal ) scaphoid in every patient except the single patient with a persistent nonunion ( p less than 0.025 ) . all patients returned to work ( eight as laborers ) , and nine of ten wrists were subjectively rated as good or excellent . the results of the series suggests that treatment of displaced scaphoid nonunion by radical curettage , trapezoidal iliac crest bone grafting , and internal fixation with a herbert screw is an effective method of treatment that reconstitutes scaphoid anatomy and promotes excellent wrist function . 
diagnosis of acute rupture of the quadriceps tendon by magnetic resonance imaging . a case report . quadriceps tendon rupture occurred in a 56-year-old man receiving anticoagulant therapy . the diagnosis was inconclusive until magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) was used to delineate the rupture site clearly . mri is a useful adjunct to diagnosis of soft-tissue injuries in cases in which swelling or other soft-tissue abnormalities obscure examination or preclude the use of more routine diagnostic modalities . 
an outbreak of pneumococcal pneumonia in two men 's shelters we report a retrospective study of 39 homeless men hospitalized for acute pneumonia from april 1988 to march 1989 . all of them had recently stayed in one of two shelters . a streptococcus pneumoniae serotype 1 , resistant to cotrimoxazole , was isolated in 29 patients ( 74 percent ) . blood cultures were positive in 24 ( 61 percent ) . the patients were relatively young ; none was over 70 years old . thirty-five ( 90 percent ) were heavy smokers ; 32 ( 82 percent ) were alcoholics . the radiologic pattern was atypical in 14 cases ( 36 percent ) . the only fatal case was linked to the adult respiratory distress syndrome . it is likely that the rate of outbreaks of pneumococcal pneumonia is underestimated . the homeless are at high risk for pneumococcal pneumonia . in addition , the closeness existing in shelters favors the occurrence of outbreaks . consequently , we suggest that shelter residents would benefit from pneumococcal vaccination . 
respiratory failure and death following acute inhalation of mercury vapor . a clinical and histologic perspective . a family of four was exposed to toxic levels of mercury vapor while attempting to extract silver from mercury amalgam . all four suffered respiratory failure and subsequent death despite chelation therapy with dimercaprol . histologic findings at autopsy were similar in all four cases demonstrating a progression of acute lung injury that appeared related to postexposure day survival . there were no clinical signs of extrapulmonary manifestations despite toxic serum mercury levels . although serum mercury levels decreased in response to the mercury chelating agent dimercaprol , serum levels remained in the toxic range and no clinical response was observed . acute inhalational exposure to high concentrations of mercury vapor causes pneumonitis that can lead to respiratory failure and death . this continues to be a health hazard in both the workplace and the home environment . 
pulmonary reactions caused by welding-induced decomposed trichloroethylene this is the report of a welder who performed argon-shielded electric arc welding in an atmosphere containing trichloroethylene . he developed immediate respiratory symptoms , pulmonary edema 12 hours after exposure , and recurring dyspnea ten days after exposure . these pulmonary reactions might be explained by inhalation of decomposition products of trichloroethylene such as dichloroacetyl chloride and phosgene . 
lightning injury with lung bleeding in a tracheotomized patient . a 68-year-old man , who had undergone laryngectomy six months earlier , was struck by lightning and developed pulmonary hemorrhage . this was attributed to pulmonary barotrauma due to a lightning blast via his tracheostoma . 
tension pneumothorax secondary to a gastropleural fistula in a traumatic diaphragmatic hernia . we report a case of tension pneumothorax due to a gastropleural fistula resulting from perforation of the stomach in a traumatic diaphragmatic hernia . awareness of perforation of strangulated stomach or bowel in a diaphragmatic hernia as a cause of pneumothorax , with or without tension physiology , in a patient with a history of trauma is important so that surgical repair can be undertaken without delay . 
noncardiogenic pulmonary edema complicating massive diltiazem overdose . non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema has not been previously described in calcium channel blocker overdose . we describe a case of non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema occurring during the course of therapy for massive diltiazem overdose in a young patient with anorexia nervosa . review of the current literature suggests that major and minor pulmonary complications occur with some frequency in the setting of calcium channel blocker overdose although their exact incidence remains unclear . 
cough in hot pepper workers . study objective : to determine whether there is an effect on the prevalence of respiratory symptoms , an alteration in lung function , or an increase in the cough threshold to capsaicin among workers chronically exposed to hot chili ( capsicum ) peppers . design : cross-sectional study of responses to a structured questionnaire , lung function assessed by spirometry and cough threshold to inhalation of capsaicin aerosol in a group of occupationally-exposed capsicum workers as compared to non-exposed employees of the same work site . setting : spice manufacturing facility . participants : twenty-two capsicum-exposed and 19 nonexposed workers . measurements and main results : when evaluated by questionnaire , 13 ( 59 percent ) of the capsicum-exposed workers reported cough as compared to 4 ( 21 percent ) of the nonexposed workers ( p less than 0.05 ) . baseline fev1 and fvc did not differ between the two groups . cough threshold , as assessed by the lowest concentration of inhaled capsaicin eliciting cough , was related to workplace exposure ( p = 0.05 ) , displaying a bimodal pattern of higher and lower cough thresholds among the capsicum workers as compared to a unimodal distribution among the nonexposed workers . within the exposed group , a higher cough threshold was significantly related to male gender ( p = 0.03 ) and was associated to a lesser extent with dietary preference for hot food ( p = 0.09 ) and cumulative cigarette smoking ( p = 0.07 ) . conclusion : chronic occupational exposure to chili peppers is associated with complaints of cough but does not alone lead to decreased responsiveness of capsaicin-sensitive nerves when assessed by cough threshold . the cough response to capsaicin inhalation may be modified by the effects of multiple , potentially interactive factors . 
radiation-induced proctosigmoiditis . prospective , randomized , double-blind controlled trial of oral sulfasalazine plus rectal steroids versus rectal sucralfate . in a prospective study , 37 consecutive patients with radiation-induced proctosigmoiditis were randomized to receive a four-week course of either 3.0 g oral sulfasalazine plus 20 mg twice daily rectal prednisolone enemas ( group i , n = 18 ) or 2.0 g twice daily rectal sucralfate enemas plus oral placebo ( group ii , n = 19 ) . the two groups were comparable with respect to demographic features , duration of symptoms , and clinical and endoscopic staging of the disease . fifteen patients in group i and 17 in group ii completed the trial . at four weeks , both groups showed significant clinical improvement ( p less than 0.01 for group i and p less than 0.001 for group ii ) and endoscopic healing ( p less than 0.01 for group i and p less than 0.001 for group ii ) . when the two groups were compared , sucralfate enemas showed a significantly better response as assessed clinically ( p less than 0.05 ) , although endoscopically the response was not statistically different ( p greater than 0.05 ) . we conclude that both treatment regimens are effective in the management of radiation proctitis . sucralfate enemas give a better clinical response , are tolerated better , and because of the lower cost should be the preferred mode of short-term treatment . 
hypophosphatemia and renal tubular dysfunction in alcoholics . are they related to liver function impairment ? the study was designed to evaluate ( a ) the role of reduced renal phosphate reabsorptive capacity assessed as the ratio of maximum capacity for renal phosphate reabsorption ( tmpo4 ) to glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) in the pathogenesis of hypophosphatemia in alcoholics , ( b ) possible mechanisms leading to reduced tmpo4/gfr , and ( c ) the effect of liver function impairment on tmpo4/gfr . the tmpo4/gfr , its major extrarenal determinants , ratios of urinary excretion gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and of alpha-glucosidase to gfr ( uggt/gfr and uagl/gfr ) , indices of structural damage of renal tubular cells , and fractional clearance of lysozyme , an index of proximal renal function , were evaluated in 31 alcoholics with alcohol-related liver disease , 24 alcoholics without alcohol-related liver disease , 14 patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease , and 25 control subjects . hypophosphatemia was found in 35 % of alcoholics with alcohol-related liver disease , 29 % of alcoholics without alcohol-related liver disease , and no patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease . a reduced tmpo4/gfr was the major determinant of hypophosphatemia in both groups of alcoholics . no difference in extrarenal determinants of tmpo4/gfr was found between alcoholics with and without hypophosphatemia . alcoholics with and without alcohol-related liver disease had increased uggt/gfr and normal uagl/gfr regardless of serum phosphate level . fractional clearance of lysozyme , instead , was increased only in hypophosphatemic alcoholics with and without alcohol-related liver disease . the tmpo4/gfr correlated inversely with the fractional clearance of lysozyme in both groups of alcoholics ( p less than 0.01 ) . the tmpo4/gfr and urinary enzymes were normal in patients with non-alcohol-related liver disease . it was concluded that a reduced tmpo4/gfr is involved in the pathogenesis of hypophosphatemia in alcoholics . a proximal tubular dysfunction seems to be responsible for the reduced tmpo4/gfr . liver function impairment is not required for the expression of this tubular dysfunction . 
pseudoaneurysm : diagnosis with color doppler ultrasound . increasing numbers of interventional radiologic procedures , often with large arterial catheters , have led to increasing total numbers of complications . pseudoaneurysm is not an infrequent complication . it is often difficult to differentiate pseudoaneurysm clinically from hematoma . in the past , we have used gray scale duplex scanning to aid in this differentiation . we have recently found color doppler scanning to allow quicker , easier , and more accurate diagnosis . color doppler imaging also can often demonstrate the track between the artery and the aneurysm . 
parenteral illegal drug use and limb loss . the problem of illegal drug abuse and extremity loss was identified in 27 patients-22 men and 5 women , with a mean age of 26 years . associated medical problems included : smoking in 27 , cardiac disease in 2 , diabetes in 3 , and hypertension in 3 . six femoral pseudoaneurysms , 2 with distal emboli and all with sepsis and thrombosis , directly contributed to limb loss along with 2 patients with progressive phlegmasia dolens . there were 3 below-the-elbow , 7 above-the-knee , 11 below-the-knee , and 6 transmetatarsal amputations . eight patients received prostheses ; 8 patients subsequently died in follow-up . 
obesity and the metabolic response to severe multiple trauma in man . in the obese state profound metabolic disturbances exist and it is not known how this disrupted metabolism in obese subjects ( body mass index greater than 30 ) may change their ability to respond to the superimposed , injury-induced stress . understanding the mechanisms that modify the metabolic parameters in traumatized obese patients is essential in their nutritional assessment and further treatment . we have investigated in 7 obese and 10 nonobese multiple trauma patients , on a whole-body level , the energy metabolism , protein kinetics , and lipolysis in the early catabolic " flow phase " of severe injury when they were receiving maintenance fluids without calories or nitrogen . traumatized obese patients mobilized relatively more protein and less fat compared with nonobese subjects . a relative block both in lipolysis and fat oxidation is experienced by injured obese patients that results in a shift to preferential use of proteins and carbohydrates . reduced endogenous protein synthetic efficiency observed in obese patients implies increased protein recycling . thus obese patients could not effectively use their most abundant fat fuel sources and have to depend on other fuel sources . the nutritional management of obese trauma victims should therefore be tailored towards provision of enough glucose calories to spare protein . 
antibody coated bacteria in urine of patients with recent spinal injury . twenty patients with an acute spinal injury were prospectively studied to assess the clinical importance of antibody coated bacteria ( acb ) in the urine and the association among the different bacterial species with a positive antibody coated bacteria test . clinical urinary tract infection was associated with a positive acb test on 45 % of occasions . three hundred and ninety nine urine samples containing 541 bacterial isolates were assessed for the presence of acb ; 13 % were found to be positive and 87 % negative for acb ; 67 % of urines contained a single bacterial isolate . pseudomonas aeruginosa was most commonly associated with clinical urinary tract infection , found in 25 % of episodes , followed by proteus mirabilis ( 17.5 % ) , klebsiella sp ( 12.5 % ) , and proteus morganii ( 10 % ) . providencia stuartii , however , was most commonly associated with a positive acb test ( found in 17 % ) . other bacteria associated with a positive acb test included klebsiella sp ( 14 % ) , acinetobacter sp ( 12.5 % ) , pseudomonas aeruginosa ( 12 % ) , citrobacter sp ( 11.5 % ) . a positive acb test is not to be expected from a patient with spinal injury who has a catheter in place , and the test may provide a useful guide to identify those patients with an invasive infection . it is doubtful that a decision to treat or not treat bacteriuria could rest on the identification of the bacterial species alone . 
determination of n-methylhistamine in urine as an indicator of histamine release in immediate allergic reactions . the use of the urine histamine metabolite , n-methylhistamine ( n-mh ) , as a parameter of histamine release in immediate allergic reactions was investigated . baseline levels were determined in 34 normal control subjects and 29 atopic patients . increases of urine n-mh values were measured during histamine infusions and in venom-allergic patients receiving bee-sting challenges . n-mh was determined by a newly developed radioimmunoassay . baseline levels in control subjects and atopic patients demonstrated no significant differences . with regard to challenge tests , fluctuation of n-mh levels during a 6-hour period was measured . random 6-hour increases in healthy and atopic subjects ranged from 5 % to 41 % . before infusion of histamine ( 0.25 micrograms/kg/min for 30 minutes ) , baseline values were 137 + / - 11.4 micrograms n-mh per gram of creatinine and 9 + / - 1.1 micrograms n-mh per hour ( n = 9 ) . levels peaked 1 hour after infusion at 275 + / - 45 micrograms/gm of creatinine and 44 + / - 5.6 micrograms/hr and decreased to resting levels after 2 hours . metabolization by n-mh accounted for 9.5 % + / - 4.9 % ( range , 2.4 % to 18.4 % ) of infused histamine in the urine of the nine subjects . bee-sting challenges were performed in 12 patients and three control subjects . only in three patients experiencing generalized urticaria , nausea , dyspnea , and hypotension were significant increases of urine n-mh levels ( 138 % , 144 % , and 238 % ) observed . all other patients and three normal control subjects demonstrated normal local reactions without increase of n-mh values . 
trajectory reconstructions . i : trace evidence in flight . this paper reviews the use of trace evidence recovered from spent bullets in helping to establish trajectories . the use of information derived from such trace evidence combined with that from geometrical techniques of trajectory reconstruction and other data is discussed . five cases are reviewed in which the analysis of trace evidential materials adhering to bullets was used to help reconstruct the event . 
an application of probability theory to a group of breath-alcohol and blood-alcohol data . many jurisdictions have " per se " driving-while-intoxicated ( dwi ) status expressed in terms of a blood-alcohol concentration ( bac ) standard ( in grams per 100 ml or the equivalent ) . since breath-alcohol ( brac ) analysis is typically employed to determine bac , there is often challenge to the use of an assumed 2100:1 conversion ratio . this concern may be relevant in light of considerable data that show a low percentage of cases in which brac greater than bac , and this concern increases when the brac is used to predict bac in the context of " per se " legislation . probability theory provides a basis for estimating the likelihood of an individual having a brac greater than or equal to g/210 l with a corresponding bac less than 0.10 g/100 ml . actual field data from the state of wisconsin ( n = 404 ) were evaluated to determine the probability of this occurrence . the probability for this occurrence involves the multiplication law for independent events . the computed probability from the data was 0.018 . the actual number of occurrences where brac greater than or equal to 0.10 g/210 l and bac less than 0.10 g/100 ml was 5 , resulting in a probability of 0.012 . the concern of having brac greater than bac at the critical " per se " level has a very low probability of occurrence , which thus supports the reasonableness of " per se " dwi legislation based upon a blood-alcohol standard determined by breath-alcohol analysis . 
differences between multisite postmortem ethanol concentrations as related to agonal events . in a study of postmortem ethanol concentrations , blood was withdrawn from the right atrium , ascending aorta , and inferior vena cava . these samples , vitreous humor , and gastric fluid were analyzed in 307 autopsies , where a minimum blood ethanol concentration of 0.05 % weight/volume ( w/v ) was present . premortem , agonal , and postmortem events were reviewed in an attempt to account for differences in blood ethanol concentrations between sites . the agonal aspiration of vomitus having at least 0.80 % w/v ethanol appears to be associated with an increase in aortic ethanol concentrations . we conclude that valid interpretation of postmortem ethanol concentrations must take into consideration the possible entry of ethanol into the pulmonary venous circulation via the respiratory system . 
the usefulness of lung surfactant phospholipids ( lsps ) in the diagnosis of drowning . the authors have studied the usefulness of some lung surfactant phospholipids ( lsps ) isolated from lung tissues as markers of drowning . two different groups of rabbits were sacrificed by drowning in fresh and salt water , and their phospholipid compositions were compared with those of a non-drowned control series . for the phospholipids studied in lung lavages ( phosphatidyl choline , phosphatidyl ethanolamine , and phosphatidyl glycerol ) the proportions differed between the control group and the drowned group , and between the fresh-water and salt-water drowned animals . according to these results , the lipids we have analyzed can be employed as markers in forensic autopsies , where it is necessary to differentiate between death by drowning and postmortem immersion and between fresh-water and salt-water drowning . in lung tissue , only phosphatidyl choline and phosphatidyl inositol showed significative differences . these results also confirm that lsps are strongly affected in drowning . 
fetal death due to nonlethal maternal carbon monoxide poisoning . fetal death due to acute carbon monoxide poisoning is rarely reported in the medical literature . of the eight cases found in literature review , only one documented the fetal carboxyhemoglobin concentration . this paper reports a fetal death due to accidental nonlethal maternal carbon monoxide intoxication in which both maternal and fetal carboxyhemoglobin concentrations were obtained . the corrected carboxyhemoglobin concentration was 61 % at the time of death in utero , while the maternal carboxyhemoglobin was measured at 7 % after one hour of supplemental oxygen . the authors review the mechanisms of fetal death and emphasize the different carbon monoxide kinetics in the fetal circulation . 
a death resulting from trichlorotrifluoroethane poisoning . fatalities due to accidental exposure to chlorinated hydrocarbon in an industrial setting have been infrequently reported . the deaths in these cases have occurred within poorly ventilated , enclosed compartments or areas . a case is presented of a 16-year-old male who died as a result of exposure to trichlorotrifluoroethane while working in an open pit . chromatographic results and tissue concentrations are presented . 
the tubular " cookie cutter " bullet : a unique projectile . recently marketed pmc ( pan metal corporation ) ultramag tubular hollow point ammunition is uniquely constructed with a two-part projectile composed of a tubular copper bullet and a teflon wad . a fatal gunshot wound with this ammunition is described . a unique radiographic pattern and the results of test firing are also presented . 
the use of human skin in the fabrication of a bite mark template : two case reports . comparison of a suspected biter 's dental arches with the patterned injury of a bite mark is especially difficult when the bite occurs in an anatomic location with a small radius of curvature or with complex or compound curves . the authors present two case reports in which human skin was used as a template for the reproduction of a bite . in one case the victim 's skin was used ; in the other , the skin of a anatomically similar person was used . the use of inked dental casts , photography , and transparent overlays significantly reduced the errors common to analysis of bite marks in these highly curved areas . 
combat-related ptsd and psychosocial adjustment problems among substance abusing veterans . the purpose of this study were the following : a ) to determine the prevalence of combat-related posttraumatic stress disorder ( ptsd ) symptoms among veterans seeking assistance at a veterans administration medical center substance abuse treatment facility , b ) to examine the relative contribution of vietnam war zone variables to ptsd symptom development , and c ) to study psychosocial adjustment problems associated with vietnam combat exposure and with ptsd symptoms among help-seeking substance abusing men . of 489 male veterans presenting for treatment , 10.7 % had significant vietnam combat-related ptsd symptoms as measured by the mississippi scale for combat-related ptsd . clinically significant ptsd symptoms occurred among 46 % of the subsample of combat-exposed vietnam veterans with substance abuse problems . degree of combat exposure was the most important military stressor that distinguished vietnam veterans with ptsd from those without ptsd , but the groups also differed on age of war zone duty , duration of war zone duty , and whether they were wounded . veterans who served in vietnam did not differ from veterans who had no war zone duty on various parameters of psychosocial adjustment . however , the subgroup of vietnam veterans with ptsd symptoms reported significantly greater psychosocial adjustment problems than their counterparts who did not have ptsd . the deleterious effects associated with combat-related ptsd appeared to be confined to adjunctive psychiatric difficulties and unemployment and did not increase risk of arrests for antisocial conduct beyond that found for veterans without ptsd . methodological and clinical implications of these findings are discussed . 
psychological absorption . affect investment in marijuana intoxication . absorption ( a trait capacity for total attentional involvement ) was reported to increase during episodes of marijuana intoxication . several subsets of the absorption scale items specifically characterized marijuana intoxication , and groups of users and nonusers showed differential affective involvement with these experiences . additionally , within the drug-using group , a positive correlation between frequency of marijuana use and affective ratings of these experiences was found . the findings support the hypothesis that a specific type of alteration in consciousness that enhances capacity for total attentional involvement ( absorption ) characterizes marijuana intoxication , and that this enhancement may act as a reinforcer , possibly influencing future use . 
comparison of neuropsychologic functioning and clinical indicators of neurotoxicity in long-term survivors of childhood leukemia given cranial radiation or parenteral methotrexate : a prospective study . we prospectively compared neuropsychologic functioning and clinical indicators of neurotoxicity in 49 consecutive childhood leukemia patients in long-term continuous complete remission ( cr ) who had received two different regimens of cns prophylaxis by random assignment . twenty-three patients were treated with 1,800 cgy cranial radiation and intrathecal methotrexate ( rt group ) and 26 with parenteral methotrexate only ( mtx group ) . over half of the rt group had somnolence syndrome , and four developed cerebral calcifications late in their clinical course . abnormal electroencephalograms ( eegs ) were seen in 15 patients in the mtx group , and six had early , transient white-matter hypodensities apparent on computed tomographic ( ct ) scans . mean scores on standard tests of intelligence and academic achievement , administered after remission induction and again at a median of 6 years after treatment cessation , did not differ significantly between the two groups . however , statistically significant decreases in overall and verbal intelligence quotients ( iqs ) and in arithmetic achievement were found within both treatment groups . sixteen of 26 in the mtx group and 14 of the 23 in the rt group had clinically important decreases ( greater than or equal to 15 points ) on one or more neuropsychologic measures . these changes did not correlate with findings on ct scans , eegs , or other clinical signs of neurotoxicity . we conclude that 1,800 cgy cranial radiation and parenteral methotrexate , as used in this study , are associated with comparable decreases in neuropsychologic function . 
lag screw fixation of anterior mandibular fractures . a technique of applying lag screws for treating fractures of the anterior mandible is presented . a review of 41 patients who had lag screws placed to treat such fractures showed that it is a successful method of providing rigid internal fixation . the advantages of this technique over bone-plate fixation are discussed . 
the gillies method for fractured zygomas : an analysis of 105 cases . this prospective study analyzed 105 cases treated using the gillies temporal approach for fractures of the zygoma . in 97 cases ( 92 % ) this was sufficient . only eight cases required open reduction . it is suggested that the gillies method be used more frequently , because it is associated with minimal morbidity and a short duration of general anesthesia . 
a preliminary report of arthroscopic findings following acute condylar trauma standard therapy in orthopedics dictates that joints with suspected hemarthrosis be considered for irrigation or exploration , especially when immobilization is part of the treatment plan . in this preliminary report , 14 patients who had condylar/subcondylar fractures underwent superior joint space arthroscopy as part of the evaluation and treatment of their fractures . in all but two patients , blood was found in the superior joint space . length of time from injury to time of examination correlated with the quantities of blood found . the severity and direction of the blow seemed to influence the findings in the joints . synovial ecchymosis was a consistent finding . the disc appeared to be grossly intact and within the glenoid fossa in all cases , even when the condyle was grossly displaced . these findings raise questions about the role of direct disc injury as a source of postoperative temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) symptoms , as well as about the practice of immobilization of fractures immediately after trauma . further studies will be necessary to compare the treatment results in patients who have had arthroscopy versus those who have not . 
magnetic resonance imaging and tomographic evaluation of occlusal appliance treatment for advanced internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint . this study evaluates the positional relationship of the disc and mandibular condyle in patients with late opening clicks treated with appliance therapy . a total of 30 joints ( 18 patients ) were studied . twenty-seven of these 30 joints were treated with the appliance until the joints were silent to auscultation . the patients were then evaluated with axial corrected tomography and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in the centric occlusion position and with their bite appliance ( sved-type ) in place . comparisons were made between condyle position in centric occlusion and with the appliance in place . magnetic resonance imaging was then used to evaluate disc positional changes . each imaging procedure was made in the same sagittal plane . only changes in condyle positioning could be identified . evidence of disc repositioning with the appliance in place was seen in only three mri examinations . the remaining 27 joints continued to exhibit disc displacement with various changes in disc morphology . it is concluded that the concept of " disc capture " is a clinical term only , and that such perceived clinical success should not lead to the assumption that an actual change in intra-articular anatomic relationships has occurred . joint noises may decrease because joint space is increased , allowing smoother condylar translation beyond disc surface irregularities and positional abnormalities . 
low-dose caffeine physical dependence in humans . this study investigated the effects of terminating low dose levels of caffeine ( 100 mg/day ) in 7 normal humans . substitution of placebo capsules for caffeine capsules occurred under double-blind conditions while subjects rated various dimensions of their mood and behavior . in the first phase of the study , substitution of placebo for 12 consecutive days resulted in an orderly withdrawal syndrome in 4 subjects which peaked on days 1 or 2 and progressively decreased toward prewithdrawal levels over about 1 week . data from the remaining three subjects provided no evidence of withdrawal . in the second phase of the study , the generality of the withdrawal effect was examined by repeatedly substituting placebo for 100 mg/day of caffeine for 1-day periods separated by an average of 9 days . despite differences within and across subjects with respect to the presence , nature and magnitude of symptoms , each of the seven subjects demonstrated a statistically significant withdrawal effect . although the phenomenon of caffeine withdrawal has been described previously , the present report documents that the incidence of caffeine withdrawal is higher ( 100 % of subjects ) , the daily dose level at which withdrawal occurs is lower ( roughly equivalent to the amount of caffeine in a single cup of strong brewed coffee or 3 cans of caffeinated soft drink ) and the range of symptoms experienced is broader ( including headache , fatigue and other dysphoric mood changes , muscle pain/stiffness , flu-like feelings , nausea/vomiting and craving for caffeine ) than heretofore recognized . 
effects of specific mu and kappa opiate tolerance and abstinence on hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis secretion in the rat . chronic administration of opiates to rats results in hpa axis tolerance and abstinence-induced hypersecretion . the effects of specific mu and kappa tolerance and withdrawal on the functional secretion of the hpa axis were evaluated in this study . adult male rats were injected s.c. twice daily with saline , morphine or u50 ,488 for 5 days . serum adrenocorticotrophic hormone ( acth ) or corticosterone ( cs ) were determined by radioimmunoassay as measures of hpa axis function . tolerance to morphine ( 10 mg/kg ) and u50 ,488 ( 1 mg/kg ) , but no cross-tolerance , was observed suggesting the development of mu - or kappa-specific tolerance , respectively . tolerance does not occur at the pituitary or adrenal levels after these paradigms because acth and cs responses to exogenous corticotropin-releasing factor and acth , respectively , were not attenuated . cs secretion in response to novelty stress was not affected by either chronic opiate treatment , but the circadian variation of cs levels was slightly blunted after chronic morphine . in contrast , the elevation of cs secretion by quipazine ( 0.5 mg/kg ) and physostigmine ( 0.1 mg/kg ) was attenuated after chronic u50 ,488 , but not morphine administration . both spontaneous and antagonist-precipitated withdrawal from morphine , but not u50 ,488 , resulted in elevation of cs levels . low doses of morphine suppressed morphine abstinence-induced cs hypersecretion , whereas , u50 ,488 and clonidine had no effect . in conclusion , alterations of hpa axis function occur during chronic mu or kappa opiate administration that are receptor-specific and involve multiple neural controls of the hpa axis . 
brain and spinal cord hemorrhage in long-term survivors of malignant pediatric brain tumors : a possible late effect of therapy . three children with malignant primary cns tumors treated with craniospinal radiotherapy developed intraparenchymal hemorrhages a median of 5 years following therapy in sites distant from the primary tumor . radical surgical procedures disclosed fresh and old hematoma , gliosis , and necrosis in all 3 patients and an aggregation of abnormal microscopic blood vessels in two . no tumor was found . all 3 patients remain in long-term ( greater than 10 years ) continuous remission . 
magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex in cervical spondylosis . we report a new technique of transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex to measure conduction within central motor pathways of 67 patients with cervical spondylosis or disk herniation . there were upper motor neuron signs in 34 patients ( 51 % ) and x-ray evidence of cervical cord compression in 44 ( 66 % ) . muscle action potentials ( maps ) to cortical stimulation were abnormal in 84 % of patients with , and 22 % of those without , radiologic signs of cervical cord compression . median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials were altered in only 25 % of patients . the frequency of map alterations correlated with upper motor neuron signs . in 5 ( 11 % ) of the 44 patients with x-ray evidence of cervical cord compression , subclinical cord compression was disclosed by cortical stimulation . in 10 patients restudied 3 months after surgical decompression , normalization of central motor conduction time did not occur , indicating permanent damage to the cervical cord . 
hyperbaric oxygen therapy for acute smoke inhalation injuries . hyperbaric oxygen therapy is an important adjunct in the management of respiratory injuries secondary to smoke inhalation , especially when injury is complicated by inhalation of a toxic chemical such as carbon monoxide or cyanide . for carbon monoxide poisoning , such therapy has become a standard of practice . as more information becomes available concerning the ability of hyperbaric oxygen to reduce reperfusion injuries , we anticipate that this therapy will become a standard of practice for managing smoke inhalation injuries and cyanide poisoning as well . 
biomechanics of fracture risk prediction of the hip and spine by quantitative computed tomography . in this review , we have made use of some simple engineering concepts to summarize current efforts relating qct measures to bone density and strength . from a variety of in vitro experiments on cadaveric vertebrae and femora , it is evident that both apparent and ash densities are strong linear functions of qct measures , with coefficients of determination ranging from 0.49 to 0.90 and relative errors from 44.9 % to 7.1 % . qct data also can be used ( with somewhat less confidence ) to determine the compressive modulus ( r2s from 0.36 to 0.68 , relative errors from 45.0 % to 35.5 % ) and compressive strength ( r2s from 0.58 to 0.70 , relative errors from 56.5 % to 39.9 % ) of trabecular bone from the proximal femur and vertebral body . in cortical bone , material properties are only correlated weakly with qct measures . experiments designed to relate qct data to failure loads for the proximal femur and vertebral body have been remarkably successful . coefficients of determination have ranged from 0.32 to 0.93 , with relative errors from 31.1 % to 13.9 % . however , when the in vitro failure loads determined in these experiments are compared against available estimates of in vivo loads on the spine and hip , it is apparent , at least in the elderly , that in vivo loads are relatively close to those that cause fracture in vitro . to assess the possibility of developing qct-based clinical predictors of fracture risk for individual patients , we have introduced the concept factor of risk often used in engineering design to account for uncertainties in estimates of service loads and component strength . the factor of risk for a particular loading condition is defined as the ratio of expected service loads to the known failure loads . to extend this concept to densitometric fracture risk prediction in vivo , it is important to recognize that densitometric data must not only be used to predict the ultimate load carrying capacity of the region of interest , but that this ultimate load must then be compared to the forces expected in vivo under comparable loading conditions . one difficulty with this approach is that little is known about the in vivo forces that are associated with atraumatic age-related fractures of the hip and vertebrae and even less about the forces applied to the hip and spine during traumatic events such as falls . however , from available estimates of in vivo loads during bending and lifting , it is apparent that in the elderly , factors of risk for the spine can easily approach 1 . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
motor-evoked potentials in patients with cervical spine disorders . measurements of motor-evoked potentials by means of fractionated magnetic stimulation of motor pathways to the upper limbs was performed as part of the clinical assessment in 268 patients with cervical spine disorders . seventy-two percent of the 127 patients with degenerative changes of the cervical spine , 67 % of the 55 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , and 57 % of the 51 patients with trauma of the cervical spine showed a pathologic delay of central motor latency ( cml ) . the data suggest that this method has a high sensitivity and therefore is recommended in the diagnosis of cervical spine disorders in patients with suspected compression of neural structures . 
anterior cervical discectomy and fusion . a retrospective review of 94 patients who had undergone anterior cervical discectomy and fusion was performed to analyze the result in patients who had a diagnosis of posterolateral spondylosis , disc herniation , or both . although in 23 of 94 patients additional adjacent asymptomatic levels of spondylosis were noted , only the symptomatic levels were addressed in the 94 cases . postoperatively two cases of dysphagia were noted , as well as a 4 % pseudarthrosis rate . there was an 88 % good or excellent result when no additional spondylosis was present , but only a 60 % good or excellent result when just the symptomatic levels were addressed , leaving unoperated adjacent levels of spondylosis . 
surgical management of cervical soft disc herniation . a comparison between the anterior and posterior approach . anterior cervical fusion was initially described in the 1950s for cervical spondylotic radiculopathy . the indications for this procedure in the management of soft disc herniation have not been clearly defined . in addition , controversy exists as to whether a cervical soft herniation should be managed by an anterior approach or a posterior cervical laminotomy-foraminotomy . the authors report the results of a prospective study comparing anterior discectomy and fusion to posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy for the management of soft cervical disc herniation . twenty-eight patients underwent anterior discectomy and fusion ( robinson horseshoe graft ) while 16 patients underwent posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy . the disc herniations were classified into two types . type i were single level anterolateral herniations ( 33 patients ) while type ii were central soft disc herniations ( 11 patients ) . clinically , patients with type i herniations manifested signs and symptoms of radiculopathy while patients with type ii herniations manifested signs of myelopathy or neck pain and bilateral upper extremity paresthesias in 4 patients . confirmatory studies were myelography in 12 patients , myelography combined with computed tomography ( ct ) in 26 patients , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in 6 patients . for type i herniations , 17 patients underwent anterior fusion while 16 patients had a posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy . the 11 patients classified as type ii herniation all underwent anterior discectomy and fusion . there were 27 men and 17 women . the age range was 21 to 52 years ( mean , 41 years ) . the follow-up was 1.6 to 8.2 years ( mean , 4.2 years ) . 
injury biomechanics of the human cervical column . in this study , the authors have developed a technique to replicate clinically relevant traumatic cervical spine injuries and determined the injury biomechanics . because of the importance of compressive forces in neck injuries , this research was conducted using compression as the primary load vector . six fresh human cadaveric head-neck complexes were prepared by fixing the distal end in methylmethacrylate . tests were done with varying loading rates to include quasistatic and dynamic conditions . for quasistatic experiments , the proximal end was fixed to the piston of the testing device . in dynamic tests , the cranium was unconstrained , and to maintain stability , the effects of the spinal musculature were simulated by means of pulleys , deadweights , and springs in the anterior and posterior parts of the head-neck complex . quasistatic tests conducted at a rate of 2.0 mm/sec produced cervical spine trauma at forces ranging from 1.7 to 2.3 kn , with deformations ranging from 2.2 to 3.7 cm . the specimens were deep-frozen at the level of injury , preserving the local deformation of the tissues to enable a detailed evaluation immediately after the injury . dynamic tests conducted at velocities of 3.2 to 5.7 m/sec resulted in impact injuries at one level of the head-neck complex . the applied forces at the vertex were considerably higher than those recorded at the distal end . the failure deformations for both the quasistatic ( 2.2-3 .7 cm ) and dynamic ( 1.7-3 .2 cm ) tests , however , were found to be similar , suggesting that the human head-neck complex is a deformation-sensitive structure . 
gunshot wounds to the cervical spine . a retrospective review was performed on 28 patients with low-velocity gunshot wounds to the cervical spine . these composed 31 % of all spinal gunshot wounds seen during the study period between 1979 and 1988 . surgical decompression did not seem to improve neurologic recovery in either the incomplete or complete patients . neurologic recovery also appeared to be unaffected by the presence of retained intracanal bullet fragments . the authors found no advantage to routine neck exploration of this penetrating injury . complications were seen in 93 % of the patients . most complications were thromboembolic , pulmonary , and urinary tract infections . no cases of instability occurred as a direct result of the gunshot wound . no deaths occurred in this series . two cases of posttraumatic syrinxes were diagnosed . the authors ' current treatment recommendations for these patients include selective wound management and observation of retained intracanal bullet fragments in patients with complete lesions . surgical decompression after this injury is not recommended . 
evaluation of current extrication orthoses in immobilization of the unstable cervical spine . an experiment was designed to evaluate the comparative stabilizing efficacy of several widely used semi-rigid orthoses applied to unstable fresh cadaver cervical spines subject to load . cadaver specimens were surgically destabilized at the c4-5 segment . lateral radiographs of the destabilized spine were obtained before and after collar placement and after the application of a 5-pound flexion force . data analysis employing a one-way analysis of variance showed no statistically significant difference in the necloc 's , philadelphia collar 's , or the stifneck 's ability to stabilize the cervical spine against a deforming flexion force ( p greater than 0.05 ) . they all provide translational stability while allowing angular changes to occur with application of the flexion force . the philadelphia collar halo system is statistically superior to all three of the aforementioned collars in prevention of both translation and sagittal rotation ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
immediate closed reduction of cervical spine dislocations using traction . cervical facet dislocations may be reduced rapidly and effectively using axial traction with weights applied at over the traditional 45-pound limit . fifty-three sequential patients with cervical facet dislocations were reviewed . thirty-nine patients required more than 50 pounds of traction to achieve rapid reduction . sixty-eight percent of the entire series showed significant improvement in neurologic function . there were no cases of significant loss of function . a cadaver study confirmed that the cranial tongs could support over 100 pounds of traction . careful application of up to 100 pounds seems to be associated with a low risk of neurologic compromise or tong failure , but results in effective reduction of dislocations . 
anterior cervical plate fixation with the titanium hollow screw plate system . a preliminary report . morscher , of switzerland , has developed an anterior cervical spine plate system ( thsp ) that does not require screw purchase of the posterior cortex . this design eliminates potential neurologic complications usually associated with the anterior plate system , but maintains the mechanical advantages of internal fixation . the authors reviewed 13 consecutive patients in whom the thsp system was applied . indications for the use of this device included acute trauma in three patients , trauma of more than 6 weeks ' duration in five patients , and spondylosis in five patients . fifteen plates and 58 screws were placed , with no screws purchasing the posterior cortex . postoperative immobilization varied from no immobilization to four-poster brace . with a mean follow-up of 13 months , all 13 patients went on to fusion . one patient had screws placed in the disc rather than in bone and went on to malunion . in all other patients , radiographs did not demonstrate screw migration , screw-bone lucency , graft dislodgement , or malunion . no patient suffered neurologic injury as a result of this device . the thsp system facilitates reliable fusion with minimal complications . its use should be considered in multilevel anterior spine defects , posttraumatic cervical kyphosis , and cervical fractures with posterior disruption requiring anterior fusion . 
strategies for trauma resuscitation . victims of penetrating trauma often arrive at a trauma center within minutes of sustaining their injury but nevertheless are in a state of deep circulatory shock . such patients require extensive resuscitative efforts ; in particular , some benefit from rapid , massive normothermic fluid resuscitation . during an initial one year period , 153 of 730 patients required immediate operation and , of these , 33 required rapid infusion defined as greater than 5 liters per hour during the first hour . the over-all survival rate of those operated upon was 79 per cent . encouraged by these data , the rapid infusor ( level 1 h-500 ) ( level 1 , technologies , inc. ) was modified to further increase normothermic fluid delivery to 500 milliliters per minute . eleven of the subsequent 205 patients required rapid infusion . there was a statistically significant improvement in clinical flow rates , decrement in resuscitation times and unexpected survival . in particular , the latter group ( nine survivors ) included four who were clinically dead in the field or on arrival at the trauma center , or both . rapid infusion of normothermic fluids may be of benefit not only in penetrating trauma but also more generally in the management of massive hemorrhage . 
neural arch stenosis and spinal cord injury in thanatophoric dysplasia . bony abnormalities caused by thanatophoric dysplasia affect the base of the skull and the vertebrae as well as the ribs and appendicular long bones . we present our findings in a full-term infant with thanatophoric dysplasia in whom the posterior fossa , the rostral vertebral column , and the neuraxis at and adjoining the craniovertebral junction were studied by dissection , roentgenography , and histologic examination . in this infant , malformations of the vertebral laminae , most prominent in the basiocciput and atlas vertebra , led to compression of the rostral cervical spinal cord , causing gliosis and focal necrosis . stenosis of the foramen magnum and spinal canal may contribute to the ventilatory insufficiency that often causes death in patients with thanatophoric dysplasia . we suggest that the causes of death in patients with thanatophoric dysplasia and other severe forms of osteochondrodysplasia should be sought in neuraxial injury rather than attributed solely to pulmonary hypoplasia . 
hemochromatosis and infection : alcohol and iron , oysters and sepsis . hemochromatosis , or primary iron overload , is a variably expressed genetic metabolic disorder greatly modified by sex , age , diet , and alcohol consumption . although a diagnosis has been made at the bedside by careful documentation of the slow resolution of subcutaneous iron pigment , clinical diagnosis is frequently overlooked , and even autopsy may fail to reveal hemochromatosis as the cause for cirrhosis . genetic linkage studies have confirmed the extremely high prevalence of this disorder . untreated patients may succumb to sepsis caused by organisms such as vibrio vulnificus , yersinia species , and others whose virulence is altered by iron availability . 
increased intraocular pressure in severely burned patients six eyes of three patients with severe body burns had intraocular pressure ranging from 37.2 to 81.7 mm hg . because of extreme orbital congestion , lateral canthotomies were performed , which caused abrupt decrease in intraocular pressure ( range , 17.6 to 49.0 mm hg ) . none of the patients had a history of glaucoma , narrow angles , or any precondition for a pupillary block mechanism . two patients survived and neither had optic nerve damage or increased intraocular pressure after hospital discharge . tonometry should be performed in patients with severe burns and orbital congestion , especially in those patients receiving large amounts of intravenous fluids . lateral canthotomies may be of benefit to relieve potentially damaging high intraocular pressure . 
epidemiologic characteristics , predisposing factors , and etiologic diagnosis of corneal ulceration in nepal . corneal ulceration is one of the most frequent causes of blindness in developing countries . between september 1985 and august 1987 , 405 patients with corneal ulceration were examined at tribhuvan university teaching hospital in kathmandu , nepal . males and females were equally affected . the most common predisposing cause of ulceration was corneal trauma , usually with organic agricultural materials . microorganisms were grown from 324 ( 80 % ) of the ulcers . pure bacterial cultures were obtained from 256 ( 63.2 % ) of the patients , whereas pure fungal cultures were obtained from 27 ( 6.7 % ) of the patients . in 41 patients ( 10.1 % ) , corneal cultures yielded a mixed growth of bacteria and fungi . of a total of 398 bacterial isolates , 124 ( 31.1 % ) were positive for streptococcus pneumoniae , the most commonly isolated organism in the series . other frequently isolated bacteria included staphylococcus epidermidis , s. aureus , and pseudomonas species . of 68 positive fungal isolates obtained , 32 ( 47.0 % ) were identified as aspergillus species . candida species and fusarium species were less commonly seen . 
utility of the self-administered alcoholism screening test ( saast ) in schizophrenic patients . the utility of the self-administered alcoholism screening test ( saast ) in determining alcohol abuse and alcoholism was assessed in a preliminary study of 21 schizophrenic patients during their hospitalization in an acute care psychiatric unit ; on admission all met dsm-iii-r criteria for schizophrenia and none were detected to have any alcohol-related diagnosis . saast scores ranged from 2 to 26 with a mean score of 10.8 . forty-eight percent ( 10/21 ) had saast scores greater than or equal to 10 , indicating " probable alcoholism " ; 62 % ( 13/21 ) scored 8 or higher . every patient with a saast score of 8 or higher also met dsm-iii-r criteria for alcohol abuse or dependence on the basis of patient interview , independent chart reviews , and interviews of significant others . in contrast , only half ( 5/10 ) of the high saast scorers would actually admit to a problem with drinking during the extensive study interviews . six saast items were found to be highly predictive of abuse or alcoholism ; the saast had greater sensitivity than the interviews . sixty-two percent ( 8 of 13 ) of the schizophrenic patients who met the dsm-iii-r criteria for alcohol abuse reported a first degree relative with an alcohol-related problem , in contrast to only 25 % of the " nonalcoholic " patients . the patterns of the alcoholic schizophrenic patients ' responses on the different saast items revealed even greater denial and lack of insight than those of nonschizophrenic alcoholic subjects . 
alcohol and secobarbital effects as a function of familial alcoholism : acute psychophysiological effects . previous research has demonstrated response differences following administration of alcohol between adult males with a positive ( fhp ) versus negative ( fhn ) family history of alcoholism . these response differences are thought to reflect differences in vulnerability to dependence on alcohol . thus , the role of positive family alcoholism history in increasing risk of addiction to a variety of drug classes might be studied by determining whether fhp subjects show different responses to drug classes other than alcohol . this was done in the present study by determining dose-effect functions for a variety of physiological ( heart rate , skin conductance , skin temperature ) , subjective ( analog mood and drug effect , subjective high assessment scale ) , and psychomotor measures ( hand tremor , body sway , digit symbol substitution test , eye-hand coordination , and numeric recall ) in fhp and fhn college-aged males for secobarbital ( 0 , 100 , 200 mg by mouth ) and ethanol ( 1 g/kg ) . fhp and fhn subjects were matched on light-to-moderate drinking patterns , anthropometric dimensions , age , years of schooling , and drug use . at equivalent blood alcohol levels family-history positive subjects reported greater effects of ethanol than did family-history negative subjects on almost all subjective measures . following the high dose of secobarbital , fhp but not fhn subjects showed elevated subjective effects ; these effects were substantially less and were evident in fewer measures than following ethanol . in contrast to effects on the subjective measures , ethanol and secobarbital produced comparable impairment in both groups of subjects for most psychomotor responses . group differences were not obtained on any physiological measures . 
sons of alcoholics report greater hangover symptoms than sons of nonalcoholics : a pilot study . we investigated alcohol-induced hangovers among college men at high and low risk for alcoholism . thirteen sons of alcoholics reported significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) greater hangover symptoms in the past year than 25 sons of nonalcoholics . the two groups reported comparable quantity-frequency of recent drinking . to the extent that hangover represents an acute withdrawal syndrome to alcohol , this raises the question of whether sons of alcoholics are " dependence-prone . " . 
taste reactivity in alcohol preferring and nonpreferring rats . taste reactivity tests were used to examine the orofacial responses of alcohol preferring ( p ) rats and alcohol nonpreferring ( np ) rats to the taste of alcohol . in the initial exposure , naive rats were tested for reactivity to five concentrations of alcohol ( 5 % , 10 % , 20 % , 30 % , and 40 % v/v ) , water , and one solution each of sucrose and quinine . a two-bottle consumption test was then given for a 3-week period to allow the rats access to 10 % alcohol . after the preference test , a second taste reactivity test was done using the same solutions as in the initial reactivity test . the results indicated no significant differences in taste reactivity between p rats and np rats on the initial exposure , except that np rats made significantly more mouth movements . during the two-bottle tests , consumption of alcohol by p rats was consistently higher than that of np rats across all test days . on the second taste reactivity test , p rats showed an increase in the number of ingestive responses and a decrease in the number of aversive responses to alcohol . np rats ' taste reactivity to alcohol remained unchanged from exposure 1 to exposure 2 . p rats ' and np rats ' responses to sucrose and quinine did not change from exposure 1 to exposure 2 . it was concluded that there were no innate taste response differences between p and np rats to alcohol but that following alcohol experience , p rats showed a significant increase in ingestive responses and a concomitant decrease in aversive responses to the taste of alcohol . 
subject selection bias in alcoholics volunteering for a treatment study . baseline differences in alcoholism problem severity were compared between alcoholics who did and did not volunteer to participate in a treatment effectiveness study . a positive relationship was found between self-reports of alcohol-related problems and the degree of research participation . group differences were also revealed in the rate of treatment completion . possible explanations and solutions for this volunteer bias are discussed . 
alcohol abuse among grandsons of alcoholics : some preliminary findings . drawing upon self-reports of family history for alcoholism , the present study compared the level of alcohol abuse among grandsons of alcoholic maternal and paternal grandfathers . although based on a small sample of grandsons ( n = 29 ) , the results indicated a significantly higher level of alcohol abuse among maternal compared with paternal grandsons . 
relationships between neuropsychological test performance and event-related potentials in alcoholic and nonalcoholic samples . are event-related potentials and nonconcurrently measured neuropsychological test performance correlated ? sober male and female middle-aged alcoholics and peer controls were administered an " oddball " event-related potential ( erp ) task and several hours later , a battery of neuropsychological ( np ) tests . alcoholics performed significantly poorer than controls on np tests . male alcoholics had significantly altered erp responses ( n1 , nda , and p3 amplitudes ) but female alcoholics did not differ on any erp variables from controls . a number of significant correlations between erp and np measures were present . the most consistent findings were positive correlations between perceptual-motor ( pm ) tests and the p3 amplitude at pz in both male and female alcoholics and in male alcoholics , a negative correlation between pm tests and p3 latency at pz , findings similar to those seen in parkinson patients . significant correlations were most numerous in family history positive alcoholics . the results lead to two conclusions : first , grant 's postulation that sober alcoholics may manifest an intermediate duration organic mental disorder is supported ; second , given the lack of erp differences in the females , erp measures should not be considered as being causally related to np performance . 
comparison of the self-administered alcoholism screening test ( saast ) and the khavari alcohol test ( kat ) : results from an alcoholic population and their collaterals . this study examined the reports of patients and their collaterals on drinking practices , as measured by the summary scale of the khavari alcohol test ( the annual absolute alcohol intake , aaai ) and alcohol related behavioral patterns , as assessed by the self-administered alcoholism screening test ( saast ) . in - and outpatients from two milwaukee area substance abuse treatment hospitals , and a number of their collaterals , participated in this study . patients ' and collaterals ' responses on the aaai and the saast were compared through the use of a paired t test . results indicated no significant differences between patients ' self-reports compared with collateral reports , and demonstrated a direct relationship on the aaai ( two tailed p less than 0.001 ) and saast ( two-tailed p less than 0.001 ) . self-reports of patients who volunteered collaterals compared with self-reports of patients who did not volunteer collaterals also showed no significant differences on the aaai or the saast , demonstrating consistency of reporting whether the patients believed their reports would be compared with information provided by a collateral or not . the aaai and the saast corroborated in their diagnoses of patients as suffering from alcoholism ( r = 0.515 , p less than 0.001 ) . multivariate analysis revealed no significant effect of demographic variables on either the aaai or the saast . this study shows : ( a ) impressive concordance between patient and collateral reports ; ( 2 ) apparent intactness of memory , and little evidence of denial , as measured by the instruments ; and ( 3 ) the efficacy of measures such as the aaai and the saast , two vastly different scales measuring dimensions of alcoholism . 
formation of the 37kd protein-acetaldehyde adduct in liver during alcohol treatment is dependent on alcohol dehydrogenase activity . protein-acetaldehyde adducts ( protein-aas ) are formed in vivo during chronic alcohol ingestion . these protein-aas reported thus far include a 37kd protein-aa in liver cytosol , cytp450iie 1-aa in hepatic microsomes , hemoglobin-aa , and serum protein-aas . it has been postulated that acetaldehyde or perhaps a reactive acetaldehyde radical generated by the microsomal ethanol oxidizing system ( meos or cytp450iie1 ) explains the formation of the cytp450iie1-aa . the source of acetaldehyde responsible for the formation of the cytosolic 37kd protein-aa has not been determined . in this report , we have examined the effects of pyrazole ( an adh inhibitor ) and cyanamide ( an aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitor ) on the formation of the 37kd liver protein-aa in vivo and in vitro . it was found that feeding rats with an alcohol-containing liquid diet supplemented with cyanamide enhanced while a diet supplemented with pyrazole completely abolished the formation of the 37kd liver protein-aa . the liver of rats fed the pyrazole supplemented alcohol-containing diet showed significantly higher content of cytp450iie1 than that of rats fed the diet containing alcohol alone . on the other hand , feeding the cyanamide supplemented alcohol-containing liquid diet did not further enhance the content of cytp450iie1 . similarly , adding cyanamide to the culture medium enhanced while adding 4-methylpyrazole inhibited the production of the 37kd protein-aa by cultured hepatocytes even though the combination of alcohol and 4-methylpyrazole increased the content of cytp450iie1 2-fold over that in control cells . these results demonstrate that the formation of the 37kd liver protein-aa is dependent on adh and not on meos . 
effects of acute alcohol intake on tolerance to hypotension . the specific aim of this research was to test the hypothesis that intoxication with alcohol results in poor tolerance to hemorrhage . this was evaluated on the basis of blood pressure , cardiac output respiratory rate , blood flow to organs , and survival for 4 hr after hemorrhage . four groups of six swine per group were used ( control , intoxicated , hemorrhage , and intoxicated-hemorrhage ) . the results revealed that blood alcohol concentrations near 0.1 % greatly reduced tolerance to hemorrhage . intoxicated animals subjected to hemorrhage were unable to maintain an adequate cardiac output , blood pressure , or respiratory rate to sustain life . pigs tolerated higher blood alcohol concentrations , up to 0.35 % , when not exposed to hemorrhage . also , unintoxicated pigs were able to compensate for severe hemorrhage . only one of the six pigs in the intoxicated-hemorrhage group survived for 4 hr after hemorrhage . in conclusion the body 's ability to compensate and recover from hemorrhage was greatly reduced during intoxication . it is logical to assume that the ability to overcome numerous other stressors may also be reduced during intoxication . 
acute alcohol ingestion reduces fatty acid extraction of the heart , liver , and small intestine . ethanol may have profound effects on both the distribution of perfusion and substrate utilization by the liver and heart due to its vasodilating properties and the generation of high levels of circulating acetate and lactate . since fatty acids are highly extracted by the heart and liver under normal circumstances , changes in the relationship of perfusion/fatty acid uptake may be a sensitive indicator of both altered perfusion and changes in metabolic substrate availability . to test this hypothesis , studies were performed in rats fed 3.1 , 6.2 , and 9.3 g/kg doses of ethanol . fatty acid uptake was estimated with a 3-methyl substituted reagent with a chain length equivalent to 17 carbons . the methyl group in the three position prevented beta oxidation and prolonged the residence of fatty acids in the tissue . eighteen hours after acute alcohol administration , fatty acid uptake was reduced in the heart and the small intestine ; in the liver uptake was increased or unchanged . acute ethanol administration also resulted in increased perfusion , as indicated by enhanced uptake of 201thallium by the heart , liver , and small intestine . the fatty acid extraction of the heart , liver , and small intestine , defined as the concentration of fatty acid divided by the concentration of 201thallium , was markedly decreased by alcohol ingestion . these alcohol effects were dose-dependent and temporally related . the data suggest that ethanol ingestion could potentially alter heart function during exercise or following a prolonged fast , when the heart relies primarily upon fatty acids extracted from the circulation to generated adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) . 
blunt ocular trauma secondary to " war games " . " war games " are gaining popularity in the western united states . these recreational contests involve members of one team attempting to shoot their opponents with high-velocity dye or paint pellets fired from air guns . unfortunately , serious eye injuries occur when participants do not use protective eye wear . we report a case of severe blunt ocular trauma resulting in a hyphema , choroidal rupture , and retinal and vitreal hemorrhage secondary to a paint pellet striking an unprotected eye . this injury resulted in a significant visual defect in this patient . 
arytenoid subluxation : diagnosis and treatment . both arytenoid subluxation and recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis ( rlnp ) may result from injury to the larynx , and they may be difficult to distinguish clinically . a patient with arytenoid subluxation who was initially believed to have rlnp was treated with medialization laryngoplasty 1 year after the injury . preoperative magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography effectively demonstrated the cricoarytenoid subluxation , which was confirmed by intraoperative electromyography ( emg ) showing normal electrical activity in the thyroarytenoid muscle . photographs from preoperative fiberoptic laryngoscopy are presented to identify the appearance of arytenoid subluxation . computed tomographic findings and photographs from laryngoscopy of two patients with rlnp documented by intraoperative emg evaluation are presented to help distinguish the clinical appearance of this disorder from arytenoid subluxation . an integrated approach to the diagnosis and treatment of arytenoid subluxation is presented . 
penetrating trauma involving the innominate artery . penetrating trauma involving the innominate artery is uncommon . few surgeons have experience with this injury . a successfully managed case of penetrating innominate artery trauma is summarized and the literature reviewed . 
right pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding . serial assessment of pulmonary artery flow by doppler echocardiography was carried out in 15 infants after pulmonary artery banding . three infants were identified as having branch pulmonary artery obstruction based on diastolic pulmonary artery flow . it is concluded that this flow profile may be specific for branch pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding . 
traumatic asphyxia . during a 5-year period , we treated 14 cases of traumatic asphyxia . there were 12 male and 2 female patients ranging in age from 2 to 32 years . most suffered crushing injuries at work or were run over by motor vehicles . mild to severe cervicofacial cyanosis and petechiae developed in all patients . a fear response was reported by 12 of the patients . subconjunctival hemorrhage was also found in 12 patients . nine patients had tachypnea and 7 complained of dyspnea . most of the patients suffered some associated injuries including 8 head injuries , 7 pulmonary contusions , and 6 cases of blunt abdominal trauma . less-associated injuries were rib fractures , brachial and radial nerve injuries , hemothorax , and pneumothorax . the hospital stay ranged from 4 to 28 days ( mean , 14 days ) and follow-up from 10 to 60 months ( mean , 32 months ) . treatment for traumatic asphyxia included measurement of arterial blood gases , oxygen supplementation , and intubation with mechanical ventilation . the patients ' recovery conditions were relative to the severity of injury and the associated injuries . 
effect of race on expression of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated nephropathy . the prevalence of renal disease associated with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is unknown , but appears to vary in different regions . centers in new york , ny , and miami , fla , have reported patients with renal disease complicating aids . these populations have included large proportions of black patients and intravenous drug abusers . reports from san francisco , calif , have suggested the prevalence of renal disease complicating aids is low , but the population was composed primarily of white patients , with a low proportion of drug abusers . the george washington university medical center was the site of treatment for 31.4 % of the patients with aids in washington , dc . this population was split roughly evenly between black and white patients . a retrospective survey of patients with both aids and renal disease revealed approximately two thirds of the patients were black , reflecting the demographics of the population with aids ; 11 % of patients had intravenous drug abuse as a risk factor for the development of aids ; and 74 % had acute renal failure . of these patients , approximately equal proportions were black and white . twenty-six percent of the population had chronic renal failure , but the overwhelming proportion were black . there were no differences between proportions of patients in age , sex , race , or risk factors in patients with acute renal failure and chronic renal failure , but there was a significant difference in the proportions of black and white patients with chronic renal failure . the reason for these differences is unknown , but differences in host responses to viral proteins , physiologic adaptations , or socioeconomic factors in these populations may play an important role in mediating the expression of renal disease in individual patients . 
spontaneous electromyographic potentials in chronic spinal cord injured patients : relation to spasticity and length of nerve . nine patients with complete cervical spinal cord injury ( sci ) had their vastus medialis , tibialis anterior , and gastrocnemius muscles evaluated with an electromyographic ( emg ) examination in the acute ( four to eight weeks ) and chronic ( more than one year ) phases . the hypothesis that spontaneous emg activity changes with time was assessed . during the chronic phase evaluation , a conduction study was performed to rule out peripheral nerve damage , and the amount of reflex activity was assessed on a scale of 0 to 5 ( 0 = areflexia ; 5 = greater than 5 beats of clonus ) to estimate the amount of spasticity . subjects demonstrated normal conduction through the sensory ( sural nerve ) and/or motor segments of the peroneal and tibial nerves . in the acute phase , each muscle had spontaneous activity with no significant variation between different muscles of the same patient . in the chronic phase , there was a positive correlation between the degree of spontaneous activity in a muscle and the length of its axon ( p less than .01 ) and a negative correlation between the amount of spontaneous activity and the degree of reflex activity ( p less than .01 ) . specifically , the lower motor neuron in the chronic phase of an sci seems to behave much like an axonopathy where the degree of spontaneous emg activity is dependent on the length of the axon , with the additional concept that spontaneous activity is inhibited by spasticity . 
orthostatic hypotension after spinal cord injury : treatment with fludrocortisone and ergotamine . we report a case of a 28-year-old woman with c5 quadriplegia , unresponsive to conservative treatment for orthostatic hypotension . ergotamine , daily combined with fludrocortisone , successfully prevented symptomatic hypotension . in this report , neural , renal , and hormonal blood pressure regulatory mechanisms are described . experiences obtained from this case and the existing literature suggest that ( 1 ) in persons with quadriplegia , plasma catecholamine levels show little increase with sitting , indicating an inability to activate baroreceptor and chemoreceptor reflexes , ( 2 ) elevated plasma aldosterone and renin levels indicate a renal compensatory response to decreased renal perfusion secondary to low plasma volume and/or chronic hypotension , and ( 3 ) the net effect of ergotamine and fludrocortisone is probably a combination of plasma volume expansion and direct peripheral vasoconstriction . 
fungal burn wound infection . a 10-year experience . to evaluate our experience with fungal burn wound infection , we performed a 10-year review for comparison with our experience with bacterial burn wound infection . during the study period , a marked decline occurred in bacterial wound infection but not in fungal wound infection . patients with either bacterial or fungal burn wound infection had massive injury , with burn size averaging greater than 50 % of the total body surface area . factors that appear to have markedly reduced bacterial burn wound infection , including patient isolation , topical chemotherapeutic agents , and burn wound excision , do not appear to have had a similar effect on fungal wound infection . the mechanism of spread and colonization of fungi , and the lack of effective topical chemotherapeutic antifungal agents , may explain in part our findings . 
indications for surgical debridement in 125 human bites to the hand . indications for operative intervention following human bites to the hand were determined based on physical examination and time elapsed since injury . one hundred twenty-four patients admitted to charity hospital of new orleans , la , were stratified according to time elapsed from injury to treatment ( early , less than 24 hours ; delayed , 1 to 7 days ; and late , greater than 7 days ) . patients in the early group were mainly treated with conservative wound care , consisting of local wound exploration and irrigation in the emergency department , while those in the late group underwent surgical debridement . patients in the delayed group either received conservative wound care or underwent debridement in the operating room . the early and late groups recovered excellent hand function while results within the delayed group were variable with improved results depending on rapid surgical debridement or drainage . 
effects of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in burn patients . we studied the effects of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in burn patients . serial measurements of granulocyte oxidative function were obtained in treated patients and in a group of controls matched for age and total burn size . the administration of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor resulted in a 50 % increase in mean leukocyte counts . both groups showed significant baseline increases in granulocytic cytosolic oxidative function . treated patients showed normal stimulated cytosolic oxidative function , which was significantly depressed compared with that of untreated patients . myeloperoxidase activity was increased in treated patients during the first postburn week but then declined to normal levels . untreated patients had a significant increase in myeloperoxidase activity for the first 3 weeks following injury . untreated patients exhibited a significant decrease in superoxide activity during the second 3 weeks following injury . treated patients demonstrated normal superoxide activity . 
universal precautions are not universally followed . adherence to universal blood and body fluid precautions was studied in surgical patient care areas of a university hospital in an effort to identify potentially hazardous health care personnel practices . surgical teams of an 18-unit operating room , three surgical ward patient care teams , and patient care personnel in a 16-bed surgical intensive care unit were observed during routine patient care activities before ( study 1 ) and after ( study 2 ) specific educational programs were held to improve universal precaution compliance . overall , infractions occurred in 57 % of 549 observed procedures in study 1 and in 58 % of 616 observed procedures in study 2 . in study 1 , infractions occurred in 75 % of operating room procedures , 30 % of surgical ward procedures , and 75 % of surgical intensive care unit procedures . study 2 procedure infraction rates were 81 % , 32 % , and 40 % , respectively . only surgical intensive care unit compliance significantly improved . noncompliance with universal precautions occurs frequently during the care of patients who have undergone surgery , with the type of infraction and specific offender varying according to patient locale . these violations appear unamenable to one-time educational efforts . substantial overall improvement may arise from ongoing educational programs directed at specific personnel who care for patients who have undergone surgery . 
the epidemiologic features of nosocomial infections in patients with trauma . sepsis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with trauma . to elucidate factors that might lead to infection , we studied the epidemiologic characteristics of nosocomial infections in our patient population with trauma . during a 3.5-year period , 2496 patients were entered into our hospital trauma registry and cross-matched with hospital infection control surveillance information . two hundred twenty-nine patients with trauma and nosocomial infections were identified ( 9.2 % ) , a figure that was nearly twice the nosocomial infection rate for the general hospital population . the majority of those infected were either orthopedic ( 51 % ) , general surgical ( 25 % ) , or neurosurgical ( 13 % ) patients . the most common sites of first infection were urinary tract ( 61 % ) or respiratory system ( 14 % ) . patients developing nosocomial infections were significantly older and had a higher injury severity score than those who did not . injury site was related to risk of infection with injuries of the spine , chest , and extremity showing the most significant relationship . the length of stay as well as hospital charges were significantly related to the occurrence of infectious complications . by determining the patient with trauma at risk for infection , treatment strategies can be designed to minimize septic complications . 
poisonings in laboratory personnel and health care professionals . a case report of an unresponsive chemist presenting to the emergency department is presented ; in retrospect , the patient was discovered to have intentionally ingested cyanide . a review of literature regarding ingestions in laboratory and health care personnel reveals five common points encountered in these personnel : barbiturates , carbon monoxide , cyanide , azides , and methemoglobin-inducing chemicals . key diagnostic findings , in the absence of history of exposure , are discussed for these five agents . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome from organophosphate poisoning . a 46-year-old man after an accidental exposure to organophosphates developed florid adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) . a markedly suppressed level of pseudocholinesterase and red blood cell cholinesterase with profuse salivation and sweating confirmed the diagnosis of organophosphate poisoning . within 48 hours , patient developed respiratory distress needing intubation . despite maximum ventilatory support and positive end-expiratory pressure , hypoxia persisted , swan ganz ( baxter healthcare inc , irvine , ca ) pressures showed low pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and patient died on the third hospital day . an autopsy confirmed the picture of ards . other potential causes of ards were excluded . although rare , organophosphate poisoning should be added to the list of toxins causing ards . 
open depressed skull fracture missed on computed tomography : a case report . a case of an open depressed skull fracture that was missed on standard computed tomographic ( ct ) scan is presented . the fracture was seen on a ct generated lateral scout film , and after repositioning the gantry , further ct images clearly showed the fracture and underlying brain injury . the authors recommend that all patients with head trauma undergoing head ct have either a ct generated lateral scout film or a lateral skull radiograph to assess the vertex of the skull , an area poorly visualized on standard axial images . 
seatbelt effectiveness and cost of noncompliance among drivers admitted to a trauma center . enactment of seatbelt legislation in maryland presented the opportunity to compare seatbelt compliance among seriously injured drivers admitted to a level i trauma center and to establish levels of severity , length of stay , and hospital cost differences among the study population . fifty-five randomly selected drivers were examined from a total surgical population of 689 . seatbelt compliance rate was 41.8 % , reflecting the rate in the community . seatbelts reduced the total number of injuries by 34 % , major injuries by 57 % , and minor injuries by 20 % . no deaths occurred among the belted group . the unbelted group had a mean injury severity score two times as great as the belted group and were hospitalized 1.6 times longer at double the cost . major injuries to the face , chest , and pelvic regions were prevented by the seatbelt . among the belted group , severe injuries did occur to the head , neck , and abdominal regions . it is recommended that both air bags and automatic restraining devices be required for all drivers if the trauma occurring daily on highways is to be eliminated and acute hospital cost minimized . 
carbidopa-levodopa overdose . a 57-year-old woman ingested 15 to 17 tablets of carbidopa-levodopa 10/100 tablets ( carbidopa 150 mg and levodopa 1,500 mg ) along with ibuprofen , carisoprodol , hydrocodone , and acetaminophen . the patient developed choreiform movements that persisted despite obtundation and attempts to extinguish them with naloxone , morphine , and diazepam . when the patient developed a rising level of creatine phosphokinase and myoglobinuria , she was treated with ventilatory support and pancuronium . she required paralysis for 60 hours , when her chorea resolved . 
the febrile alcoholic in the emergency department . the authors retrospectively reviewed the charts of 31 alcoholic patients admitted with fever without a defined source . in our population 58 % of patients were subsequently found to have an infectious cause for their fever . pneumonia was the most common infection , but occult urinary tract infections were seen surprisingly often . noninfectious but serious disorders , such as delirium tremens , prolonged postictal state , and subarachnoid hemorrhage , were also common . infectious and noninfectious causes commonly coexisted . the most common noninfectious cause was alcohol withdrawal , with or without seizures . the authors believe that indigent , malnourished , chronic alcoholics with fever for which a source can not be readily identified , should usually be admitted to the hospital for observation and to await culture results . 
the three rivers regatta accident : an ems perspective . the three rivers regatta accident occurred on august 7 , 1988 when a formula i racing craft collided with shore , injuring 24 spectators . the authors retrospectively examined the prehospital-based response for this multiple-casualty incident that used emergency medical service ( ems ) physicians and 32 paramedics stationed at water and land-based posts to triage and evacuate 24 patients in 32 minutes . patients were transported to 5 hospitals including 4 level i trauma centers ; this was accomplished in 53 minutes . the ems response was unique in a number of respects . this was a prehospital-based rescue with the entire triage and stabilization phase accomplished by river rescue units that transported paramedic divers , ems physicians , and trauma supplies for 30 patients . also of significance was the inordinate proportion of pediatric patients that accounted for 50 % ( 12/24 ) of the cases . successful medical care was the result of planning based on " daily routine doctrine " or escalation of existing treatment protocol ; adequate supplies , personnel and transport adapted to local geography and patient population ; communications , including all services -- ems , police , and fire ; and prehospital physician input to ensure correct triage order and patient disposition . 
differential reading recovery in patients with severe to moderate closed head injury . a differential recovery was seen when alternate forms of a nationally standardized test of reading vocabulary , literal reading comprehension and inferential reading comprehension was administered serially to 10 consecutive closed head injury admissions to a university rehabilitation hospital . inferential reading comprehension was the most impaired and had the fastest recovery rate . subtle cognitive deficits in inferential reading comprehension were detected when reading vocabulary was at or better than a twelfth grade level . maximal recovery of all three reading functions occurred within 4 months after trauma , with most occurring in the first 3 months . the reading recovery pattern parallels the recovery of intelligence scores in the literature . 
motor-evoked potentials reflect spinal cord function in post-traumatic syringomyelia . the purpose of this study was to examine electrophysiologic abnormalities , including motor-evoked potentials , in a patient with post-traumatic syringomyelia before and after syringopleural shunting . a patient with c5 quadriplegia presented with pain , ascending sensory loss , and new weakness in the left upper extremity two yr after spinal cord injury . mri revealed a syrinx extending from c2 to t12 . we measured central motor conduction times ( cmcts ) to the biceps , median f-wave latencies , needle electromyography and motor nerve conduction studies . six days before surgery , cmcts were 9.0 ms on the left and 7.8 ms on the right ( normal less than 8.0 ) , median f-waves were absent on the left and needle emg revealed evidence of denervation in the left biceps . fifteen days after syringopleural shunting at the t7 level , cmcts had dropped to 6.9 ms on the left and 4.6 ms on the right ; the left median f-wave reappeared with a normal latency . repeat mri revealed the syrinx to be smaller in diameter . these results suggest that cmcts measured from magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex may be useful in the diagnosis of post-traumatic syringomyelia , as well as for following such patients postoperatively . 
spasticity in spinal cord injured persons : quantitative effects of baclofen and placebo treatments . spasticity commonly occurs after a spinal cord injury and is characterized by increased resistance to passive movement of peripheral joints . this study examined the effect of an antispasticity medication on stiffness from the myotatic reflex response generated by passive sinusoidal ankle motion . a repeated measures , multiple base-line , single-subject , double-blind design was employed . the independent variable was spasticity medication treatment , where the levels were 40 mg/day and 80 mg/day of baclofen v placebo treatment . viscous and elastic stiffness measurements were taken at the ankle joint during a placebo base-line phase and during treatment with baclofen for five adult males with traumatic spinal cord injuries . ankle sinusoidal oscillation frequencies were from 3 to 12 hz during test sessions . mean viscous and elastic stiffness scores for all frequencies were calculated for each phase of the study . randomization tests of mean changes in stiffness measurements between each treatment phase of the study failed to provide any convincing evidence of a significant treatment effect for reduction of spasticity in the traumatic spinal cord injured subjects studied . further testing is needed to exclude potential confounding factors before this conclusion can be confirmed . the results suggest that baclofen is not a universal treatment of choice for all individuals with spasticity resulting from traumatic spinal cord injury . 
measurement of end-expiratory pressure during transtracheal high frequency jet ventilation for laryngoscopy an anaesthetic technique using high frequency jet ventilation has been proposed for direct laryngoscopy , but this may expose the patients to the risk of barotrauma . in order to assess this risk , we have measured end-expiratory airway pressure ( eep ) through the injector using two three-way solenoid valves mounted in series . at the end of insufflation the first valve was switched off and the apparatus deadspace connected to atmosphere through a large exit port during an adjustable time ( decompression time ) . then the second valve was switched off and the injection line connected to a transducer , allowing measurement of eep through the injector . the accuracy of this measurement was tested against airway pressure measured directly in the trachea ( pt ) in a lung model . provided that the decompression time was long enough ( 70 ms ) and the apparatus deadspace was small ( 6 ml ) , the difference between eep and pt was less than 1 cm h2o for frequencies up to 5 hz . a clinical evaluation was performed in 64 patients under general anaesthesia before laryngoscopy . eep correlated with end-expiratory pulmonary volume above apnoeic frc inferred from abdominal and thoracic displacements . at jet frequencies up to 5 hz , the correlations between these two variables were satisfactory ( r greater than 0.88 ) , suggesting that eep is a good indicator of pulmonary overdistension . 
silica-associated systemic sclerosis is clinically , serologically and immunologically indistinguishable from idiopathic systemic sclerosis . to determine whether the clinical , immunological and serological features of patients with silica-associated systemic sclerosis are different from patients with the ' idiopathic ' form of systemic sclerosis ( ss ) we studied 22 underground coal miners who were exposed to silica dust ( sd ) , 30 mine workers who later developed silicosis ( s ) and 17 mine workers exposed to silica dust who subsequently developed a systemic sclerosis-like disease ( sa-ss ) . the patients with sa-ss had features clinically indistinguishable from individual patients with ss . they all had raynaud 's phenomenon , 14 had cutaneous sclerosis identical to that seen in acrosclerosis and three had a generalized cutaneous sclerosis . sixteen patients had bibasilar pulmonary fibrosis , 10 had necrosis of the fingertip pulps , nine had oesophageal involvement and only one patient had renal involvement . antinuclear antibodies and circulating immune complexes were detected in three and eight patients with sd , 14 and five patients with s and in 16 and nine patients with sa-ss , respectively . anti-scl-70 antibody was detected in eight of the 17 patients with sa-ss . evidence for in vivo endothelial cell damage , as determined by elevated levels of von willebrand factor , was found in nine patients with sd , 14 patients with s and in 10 patients with sa-ss . following incubation of the patient 's serum with confluent cultures of human umbilical vein endothelial cells there was only a significant reduction in calcium ionophore-induced release of prostacyclin with the serum from sa-ss patients compared to that with control serum ( nc ) . the mean + / - sem release of 6-keto-pgf1 alpha ( the stable metabolite of prostacyclin expressed as ng/10 ( 4 ) cells ) decreased from 2.90 + / - 0.27 to 2.01 + / - 0.33 ( sd ) , 3.34 + / - 0.42 to 1.76 + / - 0.31 ( s ) , 1.98 + / - 0.12 to 0.64 + / - 0.07 ( sa-ss ) and 2.28 + / - 0.33 to 1.36 + / - 0.21 ( nc ) with 1 and 20 % serum , respectively . this study demonstrates that immune complex and antinuclear antibody formation and in vivo endothelial cell damage occurs following occupational exposure to silica . the patients who subsequently develop a systemic sclerosis-like disease have clinical , immunological and serological features which are indistinguishable from the idiopathic form of the disease although as a group the sa-ss patients have a higher prevalence of pulmonary involvement and the anti-scl-70 antibody . 
urinary continence in spinal injury patients following complete sacral posterior rhizotomy . complete sacral posterior rhizotomy was carried out in 15 spinal injury patients in conjunction with implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators . all patients were incontinent pre-operatively and had video-pressure cystometry before and at regular intervals after surgery . detrusor hyper-reflexia was totally abolished in all but 1 patient following rhizotomy and 87 % no longer require any form of incontinence appliance . deafferentation produced adverse changes in vesicourethral function and even when rhizotomy was complete , continence could not be guaranteed . the pre-operative state of the bladder neck and distal sphincter mechanism had an important bearing on future continence and those patients with a closed bladder neck and no previous sphincterotomy had the greatest chance of becoming continent after deafferentation . the majority of patients in this series are now fully continent , representing a transformation in their quality of life ; it is recommended , however , that to optimise the success of rhizotomy precise pre-operative evaluation and selection of patients are essential . 
late effects of treatment for wilms ' tumor . a report from the national wilms ' tumor study group . the national wilms ' tumor study ( nwts ) was initiated in 1969 . one of its objectives was to modulate treatments according to risk factors to minimize the number and severity of treatment-related short-term and long-term iatrogenic complications . the nwts has therefore incorporated a long term follow-up study ( ltfs ) within its framework to monitor late effects . the ltfs is confined to relapse-free survivors alive 5 years or longer after initial surgery , and data are collected using specifically designed forms . a total of 787 patients registered on nwts-1 or nwts-2 ( 1969 to 1979 ) were eligible , of whom 680 ( 86 % ) were available for analysis regarding musculoskeletal , cardiovascular , and neuropsychologic status , and the presence of benign and malignant tumors . patients with early-stage disease who were treated with radiation had scoliosis reported , along with other musculoskeletal abnormalities ( 32 versus 2 ) , nearly seven times as often as did the members of the cohort population who did not undergo radiation ( 35 of 57 versus 5 of 53 , respectively ) . the difference in cardiovascular problems recorded in survivors who did and did not receive adriamycin ( adria laboratories , columbus , oh ) ( 2.4 versus 1.1 per 100-person years at risk ) had borderline statistical significance ( p = 0.06 ) . no excess in neuropsychologic events was reported for those given the neurotoxin vincristine . when considering patients with disease of all stages , all 5 second malignant tumors occurred in the 623 patients who underwent radiation ( rt patients ) ; benign tumors were also more frequent in rt patients than in those patients who did not undergo radiation ( 41 of 486 or 8 % versus 4 of 194 or 2 % ) . continuing study of this unique body of patients is needed , especially for those given adriamycin , because of the known long interval needed for latent cardiomyopathy to become clinically manifest in some patients . 
multidisciplinary treatment of primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma . a single-institution experience . orbital rhabdomyosarcoma accounts for one-fourth of the primary tumors in the head and neck region . modern treatment modalities have led to a 2-year survival rate of about 90 % in these patients . however , new therapeutic trials are designed to reduce complications and salvage more than 90 % of orbital cases . between 1979 and 1990 , 12 children affected by primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma have been diagnosed and treated at the university of naples . ten of them have been uniformly treated by biopsy , followed by immediate radiation and combined chemotherapy . all 12 patients are alive and free of detectable disease , from a minimum of 7 months to a maximum of 123 months after diagnosis . in all children , ocular structures have been spared and the complications observed until now have been few . the above results suggest that the association of immediate radiation therapy and chemotherapy might represent an optimal tool for treatment of orbital rhabdomyosarcoma . 
intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil . an unusual complication of a hickman catheter . venous access devices ( vad ) have become an important tool in the management of patients with cancer . multiple complications can occur as a consequence of insertion of a vad . the authors report a case of a hickman catheter perforating the wall of the superior vena cava into the pericardium , resulting in accidental intrapericardial infusion of 5-fluorouracil ( 5-fu ) . pericarditis and cardiac arrhythmias developed , but the patient did not have cardiac tamponade . she recovered from the event without apparent chronic cardiac dysfunction . 
the history and classification of knee braces . there has been a great deal of concern within the orthopedic community regarding the lack of objective data available on the multitude of knee braces flooding the marketplace . this article hopes to fill that void by presenting an overview of the history and classification of knee braces . 
choosing functional knee braces . choosing a functional brace for knee injury is a complex issue complicated by a lack of quantitative research on the subject and an increasing number of braces currently on the market . the correct brace decision will be facilitated by a better understanding of knee injury biomechanics and by a thorough understanding of the choices available . the ultimate selection of a brace should be based on sound mechanical criteria and individualized for each patient . the brace must be mechanically effectual and one the patient likes , has confidence in , and will tolerate . in combination with aggressive rehabilitation , the functional brace can make a significant contribution to returning individuals to functional activity . 
functional analysis of anterior cruciate ligament braces . whether or not anterior cruciate ligament ( acl ) braces work has been the subject of some debate . research efforts undertaken to understand these braces have been divided into two fronts : static and functional analysis . this article explores those issues surrounding the functional analysis of acl braces . 
the use of knee braces during rehabilitation . this article has profiled the use of knee braces as an augmentation to the overall rehabilitation program following knee injury . it has also outlined other aspects of rehabilitation , the use of continuous passive motion devices , and other forms of exercises and training that , together with bracing , may enhance patient recovery . continuous passive motion devices have been used for many different orthopedic problems with good success . understanding the mechanics of how these devices move the knee and the forces that can be applied to the knee is helpful in deciding on their use after ligamentous reconstructions . rehabilitation of the knee following surgery requires a good understanding of the effects that each exercise has on the knee and the reconstruction . gradual progression of exercises to the knee following knee ligament reconstruction will not overstress healing tissues . many different types of knee braces exist , and careful evaluation of them may enhance patient recovery . 
the effect of bracing on the collateral ligaments of the knee . disruption of the ligamentous structures of the knee is commonly seen in competitive sports . the role of prophylactic and functional bracing is controversial . currently , prophylactic bracing has not been shown , conclusively , to be protective . functional braces appear to have a capacity to provide some protective effect . 
clinical significance and evaluation of prophylactic knee brace studies in football . a review of nine studies of prophylactic knee braces in american tackle football found some support for the use of double-hinge braces in high school but little support for their use at the collegiate level . problems with bias and confounding make it necessary that caution be exercised in the interpretation of the results of these studies , however , . to which groups these results might apply must also be considered . the two studies that assigned braces randomly found lower injury rates among high school and high-school-sized players for knee injuries and knee ligament injuries . conversely a large , multiteam collegiate study found a significantly higher rate of knee injuries among brace users , a difference that remained when controlled for position , skill , and previous injury . 
management of smooth-blunt gastric foreign bodies in asymptomatic patients . guidelines for management in the asymptomatic patient with a smooth-blunt gastric foreign body are not well established in the pediatric literature . questionnaires were sent to pediatricians , family practitioners , pediatric gastroenterologists and pediatric surgeons with an over-all response rate of 62.2 % . there was no agreement in regard to how long one should observe such patients before recommending intervention . there was no correlation of years of clinical experience and length of observation recommended either . review of the pre-endoscopic literature revealed spontaneous evacuation in 93-99 % of all types of foreign bodies in 1477 pediatric patients . an observation period of at least eight weeks should be strongly considered in an asymptomatic patient with a smooth-blunt gastric foreign body . exceptions would include an anatomic abnormality of the gastric outlet , previous gastric outlet surgery as well as a possibly toxic object . 
antiepileptic drug intoxication : factors and their significance . a retrospective chart review ( 1979-1985 ) was performed to identify probable causes of intoxication with antiepileptic drugs ( aeds ) . we identified 141 patients meeting clinical and laboratory criteria for intoxication and 17 with clinical signs but with serum concentrations within the therapeutic range . the majority were epileptic patients ; almost half were treated with monotherapy , most with phenytoin ( pht ) . the causes of intoxication in the epileptic patients were iatrogenic ( 41 % ) , inappropriate dose self-adjustment ( 34 % ) , suicide attempt ( 18 % ) , inappropriate caretaker dose adjustment ( 9 % ) , accidental ingestion ( 8 % ) , unrecognized drug interaction ( 6 % ) , and association with intercurrent illness ( 2 % ) . twenty-two patients had more than one probable cause of intoxication . in nonepileptic patients the causes were suicide attempt ( 50 % ) , accidental ingestion ( 27 % ) , and iatrogenic ( 23 % ) . most patients had signs of ocularmotor and vestibulocerebellar dysfunction . rarely described manifestations of intoxication , such as seizures or choreoathethosis , were observed in a few patients . the average hospital stay was 6.9 days ; there was no mortality , and all patients recovered fully . we conclude that aed intoxication is a major but preventable cause of morbidity and that suicide attempts are an important and underrecognized contributor in both epileptic and non-epileptic patients . 
t-plasty modification of the bankart procedure for multidirectional instability of the anterior and inferior types . forty patients who had a diagnosis of multidirectional instability of forty-two shoulders had a modified bankart operation in which a t-shaped incision was made in the anterior portion of the capsule , with advancement of the inferior flap superiorly and of the superior flap medially . all of the patients had been injured during athletic activities . some degree of anterior labral injury was present in thirty-eight of the forty-two shoulders . half of the patients had generalized ligamentous laxity . the patients were followed for an average of three years ( range , two to seven years ) . four patients had episodes of instability after the operation . three had a single episode of posterior subluxation during throwing , one had recurrent posterior subluxation that subsequently was treated by posterior stabilization , and one had anterior subluxation while he was diving from a high board . the average loss of external rotation after the operation was 5 degrees with the arm at the side and 4 degrees with the arm abducted 90 degrees . satisfaction of the patient was rated excellent for forty ( 95 per cent ) of the shoulders , good for one shoulder , and fair for one shoulder . however , throwing athletes found that they were unable to throw a ball with as much speed as before the operation . 
the clinical value of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of meniscal disorders . this prospective double-blind study was designed to evaluate the capability of magnetic resonance imaging to serve as a diagnostic tool in patients who have a clinically suspected disorder of the meniscus . the imaging studies provided a diagnostic accuracy of 72 per cent , a sensitivity of 88 per cent , and a specificity of 57 per cent . the positive and negative predictive values were 66 and 83 per cent . the diagnostic sensitivity was 94 per cent for lesions of the medial meniscus ; this value differed significantly from that of 78 per cent for lesions of the lateral meniscus ( p less than 0.05 ) . the 37 per cent specificity for lesions of the medial meniscus was extremely low compared with the rate of 69 per cent for lesions of the lateral meniscus ( p less than 0.01 ) . in the intermediate part of the meniscus , the diagnostic sensitivity was 37 per cent on the medial side and 23 per cent on the lateral side ; these values were significantly less than the average of 74 per cent for the other meniscal segments ( p less than 0.001 ) . the imaging studies provided an over-all accuracy of 67 per cent in the detection of degeneration of the meniscus , 78 per cent in the identification of meniscal tears , and 82 per cent in the delineation of postoperative lesions . 
accuracy of diagnoses from magnetic resonance imaging of the knee . a multi-center analysis of one thousand and fourteen patients . magnetic resonance images of the knee were made for 1014 patients , and the diagnosis was subsequently confirmed arthroscopically . the accuracy of the diagnoses from the imaging was 89 per cent for the medial meniscus , 88 per cent for the lateral meniscus , 93 per cent for the anterior cruciate ligament , and 99 per cent for the posterior cruciate ligament . the magnetic resonance examinations were done at several centers , and the results varied substantially among centers . the accuracy ranged from 64 to 95 per cent for the medial meniscus , from 83 to 94 per cent for the lateral meniscus , and from 78 to 97 per cent for the anterior cruciate ligament . the results from different magnetic-resonance units were also compared , and the findings suggested increased accuracy for the units that had a stronger magnetic field . of the menisci for which the magnetic resonance signal was reported to be grade ii ( a linear intrameniscal signal not extending to the superior or inferior meniscal surface ) , 17 per cent were found to be torn at arthroscopy . 
carpometacarpal dislocations . long-term follow-up . twenty patients who had a dislocation of one or all of the medial four carpometacarpal joints were followed for an average of 6.5 years ( range , 1.5 to 20.5 years ) . fifteen patients were treated with open reduction and internal fixation during the first three weeks after injury and the long-term result was excellent in thirteen of them . three of the four unsatisfactory results were in patients who had injuries to the normally rigid second and third carpometacarpal joints or had a concomitant ulnar-nerve injury . 
healing of digital flexor tendons : importance of the interval from injury to repair . a biomechanical , biochemical , and morphological study in dogs . the effect of an elapsed interval of time between injury and operative repair of the flexor tendons was investigated in a canine model . transected intrasynovial flexor tendons were repaired either immediately or after a delay of seven or twenty-one days . the biomechanical , biochemical , and morphological characteristics were compared at three and six weeks . the values for angular rotation , linear excursion , ultimate load , and linear slope were determined ; concentrations of collagen and reducible collagen cross-links , an index of newly synthesized collagen , were measured ; and the ultrastructural morphology of the tendons was examined by high-voltage electron microscopy . for the tendons that were repaired immediately , the values for angular rotation were 9.4 + / - 3.2 and 13.0 + / - 3.7 degrees at three and six weeks ; for those that were repaired at seven days , 4.1 + / - 1.3 and 2.5 + / - 1.4 degrees ; and for those that were repaired at twenty-one days , 2.7 + / - 0.8 and 4.7 + / - 0.7 degrees . there was a significant effect of the delay until repair on the angular rotation and linear excursion in all three groups ( p less than 0.005 for both ) . tensile testing of the bone-tendon complex revealed no significant effect of the delay on the values for ultimate load ( p greater than 0.05 ) . there were no significant differences in total concentration of collagen at the sites of repair or in the levels of reducible schiff-base cross-links ( indicators of newly synthesized cross-links ) in tendons from the three groups . 
esophageal obstruction with a dietary fiber product designed for weight reduction . supplements consisting primarily of dietary fibers are marketed as aids to weight reduction . of uncertain efficacy , they have generally been regarded as safe when used according to directions . we report two cases of acute esophageal obstruction by a guar gum product in patients with preexisting esophageal abnormalities and review similar reports from other centers . 
fat distribution and steroid hormones in women with alcohol abuse . anthropometric , hormonal and liver function parameters were examined in 18 premenopausal women with a history of early alcohol abuse , and compared with the data for randomly selected controls of the same age . the alcoholic women showed slightly elevated levels of transaminases , but no clinical or laboratory signs of advanced liver damage . these women were characterized by an increased waist-to-hip ratio , due to enlarged waist circumference . several endocrine abnormalities were found , including irregular or absent menses as well as low oestrogen , progesterone and delta-4-androstendione levels . the concentration of free testosterone was high and that of sex-hormone-binding globulin was low . these data suggest abdominal distribution of body fat , as well as hyperandrogenicity in alcoholic , premenopausal women . it is postulated that the endocrine abnormalities might be responsible for the abdominal fat distribution . 
metabolite and hormonal profiles in heat stroke patients at mecca pilgrimage . sera obtained during the hajj seasons of 1985 , 1986 , 1987 and 1988 from 125 heat stroke patients were collected and subjected to chemical analysis which included determination of glucose , lactate , cholesterol , and triglycerides , as well as assay of t3 , t4 , tsh and cortisol . hyperglycaemia and lactic acidaemia were found to be the most frequent metabolic abnormalities . the changes in cholesterol did not exhibit a specific pattern . triglycerides were significantly elevated in only 6 % of patients . cortisol levels were very significantly elevated in precooled patients . although the mean t3 levels remained within the normal range , the mean concentration on admission was significantly higher than the post-cooling mean . tsh and t4 levels did not show significant changes . 
changes in the basal dendrites of cortical pyramidal cells from alcoholic patients -- a quantitative golgi study . although a variety of pathological changes have been described in the brains of chronic alcoholic patients , there have been no studies which have addressed the question of alterations in cortical neuronal dendritic arborisation . loss of neurons from the superior frontal gyrus and shrinkage of neurons from both the superior frontal gyrus and motor cortex has been documented in chronic alcoholic patients ; these areas were chosen for this study . using a modified rapid golgi technique the basal dendritic arborisation of layer iii pyramidal neurons was compared in 15 male alcoholic patients and 15 age-matched male controls . all parameters measuring basal dendritic arborisation were significantly less in the alcoholic cases for both the superior frontal and motor cortices . changes in the arbor are in the terminal branches , which is consistent with other models of dendritic plasticity . such changes may explain both permanent and reversible functional deficits in chronic alcoholic patients . 
motor units in incomplete spinal cord injury : electrical activity , contractile properties and the effects of biofeedback . the electrical and contractile properties of hand muscles in a selected population of quadriplegic subjects were studied intensively before and after emg biofeedback . spontaneously active motor units and units that could only be slowly and weakly activated were observed in these subjects , in addition to units that were voluntarily activated normally . this suggests a considerable overlap of surviving motor neurons to a single muscle that are below , near or above the level of a lesion . despite the common occurrence of polyphasic potentials and other signs of neuromuscular reinnervation , the average twitch tension of single motor units in hand muscles of quadriplegic subjects was not significantly different from that in control subjects . nor did it increase after biofeedback training that typically increased the peak surface emg by a factor of 2-5 times . the percentage of spontaneously active units was also constant . the surface emg may be increased during biofeedback by using higher firing rates in motor units that can already be activated , rather than by recruiting previously unavailable motor units . 
do nurses or doctors have an increased risk of developing multiple sclerosis ? a cluster of multiple sclerosis ( ms ) patients has been reported in seven of 307 nurses in key west , florida . the ms death rates in british nurses and qualified medical practitioners were looked at and no increased mortality from multiple sclerosis was found . neither was there an increase in mortality from motor neuron disease ( amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ) , the control disease . death rates from ms vary with social class , being highest in social class iiin ( skilled non-manual ) and lowest in social class ii ( intermediate ) . these different rates may be due to ms causing health related occupational mobility . allowance for the inter-class variability in ms death rates did not materially affect the conclusion that death from ms appears to be no more common than expected among nurses and doctors than in the general population . possible explanations for the cluster of multiple sclerosis among nurses in key west are discussed . 
association of self-reported injury and alcohol consumption in medical outpatients . objective : this study was designed to examine the association between minor injury and level of alcohol consumption among adult outpatients . design : self-administered survey of alcohol use and level of injury in prior month . setting : adult outpatients attending a university-based general internal medicine private practice . patients/participants : during a four-month period , 1,011 patients aged 18-65 years were asked to complete questionnaires while waiting to see a physician . the 791 who completed all forms appropriately are included in this study . intervention : none . measurements and main results : the total number of drinks and the total number of injuries reported during the preceding month were calculated . nondrinkers reported an average of 0.51 ( sd = 1.18 ) injuries in the prior month ; and drinkers , 0.92 ( sd = 1.70 ) injuries . minor injuries were reported more frequently by heavier alcohol consumers only among younger patients ( rr = 1.88 ) . there was no association between reported injury and alcohol consumption among patients over 50 years of age ( rr = 0.90 ) . conclusions : minor injury is associated with heavier alcohol consumption in younger patients attending a general medical practice , but not among older patients . further research is needed to establish a causal relationship between alcohol drinking and minor injury . 
massive transfusion : outcome in blunt trauma patients . over a 54-month period 6,142 patients were consecutively admitted to our level i trauma center . ninety-two blunt trauma patients required massive transfusion ( mt ) of 20 or more units of packed red blood cells ( range , 20-126 ) . eighty-two per cent of all transfused blood was given within 24 hours of admission . forty-eight patients ( 52 % ) were long-term survivors . twenty-six patients died ( 28 % ) within 24 hours and 21 of these exsanguinated . eighteen patients died greater than 24 hours : nine ( 50 % ) died from multiple organ failure , and nine ( 50 % ) died from severe closed head injury ( chi ) . clinical predictors of increased mortality were : shock on admission , closed head injury , and age . forty-three survivors were followed for a mean of 2.5 years ( range , 1-5 years ) . no patient died during followup . all patients were home at 1 year ; only four patients required continued medical assistance . thirty-two patients ( 74 % ) returned to work . we conclude that : 1 ) blunt and penetrating trauma patients receiving mt have similar survival rates of 50 % ; 2 ) shock , closed head injury , and age predict increased mortality but do not preclude survival ; 3 ) long-term outcome in blunt patients requiring mt is excellent . post-discharge death is rare and 3/4 of the survivors return to work , justifying the high cost of acute care . 
how to save fuel and reduce injuries in automobiles . increased fuel economy and reduced injuries have been portrayed as incompatible goals , based on the false assumption that vehicle weight is the determining factor in both . physics predicts that size and velocity , not weight , are the primary factors affecting crash forces , while increased weight or increased velocity consumes more fuel . analysis of fatal injury rates , injury costs , and fuel use relation to vehicle weight , vehicle size , and engine horsepower confirms that weight is of minimal importance in injury severity compared to the other two factors . fuel use is a function of weight and horsepower . injuries and fuel use can be reduced by reducing vehicle horsepower without changing vehicle size . 
high-pressure injection injuries of the hand . the majority of high-pressure injection injuries can produce serious damage to the hand . nevertheless , the injury may follow a relatively benign course if the injected substance possesses a less harmful nature . treatment for these injuries requires immediate and aggressive surgery in most circumstances , but conservative treatment may be justified in certain instances . during a 4-year period , eight cases of high-pressure injection injury were encountered . the types of injected material were : four from paint , and one each from grease , water , benzene , and hydraulic oil . time is an important factor regarding the results , while the types of injected material modify the clinical courses . it is advisable that the etiology of high-pressure injection injury should be established initially , and this factor be taken into consideration in choosing treatment options . 
primary intramedullary nailing of open femoral shaft fractures . the cases of 60 patients with 63 open femoral fractures treated by primary reamed intramedullary nailing were retrospectively reviewed . twenty-two were classified as type i open fractures , 26 as type ii and 15 as type iii open fractures by gustilo 's classification . all fractures were treated by wound debridement followed by immediate reamed intramedullary nailing . there were five early soft-tissue infections and three late deep infections . of the late infections , only one was osteomyelitis ( 1.6 % ) . there were three nonunions and seven malunions . all of the complications were dealt with effectively by standard methods . we concluded that primary reamed intramedullary nailing is an effective alternative for the treatment of type i and ii open femur fractures and for type iii open femur fractures associated with multiple trauma . 
post-traumatic bile fistulae . bile leakage after liver injury has been reported to be a complication associated with significant mortality . in a prospective study of 306 patients with liver injuries 13 ( 4 % ) developed a bile leak . there appear to be two groups of patients , those with a major bile duct injury ( three patients ) and those with a more peripheral injury ( ten patients ) . bile leaks may present either as bile peritonitis ( six patients ) or as a bile leak through a drain site ( seven patients ) . all but one bile leak closed spontaneously at a median of 33 days ( range , 3-110 days ) . there was no mortality but patients incurred a median of four complications each ( range , 1-5 ) . this may reflect the severity of the initial injury rather than the bile leak . respiratory failure and/or infection and sepsis were the most common complications whilst abnormalities of liver function , although common , were seldom of clinical significance . 
a prospective evaluation of the ao/asif universal femoral nail in the treatment of traumatic and reconstructive problems of the femur . beginning in october 1986 , we prospectively evaluated the ao/asif universal femoral nail in the treatment of traumatic ( 89 nails ) and reconstructive ( 11 nails ) problems of the femur . for treatment of isolated femoral fractures , the mean time of patient positioning and nail insertion was 2.4 hours with a mean blood loss of 389 ml . seventy-eight per cent of the patients were followed for a minimum of 12 months . there were no infections , one case of nail failure , two cases of screw fracture , and three nonunions . sixteen nails have been uneventfully removed . the ao/asif femoral nail provides results comparable to other intramedullary interlocking devices . 
injuries to the cervical spine causing vertebral artery trauma : case reports . in four patients with lesions of the vertebral artery resulting from cervical spine injury , two were due to unilateral facet dislocation and two to fractures of the dens . there was one arterial occlusion with minor vertebrobasilar symptoms , and an arterial lesion with thrombosis causing embolic occlusion of the basilar artery with lethal outcome . in one patient a fresh fracture of the dens caused dislocation of c1/2 with reversible occlusion of the left and stenosis of the right vertebral artery , resulting in unconsciousness . in a patient with pseudarthrosis of the dens an aneurysm of the vertebral artery could be detected . cerebellar or cerebral symptoms associated with cervical spine injury should be investigated by vertebral angiography because vertebral arterial injury may be more common than suspected and may simulate traumatic brain damage . 
traumatic rupture of the interventricular septum and tricuspid valve : case report . cardiac injury following blunt trauma is an important cause of morbidity and mortality and is often unsuspected . isolated chamber rupture and valvular injury are infrequent but recognized consequences of nonpenetrating trauma . this report describes a patient who developed a perimembranous ventricular septal defect and disruption of the septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve as a consequence of blunt trauma . diagnosis and management of traumatic ventricular septal rupture are discussed . 
bullet fragment venous embolus to the heart : case report . this report describes a case of bullet fragment embolus to the heart following a small-caliber gunshot wound to the mouth . skull and c-spine films appeared to account for the projectile ; however , chest x-ray followed by fluoroscopy and two-dimensional echocardiography demonstrated a venous missile embolus in the right heart . the bullet was palpated , trapped in the right ventricle , and easily extruded . 
penetrating injury of a duplicated ureter : case report . duplications of the genitourinary tract are uncommon and may be a source of confusion in the early diagnosis of ureteral trauma when their presence is not suspected . we present a case of delayed diagnosis of a penetrating injury to a duplicated ureter and its management . 
intrahepatic arterioportal fistula after blunt hepatic trauma : case reports . intrahepatic arterioportal fistula ( apf ) was found in five out of 65 consecutive patients following blunt hepatic trauma . in four patients the fistula was located peripherally and the blood flow was small . these fistulas closed spontaneously within 3 months . however , a centrally located fistula with early visualization of the trunk of the portal vein persisted in one patient and necessitated transcatheter embolization . the apf in this patient caused portal dilatation which was detectable by ct scan . we conclude that spontaneous closure can be expected when an apf is located peripherally and the shunt flow is small , while centrally located apf with large flow require active treatment , preferably by transcatheter embolization . an apf detectable by ct scan suggests the need of intervention . 
traumatic scapulothoracic dissociation : case report . a 23-year-old man suffered traumatic scapulothoracic dissociation ( tsd ) in a car-vs . - bicyclist accident . tsd is a devastating forequarter injury characterized by brachial plexus damage , major upper extremity musculoskeletal disruption , and exsanguinating hemorrhage : our patient survived a hematocrit of 7 . prompt recognition and aggressive management of tsd 's multiple injuries are crucial . 
emergency center ultrasonography in the evaluation of hemoperitoneum : a prospective study . the reliability of ultrasonographic detection ( us ) of hemoperitoneum in blunt abdominal trauma was evaluated in a prospective study of 72 patients . independent of the examiner , sensitivity , specificity , and accuracy were , respectively , 86.7 % , 100 % , and 97.2 % . laparotomy was indicated in 76.9 % of us hemoperitoneum-positive cases . no negative laparotomies were performed in this study group . if hemoperitoneum is revealed in us and vital signs are unstable , we think laparotomy is indicated . we believe that us in an emergency center is a quick , safe screening method in the evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma . us might take over a great part of the role of diagnostic peritoneal lavage . 
multipiece tire rim injuries . multipiece tire rims can explode during tire change , causing severe injury . although more than 450 such accidents , with at least 80 deaths , have been recorded by the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) , we found no reports in the surgical literature on such injuries in the united states . this report describes experience with seven patients who sustained injuries in explosions of multipiece tire rims . all victims suffered massive maxillofacial trauma with associated ocular , cranial , intracranial , and extremity injuries . two patients died , both because of intracerebral hemorrhage . one patient suffered serious long-term disability . all survivors required extensive reconstructive surgery . the design of the multipiece tire rim is inherently hazardous . since many accidents of this type are not reported to the nhtsa , the incidence of such injuries may be significantly higher . an alternative , nonhazardous tire rim is available . design modifications or a law restricting use of multipiece tire rims would prevent many accidents . 
improved outcome with early fixation of skeletally unstable pelvic fractures . thirty-seven consecutive patients with unstable pelvic fractures were divided into two groups : group 1 ( july 1981 to december 1984 ; n = 18 ) , when early fixation was not routinely used , and group 2 ( january 1985 to march 1988 ; n = 19 ) , when early fixation was performed unless contraindicated . hospital stay decreased by 37.8 % in group 2 ( p = 0.04 ) . of group 1 patients , 60 % were disabled for at least 6 months versus 15.7 % in group 2 ( p = 0.001 ) , and 45 % were discharged to a rehabilitation facility versus 26.4 % in group 2 . group 1 had more complications , 1.3 per patient , versus 1.0 . patients in group 2 ( undergoing early fixation ) required 27.2 % fewer units of blood than those in group 1 in whom fracture surgery was delayed . survival was better in group 2 , 100 % versus 83.3 % ( p = 0.06 ) . early pelvic fracture fixation reduces hospital stay , long-term disability , and may result in fewer complications , decreased blood loss , and better survival . 
early measurement of systemic lipid peroxidation products in the plasma of major blunt trauma patients . we sought evidence of oxidant-induced biological membrane damage in 43 resuscitated blunt trauma patients ( average iss , 36.9 ) within 2-6 hours of injury and before anaesthesia and surgery . the plasma levels of the lipid peroxidation products ( conjugated dienes , cds a 233 nm ) and malondialdehyde ( mda , nmol/ml ) and the oxidant-inducing effect of the trauma plasma on normal fmlp-stimulated neutrophils were compared to those of control subjects . no differences were observed in the plasma levels of mda ( 1.73 + / - 2.15 vs. 1.45 + / - 0.70 nmol/ml ) and cds ( 2.07 + / - 2.16 vs. 1.28 + / - 0.60 a 233nm ) , or on stimulated neutrophil superoxide production ( 26.4 + / - 6.9 vs. 29.0 + / - 6.2 nmol o2 - / 2 x 10 ( 6 ) pmns ) . these observations persisted when the patients were analyzed based on injury severity , the presence of long bone fractures , and the class of shock at presentation . we conclude that there is no evidence of oxidant-induced membrane damage manifested by increased plasma levels of cds or mda within 2 to 6 hours of blunt injury . 
spine trauma and associated injuries . a longitudinal , prospectively gathered data base of spine trauma has been developed . a review of 508 consecutive hospital admissions identified the presence of associated injuries in 240 ( 47 % ) individuals , most frequently involving head ( 26 % ) , chest ( 24 % ) , or long bones ( 23 % ) . twenty-two per cent had one associated injury , 15 % had two , and 10 % had three or more . most spine fractures involved the lower cervical ( 29 % ) or thoracolumbar junction ( 21 % ) . comparisons of presence or absence of associated injuries and spine fracture level showed significant differences ( p less than 0.001 ) . eighty-two per cent of thoracic fractures and 72 % of lumbar fractures had associated injuries compared to 28 % of lower cervical spine fractures . while there was no significant relationship between type of associated injury and spine fracture level , those with associated injuries were less likely to have a neural deficit ( p less than 0.05 ) . after hospital admission , there were seven deaths . early assessment and transport of spine trauma victims must be carried out with appropriate management of associated injuries . conversely , multiple trauma victims must be handled with due regard for a possible spine fracture . the value of spinal units with specially trained personnel is emphasized . 
locked intramedullary nailing of femoral shaft fractures . one hundred twenty-three femoral shaft fractures were treated with grosse-kempf slotted , locked nails and followed for a median 20 ( range , 12-60 ) months . there were eight intraoperative and 11 postoperative complications , among them two superficial and two deep infections . most of the intraoperative complications and some postoperatively lost reductions could have been prevented by a better operative technique and judgment of stability . seventy-eight results were graded as excellent , 24 as good , 19 as fair , and two as poor ( one 9-cm shortening and one 40 degrees external malrotation ) . all fractures united without further procedures during the first year . 
the epidemiology of seatbelt-associated injuries . this study examined the frequency of spine and abdominal injuries to motor vehicle occupant crash victims , the relationship between the two types of injuries , and the association with restraint use . there were 303 motor vehicle occupants treated at a regional trauma center for spine and/or abdominal injuries over a 5-year period . patients with chance-type fractures of the lumbar spine were much more likely to be rear seat passengers and to be using a lap belt than were patients with other types of spinal injuries . similarly , patients with hollow viscus injuries were more likely to be rear seat passengers and to be lap belted than were patients with injuries to the spleen , liver , pancreas , or kidneys . nearly two thirds of the lumbar chance-type fractures were associated with hollow viscus injuries , including six of seven children . this increased risk of chance-type fractures and hollow viscus injuries was associated with increased use of lap-belt seat restraints in the population . 
impairment of specific host defense mechanisms in patients with chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis . we studied both in vivo and in vitro specific host defense mechanisms in patients suffering from chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis ( n = 26 ) . the cell-mediated immunity in vivo was impaired as indicated by the reduced reactivity in the delayed type hypersensitivity skin test . the concanavalin a or phytohemagglutinin-induced t-cell proliferation in vitro was markedly decreased in comparison to healthy donors . in contrast , b-cell proliferation stimulated by staphylococcus aureus cowan i was not altered . while the absolute lymphocyte counts and the percentage of t , b , and o cells were within the normal range , nine out of the 26 patients showed a significantly diminished ratio of cd4 + and cd8 + t cells . humoral immunity in the patients was less affected as assessed by the unchanged serum levels of immunoglobulins ( ig ) . however , the t-cell dependent polyclonal ig synthesis after in vitro stimulation with pokeweed mitogen was suppressed . our results provide evidence that cell-mediated immune functions are predominantly impaired in patients with post-traumatic osteomyelitis which may contribute to the persistence of the localized bone infection . 
improvement of septic syndrome after administration of recombinant human growth hormone ( rhgh ) ? twenty patients with generalized sepsis were studied prospectively to evaluate the effects of recombinant human growth hormone ( rhgh ) administration . five patients had developed sepsis after major abdominal surgery , 15 patients after multiple trauma with head injury ( hti-iss 38 + / - 2 and glasgow coma scale 4 + / - 1 ) . the urea production rate ( upr ) could be significantly reduced by the intramuscular administration of 1.5 iu of rhgh/kg bodyweight ( bw ) per day ( upr day : 5 , 62 + / - 6.7 gm/d vs. upr day : 10 , 42.6 + / - 5.9 gm/d ) . the catabolic index of bistrian ( bi ) was significantly lower after rhgh therapy on day 10 compared to day 5 . igf-1 increased significantly after the administration of rhgh . the nitrogen balance , however , did not become positive , despite the administration of rhgh . the changes in sepsis were estimated by the scoring system according to elebute and stoner on days 3 , 5 , 7 , 10 , and 13 . in those patients who were available for post-treatment evaluation the parameters had returned to baseline values after the withdrawal of rhgh . results indicate that this therapy might ameliorate the nitrogen intake , but has no influence on the course of sepsis . compared to previously published results in nonseptic patients , the somatomedin inhibitors as well as the split-products of the complement system and the metabolites of arachidonic acid may have been responsible for this weak effect of rhgh and igf-1 in septicemia . 
fibrinogen degradation product-d , fibrinogen , and serum change polymorphonuclear granulocyte activity -- possibly important post-trauma ? severe trauma favors the susceptibility of patients to infection . it has been shown that proteins or protein fragments are responsible for an endogenous immunodepression . after trauma a coagulopathy accompanied by increased serum levels of fibrinogen degradation products ( fdp ) is often found . therefore , we examined whether fdp-d can influence the activity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils ( pmn ) . pmn-activation was measured by two different superoxide-specific methods ( cytochrome-c-test , int-test ) . with both methods we found a decrease of pmn activity by fdp-d compared to fibrinogen . albumin , which was used as a control protein , only influenced pmn activity in unphysiologically high concentrations . the third method used to quantify pmn activity was chemiluminescence , which is a more unspecific method since it is developed not only by oxygen radical species but also by activating the lipoxygenase pathway . in contrast to the superoxide specific tests we found an inhibitory effect of fibrinogen and also serum compared to fdp-d using chemiluminescence . 
delayed union of fibular fractures accompanying fractures of the tibial shaft . among 440 adult patients with tibial shaft fracture and accompanying fibular fracture there were eight cases with radiographically ununited fibulae 4 months after the injury , each with uneventful tibial union . fractures with severe soft-tissue injuries were excluded from this study . in 293 patients the treatment method of the tibial fracture was conservative , comprising closed reduction and immobilization by long plaster cast . in 147 patients it was intramedullary kuntscher nailing , and all the eight cases with delayed fibular union occurred among these , the frequency being 5.4 % . the typical accompanying fibular fracture to develop delayed union was a comminuted one in the middle or distal third of the bone . at a followup examination 5 to 8 years after the original injury four of the eight fractures were found to have ultimately spontaneously united , while three showed a radiographically indisputable nonunion . one patient had undergone segmental fibular ostectomy because of persistent local pain but in the remaining patients the subjective symptoms were negligible . the occurrence of delayed fibular union in association with rigid intramedullary nailing of concomitant tibial shaft fracture is a phenomenon of which trauma surgeons should be aware even if the natural course of the condition often seems to be benign . 
coronary bypass surgery : is the operation different today ? patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting have undergone an evolution in recent years . to document this change , we analyzed two groups of patients in 1981 ( n = 1586 ) and 1987 ( n = 1513 ) to document preoperative and postoperative variables important in determining immediate morbidity and mortality after isolated coronary bypass . between 1981 and 1987 , patients were found to be older ( greater than or equal to 70 years , 8.7 % versus 21.8 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , more often diabetic ( 15 % versus 24 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , have a greater prevalence of triple vessel disease ( 14.5 % versus 46.1 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , and have more left ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction 0.60 + / - 14 versus 0.54 + / - 13 , p less than 0.0001 ) . to facilitate analysis and because of overlap between subgroups , we subdivided patients into three subgroups for statistical comparison of the years 1981 and 1987 : subgroup i , no prior procedure ( n = 1546 in 1981 and 1396 in 1987 ) ; subgroup ii , optimal group ( n = 503 in 1981 and 292 in 1987 , and defined as no prior procedure , ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 and age less than 65 years ) ; subgroup iii , patients having reoperations ( n = 40 in 1981 and 117 in 1987 ) . internal mammary artery grafting was infrequently used in 1981 but was used in 72.1 % in 1987 . major postoperative morbidity between the 2 years for the total population increased significantly : need for intraaortic balloon pumping , 1.4 % versus 4.7 % , p less than 0.0001 ; myocardial infarction 3.5 % versus 5.5 % , p less than 0.008 ; stroke , 1.4 % versus 2.8 % , p less than 0.008 ; and wound infection , 1.0 % versus 3.0 % , p less than 0.001 . wound infection ( all types ) in 1987 was increased sevenfold in patients having a perioperative myocardial infarction ( 0.7 % versus 5 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . for young patients with good left ventricular function ( subgroup ii ) , there was no increase in these morbid events between 1981 and 1987 . hospital mortality in the total population increased significantly between 1981 and 1987 from 1.2 % to 3.1 % ( p less than 0.0002 ) , respectively . it was lowest for the patients in optimal condition ( subgroup ii ) in both years , 0.8 % versus 1.1 % , and highest for reoperative patients , 5.3 % versus 4.3 % . in 1981 , 58 % of patients ( 503/870 ) were in the optimal group compared with 35 % ( 292/828 ) in 1987 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the last six years have seen a progressive trend in surgically treating older , sicker patients who have more complex disease , with a significant reduction in the best candidate group . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
alcohol and cocaine use among first-year college students . we surveyed 1528 first-year students at the university of virginia , 1 month after their arrival on campus , who had used alcohol at some time in their lives . our survey was designed to identify alcohol and cocaine use , and related psychosocial patterns . men drank more and more often than women . our data suggest that body weight should be considered in defining those who drink heavily and often . we define ' frequent heavy drinking ' as five or more drinks in a row each week for men and three to four drinks or more in a row each week for women . frequent heavy drinkers , cocaine users , and students with psychosocial problems appeared disproportionately among students planning to join fraternities and sororities . although first-year students used cocaine infrequently , its users followed the patterns of frequent heavy drinkers . we believe efforts to correct alcohol and cocaine misuse by college students should be directed , in part , at social organizations such as greek-letter societies . also , we must attend to psychosocial features that predispose to alcohol and cocaine misuse . 
pharmacokinetic dosing of phenobarbital in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal syndrome we used a pharmacokinetically derived phenobarbital dosing protocol to treat alcohol withdrawal syndrome in patients admitted to a family medicine inpatient service . we describe the protocol and include two case reports documenting its efficacy . although benzodiazepine agents are considered by many to be the primary agents of choice , based upon our experience and its ease of administration , relative safety , therapeutic efficacy , and lower cost , phenobarbital should be reconsidered as a promising alternative . comparative trials between these two therapeutic classes will clarify their roles in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal syndrome . 
indigenous cases of lyme disease diagnosed in north carolina . between january 1984 and december 1989 , 102 indigenous cases of lyme disease were reported in north carolina . lyme disease was reported in each of the three major geographic regions of the state : mountain , piedmont , and coastal plain . one or more diagnoses were made in 42 of 100 counties . patients ranged in age from 5 months to 78 years ( median , 27 years ) ; 58 patients ( 57 % ) reported a history of tick exposure within 1 month of the onset of symptoms . erythema migrans was reported by 93 patients ( 91 % ) . arthritis ( 30 % ) , neurologic symptoms ( 10 % ) , and cardiac abnormalities ( 7 % ) were observed . thirty of the 102 cases were confirmed serologically by indirect fluorescence microscopy or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . 
a survey of drinking patterns during medical school . several studies have documented the common use of alcohol among medical students and the significant fraction of students ( 7 % to 17 % ) who show a pattern of alcohol abuse . many authors have pointed out the implications of physician impairment due to alcoholism , presently estimated at about 10 % . we surveyed 263 junior and senior medical students , and our data support earlier surveys of the prevalence of alcohol abuse and indicate that students tend to drink less heavily and less frequently after entering medical school . the clinically proven cage questions used in the survey showed statistically significant associations between heavy or frequent drinking before and during medical school , but only 4.2 % of respondents indicated that school officials had asked whether they had a drinking or drug abuse problem . given these findings , we suggest the routine administration of screening instruments to medical students , using education and minimal intervention strategies with individuals at risk . 
eosinophilic pneumonia associated with reaction to radiographic contrast medium . we have described what we believe to be the first published case of a reaction to radiographic contrast medium followed by a diffuse eosinophilic pneumonia . this association seems to confirm what is know about the immunologic mechanisms of such reactions , and though further verification of causation is needed , we found it to be the most plausible explanation . 
complications of lateral c1-2 puncture myelography . this study reviewed the technical complication of 112 cases of lateral c1-2 puncture myelography for cervical spinal cord disorders . spinal cord puncture and contrast injection , puncture between the occiput and c1 , and blood vessel puncture were the main complications . these principally depended on the positioning of the patient 's neck ( hyperextension ) and misdirection of the x-ray beam . for preventing major arterial puncture , the authors also reviewed 164 vertebral angiograms and determined the pathway of the vertebral arteries and the incidence of anomaly . 
clinical value of magnetic resonance imaging for cervical myelopathy . the magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) findings in 115 cases of cervical myelopathy , 121 cases of cervical radiculopathy , and 64 cases of neck pain with no neurologic deficit were prospectively studied to investigate the clinical value of mri for cervical myelopathy . the mri findings in the t1-weighted sagittal projection were classified into four groups according to the degree of the compressed deformities of the cervical cord . the degree of compression of the cervical cord on mri findings showed a significant correlation with the severity of myelopathy , the anteroposterior diameter of the spinal column , and the degree of compression of the dural tube in the myelograms ( p less than 0.01 ) . fifty-one patients of cervical myelopathy had undergone both preoperative and postoperative mri . of these , the spinal canal of 47 patients that was well decompressed was recognized according to plain computed tomography ( ct ) . however , 24 ( 51 % ) of these 47 patients showed on mri a deformity in the spinal cord amounting to cord atrophy . the correlation between the clinical function of the spinal cord and the recovery of the cord deformity on mri at the operative levels was accurately investigated in 34 patients who had no cord deformities in the adjacent intervertebral levels . twenty patients with cord atrophy had slightly poor clinical results , although no significant difference was found between these 20 and 14 patients with recovery in the cord deformities . from these results , it was evident that t1-weighted mri is useful in the accurate diagnosis of compression myelopathy , in accurately deciding the level of the disease focus , and in the accurate assessment of the surgical results . 
dynamic analysis of the harrington system using a spinal simulator . the authors constructed a spinal simulator for the thoracolumbar spine with mechanical properties similar to those of cadaver specimens , and studied the effectiveness of the harrington system in unstable fractures of the thoracolumbar spine . distraction and compression rods were applied under various conditions . external bending moment was applied to the model to measure the internal bending moment on the vertebral body and ligaments . optimal spinal stability was obtained when the distraction system was combined with the compression system with hooks at laminas three levels above and below the fracture . 
treatment of unstable bladder . we present our experience with 2 spinal-injury patients tested for urinary incontinence via implanted sacral nerve electrodes . in each patient , spinal injury occurred at the t-12 level , with presentation of spontaneous detrusor activity . associated weakness of the voluntary sphincter mechanism was evident urodynamically . neurostimulation via wire electrode in the s3 foramen produced good sphincter closure . voiding secondary to spontaneous detrusor triggering could thereby be suppressed , eliminating embarrassing incontinence without interfering with the patient 's ability to empty the bladder at regular intervals . the therapeutic principles of neurostimulation applicable to patients with spastic bladders are underscored by these 2 cases . 
occupational exposure to hiv : frequency and rates of underreporting of percutaneous and mucocutaneous exposures by medical housestaff . purpose : to study the frequency of work-related exposures to human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected blood and reporting of exposures among medical housestaff . settings : three teaching hospitals where hiv infection is prevalent among patients . subjects : internal medicine interns and residents in training in 1988-1989 . methods : in a cross-sectional survey , house officers were asked to complete anonymously a questionnaire reviewing their past percutaneous and mucocutaneous exposure to blood products . results : nineteen percent of the respondents ( 16 of 86 ) recalled accidental exposure to hiv-infected blood , and 36 % ( 31 of 86 ) recalled exposure to blood from patients at high risk for having hiv infection . of the exposures recalled in the 12 months prior to the survey , 81 % ( 47 of 58 ) of all needlestick injuries and all ( nine of nine ) needlestick injuries from hiv-infected blood occurred in postgraduate year 1 or 2 trainees . only 30 % ( 31 of 103 ) of the needlestick injuries recalled by subjects were reported . the principal reasons for not reporting were time constraints , perception that the percutaneous injury did not represent a significant exposure , lack of knowledge about the reporting mechanism , and concern about confidentiality and professional discrimination . conclusions : medical housestaff are at substantial risk for occupational infection with hiv . a large proportion of internal medicine housestaff recall accidental exposure to blood during medical school and residency , and the majority of exposures were not reported . hospitals may be able to increase rates of reporting of percutaneous exposures to hiv by developing programs that are easy to access , efficient , and strictly confidential . 
a risk-benefit analysis of elective bilateral oophorectomy : effect of changes in compliance with estrogen therapy on outcome . a bilateral oophorectomy at the time of elective hysterectomy is often performed to prevent ovarian cancer . the assumption that endogenous estrogen can be easily replaced with supplemental medication fosters the decision for routine oophorectomy . published reports on the use of postmenopausal estrogen indicate that compliance is less than perfect . this fact could affect the overall outcome . decision analysis techniques with markov cohort modeling were used to evaluate the policy of elective bilateral oophorectomy . results from studies judged methodologically sound were combined to determine values representing the influence of estrogen on coronary heart disease , breast cancer , and osteoporotic fracture . the decision tree also explicitly incorporated patient compliance . when compliance with estrogen therapy is assumed to be perfect , oophorectomy yields longer life expectancy than retaining the ovaries . when actual drug-taking behavior is considered , retaining the ovaries results in longer survival . this analysis highlights the importance of including the effects of patient compliance with treatment recommendations when the impact of a health policy decision such as prophylactic surgery is assessed . 
comparison of lung alveolar and tissue cells in silica-induced inflammation . the silicon dioxide mineral , cristobalite ( crs ) induces inflammation involving both alveolar cells and connective tissue compartments . in this study , we compared lung cells recovered by whole lung lavage and by digestion of lung tissue from rats at varying times after 8 days of exposure to aerosolized crs . control and exposed rats were examined between 2 and 36 wk after exposure . lavaged cells were obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage with phosphate-buffered saline . lung wall cells were prepared via collagenase digestion of lung tissue slices . cells from lavage and lung wall were separated by percoll density centrifugation . the three upper fractions , containing mostly macrophages , were cultured , and the conditioned medium was assayed for effect on lung fibroblast growth and for activity of the lysosomal enzyme , n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase . results demonstrated that the cells separated from the lung walls exhibited different reaction patterns compared with those cells recovered by lavage . the lung wall cells exhibited a progressive increase in the number of macrophages and lymphocytes compared with a steady state in cells of the lung lavage . this increase in macrophages apparently was due to low density cells , which showed features of silica exposure . secretion of a fibroblast-stimulating factor was consistently high by lung wall macrophages , whereas lung lavage macrophages showed inconsistent variations . the secretion of nag was increased in lung lavage macrophages , but decreased at most observation times in lung wall macrophages . no differences were found among cells in the different density fractions regarding fibroblast stimulation and enzyme secretion . 
lung health consequences of reported accidental chlorine gas exposures among pulpmill workers . the long-term consequences of accidental chlorine gas exposure have been investigated , mainly in the community setting , among persons exposed as a result of a nearby chlorine spill . this circumstance is not analogous to the more frequent chlorine or chlorine dioxide gas overexposures that occur commonly in pulpmills over a background of a low level of gas exposure . to investigate the respiratory health consequences of these accidental exposures ( " chlorine gassing " ) in the industrial setting , we carried out a cross-sectional respiratory health survey among workers at a british columbia coastal pulpmill and a nearby rail maintenance yard . a greater proportion of pulpmill workers were unavailable for study because of illness ( 10.5 % versus 2.4 % in the railyard , p less than 0.01 ) . procedures involved simple spirometry , respiratory symptom assessment , and measurement of average levels of air contaminants . average chlorine levels in the pulpmill were below 1 ppm ; however , 60 % of the pulpmill workers reported one or more accidental " chlorine gassing " incidents . pulpmill workers who reported being " gassed " were significantly more likely to report wheezing on occasion than were other pulpmill workers and railyard workers ( rate for these three groups : nonsmokers : 8 , 2 , 1 % ; ex-smokers : 17 , 11 , 7 % ; current smokers : 42 , 21 , 19 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . no significant lung function differences were found between the overall pulpmill group and the railyard workers ; however , nonsmoking and formerly smoking pulpmill workers who reported being " gassed " had significantly lower average midmaximal flow rate and fev1/fvc ratio than did their counterparts in the remainder of the pulpmill population ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
silicosis , chronic airflow limitation , and chronic bronchitis in south african gold miners . in a cross-sectional study of a working population of black south african gold miners , 1,197 men were studied with respiratory and occupational questionnaires , lung function tests , and chest radiographs . the study was designed to examine the effects of silicosis on respiratory symptoms and lung function . a total of 857 men with chronic , simple silicosis and 340 men without silicosis were included in the sample . other determinants of lung disease including the duration and intensity of underground dust exposure and tobacco smoking were also examined . three distinct pulmonary disorders could be discerned : silicosis-associated pulmonary dysfunction with dyspnea on effort ; chronic airflow limitation , which was related to the duration of underground exposure ; and a chronic bronchitic symptom complex , which reflected the intensity of dust exposure in the workplace . chronic , uncomplicated silicosis was found to be associated with significant loss of lung function , and all of the measured indices , fvc , fev1 , fev1/fvc % , maximal midexpiratory flow rate ( mmef ) , and lung diffusion for carbon monoxide measured by the single-breath method ( dlco ) were reduced . when comparing men with category 3/3 nodule profusion with men without silicosis , reductions of fvc of 351 ml , fev1 of 447 ml , mmef of 1.04 l/s , and dlco of 4.7 ml/min/mm hg ( p = 0.0001 ) were detected after controlling for age , height , the direct effects of the underground environment , and tobacco smoking . dyspnea on effort was more common in the men with silicosis ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
emergency center laboratory evaluation of pediatric trauma victims . emergency center ( er ) trauma evaluations often include leukocyte count ( lc ) , serum amylase ( sa ) , electrolytes ( el ) , and urine analysis . we reviewed records of 100 pediatric er patients to determine utility of these tests in management of blunt injury . sa was evaluated in 65 patients and ranged from 30-146 u/l ( mean 50.6 u/l ) ; 14 patients with normal ct scans had sa from 30-68 u/l ( mean 49.1 u/l ) . six patients with intraabdominal or retroperitoneal injuries had sa from 30-130 u/l ( mean 64.0 u/l ) , p = ns . lc was determined in 76 patients and ranged 2.3-28 .3 k/ml ( mean 13.8 k/ml ) . patients with normal abdominal ct ( 12 ) had mean lc 14.8 k/ml ( range 7.2-19 .6 k/ml ) . eight patients with injuries on ct had mean lc 14.4 k/ml ( range 3.5-27 .1 k/ml ) . er , sa , and lc did not alter patient management . thirty-four patients had serum sodium , 36 potassium , and 33 chloride and bicarbonate determinations . sodium , potassium , and chloride levels were uniformly normal ; bicarbonate and leukocyte counts were uniformly abnormal in initial evaluations . these changes are expected in response to severe injury and their determinations did not alter patient care . combined laboratory urinarlysis ( la ) and urine dipstick ( da ) analysis for hematuria had sensitivity 75.0 per cent ( specificity 81.6 % ) . la predicted injury with sensitivity 75.0 per cent ( specificity 81.6 % ) . da predicted injury with sensitivity 60.0 per cent ( specificity 79.2 % ) . da accurately represented la results ( sensitivity 100 % , specificity of 94.5 % ) . da is a rapid and effective replacement of la in evaluation of trauma patients in the emergency center . 
the intracolonic bypass tube for left colon and rectal trauma . the avoidance of a colostomy . traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum are most frequently managed by procedures that include the formation of a colostomy . primary repair without colostomy is much less commonly employed . we report nine patients with traumatic perforations of the left colon and rectum treated with the intracolonic bypass tube ( icbt ) without concomitant colostomy . in all these patients we believe the standard treatment would have included fecal diversion . four patients sustained blunt trauma and five sustained penetrating trauma . healing of the colonic anastomosis occurred in all cases , and the icbts were passed per rectum between the tenth and nineteenth days postoperatively . on the basis of this study , we conclude that the icbt has a role in the treatment of selected injuries of the left colon and rectum as a safe means of avoiding a colostomy . 
computerized tomography as an indicator of isolated mesenteric injury . a comparison with peritoneal lavage . this study evaluated 18 patients with blunt abdominal trauma who suffered isolated mesenteric injuries , diagnosed at exploratory laparotomy . thirteen had diagnostic peritoneal lavage ( pl ) as their initial diagnostic study , and five had computed tomography ( ct ) . all patients who had positive pl were explored emergently , undergoing repair of mesenteric injuries . three of the five patients with ct as initial studies had delayed recognition of their injuries due to incorrect initial interpretation of the scan in two , and a false negative scan in one . two of these patients developed intestinal infarction and required bowel resection . there were no complications in the pl group related to surgery ; morbidity was greater in those undergoing ct . we conclude that early laparotomy and repair of significant mesenteric injuries is necessary to reduce morbidity , and that pl is a more sensitive indicator of this injury than ct . 
anton 's syndrome in a patient with posttraumatic optic neuropathy and bifrontal contusions . we describe a patient who manifested anton 's syndrome after sustaining head trauma that resulted in optic nerve damage and bifrontal contusions . denial of monocular blindness , generalized anosognosia , and confabulation were prominent neurobehavioral features . anton 's syndrome is most commonly encountered in patients with bilateral occipital cortex lesions . patients previously described who demonstrated anton 's syndrome secondary to a peripheral lesion have had an associated delirium or profound dementia . our case demonstrates that anton 's syndrome may occur in association with blindness from a peripheral lesion , even in the absence of a delirium or significant dementia . we suggest that the bifrontal dysfunction may have been a critical factor in the production of anton 's syndrome . implications for the role of frontal lobe dysfunction in the genesis of anosognosia and confabulation are discussed . 
surgical treatment of internal derangements of the temporomandibular joint . a long-term study . a long-term surgical follow-up study of 176 patients ( 211 joints ) with documented internal derangements of the temporomandibular joint was carried out . arthrograms and tomograms were used in all cases . forty of the patients ( 49 joints ) were nonsurgical control patients . diagnostic staging of the cases was accomplished as previously published . a clinical/radiologic assessment index was derived , which included seven measured parameters . surgical patients , grouped by diagnostic stages and selected operations , were compared with each other and with control patients over the follow-up period ( average , 8.1 years ; range , 5 to 14 years ) . the surgical procedures included meniscectomy , reconstructive arthroplasty , and arthroplasty with temporary silastic ( dow corning wright , arlington , tenn ) implant . the overall success rate for surgical cases with all stages and procedures was 93.8 % . in contrast , the control group demonstrated significant clinical and radiographic progression . the surgical results were stage dependent for the same operative procedure . significantly better success rates were obtained in early-stage cases ( 96.9 % ) than in late-stage cases ( 89.4 % ) . with respect to comparison of operative procedures , it was found that reconstructive arthroplasty provided results superior to those of meniscectomy . there was no significant difference between results obtained by meniscectomy and those by arthroplasty with a temporary silastic implant . long-term stability was excellent in most cases . follow-up radiographic changes for the surgical group were less than expected . on the other hand , radiographic analysis of the control group demonstrated progressive degenerative changes in 73.5 % of cases . complications over the entire study were rare . it was concluded that surgery can provide successful long-term results in the treatment of internal derangements . 
computed tomographic assessment of old calcaneal fractures . prolonged pain and disability are common complications of calcaneal fractures . a prospective study was conducted on the value of computed tomography ( ct ) in 63 patients with 73 calcaneal fractures sustained more than 6 months before . the fractures were classified from the initial plain radiographs , and the patients ' current clinical condition assessed in terms of a " disability score " . the mean disability scores ( mds ) associated with the different types of fracture were correlated with the ct findings . the highest mds was found in the intra-articular fracture group which comprised 71 % of the series . in this group the mds was increased in the presence of post-traumatic osteoarthrosis of the subtalar joint ( 61 % of cases ) , involvement of the calcaneocuboid joint ( 39 % of cases ) and subluxation/dislocation of the peroneal tendons ( 47 % of cases ) . structural abnormalities of the peroneal tendons were associated with a higher mds including chronic tenosynovitis ( eight cases ) , chronic partial tendon rupture ( eight cases ) , complete peroneus brevis tendon rupture ( two cases ) and scarring indicating stenosing tenosynovitis ( 14 cases ) . a similar spectrum of appearances affecting the medial tendons of the hindfoot was identified in eight cases . direct ct measurements of the degree of comminution did not correlate well with the patients ' mds . in the patient with persistent symptoms , ct is of value in the later assessment of long-term complications by revealing abnormalities of the subtalar joints and adjacent tendons . 
real-time digital contrast enhancement and magnification in the assessment of scaphoid and other wrist injuries . a study on the value of a commercially available desk-top digital magnifier-contrast enhancer ( detect system ) was made in a series of 550 patients presenting with an acute wrist injury . four radiologists , of varying experience , independently reviewed the radiographs on a conventional lightbox and later with the digitizer . in the scaphoid series ( 350 cases ) , the performance of the two more experienced radiologists was marginally better with the digitizer , whereas the less experienced radiologists performed slightly worse . overall the digitizer improved the confidence of the radiologists in diagnosing correctly the presence of a scaphoid fracture but , for the less experienced radiologists , this was at the expense of identifying normality . in the wrist series ( 200 cases ) , the use of the digitizer resulted in a minor increase in the true positive and decrease in the false negative observations , but this was offset by a concomitant minor increase in the false positive and decrease in the true negative categories . evaluation of the soft-tissue planes around the wrist joint showed a limited value in the identification of a scaphoid fracture with an overall positive predictive value of 0.26 . correlation of soft-tissue changes and the presence or absence of a scaphoid fracture was slightly worse with the digitizer . possible causes for the apparently poorer performance of the digitizer are discussed , as well as the relative merits and potential value of the unit . 
the prognostic significance of radiologically detected knee joint effusions in the absence of associated fracture . the significance of radiologically detected knee joint effusion as a marker of soft tissue injury following trauma is uncertain . in this study 100 patients presenting to the casualty department following acute injury , with effusions but no fracture , were assessed . of those available for follow-up , 20 % required further investigation and 11 % proceeded to surgery for significant soft tissue injury . it is concluded that radiologically detected knee joint effusions are a useful marker for underlying soft tissue injury . 
survival differences in patients with aids [ published erratum appears in j acquir immune defic syndr 1991 ; 4 ( 7 ) :737 ] to define the clinical , demographic , and behavioral variables that may influence survival in patients with aids , we studied 526 patients with aids diagnosed through september 1987 who were cared for at a single medical center . a diversity of racial and ethnic backgrounds , ages , both men and women , and all risk behaviors except hemophilia were well represented . the initial aids defining diagnosis was the most powerful predictor of survival . the median survival was 12.8 months for patients presenting with kaposi 's sarcoma ( p less than 0.001 ) , 10.9 months for patients presenting with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( p less than 0.001 ) , and 4.8 months for patients presenting with other infections or neoplasms ( p less than 0.02 ) . for the entire series , male sex and younger age were associated with more favorable survival ( p less than 0.025 ) . for those presenting with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia , in addition to younger age ( p less than 0.025 ) , black race ( p less than 0.025 ) and the combination of male sex and intravenous drug use ( p less than 0.005 ) were associated with a more favorable survival . within a setting of comparable clinical care , survival from the point of diagnosis of aids is associated most strongly with the initial aids diagnosis , but differences in age , gender , race , and risk behavior also exert an influence on survival . 
organic dust toxic syndrome : an acute febrile reaction to organic dust exposure distinct from hypersensitivity pneumonitis . organic dust toxic syndrome is a term recently coined to describe a noninfectious , febrile illness associated with chills , malaise , myalgia , a dry cough , dyspnea , headache and nausea which occurs after heavy organic dust exposure . organic dust toxic syndrome shares many clinical features with acute farmer 's lung and other forms of hypersensitivity pneumonitis , including the presence of increased numbers of neutrophils in bronchoalveolar lavage . however , organic dust toxic syndrome differs from acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis in several respects : the chest x-ray does not show infiltrates , severe hypoxemia does not occur , prior sensitization to antigens in the organic dust is not required and there are no known sequelae of physiological significance , such as the recurrent attacks and the pulmonary fibrosis which may be seen with chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis . organic dust toxic syndrome is thought to be much more common than farmer 's lung . it is important for clinical and investigational purposes that organic dust toxic syndrome be distinguished from acute farmer 's lung . 
assessment of efficacy of activated charcoal for treatment of acute t-2 toxin poisoning . " superactive " charcoal was assessed for efficacy in decreasing the lethality of both oral and parenteral exposure to t-2 toxin , a fungal metabolite which can cause death or illness upon ingestion . in vitro binding studies , analyzed using the langmuir adsorption isotherm , showed that activated charcoal had a maximal binding capacity of 0.48 mg toxin/mg charcoal and a dissociation constant of 0.078 mg charcoal/l . in vivo , orally administered , activated charcoal was assessed for treatment of acute oral or parenteral exposure to t-2 toxin in mice . following oral toxin administration ( 5 mg/kg ) , untreated mice showed only 6 % survival after 72 hr . charcoal treatment ( 7 g/kg , po ) either immediately or 1 hr after toxin exposure resulted in significant improvement in survival with values of 100 % and 75 % , respectively . following parenteral toxin exposure ( 2.8 mg/kg , sc ) , untreated and charcoal-treated ( 7 g/kg , po ) mice showed 50 % and 90 % survival , respectively , after 72 hr . ld50 value for t-2 toxin , determined at 96 hr after intoxication , increased significantly from 2 mg/kg for untreated controls to 4.5 mg/kg for activated charcoal treatment . 
carbamazepine overdose : a prospective study of serum levels and toxicity . a cooperative prospective study of consecutive cases of carbamazepine overdose was conducted to determine if serum levels were predictive of toxicity and if risk factors such as age , chronic exposure , or previous disorder or cardiovascular disease could be used as prognostic indicators . seventy-three consecutive cases were collected from two regional certified poison control centers from january 1989 to august 1989 . there were 25 exposures in children less than 6 yrs. , 11 exposures in adolescents , and 37 exposures in adults . ten adult cases and one adolescent case were excluded from the study due to the presence of coingestants or inadequate information . peak measured serum levels ranged from 0.3 to 56 mcg/ml . using the presence of coma , seizure activity or respiratory depression requiring mechanical ventilation as measures of toxicity , we found poor correlation between rising serum levels of carbamazepine and toxicity . increased serum levels of carbamazepine did appear to correlate with increased hospital stay , but not with icu stay . history of a seizure disorder appears to pose increased risk of a seizure in carbamazepine overdose . in this series chronic exposure to carbamazepine did not appear to increase the risk of coma or respiratory depression for a given toxic serum level and may add some protective effect . serum levels below 40 mcg/ml do not appear to accurately predict the severity of toxicity . cardiac conduction defects were rare ( one child ) . anticholinergic findings , as evidence by decreased bowel motility and sinus tachycardia were common . previous cardiovascular disease and age did not appear to be important prognostic indicators . 
the occupational risk of cytomegalovirus infection among day-care providers . we prospectively studied day-care providers at six day-care centers in south-eastern iowa to determine their occupational risk for primary cytomegalovirus infection and to define epidemiologic risk factors . ninety-six ( 38 % ) of 252 day-care providers were seropositive for cytomegalovirus by latex agglutination at entry into the study . among 82 seronegative providers available for follow-up , seven seroconversions occurred at only two of the six participating centers , yielding an annualized seroconversion rate of 7.9 % . median time to seroconversion among these providers was 13 months . using kaplan-meier estimates of risk , we determined that the overall risk of seroconversion among providers at various centers ranged from 0 % to 22 % by 12 months and from 0 % to 40 % by 16 months . risk of cytomegalovirus acquisition by providers was independent of race , age , education , the presence of a child at home , or caring for children younger than 2 or 3 years in the day-care center . however , the risk of seroconversion among day-care providers appeared to parallel rates of cytomegalovirus excretion and acquisition among children at each center . 
multiple alcohol-related problems in the united states : on the rise ? are drinking problems on the rise in the u.s. general population ? surveys of drinking practices and problems conducted in the united states in 1967 , 1969 , 1979 and 1984 included numerous questions on alcohol-related problems that were identical or nearly identical in wording . using data from these surveys , we tested for ordered increases over time in the prevalence of an indicator of multiple problems , considered on both a current ( 1-year ) and lifetime basis . we studied prevalence in men and women between the ages of 22 and 59 in all four surveys . prevalence of the multiple problem indicator was rare , especially when considered on a current basis . however , relative increases in prevalence ranging from 53 % to over 200 % were found from 1967 to 1984 in the multiple problem indicator for men and women , for lifetime as well as current problems . with the exception of current problems in women ( a very rare condition even in the 1984 survey ) , these changes were all statistically significant or showed a trend toward significance . when respondents were subgrouped by age , all subgroups still showed increases since 1967 , although sample sizes decreased and significance tests of ordered increases over time were not so consistent . 
alcohol-predictive cues enhance tolerance to and precipitate " craving " for alcohol in social drinkers . this study attempts to show that tolerance to alcohol is in large part a " learned " response , precipitated by contextual cues predictive of the unconditional drug effect . it also aims to show that the contextual cues integral to such " environment-dependent " tolerance function to increase motivational desire to drink alcohol . male students ( n = 40 ) , drinking on average 10-20 units of alcohol per week , were randomly assigned to one of four groups . two groups ingested 1.2 ml/kg alcohol : one ( al-expt ) with exteroceptive contextual cues typically associated with alcohol use , and the other ( al-unexpt ) in a context not normally associated with alcohol . a third group ( placebo ) believed that they were drinking alcohol but , in fact , consumed a nonalcoholic beverage in the alcohol-expected context . the fourth group drank juice in the alcohol-unexpected context . as predicted , tolerance to the deleterious effects of alcohol on cognition and motor-performance , and subjective desire to consume alcohol , were influenced by the alcohol-predictive contextual cues . a physiological index ( pulse rate ) also tended to confirm that these cues elicited a conditioned compensatory response to alcohol . the implications of these findings for tolerance to and motivation to drink alcohol in a nonpathological population are discussed . 
some boundary conditions for effective use of alcohol placebos . the present research assessed the conditions under which subjects who consume alcohol and those who consume a placebo beverage , and who report consuming alcohol on a manipulation check question , are equivalent with respect to subjective responses to alcohol . male subjects were told that they were drinking alcohol and consumed one of four beverages : alcoholic beer , nonalcoholic beer , vodka and tonic with lime , or tonic with lime . measures of subjective intoxication , body sensations and breath alcohol were taken at different times during and after beverage consumption . subjective intoxication ratings were higher for subjects who received alcohol , compared to subjects who received a placebo and reported consuming alcohol , when alcohol subjects achieved blood alcohol concentrations at and above .04 % . these two groups did not differ in subjective intoxication ratings when alcohol subjects achieved blood alcohol concentrations below .04 % . these data suggest that the orthogonal manipulation of alcohol consumption and expectancy effects is problematic at and above blood alcohol concentrations of .04 % . 
diagnostic validity of the mast and the alcohol dependence scale in the assessment of dsm-iii alcohol disorders . the comparative validity of the michigan alcoholism screening test ( mast ) and the alcohol dependence scale ( ads ) in screening for current dsm-iii alcohol abuse/dependence disorders is evaluated . these scales were administered to 501 patients presenting for treatment of alcohol or drug problems . dsm-iii alcohol disorders are diagnosed using the diagnostic interview schedule . receiver operating characteristic ( roc ) analysis is used to determine optimum threshold scores for the mast and ads and to compare the screening ability of the two instruments . optimum cut points for the mast and the ads are 12/13 and 8/9 , respectively . the overall accuracy of classification for both instruments using these threshold scores is 88 % . the areas under the roc curves are .91 and .90 ( sd = .02 ) and there are no significant differences between the mast and the ads in their ability to screen for alcohol abuse or dependence in this population . the mast and the ads correlate highly with each other ( .79 ) . the results reported in our study should be applicable to the revised dsm-iii since a field trial found a high level of agreement on alcohol disorders between the diagnostic systems . categorical versus dimensional approaches to the assessment of alcoholism are discussed . 
recent trends in the development of alcohol and drug treatment services in ontario . this article summarizes the major trends in the development of alcohol and drug treatment services in ontario since 1979 . these trends are contrasted to the objectives of a province-wide addiction research foundation ( arf ) community development program designed to establish or expand addiction services within this same time period . data were obtained from all treatment services in the province by surveys undertaken in 1980 , 1983 and 1986 . across the period of analysis , there have been rapid increases in the number of addiction programs , their total cost and the total treatment caseload . some specific changes have been quite consistent with arf objectives : a stabilization in the use of hospital beds for addictions treatment , an increase in community-based versus hospital-based treatment resources , an increase in the province-wide capacity for comprehensive client assessment and a larger representation of women in addictions programs . other arf objectives have yet to be achieved . in particular , a major increase in nonresidential treatment alternatives and an increase in the proportion of treated cases from special populations such as youth or the elderly are still required . suggestions are made concerning future program development . 
prediction of adults ' drinking patterns from the drinking of their parents . while studies have shown relationships between adolescent and parental drinking patterns , it is not known if these parental influences are maintained when the children are adults and further removed from early influences . a representative general population sample of 6,364 adults living in new york state were interviewed regarding their current drinking as well as about their family structure and the drinking patterns of their parents while they were growing up . a logit modeling analysis revealed that natural father 's drinking while growing up , natural mother 's drinking while growing up , family structure ( father present or not ) and sex of the respondent were all significant predictors of current heavy drinking of adults even while controlling for all of the other variables in the model . it is concluded that early family influences may have long-term consequences on drinking behaviors . 
elderly men with histories of heavy drinking : correlates and consequences . recognition that the physical , psychological and social consequences of substance abuse may persist throughout the life span has led to increased study of the impact of lifetime drinking habits on the elderly . we examined the characteristics of elderly men with self-reported histories of having ever been heavy drinker ( h + ) in a population-based ( n = 1,155 , mean age = 73.7 years ) longitudinal survey of community-dwelling elders ; 10.4 % of the men reported that they had been heavy drinkers at some time during their lives . h + men were younger and less educated than non-heavy drinkers ( h - ) or never drinkers ( n ) . mortality was higher among h + men who were current drinkers than among h - or n men . h + men reported more major illnesses , poorer self-perceived health status , more physician visits , more depressive symptoms , lower levels of life satisfaction and smaller social networks than did h - or n men . self-reported ability to perform activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living was poorest among h + men , who also scored the lowest on a mental status examination . thus , a history of having ever been a heavy drinker is predictive of widespread impairments in physical , psychological and social health and functioning among elderly men . 
drinking in college : consumption patterns , problems , sex differences and legal drinking age . data from 606 ( 75.8 % ) undergraduate respondents drawn from a random sample ( n = 800 ) at rutgers university demonstrate that , although fewer college students may be drinking when compared to some previous estimates , there is still a large number of heavy drinkers . in addition , traditional demographic variables continue to predict alcohol consumption levels . students also report a similar variety of drinking related problems as in previous college drinking studies . women constitute half as many heavy drinkers as men , but report an equal amount of alcohol-related problems in this sample . when controlling for race , it appears that white students continue to drink the most , and show heavy drinking rates comparable to a previous large college sample in the northeast . students who live on campus drink more than their commuting counterparts , and the drinking age has little effect on consumption levels or total reported alcohol-related problems , although it alters the context of drinking somewhat . findings are generally compared to previous as well as more recent college drinking data . sex differences and similarities are discussed , as well as the findings concerning legal drinking status . implications for prevention efforts are suggested . 
family background of alcohol abuse and its relationship to alcohol consumption among college students : an unexpected finding . the purpose of this study was to determine the possible association between positive family background of alcohol abuse ( having a parent or grandparent who sometimes or often drank too much ) and the amount of alcohol consumed per week among college students . it was additionally to determine the possible differences between students with positive , compared to students with negative , family backgrounds of alcohol abuse in regards to drinking patterns , using a survey instrument that indirectly measures family background for alcohol abuse . for this cross-sectional study , a quota sample of 971 college students from all four regions of the united states was selected . results revealed no association between family history and mean amount of alcohol consumed per week for the total sample ( r = .007 ) , or for men ( r = .04 ) or women ( r = .02 ) . curve analysis indicated a slightly positively skewed curve for the total group and also for male and female students . a t test and chi-square analysis found no significant difference between positive and negative family backgrounds and mean amount of alcohol consumed or drinking patterns . among those with positive family backgrounds there was no clustering on a scatter plot for either heavy or light amounts of alcohol consumed . the results showed remarkable similarity in alcohol consumption and drinking patterns between students who were classified as having a positive , as opposed to negative , family background . it was concluded that having a positive family background for heavy drinking was not associated with either light or heavy alcohol consumption among this national sample of college students . 
drinking styles of adolescents and young adults . drinking among adolescents and young adults has received more attention during the recent past , but little research has focused on the drinking styles that might characterize younger people . a typology of drinking behavior has special relevance for this group , since the adolescent years and young adult years are formative in the development of drinking habits . this study used a model that had been applied to " normal " drinking behaviors of adults . however , the set of drinking variables was expanded to cover a wider range of activities , and a second set of behaviors , intended to reflect potential " problem " drinking , were derived from the national council on alcoholism criteria for the diagnosis of alcoholism . the set of 55 " normal " drinking behaviors was factor analyzed , yielding a six-factor structure . the first four factors were quite similar to previous work on adult drinking styles , and the remaining two factors clearly related to the drinking of younger people . the " problem " drinking variables yielded a two-factor structure , one set consisting of serious but uncommon experiences and the second set consisting of less serious and more common experiences . several of the " normal " drinking factors were significant predictors of the " problem " drinking scores , suggesting that certain styles of drinking are more likely than others to lead to later problems . 
the sexual relationship of male alcoholics and their female partners during periods of drinking and abstinence . the quality of the sexual relationship between alcoholic male veterans admitted to an alcohol treatment program and their stable nonalcoholic female partners was assessed in relation to time intervals of abstinence and drinking . repeated measures analyses performed on the lopiccolo sexual history form provided information on sexual problems associated with the desire , arousal and orgasm phases of the sexual response cycle and other kinds of information relevant to sexual functioning . results indicate that the sexual relationship varies in relation to drinking or abstinence . sexual intimacy appears quite normal and satisfactory during abstinent periods ; however , female partners present an internally consistent picture of neither desiring nor enjoying sex during drinking periods , though accepting sex reluctantly . for male alcoholics , satisfaction with sex while drinking continues to be reported despite awareness of their partner 's negative emotional reactions during sex . clinicians and researchers are cautioned to differentiate drinking and abstinent periods when assessing the sexual relationship of alcoholic couples . 
the nature of adverse events in hospitalized patients . results of the harvard medical practice study ii . background . in a sample of 30,195 randomly selected hospital records , we identified 1133 patients ( 3.7 percent ) with disabling injuries caused by medical treatment . we report here an analysis of these adverse events and their relation to error , negligence , and disability . methods . two physician-reviewers independently identified the adverse events and evaluated them with respect to negligence , errors in management , and extent of disability . one of the authors classified each event according to type of injury . we tested the significance of differences in rates of negligence and disability among categories with at least 30 adverse events . results . drug complications were the most common type of adverse event ( 19 percent ) , followed by wound infections ( 14 percent ) and technical complications ( 13 percent ) . nearly half the adverse events ( 48 percent ) were associated with an operation . adverse events during surgery were less likely to be caused by negligence ( 17 percent ) than nonsurgical ones ( 37 percent ) . the proportion of adverse events due to negligence was highest for diagnostic mishaps ( 75 percent ) , noninvasive therapeutic mishaps ( " errors of omission " ) ( 77 percent ) , and events occurring in the emergency room ( 70 percent ) . errors in management were identified for 58 percent of the adverse events , among which nearly half were attributed to negligence . conclusions . although the prevention of many adverse events must await improvements in medical knowledge , the high proportion that are due to management errors suggests that many others are potentially preventable now . reducing the incidence of these events will require identifying their causes and developing methods to prevent error or reduce its effects . 
aminocaproic acid prophylaxis in traumatic hyphema . oral aminocaproic acid has been shown to be effective in clot stabilization and in the reduction of secondary bleeding rates in cases of traumatic hyphema . in a retrospective study of 105 patients treated during a 1-year period , we found the incidence of rebleeding in patients with traumatic hyphema who received aminocaproic acid prophylaxis was 2 % ; the incidence in those who did not was 25 % . 
low-level lead exposure and children 's cognitive function in the preschool years . in a cohort of 170 middle and upper-middle class children participating in a prospective study of child development and low-level lead exposure , higher blood lead levels at age 24 months were associated with lower scores at age 57 months on the mccarthy scales of children 's abilities . the mean blood lead level at age 24 months was 6.8 micrograms/dl ( sd = 6.3 ; 75th , 90th , and 99th percentiles : 8.8 , 13.7 , 23.6 , respectively ) and for all but 1 child was less than 25 micrograms/dl , the current definition of an " elevated " level . after adjustment for confounding , scores on the general cognitive index decreased approximately 3 points ( se = 1.4 ) for each natural log unit increase in 24-month blood lead level . the inverse association between lead level and performance was especially prominent for visual-spatial and visual-motor integration skills . higher prenatal exposures were not associated with lower scores at 57 months except in the subgroup of children with " high " concurrent blood lead levels ( ie , greater than or equal to 10 micrograms/dl ) . the concentration of lead in the dentine of shed deciduous teeth was not significantly associated with children 's performance after adjustment for confounding . 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome : life-threatening complication of neuroleptic treatment in adolescents with affective disorder . neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( nms ) is an uncommon , potentially fatal side effect of neuroleptic treatment characterized by hyperthermia , rigidity , rhabdomyolysis , and delirium . in recent clinical studies of adults it was suggested that affective disorder is a risk factor for the development of neuroleptic malignant syndrome . the cases of two adolescents with neuroleptic malignant syndrome who were treated with neuroleptic therapy because of psychotic symptoms in association with primary affective disorders are reported . the occurrence of these cases , as well as the observations in adults , suggests that attention to the primary psychiatric diagnosis is important in neuroleptic usage and that physicians should be vigilant to the occurrence of neuroleptic malignant syndrome in the pediatric population . 
delayed rupture of a pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk : treatment with therapeutic embolization . fourteen days after removal of an internal jugular catheter inserted prior to renal transplantation , a patient presented with brisk arterial hemorrhage from the insertion site . the hemorrhage , caused by a ruptured pseudoaneurysm of the costocervical trunk , was controlled by transcatheter embolization with gelatin particles . one year later the patient reported no problems related to the pseudoaneurysm or its management . 
early asbestosis : evaluation with high-resolution ct . to determine the earliest stage at which lesions in asbestosis can be diagnosed and to assess their progression , 23 asbestos-exposed patients with minimal or no abnormalities at plain radiography were examined with high-resolution computed tomography ( hrct ) twice , with an interval of 12-37 months between examinations . in 21 of the patients , parenchymal abnormalities were found . major parenchymal features seen at ct included thickened intralobular and interlobular lines , subpleural curvilinear lines , pleural-based nodular irregularities , hazy patches of increased attenuation , small cystic spaces , and small areas of low attenuation . at paired serial ct , subpleural isolated dots or branching structures connected with the most peripheral branch of the pulmonary artery started to appear in lower subpleural zones and then became confluent to create pleural-based nodular irregularities . ct-pathologic correlation led to the conclusion that the confluence of subpleural peribronchiolar fibrosis creates subpleural fibrosis . 
splenic trauma : can ct grading systems enable prediction of successful nonsurgical treatment ? the capability of computed tomographic ( ct ) grading systems to enable prediction of successful nonsurgical treatment of splenic trauma in children and adults was evaluated . fifty-six patients with documented splenic injury were examined with ct by use of standard trauma protocols . each ct scan was graded according to two recently proposed grading systems . the charts of these patients were then reviewed , and correlations between the ct grade and clinical outcome were determined with each grading system . forty patients underwent successful nonsurgical treatment ; three of these patients ( 8 % ) underwent delayed celiotomy for splenic rupture after failure of nonsurgical treatment . two of these three had grades that indicated nonsurgical treatment was viable . in each of these three patients , splenectomy was necessary . in the 16 patients who underwent surgery , eight cases ( 50 % ) of ct grading errors were documented with surgery . in four cases , the extent of the injury was underscored with ct , and in another four cases the injury was overscored . it is still not clear whether the severity of splenic injury as defined with ct correlates with clinical outcome . 
bullet identification with radiography . the authors provide a simple radiographic method for estimating bullet weight and caliber of both deformed and undeformed bullets that enables accurate determination of caliber for the gamut of bullet shapes , with known degrees of confidence . the weight-determination procedure is based on the correlation between bullet cross-sectional area , as derived from three orthogonal radiographs , and bullet weight , as determined from a data base of the properties of 48 bullets removed from humans . different equations were developed for bullets weighing 5.8 g or less , or more than 5.8 g. for relatively undeformed bullets an additional method calculated caliber directly from the diameter of the bullet body on radiographs . both methods enabled correct prediction of the weight and caliber of the bullets ; if one method could not be used , results of the other were reliable . testimony based on these results has been accepted in a local police case and may meet requirements for testimony in u.s. court cases involving gunshots . 
rational use of antibiotics in the critically ill patient . despite the advent of newer broad-spectrum antibiotics , infection in critically ill patients still is associated with significant morbidity and mortality . for these patients , who frequently receive inappropriate and excessive empiric antibiotic therapy , it is important to develop rational drug usage criteria . current economic forces , including personnel shortages and the effects of diagnosis-related groups , are also a critical factor in this patient population . criteria for rational antibiotic selection are based on patterns of infection and knowledge of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of individual antibiotics . the development and use of treatment protocols , or algorithms , will provide quality patient care for the lowest overall cost . 
assessing the nutritional needs of the critically ill patient . because critical illness often creates a vigorous metabolic response to permit the repair of injured tissues , nutritional considerations are essential in the medical management of the critically ill patient . individuals with seemingly adequate endogenous nutritional reserves may rapidly develop complications of starvation . nutritional supplementation is essential ; however , critically ill patients may not readily tolerate nutritional support . calories may need to be withheld until the patient is able to tolerate and utilize nutritional support . once the decision to initiate nutritional support is made , nutritional status , level of stress , metabolic condition , and vital organ function influence the patient 's nutritional requirements . an assessment of the patient 's metabolic condition provides data useful in determining the need for supplemental electrolytes or macronutrients . these data also provide information regarding vital organ function , which is necessary for utilization of the fuel and substrate . aggressive monitoring and judicious nutritional supplementation will afford the critically ill patient the best chance of recovery . 
familial alcoholism in primary unipolar major depressive disorder . objective : some studies have suggested relationships between depression in probands and alcoholism in relatives . other studies have not , but some of these have used inappropriate control groups or failed to divide probands by sex . method : the present study controlled for sex of probands and used several comparison groups to further explore the familial relationship between depression and alcoholism . diagnoses for 723 directly interviewed relatives of 326 probands with primary unipolar depression were compared to diagnoses in 469 control subjects chosen by an acquaintanceship method to demographically resemble the relatives of affective disorder probands . diagnoses in the uninterviewed relatives of both control and depressed subjects were used for comparisons as well . results : results indicated higher rates of alcoholism in the families of depressed women but not in the families of depressed men . conclusions : this familial association between alcoholism and depression may be the result of either genetic or environmental factors or an interaction between the two . 
the effect of financial management on alcohol-related hospitalization . objective : treatment-unresponsive alcoholics in new zealand who are unable to care for themselves tend to be hospitalized for lengthy periods of time . the author examined the effect of adding financial management to the therapeutic management of such patients . the null hypothesis was that this would have no effect on the duration of alcohol-related hospitalization . method : all 61 alcoholic patients registered with an alcohol outpatient clinic who received financial management over a period of 6 years were included in the study . their alcohol-related disabilities were so severe that they had resulted or were likely to result in lengthy or frequent periods of hospitalization . the financial management involved putting each patient 's income into a checking account for which a budget advisory officer was cosignatory for withdrawals . the advisor saw to it that patients ' basic living requirements were being met and that expenditure on alcohol was not having a detrimental effect . participation was voluntary for voluntary patients and involuntary for committed patients . the durations of each patient 's alcohol-related hospitalizations were compared for two equal periods of time before and after financial management was instituted . results : the null hypothesis was not supported . the duration of alcohol-related hospitalizations after financial management was instituted was 86 % less than it was before such management . conclusions : for the patient who is struggling in the face of excessive drinking to cope with the tasks of daily living , including the provision of adequate shelter and nutrition , the benefits of adding financial management to other therapeutic strategies should be considered . 
drug abuse in schizophrenic patients : clinical correlates and reasons for use . objective : this study aimed to 1 ) determine substance abuse prevalence and preference in a diverse sample of schizophrenic , schizoaffective , and schizophreniform inpatients , 2 ) compare drug-abusing and non-drug-abusing patients on demographic and clinical variables during the acute and stabilization phases of their hospital course , and 3 ) obtain data from patients on reasons for drug abuse and on acute state-related changes during periods of intoxication . method : eighty-three psychotic inpatients consecutively admitted to a new york city teaching hospital were evaluated . sixty-eight had schizophrenia , 12 had schizoaffective disorder , and three had schizophreniform disorder diagnosed according to the structured clinical interview for dsm-iii-r . each patient received ratings on the brief psychiatric rating scale , the global assessment scale , and the scale for the assessment of negative symptoms at admission and at discharge , an evaluation of premorbid adjustment , and an extensive interview on drug and alcohol use . results : forty ( 48 % ) of the patients received diagnoses of drug or alcohol abuse or dependence . the drug-abusing patients primarily used cannabis ( n = 26 ) , alcohol ( n = 21 ) , and cocaine ( n = 14 ) and reported that they abused drugs to get " high , " to relieve depression , and to relax . they had significantly fewer positive and negative symptoms at discharge , better sexual adjustment and worse school performance during adolescence , and more family histories of drug abuse than the non-drug-abusing patients . conclusions : schizophrenic patients who abuse drugs may represent a subgroup of patients with better prognoses and less severe clinical characteristics of schizophrenia , but their drug abuse may adversely affect global outcome . 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use and increased risk for peptic ulcer disease in elderly persons . objective : to evaluate the relative risk for peptic ulcer disease that is associated with the use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . design : nested case-control study . setting : tennessee medicaid program . participants : medicaid enrollees 65 years of age or older were included in the study . the 1415 case patients had been hospitalized for confirmed peptic ulcer disease at some point from 1984 through 1986 . the 7063 control persons represented a stratified random sample of other medicaid enrollees . measurements and main results : the estimated relative risk for the development of peptic ulcer disease among current users of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , compared with that among nonusers , was 4.1 ( 95 % ci , 3.5 to 4.7 ) . for current users , the risk increased with increasing dose , from a relative risk of 2.8 ( ci , 1.8 to 4.3 ) for the lowest to a relative risk of 8.0 ( ci , 4.4 to 14.8 ) for the highest dose category . the risk was greatest in the first month of use ( relative risk , 7.2 ; ci , 4.9 to 10.5 ) . if the association is fully causal , 29 % of peptic ulcers in the study sample resulted from the use of these drugs , and the excess risk associated with such use was 17.4 hospitalizations for ulcer disease per 1000 person-years of exposure . conclusions : these data support other findings indicating that a clinically significant risk for serious ulcer disease is associated with the use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . the data show that this risk increases with dose and recency of use and that use of these drugs may be responsible for a large proportion of peptic ulcer disease among elderly persons . 
x-ray fluorescence measurements of lead burden in subjects with low-level community lead exposure . a k-x-ray fluorescence ( k-xrf ) instrument that can measure in vivo bone lead at low levels was used on a population of 34 adults with no known history of excessive lead exposure . a questionnaire that gathered information relevant to occupational and environmental lead exposure was administered prior to the measurement . a 30-min measurement that produced an average estimated uncertainty of 6 mcg lead/g bone mineral was taken at the mid-tibial diaphysis for each subject . eighteen subjects had bone lead levels below the measurement uncertainty . the remainder had bone lead levels ranging up to 21 mcg lead/g bone mineral . bone lead levels were greater among older subjects . among young adult subjects , bone lead levels greater than the measurement uncertainty were confined entirely to subjects who had grown up in housing that was estimated to have been build prior to 1955 . such a childhood environment is at high risk of fostering exposure to biologically absorbable lead through ingestion of lead paint-contaminated dust and lead pipe-contaminated water . we conclude that the k-xrf technique has the potential to distinguish between low levels of lead burden in epidemiologic studies . 
low-level lead exposure in the prenatal and early preschool periods : language development . inconsistent results continue to be reported from studies linking low-level lead exposure and child development . this inconsistency is seen for both prenatal exposure and exposure in the preschool years . the primary outcome measures in most reports are indices of cognitive development , including iq . verbal skills may be particularly vulnerable to toxic insult . the fact that 2 y of age is both a time of peak exposure and also a time of rapid language development suggests that this may be a critical period for such an effect . the later prenatal and early infancy period , at which time the nervous system is developing rapidly , may also be critical exposure period . we examined the relationship of maternal and cord blood lead ( pbb ) at birth and venous pbb at 6 mo , 2 y , and 3 y with language measures at 1 , 2 , and 3 y of age . the sample consisted of disadvantaged urban children . multivariate analyses revealed no statistically significant relationship of either prenatal pbb or early preschool pbb with language measures after control of cofactors . supplementary partial correlations revealed a marginal relationship of cord pbb and mean length of utterance ( mlu ) , which describes a child 's ability to form meaningful word combinations . because this analysis was one of a large number of analyses with both positive and negative regression coefficients , the possibility that this was a chance effect was considered . if there is an effect of low-level lead exposure on language development , that effect is not robust . 
prenatal exposure to methyl mercury among greenlandic polar inuits . during the period 1982 to 1988 , 37 paired samples of blood from inuit women and their newborn children were collected in north greenland . the samples were analyzed for whole blood content of total mercury ( tot-hg ) and for content of methyl mercury ( me-hg ) . in maternal blood , 80 % of the tot-hg was found to be methylated in contrast to 98 % in cord blood . concentrations of me-hg in maternal and cord blood were significantly correlated , and the mean ratio between fetal and maternal blood me-hg was 1.9 . concentrations of me-hg in cord blood were closely related to the marine food intake of the mothers . eighty-four percent of the mothers had blood concentrations of me-hg above 0.11 mumol/l ( 23 micrograms/l ) , which corresponds to the provisional limit of tolerable intake set by the world health organization . this indicates that the majority of the pregnant woman have an unacceptable high intake of methyl mercury . 
a clinical pathologic study of four adult cases of acute mercury inhalation toxicity . we report four cases of fatal mercury vapor inhalation , a rare occurrence . the mercury vapor was released at a private home , where one of the occupants was smelting silver from dental amalgam containing an unknown amount of mercury . within 24 hours of the incident , all occupants began having shortness of breath necessitating hospital admission . the clinical courses are briefly detailed ; however , all included rapid deterioration with respiratory failure . chest roentgenograms in all four cases were consistent with adult respiratory distress syndrome . all patients were treated with dimercaprol , a mercury chelator , but all died , with survival varying from 9 to 23 days postexposure . autopsies were performed on all four patients . the lungs in all cases were heavy , firm , and airless . histologic examination revealed severe diffuse alveolar damage , with variable amounts of fibrosis , conforming with acute lung injury in various stages of organization . additional postmortem findings included acute proximal renal tubular necrosis , vacuolar hepatoxicity , and a spectrum of central nervous system alterations including multifocal ischemic necrosis , gliosis , and vasculitis . 
penetrating ocular injury from contaminated eating utensils . although the rate of infectious endophthalmitis following penetrating ocular injury is generally less than 10 % , certain settings may carry a greater risk of infection . one such setting is penetrating injury resulting from eating utensils contaminated with oral flora . we reviewed six of these injuries . culture-positive bacterial endophthalmitis developed in four of the six eyes ; only one of the eyes retained reading visual acuity ( greater than 20/50 ) and two eyes lost light perception . the potential for infection and limited visual outcome in this series warrants aggressive prophylaxis and treatment . the unexpected isolation of haemophilus influenzae in two of the four infections suggests that broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment should be considered in all such injuries since less common organisms may be encountered . 
circadian variation of heart rate is affected by environment : a study of continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in members of a symphony orchestra twenty four hour ambulatory st segment monitoring was performed on 48 members ( 43 players and five members of the management/technical team ) of the british broadcasting corporation ( bbc ) symphony orchestra without a history of cardiac disease . this period included final rehearsals and live performances ( for audience and radio ) of music by richard strauss and mozart at the royal festival hall ( n = 36 ) and rachmaninov and tchaikovsky at the barbican arts centre ( n = 21 ) . during the period of monitoring one person ( 2 % ) had transient st segment changes . mean heart rates were significantly higher during the live performances than during the rehearsals . mean heart rates during the live performance of rachmaninov and tchaikovsky were significantly higher than during strauss and mozart in those ( n = 6 ) who were monitored on both occasions . mean heart rates in the management and technical team were higher than those of the players . the recognised circadian pattern of heart rate , with a peak in the morning waking hours , was altered similarly during both concert days , with a primary peak occurring in the evening hours and a lesser peak in the morning for both musicians and management/technical staff . this study showed that environmental factors are of primary importance in defining the circadian pattern of heart rate . this has important implications when identifying peak periods of cardiovascular stress and tailoring drug treatment for patients with angina pectoris . 
diagnostic utility of flumazenil in coma with suspected poisoning : a double blind , randomised controlled study objective -- to assess the diagnostic value and safety of the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil in patients with coma of unclear origin with suspected poisoning . design -- double blind , placebo controlled , randomised study . setting -- intensive care unit at a major teaching hospital . patients -- 105 unconscious adults admitted consecutively with suspected drug overdosage during 18 months from a total of 362 cases of poisoning . exclusion criteria were pregnancy , epilepsy , obvious poisoning with drugs identified unequivocally from information from relatives or others as other than benzodiazepines , and coma score greater than 10 on a scale graded from 4 to 20 . patients were allocated randomly to receive flumazenil ( 21 men and 32 women ) or placebo ( 25 men and 27 women ) . interventions -- intravenous injection of flumazenil ( 10 ml , 0.1 mg/ml ) or placebo ( 10 ml vehicle alone ) given double blind over three minutes . main outcome measures -- serum and urine concentrations of benzodiazepines , antidepressants , and several other agents ; blood gas tensions ; standardised evaluation on admission and five minutes after the injection by means of coma scale score and urgent diagnostic or therapeutic interventions indicated according to the history and clinical examination ; standardised interview after the injection to try to ascertain further information ; and adverse reactions . results -- benzodiazepines were found in the serum in 36 of the 53 patients in the flumazenil group and in 37 of the 52 who received placebo . the average coma scale score increased significantly after injection in the flumazenil group ( 6.4 v 12.1 , p less than 0.001 ) but not in the placebo group . in the flumazenil group several interventions were rendered unnecessary by the injection : gastric lavage and urinary catheterisation ( 19 patients each ) , intubation ( 21 ) , artificial ventilation and computed tomography of the brain ( three patients each ) , blood culture and lumbar puncture ( one patient each ) , and electroencephalography ( two ) . in the placebo group the indications for these procedures did not change in any patient after injection . the 95 % confidence interval for the difference in reduction of the frequency of indications for gastric lavage after injection between the two groups was 21 % to 51 % , that for intubation 25 % to 55 % , and that for urinary catheterisation 21 % to 51 % . in the flumazenil group 21 patients gave valuable information on their drug ingestion within 10 minutes after injection compared with only one in the placebo group ( p less than 0.001 ) . nine adverse reactions were recorded in the flumazenil group , eight of which were graded as mild and one severe . the safety of the antagonist was acceptable , even though 60 % of the patients in the flumazenil group had multiple drug poisoning including benzodiazepine . no epileptic seizures or arrhythmias were recorded . conclusion -- flumazenil is a valuable and safe differential diagnostic tool in unclear cases of multiple drug poisoning . 
abuse of elderly people by their carers objective -- to assess the prevalence of abuse of elderly people by their carers and the characteristics of abusers and the abused . design -- information on abuse and risk factors was collected over six months from carers and patients . risk factors were identified in the abused group and compared with those in a non-abused control group . setting -- carers were interviewed at home ; patients were examined in the wards of putney and barnes geriatric hospitals , london . subjects -- all patients referred from any source for respite care to the geriatric services over a six month period and their carers . main outcome measures -- amount of physical and verbal abuse or neglect . quantification of risk factors and correlation with the presence or absence of abuse . results -- 45 % of carers openly admitted to some form of abuse . few patients admitted abuse . the most significant risk factor for physical abuse was alcohol consumption by the carer ( p less than 0.001 ) . other significant risk factors were a poor pre-morbid relationship and previous abuse over many years . abuse was often reciprocated and was associated with social dysfunction in many patients . service delivery , respite care , and level of mental and physical disability were not significantly associated with abuse . conclusion -- the high level of abuse found in elderly patients in respite care was particularly associated with alcohol abuse and long term relationships of poor quality , which are difficult to change . even with increased provision of services , care in the community may not be the best solution for these people . 
progression of hiv infection in misusers of injected drugs who stop injecting or follow a programme of maintenance treatment with methadone . objective -- to see whether misusers of injected drugs who stop injecting or switch to a programme of maintenance treatment with methadone have a reduced risk of progression of hiv infection when compared with a group of persistent misusers . design -- observational cohort study in hiv seropositive subjects with a current or past history of misusing injected drugs . setting -- hiv outpatient clinic at the university hospital of zurich , switzerland . patients -- 297 current and former parenteral drug misusers ( median age 27 ) with asymptomatic hiv infection . during the observation period 80 subjects adhered to a programme of maintenance treatment with methadone , 124 continued with parenteral drug misuse , and 93 former misusers remained free of illicit drugs . no antiretroviral treatment was given during the study . main outcome measures -- probability of progression of hiv infection from asymptomatic to symptomatic ( centers for disease control stage iv ) as calculated by life table analysis and compared in the three groups of patients by means of a log rank test , and predictors of disease progression as analysed with a cox proportional hazards regression model . results -- the 297 patients were followed up for a median of 16 months . the median duration of injecting drug misuse before enrollment was 7.1 years . there were no significant differences among the three groups with respect to cd4 + counts at the beginning of the study ( median 0.44 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . life table analysis showed a significantly lower probability of progression of hiv disease in both the methadone treated group and former drug misusers than in persistent injecting drug misusers . multivariate regression analysis showed a relative risk of progression of the disease of 1.78 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.20 to 2.67 ; p less than 0.01 ) in persistent injecting drug misusers , 0.48 ( 0.29 to 0.77 ; p less than 0.01 ) in the methadone treated group , and 0.66 ( 0.41 to 1.06 ; p = 0.085 ) in former drug misusers . conclusions -- stopping the misuse of injected drugs slows the progression of hiv disease in infected subjects . drug treatment programmes are effective in secondary prevention of hiv associated morbidity . 
drug induced refractory headache -- clinical features and management . two hundred patients who were taking daily symptomatic or immediate relief medications , often in excessive quantities , yet suffering from daily or near daily severe headaches were studied . one hundred and sixteen ( 58 % ) of them were also taking concomitant prophylactic medications and they were ineffective . low tyramine , low caffeine dietary instructions and biofeedback training were given to all patients . the effect of continuing symptomatic medications , discontinuing symptomatic medications , and adding or changing prophylactic medications were studied in the various treatment groups . it is concluded that ; 1 . ) daily use of symptomatic or immediate relief medications result in chronic daily headache . 2 . ) discontinuing daily symptomatic medications itself result in improvement of headache . 3 . ) concomitant use of symptomatic medications nullifies the effect of prophylactic medications . 4 . ) discontinuing daily symptomatic medications enhances the beneficial effect of prophylactic medications . 
intrapulmonary distribution of bronchial blood flow after moderate smoke inhalation . the systemic blood flow to the airways of the left lung was determined by the radioactive microsphere technique before and 17 h after smoke inhalation in six conscious sheep ( smoke group ) and six sheep insufflated with air alone ( sham group ) . smoke inhalation caused a sixfold increase in systemic blood flow to the lower trachea ( baseline 10.6 + / - 1.7 vs. injury 60.9 + / - 16.1 ml.min-1 .100 g-1 ) and an 11 - to 14-fold increase to the intrapulmonary central airways ( baseline range 9.5 + / - 1.9 to 13.5 + / - 3.7 ml.min-1 .100 g-1 vs. injury 104.6 + / - 32.2 to 187.3 + / - 83.6 ml.min-1 .100 g-1 ) . there was a trend for this hyperemic response to be greater as airway diameter decreased from the trachea to 2-mm-diam central airways . in airways smaller than 2 mm , the hyperemic response appeared to diminish . the total systemic blood flow to whole lung is predominantly to small peripheral airways and showed no significant increase from its baseline level of 17.5 + / - 3.7 ml.min-1 .100 g-1 in the lung homogenate . occlusion of the bronchoesophageal artery decreased central airway blood flow 60-80 % and peripheral airway blood flow 40-60 % in both the sham and the smoke groups . 
toxic epidermal necrolysis ( lyell syndrome ) . toxic epidermal necrolysis is perhaps the most formidable disease encountered by dermatologists . uncommon but not rare , toxic epidermal necrolysis occurs in 60 to 70 persons per year in france . it remains as puzzling a disorder as it was 34 years ago , when described by lyell . whether or not toxic epidermal necrolysis is the most severe form of erythema multiforme is still the subject of discussion . the physiopathologic events that lead to this rapidly extensive necrosis of the epidermis are not understood . indirect evidence suggests a hypersensitivity reaction , but the search for potential immunologic mechanisms has resulted in little data to support this hypothesis . accumulated clinical evidence points to drugs as the most important , if not the only , cause of toxic epidermal necrolysis . sulfonamides , especially long-acting forms , anticonvulsants , nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents , and certain antibiotics are associated with most cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis . many other drugs have been implicated in isolated case reports . all organs may be involved either by the same process of destruction of the epithelium as observed in the epidermis or by the same systemic consequences of " acute skin failure " as seen in patients with widespread burns . sepsis is the most important complication and cause of death . approximately 20 % to 30 % of all patients with toxic epidermal necrolysis die . elderly patients and patients with extensive lesions have a higher mortality rate . surviving patients completely heal in 3 to 4 weeks , but up to 50 % will have residual , potentially disabling ocular lesions . the prognosis is improved by adequate therapy , as provided in burn units , that is , aggressive fluid replacement , nutritional support , and a coherent antibacterial policy . corticosteroids , advocated by some in high doses to halt the " hypersensitivity " process , have been shown in several studies to be detrimental and should be avoided . 
human t lymphotropic virus type ii ( htlv-ii ) infection in a cohort of new york intravenous drug users : an old infection ? to identify risk factors for human t lymphotropic virus type ii ( htlv-ii ) infection in intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) , participants in a longitudinal study of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in a new york methadone maintenance program were studied . of 270 participants tested for htlv-i/ii , 21 ( 8 % ) were seropositive . of those , 15 ( 71 % ) had htlv-ii-specific sequences by polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) and 1 ( 5 % ) had both htlv-i - and - ii-specific sequences ; 3 persons with indeterminate serologic results were also pcr-positive for htlv-ii . htlv-ii infection was significantly associated with older age but was not predicted by sex , race , socioeconomic status , transfusion history , or hiv infection status . behavioral factors since 1978 , such as duration and frequency of intravenous drug use , needle sharing , visits to shooting galleries , or number of sex partners , were also not associated with htlv-ii infection . these findings are in contrast with the association of these risk factors with hiv in this group and suggest that , among ivdus , htlv-ii is an older endemic infection that is less efficiently transmitted than hiv . 
occupational risk factors for infection with parvovirus b19 among pregnant women . to identify exposures associated with parvovirus b19 infection during pregnancy , two groups of pregnant women were studied during an outbreak of erythema infectiosum ( ei ) . of 796 pregnant women from connecticut who were tested serologically because of perceived exposure to b19 , 53 % ( 419/796 ) had serologic evidence of previous b19 infection , and 6 % ( 23/376 ) of the rest had evidence of recent infection . of 121 pregnant women who had not requested testing but who lived in a community where a large outbreak of ei had occurred among schoolchildren , 36 % ( 43/121 ) had serologic evidence of previous infection , and only 3 % ( 2/78 ) of the rest had had a recent infection . in the exposed group , 479 women returned a supplemental exposure questionnaire . the highest infection rates among susceptible women were for schoolteachers ( 16 % , 10/64 ) , followed by day care workers ( 9 % , 2/22 ) and homemakers ( 9 % , 4/46 ) . women working outside the home but not in school or day care settings had the lowest risk ( 4 % , 3/80 ) . this study suggests that there is risk for b19 infection in selected occupational settings and in households . 
the prevalence and incidence of clinical and asymptomatic lyme borreliosis in a population at risk . a past history of clinical lyme borreliosis and the 6-month incidence of clinical and asymptomatic lyme borreliosis was studied prospectively in a high-risk population . in the spring , blood samples were drawn from 950 swiss orienteers , who also answered a questionnaire . igg anti-borrelia burgdorferi antibodies were detected by elisa . positive igg antibodies were seen in 248 ( 26.1 % ) , in contrast to 3.9 % -6.0 % in two groups of controls ( n = 101 ) . of the orienteers , 1.9 % -3.1 % had a past history of definite or probable clinical lyme borreliosis . six months later a second blood sample was obtained from 755 participants , 558 ( 73.9 % ) of whom were seronegative initially ; 45 ( 8.1 % ) had seroconverted from negative to positive . only 1 ( 2.2 % ) developed clinical lyme borreliosis . among all participants , the 6-month incidence of clinical lyme borreliosis was 0.8 % ( 6/755 ) but was much higher ( 8.1 % ) for asymptomatic seroconversion ( 45/558 ) . in conclusion , positive lyme serology was common in swiss orienteers , but clinical disease occurred infrequently . 
the interspinous method of posterior atlantoaxial arthrodesis . thirty-six patients underwent c1-2 posterior wiring and fusion procedures over a 5-year period for unstable c-2 fractures ( eight cases ) , unstable atlas-axis combination fractures ( six cases ) , rheumatoid c1-2 instability ( 14 cases ) , os odontoideum ( four cases ) , traumatic c1-2 ligamentous instability ( three cases ) , or instability secondary to a c-2 tumor ( one case ) . in each case , the atlantoaxial arthrodesis utilized sublaminar wire at c-1 and incorporated an iliac-crest strut-graft positioned between the posterior arches of c-1 and c-2 , held in place by securing wire around the base of the spinous process of the axis . follow-up examination was performed in all patients after a mean postoperative duration of 33.7 months . the technical aspects and clinical merits of this fusion procedure , which led to a 97 % union rate ( one nonunion ) and minimal morbidity and mortality rates , are presented . 
acute subdural hematoma : morbidity , mortality , and operative timing . traumatic acute subdural hematoma remains one of the most lethal of all head injuries . since 1981 , it has been strongly held that the critical factor in overall outcome from acute subdural hematoma is timing of operative intervention for clot removal ; those operated on within 4 hours of injury may have mortality rates as low as 30 % with functional survival rates as high as 65 % . data were reviewed for 1150 severely head-injured patients ( glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) scores 3 to 7 ) treated at a level 1 trauma center between 1982 and 1987 ; 101 of these patients had acute subdural hematoma . standard treatment protocol included aggressive prehospital resuscitation measures , rapid operative intervention , and aggressive postoperative control of intracranial pressure ( icp ) . the overall mortality rate was 66 % , and 19 % had functional recovery . the following variables statistically correlated ( p less than 0.05 ) with outcome ; motorcycle accident as a mechanism of injury , age over 65 years , admission gcs score of 3 or 4 , and postoperative icp greater than 45 mm hg . the time from injury to operative evacuation of the acute subdural hematoma in regard to outcome morbidity and mortality was not statistically significant even when examined at hourly intervals although there were trends indicating that earlier surgery improved outcome . the findings of this study support the pathophysiological evidence that , in acute subdural hematoma , the extent of primary underlying brain injury is more important than the subdural clot itself in dictating outcome ; therefore , the ability to control icp is more critical to outcome than the absolute timing of subdural blood removal . 
indium-111-chloride and three-phase bone scintigraphy : a comparison for imaging experimental osteomyelitis . to investigate the utility of indium-111-chloride ( 111in-cl ) imaging in detecting osteomyelitis complicating surgical or fracture sites , the proximal tibia of 11 dogs were experimentally infected with staphylococcus aureus after creation of a cortical defect . the contralateral limb served as a sham-operated control . animals were serially imaged by radiography , three-phase technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate ( 99mtc-mdp ) scintigraphy , and 111in-cl scintigraphy . there was a significant difference between infected ( 1.93 ) and noninfected ( 1.32 ) limb 's tibia/femur count density ratios on 24-hr ( p = 0.0001 ) and 72-hr ( p = 0.0001 ) 111in-cl images . a smaller difference was found for 99mtc-mdp bone-phase tibia/femur ratios ( p = 0.0199 ) . using receiver operator characteristic analysis of tibia/femur ratios , a sensitivity of 61 % , specificity of 88 % , and positive ( 75 % ) and negative ( 79 % ) predictive values were determined for the 24-hr 111in-cl images . indium-111-chloride was superior to 99mtc-mdp in differentiating infected and noninfected operative sites . 
protective behavior of captopril on hg ( + + ) - induced toxicity on kidney mitochondria . in vivo and in vitro experiments . mercurials are known to induce morphological and functional modifications in kidney mitochondria . in this work we studied in vitro and in vivo the protective effect of captopril on the deleterious effect of hg ( + + ) - induced nonspecific membrane permeability changes to ca + + and membrane de-energization . in vivo the administration of captopril prevented the toxic effects of mercury poisoning on membrane permeability , oxidative phosphorylation and ca + + homeostasis . moreover , captopril preserves kidney tissue morphology from hg ( + + ) - induced damage . the protective effect of captopril is most likely related to the existence of a sulfhydryl group in the drug . 
management of posterior urethral strictures secondary to pelvic fractures in children . bulboprostatic anastomotic urethroplasty was performed in 20 children with posterior urethral strictures secondary to bony pelvic fractures . the approach was perineal in 4 children and transpubic abdominoperineal in 16 , with good postoperative results in 100 and 62.5 % , respectively . in some children the urethral disruption occurred within the prostate itself and not at the prostatomembranous junction . in such cases the proximal sphincteric mechanism may be at risk and immediate repair of the injury is advisable . in the case of common prostatomembranous disruption displacement of the urethra may be significant . in such cases a transpubic approach is preferable . if the proximal sphincteric mechanism is deranged , it can be managed at the same time . 
acute and chronic bioeffects of single and multiple doses of piezoelectric shockwaves ( edap lt. 01 ) . piezoelectric second generation lithotriptors are an established means of administering extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy ( eswl ) enabling treatment to be performed without anaesthesia or analgesia , but higher shockwave doses and multiple or staged treatment are frequently required . the bioeffects of this modality of eswl , therefore , require further assessment . seven experimental groups of adult male rabbits were treated using the edap lt. 01 in order to determine the acute and chronic bioeffects of clinical dose , excess dose , divided excess dose , high frequency and multiple treatment ( x10 ) piezoelectric shockwaves ( psw ) . renal function was measured before and after treatment using mercaptoacetyltriglycine ( mag 3 ) scans . gross and histological morphological changes were assessed at one and 30 days following application of psw . application of single clinical dose psw was not associated with any significant functional or morphological renal injury . excess dose psw caused transient gross renal contusion , which resolved in the majority of animals with no persistent microscopic abnormality . divided excess dose psw resulted in no gross or microscopic damage . high frequency psw was associated with mild histological abnormality . multiple psw treatments caused small discrete fibrotic lesions in all cases , without any change in renal function . 
energy balance in elderly patients after surgery for a femoral neck fracture . to study energy and protein balances in elderly patients after surgery , spontaneous energy and protein intake and resting energy expenditure ( ree ) were measured in 20 elderly female patients with a femoral neck fracture ( mean age 81 + / - 4 , sd , range 74-87 years ; weight 53 + / - 8 , range 42-68 kg ) during a 5-6 day period following surgery . ree , measured over 20-40 min by indirect calorimetry using a ventilated canopy , averaged 0.98 + / - 0.15 kcal/min on day 3 and decreased to 0.93 + / - 0.15 kcal/min on day 8-9 postsurgery ( p less than 0.02 ) . ree was positively correlated with body weight ( r = 0.69 , p less than 0.005 ) . mean ree extrapolated to 24 hr ( 24-ree ) was 1283 + / - 194 kcal/day . mean daily food energy intake measured over the 5-day follow-up period was 1097 + / - 333 kcal/day and was positively correlated with 24-ree ( r = 0.50 , p less than 0.05 ) . daily energy balance was -235 + / - 351 kcal/day on day 3 ( p less than 0.01 vs zero ) and -13 + / - 392 kcal/day on day 8-9 postsurgery ( ns vs zero ) with a mean over the study period of -185 + / - 289 kcal/day ( p less than 0.01 vs zero ) . when an extra 100 kcal/day was allowed for the energy cost of physical activity , mean daily energy balance over the 5-day study period was calculated to be -285 + / - 289 kcal/day ( p less than 0.01 vs zero ) . measurements of total 24-hr urinary nitrogen ( n ) excretion were obtained in a subgroup of 14 patients . 
use of human growth hormone combined with nutritional support in a critical care unit . the administration of growth factors may potentially accelerate recovery during critical illness by reducing body protein catabolism , enhancing wound healing , and improving skeletal muscle function . the purpose of this phase 1 study was to evaluate the safety and initial efficacy of a recombinant growth factor , human growth hormone ( gh ) , combined with nutritional support in a critical care unit . following an initial control week , 11 individuals received gh ( 10 mg/day ) daily for 1-6 consecutive weeks . near constant nutrient intake was provided via parenteral and/or enteral feedings throughout the study period . vital signs and other clinical parameters , blood values , and nutrient excretion were monitored daily . gh administration was not associated with clinically significant adverse effects . during the first 2 weeks of study , nitrogen excretion decreased from 1356 + / - 157 mmol/day ( 19.0 + / - 2.2 g/day ) during control to 899 + / - 107 mmol/day ( 12.6 + / - 1.4 g/day ) with growth hormone ( p less than 0.002 ) in association with markedly reduced urea generation . significant reductions in potassium excretion ( control 100 + / - 11 mmol/day vs 69 + / - 6 with gh ; p less than 0.01 ) and phosphorus excretion ( 31 + / - 5 mmol/day vs 18 + / - 3 ; p less than 0.025 ) also occurred during gh . the protein-conserving effects of gh were sustained during several weeks of treatment . growth hormone enhanced the efficiency of administered protein and facilitated nitrogen retention without clinically significant adverse effects in this small patient group . controlled trials are indicated to determine whether use of this anabolic hormone reduces hospitalization time and improves other clinical outcomes in severely injured patients when combined with appropriate nutritional support . 
factors contributing to increased energy expenditure in thermal injury : a review of studies employing indirect calorimetry . in summary , a remarkably close agreement exists for the mean mee measured in 28 studies of severe burn trauma . this is especially surprising given the variability in sample sizes , measurement techniques , study designs , and dpbs studied . the mean mee calculated from the data published in these reports is listed in the final column of table i. for more than 450 cases , an unweighted mee is 2750 + / - 85 kcal/day . for those studies prior to 1980 , the mean mee exceeds 3000 kcal/day in eight of 14 reports vs only two of 14 published after 1980 . even so , the mean mee for the pre-1980 reports differs by only 200 kcal/day ( 2960 + / - 120 , n = 14 ) . the accepted notion that the degree of elevation in mee is in proportion to the % bsab up to about 60 % bsab is useful in a general sense but must be applied with caution . the recent studies , which include proportionately more burns exceeding 80 % bsab , suggest an elevation in mee in these cases . nevertheless , a physiologic plateau apparently exists at or slightly below 2 x normal rmr at the peak of mee . the magnitude of the mee response results from an undefined interaction among several factors of which some have been examined while others such as inflammatory mediators are only beginning to receive study . the contributions to reduction in mee from interventions to control cardiac output and peripheral cooling , core temperature , evaporative water ( heat ) loss , and substrate cycling have been reviewed . the importance of indirect calorimetry in patient care is highlighted by the large variability in similarly injured individuals and in the unexplained component of regression analyses . 
niacin-induced hepatitis : a potential side effect with low-dose time-release niacin hepatitis developed in five patients who were taking low dosages ( 3 g/day or less ) of time-release niacin . in four of the five patients , clinical symptoms of hepatitis developed after the medication had been taken for a relatively short time ( 2 days to 7 weeks ) . this manifestation of hepatotoxicity seems to differ from that previously reported in association with use of crystalline niacin , which occurred with high dosage and prolonged usage of the medication . in view of the recent increased frequency of prescribing niacin for the treatment of hyperlipidemia , physicians should be aware of the potential for hepatotoxicity with even low-dose and short-term use of time-release niacin . 
children born to women with hiv-1 infection : natural history and risk of transmission . european collaborative study . 600 children born to hiv-infected mothers by june 15 , 1990 , in ten european centres were followed to study the natural history of hiv infection and the vertical transmission rate . they were seen at birth , every 3 months up to 18 months of age , and every 6 months thereafter . at last follow-up , 64 children were judged to be hiv infected and 343 had lost antibody and were presumed uninfected . the initial clinical feature in infected children was usually a combination of persistent lymphadenopathy , splenomegaly , and hepatomegaly , though 30 % of children presented with aids , or with oral candidosis followed rapidly by aids . an estimated 83 % of infected children show laboratory or clinical features of hiv infection by 6 months of age . by 12 months , 26 % have aids and 17 % die of hiv-related disease . subsequently , the disease progresses more slowly and most children remain stable or even improve during the second year . the vertical transmission rate , based on results in 372 children born at least 18 months before the analysis , was 12.9 % ( 95 % cl 9.5-16 .3 % ) . virus has been repeatedly isolated in an additional small proportion of children ( 2.5 % , 95 % cl 0.7-6 .3 % ) who lost maternal antibody and have remained clinically and immunologically normal . without a definitive virological diagnosis , the monitoring of immunoglobulins , cd4/cd8 ratio , and clinical signs could identify hiv infection in 48 % of infected children by 6 months , with a specificity of more than 99 % . 
biomechanics of lumbar pedicle screw/plate fixation in trauma . this investigation was conducted to determine alterations in the biomechanical strength and stiffness characteristics of the lumbar spine fixated with steffee instrumentation . comparative studies of these parameters were conducted using seven lumbar columns from fresh human cadavers . three runs were conducted on each t12-l5 column : control , injured , and fixated . the specimens were loaded under the compression-flexion mode until failure ( control run ) and then reloaded ( injury run ) to the failure deformation determined in the control run . screw/plates were then inserted one level proximal and distal to injury , and the specimens were reloaded ( fixation run ) . radiographs were taken before and after each trial . data on deformation and force histories were gathered . the load-deflection response of the injured and fixated specimens were bimodal with two representative stiffnesses . control failure loads and stiffnesses were higher than those for the injured ( p less than 0.001 ) or fixated ( p less than 0.01 ) spine . initial stiffness was significantly higher for the fixated than for injured columns ( p less than 0.001 ) , but the final stiffnesses were similar . the increase in the initial stiffness in the fixated specimen compared to the injured specimen indicates the strength added to the posterior region of the spine . the relatively smaller alteration in the final stiffness between the fixated and the injured columns , corresponding to the load shared by the anterior column , may suggest that , above a critical strain level , the anterior column absorbs a higher portion of the external load and posterior fixation may be inadequate as sole treatment in trauma . 
restoration of the anterior neck surface in the burned patient by free groin flap . in treating extensive burn contractures of the anterior neck , we obtained good results using free flaps . ninety-nine patients with neck contractures were treated with free flaps . the ages of the patients range from 2 to 64 years . we used 84 free groin flaps , 10 free latissimus dorsi musculocutaneous flaps , 2 free deltopectoral flaps , 2 free scapular flaps , and 1 free anterolateral thigh flap . in all patients , contractures were sufficiently released and no recurrences followed after a mean follow-up of 8.7 years . after defatting procedures , natural profiles and good appearances were restored , especially in patients in whom groin flaps were used . 
free vascularized thin corticoperiosteal graft . this paper describes a new thin corticoperiosteal graft harvested from the medial condylar and supracondylar areas of the femur . it is based on the articular branch of the descending genicular artery and vein and consists of periosteum with a thin ( 0.5 to 1.0 mm ) layer of outer cortical bone . by retaining the cortex , the cambium layer is preserved , and this is thought to have a better osteogenic capacity than vascularized periosteal grafts . this graft was used to treat six patients with fracture nonunion of the upper extremity in which conventional treatment had failed . uneventful bony union was achieved in all patients within 10 weeks . 
simultaneous bilateral forearm revascularization . a successful simultaneous bilateral forearm revascularization was performed on a 17-year-old boy . functional recovery of both forearms was evaluated 42 months after injury . the patient can use both hands for the activities of daily living . so far , he has been employed and has no significant psychological problems . temporary intraluminal silicone shunts are extremely helpful for reducing ischemic damage to the injured limb . the sufficient skeletal shortening of the upper limb replantation is crucially important . the wounds must be managed by aggressive and repeated debridement . accurate primary nerve repair is essential , and the early postoperative rehabilitation is also important to achieve a satisfactory functional return . the functional replanted or revascularized upper extremity is superior to an amputation or prosthesis , especially in the cases of bilateral upper extremity amputation or devascularization . 
theodor kocher and the scientific foundation of wound ballistics . the systemic and rational approach used by kocher , coupled with his interest in research of wound ballistics for more than 40 years , resulted in a clear elucidation of the principles that form the basic scientific foundation of modern wound ballistics . the validity of his work has been proved repeatedly on the battlefields of the world for more than a century . presently , more than ever before , the sound scientific precepts revealed by kocher are essential to keep technologic investigation within the framework of good judgment . 
automatic rifle injuries : suicide by eight bullets . report of an unusual case and a literature review . a 25-year-old man committed suicide by shooting himself with eight bullets fired from a military rifle set on automatic . this rifle has two firing modes : an automatic mode and a self-loading , single-shot mode . using this case as an example , some important aspects of firearm injuries are discussed with special emphasis on those points that are relevant to automatic military rifles and most applicable to forensic pathology practice . some of the pathologic features of firearm wounds are reviewed and the role of the pathologist is discussed . lastly , the most important points that help the pathologist to determine the type or nature of a firearm death -- that is , whether it is an accident , homicide , or a suicide -- are discussed . classically , the number of the firearm wounds is used to differentiate suicide from homicide . as in the case reported here , however , when an automatic rifle or a military rifle set on automatic is used , the number of wounds is not a reliable indicator of the type of death . 
nail-gun suicide . two cases are reported of young men who committed suicide using a nail gun . one shot himself through the heart and left lung . the other shot himself in the head . no cases of completed suicide by nail gun have previously been reported in the english literature . these cases are reported because of their uncommon nature and because they represent a potentially fatal use of a relatively common industrial implement . 
suicides by starter 's pistols and air guns . we report the case of a 25-year-old depressed woman who committed suicide with a starter 's pistol loaded with cs tear-gas ammunition . the propellant gases of the contact shot entered her chest through the left sixth intercostal space . exsanguination was caused by perforations of the pericardium and apex of the heart . autopsy did not reveal any metallic or other foreign bodies that might have originated from the propellant , the cartridge , or any bulletlike material . her injuries were thus caused by the propellant alone . 0.5 mg l-1 of the cs degradation product cyanide was detected in the cardiac blood . we also report the case of a 54-year-old man , suffering from depressive psychosis , who committed suicide with an air rifle . the lead-pointed diabolo bullet entered his brain through the right large wing of the sphenoid bone , traversed the right temporal brain pole , damaged the right middle cerebral artery and the right optic tract , and finally lodged in the left central ganglia . there was extensive basal subdural hemorrhage and tamponade of all cerebral ventricles . death was attributed to cerebral failure . we furthermore list another 26 cases of suicide by rarely used weapons from 1947 to 1989 . 
forensic photography . ultraviolet imaging of wounds on skin . the use of ultraviolet light ( uvl ) to study and document patterned injuries on human skin has opened a new frontier for law enforcement . this article discusses the photographic techniques involved in reflective and fluorescent uvl . documentation of skin wounds via still photography and dynamic video photographic techniques , which utilize various methods of uv illumination , are covered . techniques important for courtroom presentation of evidence gathered from lacerations , contusions , abrasions , and bite marks are presented through case studies and controlled experiments . such injuries are common sequelae in the crimes of child abuse , rape , and assault . 
a suicide by thiopentone infusion . a suicide by intravenous thiopentone infusion is described . a search of the literature revealed only four cases , but this paucity is possibly due to under-reporting , as these suicides occur amongst medical personnel . 
homicide-suicide by stabbing . it is rare that an assailant kills someone and afterward commits suicide by stabbing himself on the scene . this report describes how a young soldier killed his young girlfriend and then killed himself . 
wrist slashing in a detention center . case report and review of the literature . suicides that occur in custody are rare and thus require extensive forensic analysis . asphyxia by hanging is the most common means of suicide : at least 87.5 % of successful suicides are committed in this way . a unique case of suicide in custody is presented in which a prisoner slashed his wrist with an eyeglass lens . the evidence and proceedings that led to this suicide are reviewed and the data are compared with known behavioral patterns . the world literature concerning suicide while incarcerated is reviewed . 
suicide by chloroform ingestion following self-mutilation . a case of suicide is described that combined elements of psychotic self-mutilation , both chronic and terminal , and poisoning with ingested chloroform . this illustrates the need to consider unusual methods when investigating the deaths of people with patterns of bizarre behavior and access to unusual , fatal materials . 
suicidal ligature strangulation with an elastic band . an unusual case of self-strangulation with an elastic band is described . the victim was a young hispanic male with a complicated psychiatric history , including suicide attempts . mechanisms of strangulation and mechanical asphyxial death are discussed briefly . 
death , after swallowing and aspiration of a high number of foreign bodies , in a schizophrenic woman . a 46-year-old woman who had had a long-term schizoid psychosis collapsed on the street . upon admission to the hospital , she was determined to have an acute abdomen . the chest radiograph showed metallic foreign bodies in both main bronchi ; foreign bodies in the stomach were not observed clinically . the woman died from repeated cardiac arrest shortly after hospital admission . at the autopsy a screw and a nail were found in both main bronchi . the abdominal cavity contained 2 l of greenish purulent fluid and a massive fibrinoid peritonitis was observed . two perforations of the stomach , each 1 cm in diameter , were detected . the stomach was completely filled with a mass of metallic foreign bodies , greenish fluid , and a bezoar of a total weight of 1,400 g ; 422 distinguishable and mostly metallic foreign bodies were counted . death was attributed to cardiac arrest in delayed shock after massive purulent peritonitis caused by two gastric perforations combined with obstruction of the airways by aspirated foreign bodies . cases of massive swallowing of foreign bodies are mainly restricted to mentally handicapped persons , especially schizophrenics , whereas acute impaction of the larynx by large food particles occurs nearly exclusively in heavily intoxicated adults . 
late volume changes in retrosternal colon bypass . esophageal obstruction by malignancy , chemical burns , or other less common entities presents a challenge for the surgeon . either for esophageal substitution after esophageal resection or as a bypass for the obstructed esophagus , colon interposition is often the best available option . massive colonic enlargement requiring resection of the interposed dilated colon developed recently in 2 of our patients who had a colon bypass 22 and 10 years earlier , respectively . 
misplaced caval filter and subsequent pericardial tamponade . use of the greenfield filter for partial caval interruption is generally accepted as the most reliable mechanical method of pulmonary embolus prophylaxis . however , there have been reports of a variety of ( usually nonfatal ) complications . we report here the near-fatal complication of acute pericardial tamponade after misplacement of a greenfield filter . because of the filter 's unusual location , retrieval required cardiopulmonary bypass , profound hyperthermia , and circulatory arrest . 
intraoperative management of severe endobronchial hemorrhage endobronchial hemorrhage due to pulmonary artery perforation by a swan-ganz catheter developed during coronary artery bypass grafting while weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass . after reinstitution of cardio-pulmonary bypass with pulmonary artery venting , bleeding was localized to the right lower lobe bronchus using fiberoptic bronchoscopy . a fogarty embolectomy catheter was inflated in the bronchus to tamponade successfully only the right lower lobe . this case illustrates a method of distal bronchial blockade for maximal retention of pulmonary function and avoidance of pulmonary resection . 
intraoperative echocardiography of a dislodged bjork-shiley mitral valve disc . the successful management of a patient who suffered an outlet strut fracture of a bjork-shiley 60-degree convexo-concave mitral valve prosthesis is reported . emergency operation was life-saving . preoperative echocardiography assisted in making a prompt diagnosis , and intraoperative echocardiography allowed the detection and removal of the dislodged disc from the left ventricle at the time of the operation . the role of intraoperative echocardiography in the diagnosis of prosthetic strut fracture is emphasized . 
delayed death from aortic root trauma . a 40-year-old man suffered blunt chest trauma , had a myocardial infarct 58 days later , and died unexpectedly 19 days after that . autopsy showed partial avulsion of a small branch of the right coronary artery with thrombus extending into the right coronary sinus of valsalva occluding the right coronary artery and causing a myocardial infarct . death was caused by a thromboembolus arising from the aortic root thrombus and occluding the left main coronary artery . the case is unusual in that the major consequences of the aortic root trauma were delayed , and death resulted from occlusion of both coronary arteries . 
tricuspid valve incompetence caused by nonpenetrating thoracic trauma . tricuspid valve incompetence from ruptured papillary muscle or chordae as a result of nonpenetrating trauma is uncommon . blunt trauma causing partial detachment of a leaflet from the annulus is very rare . we report the case of a young adult involved in a car accident who had these findings . operative repair with resuture of the leaflet to the annulus and annuloplasty using a carpentier ring resulted in complete recovery . 
multidisciplinary baseline assessment of homosexual men with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection . ii . standardized clinical assessment of current and lifetime psychopathology . despite numerous reports of the psychiatric consequences of human immunodeficiency virus infection , few reports describe systematic diagnostic assessments of people with human immunodeficiency virus infection . we studied the results of standardized clinical assessments of current and lifetime psychopathology in a large group of homosexual men whose serologic status was known . results indicated low rates of current mental disorders but very high rates of lifetime major depression and alcohol and other psychoactive substance abuse and dependence disorders . measures of severity of psychopathology and functioning also indicated , on the whole , good current functioning . no significant relationship was found between stage of medical illness or immune status and any measure of psychiatric disturbance . 
changes in cardiovascular homeostasis after injury are mediated by tissue damage and not haemorrhage . during treatment of the injured patient it is assumed that the cardiovascular responses follow recognized physiological principles . studies in humans have shown that injury causes a profound suppression of arterial baroreflex function which alters the normal relationship between heart rate and blood pressure and casts doubt on this assumption . to investigate the mechanism of baroreflex suppression , we have studied the effects of the two major components of injury , blood loss and tissue damage , on baroreflex function in healthy volunteers . baroreflex function was assessed using suction stimulation of the carotid sinus . the loss of 500 ml blood had no effect on baroreflex sensitivity . a human laboratory model of tissue injury reduced the ability of the baroreflex to compensate for a rise in blood pressure ( p less than 0.05 , wilcoxon signed rank test ) . we conclude that tissue damage , rather than hypovolaemia , appears to mediate the effect of injury on baroreflex function in the injured . blockade of neural signals from damaged tissue may have a role in the treatment of injury . 
extradural haematoma in the irish republic : an analysis of 82 cases with emphasis on ' delay ' . eighty-two cases of extradural haematoma were analysed to elucidate the factors contributing to delay in treatment and poor outcome . the majority of cases occurred in the first three decades of life with falls being the commonest aetiological factor . five distinct modes of presentation are described . excessive delay occurred in recognizing the condition and in subsequent transfer of patients . this resulted in many patients being operated on while in coma . associated intracranial and extracranial injury occurred in a significant number of cases . recommendations for the management of these patients are outlined . 
extracorporeal gas exchange in adult respiratory distress syndrome : associated morbidity and its surgical treatment . extracorporeal carbon dioxide removal ( ecco2-r ) over a membrane lung is a new therapy for patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) who frequently suffer from lung complications caused by long-term artificial ventilation and who may require major thoracic surgery . this is a report of 76 patients with severe ards who were treated by ecco2-r . twenty-six of these 76 patients required thoracotomy : 19 for pneumothorax and pneumatocele , and seven for haemothorax , infected lung necrosis or oesophagotracheal fistula . most pneumothoraces were bilateral . ten of these 26 patients required reoperation , usually for extensive persisting alveolar air leaks . sixteen ( 62 per cent ) of the 26 patients who had a thoracotomy and 22 ( 44 per cent ) of the 50 patients without surgery survived . these results demonstrate that performing a thoracotomy , if necessary , does not diminish the survival chance of high-risk patients with severe ards . 
ineffectiveness of dantrolene sodium in the treatment of heatstroke . study objective : to determine the efficacy of dantrolene sodium in the treatment of heatstroke . design : randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . setting : heatstroke center in makkah , saudi arabia . patients : fifty-two adult patients with heatstroke . interventions : patients were assigned to receive either dantrolene sodium ( 2 mg/kg body weight iv ) or placebo . conventional cooling therapy was initiated in all . measurements and main results : there was no significant difference in the mean cooling times for the treatment and control groups ( 67.9 vs. 69 min ) . there was only one death in the control group . complications were seen in six ( 23 % ) patients receiving dantrolene sodium and seven ( 27 % ) patients receiving placebo ; the difference was not statistically significant . there was no significant difference in the mean number of hospital days ( 4.7 + / - 2.0 vs. 2.9 + / - 0.9 days ) . conclusion : treatment with dantrolene sodium at the dose used , did not prove beneficial to patients with heatstroke . 
seven-pathogen tricuspid endocarditis in an intravenous drug abuser . pitfalls in laboratory diagnosis . polymicrobial endocarditis is being reported with increasing frequency in drug abusers . however , the full extent of infection may be unrecognized with routine blood culture techniques because of the overgrowth of more fastidious organisms by other pathogens . this report documents an intravenous drug abuser with the first reported case of tricuspid valve endocarditis involving seven pathogens , discusses pitfalls of routine blood cultures and examines the role of the laboratory in microbiologic diagnosis . 
mandibular ramus anatomy as it relates to the medial osteotomy of the sagittal split ramus osteotomy . the sagittal split ramus osteotomy is probably the most frequently used procedure for correction of mandibular skeletal dentofacial deformities . despite numerous improvements in the technique in the 30 years since the procedure was introduced , a number of troublesome complications still occur . these include unfavorable fracture during surgery , paresthesia , and relapse . the purpose of this study was to determine where fusion of the buccal and lingual cortical plates occurs in the upper mandibular ramus , as it is thought that placement of the horizontal medial osteotomy above the point of fusion ( without any intervening medullary bone ) may lead to unfavorable fracture during splitting . forty-nine human mandibles were sectioned vertically at three locations perpendicular to the surface of the ramus and the occlusal plane . measurements were made to locate vertically the point of fusion of the buccal and lingual cortical plates relative to the lingula and to the depth of the sigmoid notch . the point of fusion occurred between 7.5 and 13.3 mm above the lingula . only 2 % of mandibles had fusion at or below the level of the lingula in the anterior ramus , whereas in the posterior ramus , 6.1 % of mandibles were fused at that level . at a level halfway from the lingula to the sigmoid notch , 20 % of mandibles were fused in the anterior ramus , whereas in the mid - to posterior ramus , the incidence was as high as 39 % . the location of the medial horizontal osteotomy should be at or just above the tip of the lingula . a higher level of cut may be associated with an increased difficulty in splitting or incidence of unfavorable fracture . 
arthroscopic treatment of temporomandibular joint locking resulting from disc derangement : two-year results . this article reports 2-year postarthroscopic surgical treatment data for 18 subjects ( 17 female and 1 male ) who had a diagnosis of restricted mandibular movement due to an internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) . these subjects had been treated by an average of 2.1 + / - 1.1 doctors for their tmj problem before seeing the surgeon for arthroscopic treatment . the subjects ' mean pain score at the final time point ( 21 to 30 months after surgery ) was decreased by 57 % in usual pain intensity . jaw function showed an average improvement of 67 % . these subjects also showed a 13-mm mean increase in their maximum active opening ability at the 2-year postsurgical time point . slight to definite clicking noises were present presurgically in 11 of 18 patients , and similar joint noises were reported in 14 of 18 patients postsurgically . the mean overall improvement was rated as 8.18 + / - 2.4 , with 10 the highest possible rating . one subject rated her improvement as 0 , two subjects rated their improvement as 6 out of 10 . no significant morbidity was reported by the subjects as a result of their surgery . 
cocaine metabolite detection in homicide victims . we analyzed the blood of homicide victims for the presence of cocaine 's major metabolite , benzoylecgonine . during 1989 in fulton county , georgia , 81 % of 275 homicide victims were tested for benzoylecgonine ; 40 % tested positive . the proportions of blacks and victims of firearm injuries who tested positive for benzoylecgonine were significantly larger than the respective proportions for whites and victims of injuries not involving firearms . the data show overall proportions of benzoylecgonine positivity much larger than those previously reported in the literature . the relationships between homicide , race , firearms , and cocaine use deserve further study . 
spontaneous lymphocyte proliferation in htlv-ii infection . we measured lymphocyte proliferation in the absence of antigenic stimulation in 45 htlv-ii infected , 9 htlv-i infected , and 19 htlv-i seronegative intravenous drug users ( ivdu ) . lymphocyte proliferation was higher in ivdus infected with htlv-ii than in seronegative ivdus but lower than among those infected with htlv-i . higher rates of proliferation were also associated with needle sharing , cd4 + and il2r + lymphocyte counts , and htlv-i antibody titres . 
accelerated silicosis in scottish stonemasons . a small group of stonemasons working with sandstone was exposed to levels of respirable quartz up to 130 times the workplace standard over a period of up to 6 years . two died of accelerated silicosis , a disease that caused serious diagnostic difficulties and was initially not recognised by the doctors of the then department of health and social security medical boarding centre ( respiratory diseases ) . previous descriptions of this disease in the uk date back to the years of the industrial revolution ( late 18th century ) . one other mason on the site proved to have an earlier stage of accelerated silicosis and two had radiographic changes of early classic silicosis . regulations intended to prevent silicosis have been in place in the uk for many decades and were strengthened by the health and safety at work act in 1974 . although the workers had been aware of a health risk from quartz , they had not been able to persuade management to take effective preventive action until serious illness had occurred . current pressures on management to cut overheads and to achieve maximum productivity could , as in this instance , lead to neglect of health and safety standards . 
predictive value of historical and physical characteristics for the diagnosis of child abuse . child abuse by burning may be difficult to recognize , especially since the injuries are often small . historical and physical findings that can be elicited in the initial examination can be helpful in initiating a more in-depth investigation . an injury inconsistent with the history given or a delay in seeking medical treatment were the two most frequent reports that elicited suspicion . as isolated findings , however , they had a low predictive value . the presence of two or more of 13 factors increased the yield in child abuse identification to more than 60 % . 
childhood firearms fatalities : the metropolitan dade county experience . i reviewed the cases of childhood firearms fatalities in the files of the medical examiner department of metropolitan dade county , in miami , florida . comparison of cases during the 5-year period from 1966 through 1970 to those during the 5-year period from 1984 through 1988 , noting basic epidemiologic parameters , showed that death due to firearms is increasing among children aged 14 years and younger . 
assessment of risk for hiv-1 infection for missionaries in sub-saharan africa . north american mission boards ( n = 82 ) with programs in sub-saharan africa were surveyed to identify practices affecting risk of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection among international staff . thirty-four percent of participating boards thought risk for hiv-1 infection in missionaries in africa was greater than it was for the general us population , and 53 % considered it greater for overseas medical staff serving in the region than for domestic health care workers . nevertheless , only 24 % of boards had formal aids education programs for overseas health care workers , and 19 % for nonmedical personnel going abroad . medical care provision and acquisition were considered high-risk activities ; 42 % of boards with a known policy acknowledged that disposable injection equipment was routinely reused , 68 % indicated that immunizations were provided abroad , and 60 % admitted that inoculations were administered by indigenous health care workers . the most frequently cited specific suggestion for decreasing the risk of hiv-1 infection overseas was the implementation of a walking blood bank program . we conclude that current practices and logistic constraints make hiv-1 transmission possible . risk reduction strategies include more comprehensive health education programs , greater adherence to universal precautions , less dependence on the indigenous third world health care system , and implementation of innovative programs for health care delivery . 
klebsiella pneumonia in the modern era : clinicoradiographic correlations . a classic clinical and radiographic picture of klebsiella pneumonia has emerged in the literature . patients are typically male , older than 48 years , and have a history of chronic alcoholism . the majority of these pneumonias are community acquired . bulging interlobar fissures and cavitation are radiographic findings said to be distinctive for klebsiella pneumonia . we prospectively studied 15 cases of bacteremically proven klebsiella pneumonia and found clinical and radiographic features strikingly different from those described in the literature . immunosuppression ( from corticosteroids , cytotoxic chemotherapy , neutropenia , hematologic malignancy , and transplantation ) now rivals alcoholism as the primary risk factor . cases tended to be nosocomial rather than community acquired . neither bulging interlobar fissure nor cavitation was seen in any case . the right upper lobe was involved in 11 of our 15 cases . pneumonia due to klebsiella oxytoca was more likely to be isolated from patients with bilateral infiltrates , while klebsiella pneumoniae was more likely in patients with unilateral infiltrates . 
reactional states in hansen 's disease : practical aspects of emergency management . hansen 's disease ( leprosy ) , though not a common condition in the united states , can be found in some localities among patients who come to the emergency room for treatment . hansen 's disease ( hd ) is a chronic systemic infectious granulomatous disease involving principally the skin , mucosa , nerves , and eyes . the causative organism , mycobacterium leprae , is neither highly contagious nor aggressive , but rapid alterations in the immunologic response to m leprae in affected tissues can result in acute exacerbations termed " reactions . " since most of the symptoms and morbidity in hd are a consequence of these reactional states , they must be recognized and treated early to prevent permanent sequelae , especially neurologic and ophthalmologic . drug therapy , physical therapy , and sometimes surgery all play a role in minimizing the injury caused by reactions . 
anterolateral ankle dislocation without fracture . dislocation of the tibiotalar joint without associated fracture is rare . we have presented a case of open anterolateral ankle dislocation with complete ligamentous disruption . in contrast to reports that internal fixation is not required to maintain reduction of tibiotalar joint dislocation , we found this dislocation to be grossly unstable , requiring both a syndesmotic screw and a calcaneotalotibial transfixing pin for stabilization . 
wernicke-korsakoff syndrome complicating t-cell lymphoma : unusual or unrecognized ? malnutrition rather than alcohol abuse is the common element in most cases of wks . our report may be the first to identify both the clinical and neuropathologic features of the syndrome in a patient with t-cell lymphoma . the coincidence of these two illnesses underscores a need to consider wernicke 's encephalopathy in debilitated individuals with malignancy or other chronic illnesses , highlights an atypical presentation of acute wernicke 's encephalopathy , and demonstrats the precipitation of that syndrome by glucose feeding . attention to a patient 's nutritional status and the liberal use of thiamine may prompt early recognition of the syndrome or prevent it entirely . 
recurrent rhabdomyolysis in association with cocaine use . as the popularity of cocaine increases in our society , so does the frequency and variety of medical complications associated with its use . a growing number of cases have implicated cocaine use in the development of rhabdomyolysis and its complication , acute renal failure . we have reported the first case of recurrent rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure directly associated with cocaine use . although adulterants might cause muscle damage , we believe cocaine should be added to the list of drugs that are capable of producing rhabdomyolysis . 
deep venous thrombosis in intravenous cocaine abuse mimicking septic arthritis of the shoulder . we describe two patients with deep venous thrombosis of the upper extremity who initially were thought to have septic arthritis of the shoulder . these patients had a history of recent intravenous cocaine abuse . the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis should be considered when a patient with a swollen shoulder has an appropriate history . 
spinal cord compression due to pagetic spinal stenosis with involvement of extradural soft tissues : a case report . although paget 's disease of the spine may cause neurological dysfunction by bone hypertrophy or collapse , it is very rare for the disease process to extend into the soft tissues of the spinal canal . we report a case of paget 's disease causing ossification of the ligamentum flavum and extradural fat , thus causing spinal cord compression . decompressive laminectomy was carried out , resulting in neurological improvement . in such cases surgical decompression should be followed by therapy with calcitonin . 
embolism of cerebral tissue : a cause of coagulopathy and cerebral infarction ? report of a case . we report a case of potentially survivable closed head injury , which was complicated by disseminated intravascular coagulation and bilateral cerebral infarction . autopsy disclosed pulmonary emboli composed of cerebral tissue . we suggest that the entry of brain tissue into the systemic blood circulation caused severe disseminated intravascular coagulation , with consequent thrombosis of cerebral veins and spreading infarction . 
alcohol abuse in adolescents . alcohol abuse among teenagers is an increasing problem with serious physical and social consequences . early diagnosis of adolescent alcoholism may be delayed for two reasons : the physical indicators of alcohol abuse seen in adults are often not identifiable in teenagers , and alcoholism is generally believed to be an adult problem . if the history is taken carefully , with respect and confidentiality , it can help the family physician determine the extent of a young person 's alcohol abuse and begin the process of treatment for both the adolescent patient and the family . 
left ventricular size , mass and function in relation to the duration and quantity of heavy drinking in alcoholics . left ventricular ( lv ) hypertrophy and mild dysfunction are frequently observed in alcoholics but little is known about how they relate to the duration and severity of alcohol abuse . lv size , mass and function were studied using echocardiography and systolic time intervals in 78 middle-aged male alcoholics who also gave detailed accounts of the duration of heavy drinking , the quantity of recent ethanol consumption and the duration of abstinence . compared with 34 healthy nonalcoholics , alcoholics had a higher lv mass index ( 85 + / - 2 [ mean + / - standard error ] vs 77 + / - 2 g/m2 , p = 0.001 ) , a thicker posterior wall ( 11 + / - 0.2 vs 10 + / - 0.2 mm , p = 0.02 ) , a longer end-systolic diameter index ( 18 + / - 0.3 vs 17 + / - 0.3 mm/m2 , p = 0.02 ) , and a higher preejection period/ejection time ratio ( 0.36 + / - 0.01 vs 0.33 + / - 0.01 , p = 0.002 ) . in multivariate linear regression models , these abnormalities proved independent of the drinking history , except that posterior wall thickness was weakly related to the duration of heavy drinking ( standardized correlation coefficient 0.36 , p = 0.01 ) . univariate analyses suggested that the lv mass index and systolic time interval ratio had , if anything , a curvilinear relation to the total duration of heavy alcohol consumption . it is concluded that the lv hypertrophy and dysfunction found in alcoholics are poorly related to the duration and severity of self-reported alcohol abuse . together with other data , this suggests that there is no simple linear dose-injury relation in the long-term cardiotoxicity of ethanol . factors modifying the myocardial effects of ethanol need to be studies more in the future . 
motorcycle licensure , ownership , and injury crash involvement . the interrelationships among motorcycle licensure , ownership , and injury crash involvement were investigated in a sample of 2,723 motorcycle drivers severely or fatally injured in california in 1985-86 . owners of motorcycles in such crashes ( " driver-owners " ) were less likely to have valid licenses than a random sample of motorcycle owners who had not been in crashes ( 42 vs. 57 percent ) . thirty-three percent of the crash-involved drivers had valid motorcycle driver 's licenses ; 39 percent were operating motorcycles they did not own ( " driver-nonowners " ) . driver-nonowners were less likely to be validly licensed than driver-owners ( 20 percent vs. 44 percent ) . the licensing rate of crash-involved driver-nonowners was 15 percent if the owner was also unlicensed . rates of valid licensure were lowest among the youngest drivers . virtually no crash-involved driver-nonowners under age 21 were licensed in cases in which the owner was also young and unlicensed . 
alcohol use and abuse in random samples of physicians and medical students . background . this study sought to resolve conflicting views about whether physicians are especially prone to alcohol abuse . methods . using an anonymous , mailed questionnaire on substance use , we surveyed 500 physicians , 510 pharmacists , and 974 of their students . the physicians and pharmacists were selected randomly from the state society 's membership lists , and students selected were from local school lists . follow-up surveys were sent to nonresponders at two-week intervals . results . the physicians and medical students did not drink especially heavily and were no more vulnerable to alcoholism than were their counterparts in pharmacy and other professions . physicians differed from pharmacists in their style of drinking ( greater frequency , smaller quantity ) , but not in total amount of alcohol consumed . drinking habits among physicians were not associated with medical specialty or type of practice , but were positively related to gender ( males drank more than females ) and to age ( older doctors were more apt to qualify as heavy drinkers than were younger doctors ) . conclusions . physicians were no more likely to abuse substances nonmedically than were other professionals . any group in which alcohol use is nearly universal incurs a risk of abuse and impairment that can not be ignored . 
validation of a surveillance case definition of carpal tunnel syndrome the national institute for occupational safety and health ( niosh ) has proposed a surveillance case definition for work-related carpal tunnel syndrome ( cts ) . the case definition requires the presence of median nerve symptoms ; one or more occupational risk factors ; and objective evidence of cts including one of three physical examination findings or nerve conduction tests diagnostic of cts . we evaluated the performance of the niosh case definition , restricting our analysis to cases in which physical examination findings served as the objective criterion . nerve conduction studies were used as the gold standard . seventy-eight workers were studied ; 38 percent had cts . the niosh case definition had sensitivity of 0.67 ( 95 % ci = 0.57 , 0.77 ) , specificity of 0.58 ( 95 % ci = 0.47 , 0.69 ) , and positive and negative predictive values of 0.50 ( 95 % ci = 0.39 , 0.61 ) and 0.74 ( 95 % ci = 0.64 , 0.84 ) , respectively . overall 38 percent of subjects were classified incorrectly . in a sample with a prevalence of 15 percent , as might be encountered in high risk workplaces , the positive predictive value would be 0.22 . in conclusion , when physical examination findings serve as the objective criterion the performance of the case definition is modest reflecting the limited diagnostic value of its component tests and indicating that effective screening for cts awaits improved diagnostic techniques . 
responsible alcohol service : a study of server , manager , and environmental impact . a responsible alcohol-service training program was evaluated for its impact on changing beliefs , knowledge , and behavior in 97 servers and 43 managers and on changing establishment policies that encourage safer drinking environments . the training program had a significant impact on changing the beliefs and knowledge of both servers and managers . observation 4 to 6 weeks after training showed no effects on server behavior , but there was a tendency toward more establishment policies compared with controls . 
survival trends of people with aids in washington state . survival rates of 609 cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) in washington state diagnosed between 1982 and 1987 according to pre-1987 aids surveillance definition were analyzed . people with a primary diagnosis of kaposi 's sarcoma survived longer than those with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . both groups survived longer than those with other diagnoses . median survival increased from 11.3 , to 12.5 , to 20.8 months for cases diagnosed in or before 1985 , during 1986 , and during 1987 , respectively . 
nutrient modulation of inflammatory and immune function . the metabolic response to injury occurs after a diverse group of surgical injuries including major surgical intervention , shock , infection , and sources of inflammation such as pancreatitis . the response is mediated by the macroendocrine system , the autonomic nervous system , and the cell-cell communication system . the clinical manifestations include now well-described clinical , physiologic , and metabolic characteristics . the approach of aggressive source control , invasive circulatory resuscitation , and nutrition/metabolic support has been associated with an overall reduction in morbidity and mortality . in those patients who do not respond to this approach , the disease process progresses to multiple organ failure syndrome with its associated high mortality . altering the route of feeding , preventing single nutrient and generalized nutrient deficiency , and reducing nosocomial infections with selective gut decontamination have not significantly altered the course or outcome of the disease process in this latter group of patients with persistent hypermetabolism . the available data support the position that this persistent hypermetabolism represents abnormal metabolic regulation resulting in persistence of the inflammatory response with associated suppression of the immune defenses . a number of research approaches are being taken to understand and modulate this abnormal state of regulation . because of the role of specific nutrients in these regulatory processes , beyond their role in classic nutrition support , nutrients such as arginine n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids , and rna are being evaluated for their ability to modulate inflammation and to improve immune function . preliminary results are encouraging . 
atlanto-axial subluxation in down 's syndrome . a case of atlanto-axial subluxation in a patient with down 's syndrome is described . the gradual deterioration in the patient 's locomotor ability caused a delay in diagnosis . patterns of presentation of this condition are discussed . 
a controlled clinical comparison of 6 and 8 months of antituberculosis chemotherapy in the treatment of patients with silicotuberculosis in hong kong . hong kong chest service/tuberculosis research centre , madras/british medical research council . patients with silicotuberculosis have been reported to respond poorly to antituberculosis chemotherapy . therefore , in a study in hong kong , 240 chinese male patients with both silicosis and pulmonary tuberculosis were all prescribed treatment three times weekly with streptomycin , isoniazid , rifampin , and pyrazinamide , allocated at random to be given for a total duration of either 6 ( m6 regimen ) or 8 months ( m8 regimen ) in a concurrent comparison . those with a history of previous antituberculosis chemotherapy received ethambutol as well for the first 3 months . the intake in the m6 regimen was terminated when preliminary results showed that it was inadequate , and a further 53 patients were assigned to the m8 series . of 91 assessable patients in the concurrent comparison with susceptible strains pretreatment , 44 % were culture negative at 1 month , 80 % at 2 months , and 98 % at 3 months , and 1 had an unfavorable bacteriologic response during chemotherapy . during 3 yr of assessment , bacteriologic relapse after chemotherapy occurred in 22 % of the m6 compared with 7 % of the m8 patients ( p less than 0.025 , log-rank test ) . inadequate chemotherapy was received by 12 % of the 240 patients in the concurrent comparison because of default and by 22 % because of adverse effects , but by 3 yr 92 % of patients with susceptible strains pretreatment in each series had a favorable status following retreatment for relapse or for initially inadequate chemotherapy when required . the results show that patients with silicosis require at least 8 months of treatment . 
cellular and molecular basis of the asbestos-related diseases . asbestosis is an inflammatory and fibrotic process of the alveolar structures mediated , at least in part , by cytokines released by " activated " alveolar macrophages . the process of phagocytosis and " activation " of alveolar macrophages is poorly understood . are all macrophages activated or only subpopulations ? which cytokines are up-regulated ? how does the local milieu modulate profibrotic and antifibrotic mediators ? is protein release accompanied by up-regulation of gene transcription ? is there an ordered sequence of cytokine activity ? what roles do neutrophils and lymphocytes play ? how can disease progression best be quantified absent further exposure ? answers to these questions are important to direct rational strategies at interdicting the fibrotic process . the question of cancer and asbestos is more vexing . the processes of inflammation , fibrosis , and carcinogenesis appear to be closely intertwined . for example , proto-oncogenes such as c-sis ( pdgf b-chain ) are up-regulated in activated alveolar macrophages from fibrotic lungs ; these and possibly others may play an important role in asbestos carcinogenesis . second , asbestos can transfect dna into cells . furthermore , dna can adhere to asbestos fibers , and these fibers are capable of direct transmigration into cells . the questions of the mechanisms of cigarette smoke cocarcinogenicity and latency remain . lastly , if the bronchial epithelium is highly metaplastic throughout from cigarette smoking , what triggers a single ( or several ) nidus of cells to transform into carcinoma ? malignant mesothelioma poses the most challenging questions because of association with brief asbestos exposure by history . mesothelial cells are susceptible to minute environmental manipulations , and changes occur after exposure to all fiber types . yet epidemiologic studies point toward long amphiboles as having greater mesothelioma risk . to test this hypothesis , experimental data must be generated differentiating tumorigenesis risk from short , chrysotile fibers that can migrate to the parietal pleura from the associations of long amphiboles persisting in lung tissue . despite the future decreasing numbers of clinical cases of asbestos-related disease , solving the important mechanistic questions remaining will contribute significantly to our understanding of fibrosis and cancer . 
spinal cord injury : prognosis for ambulation based on sensory examination in patients who are initially motor complete . the purpose of this retrospective study was to document that patients with motor complete injury , but preserved pin appreciation , in addition to light touch , below the zone of injury have better prognoses with regard to ambulation than patients with only light touch preserved . medical records were examined of all spinal cord injury ( sci ) patients admitted between 1982 and 1988 . twenty-seven frankel b patients with upper motor neuron lesions admitted within 72 hours of injury were identified . these patients were divided into two groups ( b-1 and b-2 ) . group b-1 ( n = 18 ) were patients who had touch sensation but no pin appreciation below the zone of injury . group b-2 ( n = 9 ) were patients who had partial or complete pin appreciation and light touch below the zone of injury . the charts were examined for the patient 's ability to walk independently using a reciprocal gait for at least 200 feet . the data were analyzed by the fisher exact test . eight of the nine group b-2 patients ambulated as compared to two of the 18 group b-1 patients ( p less than .0002 ) . frankel b sci patients with only touch preserved below the zone of injury had poor prognoses for ambulation ; those with preserved pin appreciation below the zone of injury had excellent prognoses to regain functional ambulation . 
psychosocial , functional , and quality of life assessment of patients with posttraumatic fracture nonunion , chronic refractory osteomyelitis , and lower extremity amputation . one hundred nine patients with long-bone fracture nonunion , chronic refractory osteomyelitis , or posttraumatic amputation were evaluated for the impact of chronic disability on quality of life , as measured by the arthritis impact measurement scale ( aims ) and the psychosocial adjustment to illness scale ( pais ) . a self-administered pais for spouses assessed psychosocial adjustment of spouses or significant others . a final questionnaire ranked the reasons for either continuing medical therapy or accepting amputation . the pais scores differed significantly between osteomyelitis patients and both nonunion and amputation patients ( p less than .05 ) . the presence or absence of pain produced significant differences in aims and pais scores of nonunion and osteomyelitis patients ( p less than .05 ) . subscale analysis of aims scores revealed significant differences among the three groups in health perception and scale of orthopedic problem : osteomyelitis patients were more severely affected than nonunion or amputation patients . the pais detected no statistically significant difference in psychosocial adjustment of spouses of patients in the three population groups . the most common reason for continuing medical and surgical management of nonunion and osteomyelitis was expectation for cure . the amputee group chose ablation to avoid further treatment . differences in psychosocial and functional ability were related to disease diagnosis , pain , status of fracture healing , and timing of amputation . 
chronologic age , time since injury , and time of measurement : effect on adjustment after spinal cord injury . people are now living longer after spinal cord injury ( sci ) , yet only limited research has addressed the issue of aging and adjustment after sci . the purpose of this study was to use a time-sequential design to identify the relationship between adjustment after sci and three facets of aging ; chronologic age , time since injury , and time of measurement . life situation questionnaires were obtained from one sample of participants with sci in 1974 ( n = 256 ) and from a second sample in 1985 ( n = 193 ) . participants were grouped into five cohorts based on chronologic age , five cohorts based on time since injury , and two groups based on time of measurement ( 1974 , 1985 ) . two two-way manova 's were performed , one between chronologic age and time of measurement , and the other between time since injury and time of measurement . results indicated that chronologic age and time since injury often worked in opposing directions ; as some aspects of adjustment declined with greater chronologic age , but other aspects improved with increasing time since injury . activity was strongly related to chronologic age , but medical stability was more strongly related to time since injury . both chronologic age and time since injury were correlated with some aspects of life satisfaction . comparisons between the two times of measurement ( 1974 , 1985 ) indicated some limited positive changes in adjustment with time . the results point to the complexity of the relationship between aging and adjustment and the need for rehabilitation professionals to consider multiple aging factors . 
monocortical miniplate fixation of mandibular angle fractures . noncompression monocortical miniplate fixation of mandibular fractures has become a reliable method of providing rigid fixation and eliminating the need for intermaxillary fixation . recent studies , using a variety of internal fixation techniques , have described high complication rates at the mandibular angle . this article compares the use of one miniplate vs two miniplates in treatment of angle fractures . since september 1985 , 61 patients with 63 mandibular angle fractures have been treated with miniplates . forty-four fractures were fixed with two miniplates . six complications ( 3.1 % ) occurred , five of which were in the one-miniplate group . the complication rate in the double-miniplate group is the lowest reported of any plating technique . the use of two miniplates has proved to be an effective method of treating mandibular angle fractures . 
cranial base hemorrhage . a technique for controlling the uncontrollable . in the management of trauma , control of life-threatening hemorrhage must be accomplished expeditiously if morbidity is to be decreased and mortality prevented . hemorrhage from the inaccessible cranial base , especially when transected vessel stumps are not available for direct control , can be the most demanding , life-threatening , surgical emergency . we present our experience in utilizing an autologous bone grafting technique to successfully control severe hemorrhage from the base of the skull . in our review of the literature to date , we have been unable to ascertain whether this modality has been previously used . 
traumatic retinal detachment . seventy-seven patients developed retinal breaks following an episode of ocular contusion , and 65 ( 84.4 % ) of these developed rhegmatogenous retinal detachment . surgical treatment successfully restored or maintained retinal apposition in 74 ( 96.1 % ) of the eyes . thirty-six ( 46.8 % ) eyes recovered visual acuity of 6/9 or better . of the retinal breaks recognised dialysis at the ora serrata was observed in 49 eyes , of which 28 were situated at the lower temporal quadrant . seventeen eyes had irregular breaks arising within necrotic retina at the site of scleral impact . twenty-four ( 31.2 % ) patients had retinal break or retinal detachment diagnosed within 24 hours of injury and 49 ( 63.6 % ) within six weeks . immediate retinal detachment was a feature of necrotic retinal breaks , while inferior oral dialyses led to a slow accumulation of subretinal fluid . delayed diagnosis of retinal detachment was due either to opaque media or to failure to examine the retina after injury . visual prognosis was good when retinal break or detachment were diagnosed within six weeks of injury . however , those patients who escaped initial retinal examination and were lost to follow-up had a less favourable visual outcome . 
post-traumatic hyperlipofuscinosis in the human retinal pigment epithelium . light microscopy ( including fluorescence microscopy ) and electron microscopy were applied to a study of the photoreceptor-retinal pigment epithelium ( rpe ) complex in a human eye which had been severely traumatised nine months prior to enucleation . the main feature of interest was a massive accumulation of lipofuscin in the retinal pigment epithelium at the posterior pole , and quantitative fluorescence microscopy provided values three times those obtained in appropriate control tissue . the photoreceptor layer was normal at the posterior pole but became progressively atrophic towards the periphery . the concentration of lipopofuscin was proportional to the degree of preservation of the retinal photoreceptors . by electron microscopy the cells in the rpe were seen to be packed with a mixture of lipofuscin granules and melanolysosomal complexes , but occasional photoreceptor phagosomes were found . bruch 's membrane and the choriocapillaris were normal . we attribute this hitherto unreported abnormality of the rpe after trauma to a dysfunction consequent on an overload of the monolayer by photoreceptor debris at the time of trauma . 
administration of interleukin-6 stimulates multilineage hematopoiesis and accelerates recovery from radiation-induced hematopoietic depression . hematopoietic depression and subsequent susceptibility to potentially lethal opportunistic infections are well-documented phenomena following radiotherapy . methods to therapeutically mitigate radiation-induced myelosuppression could offer great clinical value . in vivo studies in our laboratory have demonstrated that interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) stimulates pluripotent hematopoietic stem cell ( cfu-s ) , granulocyte-macrophage progenitor cell ( gm-cfc ) , and erythroid progenitor cell ( cfu-e ) proliferation in normal mice . based on these results , the ability of il-6 to stimulate hematopoietic regeneration following radiation-induced hematopoietic injury was also evaluated . c3h/hen female mice were exposed to 6.5 gy 60co radiation and subcutaneously administered either saline or il-6 ( 1,000 micrograms/kg ) on days 1 through 3 or 1 through 6 postexposure . on days 7 , 10 , 14 , 17 , and 22 , femoral and splenic cfu-s , gm-cfc , and cfu-e contents and peripheral blood white cell , red cell , and platelet counts were determined . compared with saline treatment , both 3-day and 6-day il-6 treatments accelerated hematopoietic recovery ; 6-day treatment produced the greater effects . for example , compared with normal control values ( n ) , femoral and splenic cfu-s numbers in il-6-treated mice 17 days postirradiation were 27 % n and 136 % n versus 2 % n and 10 % n in saline-treated mice . at the same time , bone marrow and splenic gm-cfc values were 58 % n and 473 % n versus 6 % n and 196 % n in saline-treated mice ; bone marrow and splenic cfu-e numbers were 91 % n and 250 % n versus 31 % n and 130 % n in saline-treated mice ; and peripheral blood white cell , red cell , and platelet values were 210 % n , 60 % n , and 24 % n versus 18 % n , 39 % n , and 7 % n in saline-treated mice . these studies demonstrate that therapeutically administered il-6 can effectively accelerate multilineage hematopoietic recovery following radiation-induced hematopoietic injury . 
bell ringers ' bruises and broken bones : capers and crises in campanology objective -- to determine the incidence , aeriology , and outcome of injuries due to bell ringing . design -- retrospective review of the last six years ' issues of ringing world , advertisement in ringing world , and a postal questionnaire sent to 20 active ringing towers . subjects -- regular bell ringers . results -- seventy nine injuries were identified both from review and by advertisement in ringing world . the incidence of injury among 221 ringers identified by postal questionnaire was 1.8 % a year . conclusion -- although sonerous , bell ringing can be dangerous and occasionally even fatal . doctors should be aware of the dangers to which campanologists expose themselves . 
occurrence and repetition of hospital admissions for accidents in preschool children objectives -- to examine trends over time in the rates of admission to hospital for accidents of preschool children and to study patterns of repeated admissions for accidents in these children . design -- analysis of linked , routine abstracts of hospital inpatient records for accidents . setting -- six districts in the oxford regional health authority covered by the oxford record linkage study . subjects -- records for 19,427 children aged 5 years and under at the time of first recorded admission to hospital . main outcome measure -- number of admissions to hospital . results -- records were analysed in three groups : person based annual admission rates were calculated for each calendar year ; each child 's first recorded admission in 1976-85 was identified , and the child 's record was followed up by linkage for one year from that admission ; each child 's first recorded admission in 1976-81 was identified and followed up for five years . overall , 19,427 children from an average annual resident population of 163,000 children in 1976-86 had 20,657 admissions for accidents before they were 6 years of age . of these admissions 13,983 were for injuries , 5717 for poisonings , and 957 for burns . admission rates declined after 1976 for poisoning , but no substantial changes over time were found in admission rates for injuries or burns . a total of 17,724 children were followed up for one year and 10,889 for five years ; 470 ( 2.6 % ) of the children who were followed up for one year and 926 ( 8.5 % ) of those followed up for five years had at least one further admission for an accident . of those followed up for one year the 4 and 5 year old children were least likely and those under 1 and 1 year old were most likely to have a further admission for an accident . the number of children who had more than one accident was greater than would be expected if accidents were random occurrences . those who had a poisoning at first admission were more likely to have another poisoning than an injury or burn ; and those who had a burn at first admission were more likely to have another burn . conclusions -- hospital admissions for accidents in children are common : on average 1 child in 88 in this population was admitted each year . multiple admissions are uncommon but none the less occur more often than would be expected by chance . 
local injection treatment of tennis elbow -- hydrocortisone , triamcinolone and lignocaine compared . corticosteroid injections are the mainstay of treating tennis elbow even though their effectiveness has not been well established by controlled studies . a survey of consultant rheumatologists confirmed a widespread preference for this treatment but they varied in their choice of steroid dose and preparation . we examined the value of some practices by comparing local injections of 2 ml 1 % lignocaine with either 10 mg triamcinolone or 25 mg hydrocortisone made up to 2 ml with 1 % lignocaine ( study 1 ) . the investigation was conducted double blind . within the first 8 weeks , pain relief was greater for triamcinolone than hydrocortisone although the differences were not statistically significant . the response to both steroid preparations was significantly better than for lignocaine up to this point but at 24 weeks , the degrees of improvement were similar for all three groups and many patients still had pain . relapse was common . in a separate but similarly designed study , triamcinolone 10 mg was compared with 20 mg of the same agent . improvements of pain were similar and followed the same time scale . post-injection worsening of pain occurred in approximately half of all steroid treated patients in both studies and this was sometimes severe and persistent . it was less frequent amongst those given lignocaine alone . skin atrophy was reported in all groups but was more frequent amongst those given triamcinolone in study 1 . in conclusion , more rapid relief of symptoms was achieved with 10 mg triamcinolone than with 25 mg hydrocortisone or lignocaine alone and there was less needed to repeat injections . results obtained with 20 mg triamcinolone were similar to those of the smaller dose . 
the long-term effects of radiation therapy on patients with ovarian dysgerminoma . a retrospective chart review and questionnaire study was undertaken to look at the long-term effects of radiation therapy in ovarian dysgerminoma patients . forty-three patients and 55 controls responded to a questionnaire that detailed bowel , bladder , thyroid , menstrual , reproductive , sexual , and growth function . statistically significant differences in the number of bowel movements were noticed when comparing patients with controls . the authors noticed no significant differences between cases and controls in bladder function . no thyroid disorders were attributable to mediastinal radiation therapy . most patients with intact uteri bleed monthly on hormonal replacement . three patients with a remaining ovary and uterus resumed menstrual function after substantial doses of abdominopelvic radiation therapy . no patients have conceived . the authors noticed a slight increase in dyspareunia in the treated group , but most patients were satisfied with their sexual function . one premenarchal patient exhibited a growth disorder . 
radiation therapy in metastatic spinal cord compression . a prospective analysis of 105 consecutive patients . one hundred thirty consecutive patients with metastatic spinal cord compression ( mscc ) were entered in a therapeutic protocol in which radiation therapy ( rt ) played the main role . when mscc is diagnosed by clinical-radiologic methods such as myelography with or without computed tomography ( ct ) or magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , steroids are given and rt treatment started within 24 hours . when diagnostic doubts exist or stabilization is necessary , surgery precedes rt . chemohormonal potentially responsive tumors are also treated with chemotherapy or hormonal therapy . twelve patients ( 9.2 % ) underwent surgery plus rt , and 118 ( 90.8 % ) received rt alone . thirteen ( 11 % ) early death patients were not evaluable . the 105 evaluable cases that received rt alone were analyzed . median follow-up was 15 months ( range , 4 to 38 months ) . response among patients with back pain was 80 % . in cases with motor dysfunction , 48.6 % improved , and in 33 of 105 patients ( 31.4 % ) without motor disability there was no deterioration . forty percent of patients with autonomic dysfunction responded to rt . median survival time was 7 months with a 36 % probability of survival for 1 year . the median duration of improvement was 8 months . the most important prognostic factor was early diagnosis . radiosensitivity of tumor was only important in paraparetic patients in predicting response to rt . complete myelographic block significantly diminished response to rt . vertebral collapse did not influence response or survival . 
dose-response relationships for the effects of insulin on glucose and fat metabolism in injured patients and control subjects . 1 . twenty-four patients were studied at around 7 days after musculoskeletal injuries in order to define the nature of the impairment of sensitivity to insulin . insulin was infused at 6 , 35 , 200 or 1200 m-units min-1 m-2 for 2 h and the plasma glucose concentration was ' clamped ' at 5 mmol/l . forearm ( uninjured ) glucose extraction and blood flow were measured , and whole-body substrate oxidation and energy production rates were assessed by indirect calorimetry . the patients were compared with normal control subjects . 2 . plasma insulin concentrations during infusion were similar in patients and control subjects , showing a similar metabolic clearance of insulin . at each infusion rate , the rate of glucose infusion needed to maintain euglycaemia was less in the patients than in the control subjects . the dose-response curve for whole-body glucose infusion rate against plasma insulin concentration showed diminished sensitivity and diminished maximal response in the patients . a similar pattern was seen for forearm glucose uptake , with a marked impairment of both sensitivity to insulin and maximal responsiveness . 3 . the resting metabolic rate was increased in the patients compared with the control subjects , but failed to respond to insulin infusion , so that final metabolic rates were similar in patients and control subjects . at the higher insulin infusion rates , the final rate of whole-body oxidation of carbohydrate was significantly less in the patients than in the control subjects , and that of fat was significantly greater . 
altered behavior and neurochemistry during short-term insulin withdrawal in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats . amphetamine-induced stereotypy and turnover of dopamine ( da ) and serotonin ( 5-ht ) in the cns were assessed in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats 48 h after withdrawal from insulin treatment and compared with nondiabetic controls , diabetic rats receiving continued insulin treatment , and chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats . stereotypy was attenuated in chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats but normalized in insulin-treated diabetic rats . stereotypy in insulin-withdrawn rats was intermediate , being attenuated significantly relative to controls but not significantly different from either insulin-treated diabetic rats or chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats . da turnover was significantly reduced in striatum and hypothalamus in all diabetic groups . 5-ht turnover was reduced in chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats in all four brain regions but normalized in insulin-treated diabetic rats . insulin-withdrawn diabetic rats had significantly reduced 5-ht turnover in frontal cortex . taken together , the findings indicate that insulin replacement does not normalize diabetes-induced reduction in da turnover and that short-term insulin withdrawal , e.g. , occurring clinically with noncompliance , affects both 5-ht turnover in some brain regions and behavior . 
dislocation after primary arthroplasty for subcapital fracture of the hip . wide range of movement is a risk factor . dislocation is the most frequent serious complication following total hip replacement for subcapital femoral fracture . we report a prospective study , using matched groups , which compared the range of hip movement following hip replacement for arthritis and for fracture . the range of movement was significantly greater in the fracture group . we suggest that this is a predisposing factor for dislocation . 
noise-induced hearing loss in orthopaedic staff . in the light of eec proposals on the avoidance of damage to hearing caused by noise , a study was undertaken to determine the risk posed by powered orthopaedic instruments . the noise levels from a number of air-powered and electric tools were measured and analysed and found to exceed the recommended levels . the predicted daily personal noise exposure was calculated and the potential for hearing damage confirmed . twenty-seven senior orthopaedic staff were then assessed by audiometry ; evidence of noise-induced hearing loss was found in half the subjects . the increasing use of powered instruments in elective orthopaedics and fracture fixation may present a significant cumulative risk to the hearing of orthopaedic surgeons and theatre personnel . the use of ear defenders should be promoted , and manufacturers should be encouraged to develop instruments with lower noise emission levels . 
scaphoid malunion . we reviewed 10 patients with symptomatic malunion of a carpal scaphoid fracture . all had displacement with dorsiflexed intercalated segment instability , and suffered from pain , restricted range of movement at the wrist and decreased grip strength . the restriction of flexion-extension and the decreased grip strength correlated with the severity of the disi deformity . seven patients had a corrective osteotomy , using an anterior wedge-shape bone graft with internal fixation by herbert screw , and all had satisfactory results . we believe that symptoms associated with scaphoid malunion are related to consequent carpal deformity . 
percutaneous screw fixation for fractures of the scaphoid . we describe a percutaneous technique for screw fixation of all types of fractures of the scaphoid . during a 15-year period ending in 1984 , 280 cases were treated by this method ; 198 of them returned for evaluation in 1986 and comprise the material for this report . after a mean postoperative time of 82 months , 89 % of the recent fractures had united as well as 81.8 % of those with delayed or nonunion and 42.8 % of those with sclerotic nonunion . 
fracture-separation of the distal humeral epiphysis . we have reviewed 12 cases of fracture-separation of the distal humeral epiphysis , three of which were initially misdiagnosed as fractures of the lateral condyle and one as an elbow dislocation . cubitus varus deformity is as common after this fracture-separation as it is following supracondylar fracture , and is most common in children under two years of age . closed reduction and simple immobilisation is adequate for the older child , but we recommend for those under two years of age that closed reduction should be followed by percutaneous pinning , so that the carrying angle can be assessed immediately after reduction . if the elbow is then in varus the wires should be removed , reduction repeated and treatment by straight lateral traction used to maintain a valgus carrying angle . 
transarticular fixation for severely displaced supracondylar fractures in children . we have reviewed 34 children who had been treated by open reduction through a medial incision and transarticular pinning for a severely displaced supracondylar fracture of the humerus . follow-up ranging from nine months to 20 years showed that 27 of 34 elbows ( 79 % ) had excellent or good results , with satisfactory resolution of neurovascular problems and no complications due to the method of treatment . 
internal fixation of femoral neck fractures . two methods compared . in a prospective randomised study , the hansson pin technique for internal fixation of fractures of the femoral neck was compared with the uppsala screw technique . the series consisted of 115 consecutive patients , 97 women and 18 men , with a mean age of 80 years . there were 56 patients treated with hansson pins and 59 with uppsala screws . after one year 22 patients had died , eight in the hansson pin group and 14 in the uppsala screw group ( p = 0.28 ) . twenty-four complications had occurred , 18 in the hansson pin group and six in the uppsala screw group ( p = 0.008 ) . after exclusion of those with complications , the patients in the hansson pin group had significantly more pain , less mobility , and a smaller proportion were living in their own homes . 
immunopathological response to loose cementless acetabular components . the membranes surrounding seven loose cementless acetabular implants were shown to contain polyethylene particles , birefringent in polarised light . three of these implants were made of titanium alloy and the membranes around these contained titanium particles as well . there was no metallosis around the four implants made of chromium-cobalt-steel alloy . both titanium and polyethylene particles caused migration , adherence and phagocytosis of cd11b-positive , peroxidase-negative macrophages . there were no histological signs of activation of the specific immune response ; neither interleukin-2 receptor-positive activated t cells nor pca-1 plasmablasts/plasma cells were present in the tissues . in cases of simple loosening , resident mesenchymal fibroblast-like cells were active . in aggressive granulomatosis , there were many macrophages and multinucleated giant cells but little fibroblast reaction . the clinical relevance of the findings is that the use of cementless prostheses is not a guarantee against adverse tissue reactions . 
bone structure after removal of internal fixation plates . we used single-photon absorptiometry to assess the forearm bones after the removal of internal fixation plates in 14 patients . we found convincing evidence of cortical atrophy in only one patient , in whom the plates had been removed prematurely after only 16 months . it is suggested that such plates should be retained for at least 21 months , to allow bone density to return to its prefracture level . the recommendations of the ao/asif group are supported . 
failure of internal fixation of displaced femoral neck fractures in rheumatoid patients . we reviewed the records and radiographs from 10 hospitals to identify 50 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) who had sustained 52 femoral neck fractures . most patients were female ( 88 % ) , elderly ( mean age 66 years ) and had had severe polyarticular disease for a mean duration of 16 years . over half had taken systemic corticosteroids , nearly all were severely osteopenic but few had rheumatoid changes in the hip . of the 20 fractures treated by internal fixation 12 had complications including nonunion ( 5 ) , osteonecrosis ( 5 ) , infection ( 1 ) , and intertrochanteric fracture ( 1 ) . only one of the nine undisplaced fractures required reoperation , but seven of the 11 displaced fractures had revision surgery . twenty fractures were treated by primary total hip arthroplasty with only one early complication . the other 12 fractures had been treated by hemiarthroplasty ( 9 ) , hip excision ( 1 ) or non-operatively ( 2 ) . our results suggest that , in elderly rheumatoid patients , severely displaced femoral neck fractures should be treated by total hip replacement . 
femoral head blood flow in femoral neck fractures . an analysis using intra-osseous pressure measurement . we studied 50 patients with fractures of the femoral neck , 33 intracapsular and 17 extracapsular . intraosseous pressure was measured by a transducer within the bone to quantify blood flow , and intracapsular pressure by a needle introduced into the joint space . the mean intracapsular pressure was lower in the extracapsular fractures . in these , the mean intraosseous pressure in the femoral head was unchanged by aspiration of the joint . however in the intracapsular fractures aspiration produced a significant decrease in intra-osseous pressure and an increase in pulse pressure within the femoral head . the results suggest that aspiration of intracapsular haematoma produced an increase in femoral head blood flow by relieving tamponade . 
early complications in the operative treatment of ankle fractures . influence of delay before operation . we have reviewed the early complications of 121 surgically treated closed ankle fractures ; the complication rate was 30 % , with 14 major and 22 minor complications . fractures with skin blisters or abrasions had more than double the overall complication rate . fracture-dislocations had three times as many major complications as simple fractures , and those not fixed within 24 hours had a 44 % major complication rate compared to 5.3 % in those operated upon as emergencies . patients transferred from another medical facility had high complication rates , especially if they had fracture-dislocations . we conclude that operative treatment of ankle fractures must be delivered in a timely fashion , especially in severe fractures . we would caution against the practice of transferring patients with serious ankle fractures before completion of definitive care . 
conservative management or closed nailing for tibial shaft fractures . a randomised prospective trial . we performed a prospective randomised trial on matched groups of patients with displaced tibial shaft fractures to compare conservative treatment with closed intramedullary nailing . the results showed conclusively that intramedullary nailing gave more rapid union with less malunion and shortening . nailed patients had less time off work with a more predictable and rapid return to full function . we therefore consider that closed intramedullary nailing is the most efficient treatment for displaced fractures of the tibial shaft . 
the use of a tourniquet when plating tibial fractures . sixty closed fractures of the tibia were treated by open reduction and internal fixation with plates and screws . half the operations were performed with a thigh tourniquet and half without . in the tourniquet group , there were six cases with erythema and induration of the wound ; in the other group there were no such complications . despite negative bacterial cultures , superficial infection of the inflamed wounds was suspected . it is suggested that a tourniquet may predispose tissues to infection , and its use is not recommended during operations for internal fixation of the tibia . 
long-term results of the evans procedure for lateral instability of the ankle . we studied the late outcome of 40 ankles ( from a consecutive series of 42 ) treated by a modified evans procedure . the peroneus brevis tendon was used to fashion a static tenodesis . all the patients had suffered from persistent lateral instability following an ankle sprain . the follow-up period was between nine and 12 years . excellent or good results were achieved in 33 ankles ( 82.5 % ) , three had a fair result , and four were poor . the clinical results were matched by the radiographic results which showed significant talar tilt or anterior talar translation in only three ankles . the functional result showed no positive correlation with the stress-radiographic analysis . we concluded that this modification of the evans operation gives satisfactory long-term results , which show little change from the good results at 24 to 35 months reported in an earlier paper from our department . 
the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry : overview of acute hemodynamic results and procedural complications . between december 1 , 1986 and october 30 , 1987 , balloon aortic valvuloplasty was performed in 492 patients with aortic stenosis ( mean age 79 + / - 8.4 years ) enrolled in the mansfield scientific aortic valvuloplasty registry . all procedures were performed from a femoral approach ( 92 % ) , brachial approach ( 6 % ) or transseptal approach ( 2 % ) and utilized either a single balloon technique ( 72 % ) or a double balloon technique ( 28 % ) . valvuloplasty resulted in a significant improvement in aortic valve area ( 0.50 + / - 0.18 cm2 to 0.82 + / - 0.30 cm2 ) , mean aortic valve gradient ( 60 + / - 23 mm hg to 30 + / - 13 mm hg ) and cardiac output ( 3.86 + / - 1.26 to 4.05 + / - 1.31 liters/min ) . serial aortography demonstrated a moderate or severe increase in aortic insufficiency in only 2.1 % of patients . statistical analysis of the procedural factors affecting acute valvuloplasty results demonstrated significant correlations of single versus double balloon technique , total number of balloon inflations and total number of balloon exchanges with respect to the absolute change in mean aortic valve gradient occurring during the valvuloplasty procedure . in addition , there was a significant correlation between the maximal time of valvuloplasty balloon inflation with aortic valve area measured after valvuloplasty , and there were significant correlations of the total number of balloon inflations and total number of balloon exchanges with the aortic valve mean gradient measured after valvuloplasty . the overall complication rate for the procedure was 20.5 % , including vascular injury in 11 % , embolic phenomenon in 2.2 % , ventricular perforation resulting in tamponade in 1.8 % , massive aortic insufficiency in 1 % , nonfatal arrhythmia in 0.8 % and myocardial infarction in 0.2 % . 
alcohol consumption and synthesis of ethyl esters of fatty acids in adipose tissue . ethyl esters of fatty acids ( eefa ) have been found to be formed during ethanol metabolism . human adipose tissue contains high concentrations of free fatty acids , the substrate for eefa synthesis , and might therefore be a tissue with great potential for eefa formation . in order to explore their potential usefulness as markers of alcohol abuse , the eefa concentration and the activity of eefa-synthesizing enzyme were therefore determined in adipose tissue from men belonging to the following categories : teetotalers , social drinkers , alcoholics under treatment , or established alcoholics found to have died as a result of alcohol intoxication . in order to estimate the half-life of eefa and the synthase activity induction , the alcoholics were examined after different time periods of abstinence from alcohol . comparisons were also made with several established markers of alcohol abuse . eefa were not found in teetotalers , and were found in low concentrations in some of the social drinkers . eefa were found in several alcoholics , and the forensic cases had high concentrations . eefa-synthesizing enzyme activity was found in all subjects , increasing from teetotalers to social drinkers , and being 2-fold higher in alcoholics and 5-fold higher in dead alcoholics . the induction of the enzyme after abstinence appeared to have a half-life of the order of several weeks . correlations were found between eefa synthase activity and previously established markers of alcohol abuse known to remain for a long time period after abstinence , such as mean erythrocyte corpuscular volume . this preliminary study suggests the possibility that eefa synthase induction in adipose tissue might have a longer half-life than previously used markers of alcohol abuse . it is therefore suggested that the induction of eefa synthase might be a potentially useful new marker for alcohol abuse because of its apparent proportionality to alcohol intake over a prolonged time period , its presumed specificity , and long-term elevation after alcohol abstinence . this potential marker should be analysed further . 
very high blood pressure in acute stroke . in a study sample consisting of 388 unselected , consecutive acute stroke patients , 27 with systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 200 mmhg and diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 115 mmhg were compared with the other 361 patients . the patients with high blood pressure were younger ( 65 vs. 73 years ) and much more often had a history of hypertension ( 78 vs. 42 % ) . cardiac and vascular hypertensive manifestations were more frequent , particularly when only those patients with a history of hypertension were compared in the two groups . alcohol abuse was mentioned in a higher proportion of hypertensives in the summaries of their medical records . no definite conclusions could be drawn with regard to the size and location of the brain lesions . clinical symptoms did not differ between the groups , neither did the proportion of patients who could be discharged from hospital immediately . mortality was higher in the high blood pressure group ( 30 vs. 14 % , p less than 0.05 ) . thus the characteristics of patients with very high blood pressure were : younger age , much more frequent and severe previous hypertension . alcohol abuse might be an important factor . the type , size and location of the brain lesion itself could not be statistically related to the high blood pressure , but very large lesions , particularly haemorrhages , might be associated with a reactive blood pressure response . 
a landmark case in asbestosis . the first published account of disease attributed to occupational asbestos exposure was that of nellie kershaw , who died in 1924 . the circumstances relating to that case are described and explanations are given for its not having a greater impact on policy at that time . this case , starting in 1898 , is set in the context of missed opportunities for preventing a major public health hazard . the effects of this hazard are still being witnessed today . 
surgical resection of a solitary liver metastasis in a 46-year-old patient with a malignant thymoma . clinical history , surgical treatment , and pathologic findings of a solitary liver metastasis of a malignant thymoma in a 46-year-old female are reported . an extensive literature review has revealed no record of surgical resection of liver metastasis in a patient with invasive thymoma . 
diving-related inner ear injuries . diving-related inner ear barotrauma ( ieb ) and inner ear decompression sickness ( ieds ) most often result in permanent severe cochleovestibular deficits , unless immediate diagnosis is reached and the correct treatment is commenced early . nine cases of sport-diving-induced inner ear injuries that were referred to the israeli naval hyperbaric institute between october 1987 and september 1989 are presented with regard to evaluation , treatment , and follow-up . the diagnosis was ieb in five divers and ieds in four . explorative tympanotomy was carried out with remarkable results in two patients with ieb , while the remaining three were relieved by bed rest alone . three of the four ieds patients were recompressed according to the extended us navy table 6 with good short-term results . the role of complete otoneurological evaluation in the decision-making process leading to the correct diagnosis and treatment is emphasized . 
three-dimensional computerized tomography in the evaluation of laryngeal injury . a comparison of diagnostic information obtained from the physical examination , conventional two-dimensional axial computerized tomography scanning ( 2-d ct ) , and three-dimensional display computerized tomography ( 3-d ct ) was performed in five patients sustaining laryngeal trauma . four patients had laryngeal fractures and one patient had an incompletely ossified thyroid cartilage ( normal variant ) simulating a fracture by 2-d ct . three-dimensional display computerized tomography was found superior to conventional 2-d ct in assessing the presence and nature of the laryngeal injuries while correctly identifying the anatomic variant . 
early development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias and response fluctuations in young-onset parkinson 's disease . we evaluated whether patients with young-onset parkinson 's disease ( pd ) ( onset between 21 and 40 years ) develop levodopa-induced dyskinesias and motor response fluctuations more frequently and earlier than patients with older-onset pd ( onset after 40 years ) by determining the period from levodopa introduction to development of dyskinesias or fluctuations in 25 young-onset ( mean age at onset , 33.54 years ) and in 25 matched older-onset pd patients ( mean age at onset , 55.76 years ) . young-onset pd patients had significantly higher frequency for both dyskinesias and fluctuations after both 3 and 5 years of levodopa . young-onset pd patients also developed both levodopa-induced dyskinesias and fluctuations earlier than older-onset pd patients . we suggest that the introduction of levodopa therapy in patients with young onset pd should be postponed as long as possible . 
validation of the 1988 acog forceps classification system . in february 1988 , an acog committee opinion substantially revised the classification of forceps operations . the revision addressed two significant shortcomings of the old system : outlet forceps had been defined too narrowly and midforceps too imprecisely . we now report the results of a prospective study of 357 forceps deliveries classified using each system . allowing up to 45 degrees of rotation in an outlet forceps delivery did not increase morbidity measured by any criterion . dividing the old midforceps group by precisely identifying station and rotation permitted greater stratification of the risks of short-term neonatal and maternal morbidity . we conclude that our results validate the 1988 classification scheme . 
prognostic indicators for acute low-back pain . chart review was conducted on a 6-month sample of patients with low-back to identify outcome indicators in acute low-back pain . two hundred seven episodes were identified . extracted material included the age , sex , past history , time to presentation , occupation , suggested precipitating event of injury , and estimated difficulty of job tasks . symptoms and findings presentation were also recorded . all cases were work-related , and the outcome indicator was time loss from work . analysis of variance showed significant associations in time loss from work with factors including the occupation , age , job difficulty , past history , symptoms , examination , and diagnosis on presentation . 
cumulative load as a risk factor for back pain . the association between cumulative load ( biomechanic load and exposure time integral over the entire work experience ) and back pain was investigated in a group of institutional aides with physically stressful jobs . a questionnaire/interview was conducted with 161 of these institutional aides . the point prevalence of back pain in this sample was 62 % . men had worked a mean duration of 14.3 years and women 11.6 years at the time of the onset of the first pain episode . every job performed was analyzed by the use of a two-dimensional static mathematical model . the compression and shear at the thoracolumbar and lumbosacral discs were computed by the use of a biomechanic model . cumulative compression and shear were significantly higher in institutional aides with pain compared with those without pain ( p less than 0.05-0 .01 ) . the pain group was similar to the no-pain group in age , weight , and height . 
secondary prevention of low-back pain . a clinical trial . a clinical trial , aimed at secondary prevention of low-back pain , was performed in 142 hospital employees reporting at least three annual episodes of this condition . participants were randomly assigned to one of three groups : a calisthenics program ( cal ) for 3 months with biweekly sessions of flexion exercises , a back school program ( 5 sessions ) , and a control group . the effectiveness of the two intervention programs was evaluated over a 1-year period . baseline preintervention data and evaluation at the end of 3 months of intervention and after an additional 6 months were collected . a monthly surveillance for the whole year showed a mean of 4.5 " painful months " in the cal group versus 7.3 and 7.4 months in the back school and control groups , respectively ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the superiority of the cal group was achieved partly because of the significant increase in trunk forward flexion and to initial increment in abdominal muscle strength . the increased trunk flexion was associated with the rate of participation in the cal sessions . further research is needed to answer the question of " intensity versus type of exercise " by comparing different intervention programs , with similar intensity . 
spinal rehabilitation by work tolerance based on objective physical capacity assessment of dysfunction . a prospective study with control subjects and twelve-month review . a work tolerance program was used for rehabilitation treatment of 45 patients with spinal dysfunction . patients entering the treatment group were prospectively evaluated by objective physical capacity assessment ( pca ) . treatment patients averaged 4 weeks of three , one half day sessions per week . these patients were compared with a control group of 33 patients who did not participate in the rehabilitation program but were evaluated by pca . a telephone review of all patients in each group was carried out at 6 - and 12-month follow-up . results demonstrated that 78 % of the rehabilitation treatment group were discharged with an improved functional work capacity . most importantly , at 6-month follow-up , 73.0 % of patients in the treatment group were productively working while only 38 % of control group patients were actively employed . in addition , 84.4 % showed an improvement in spinal range of motion . the subjective pain scale ratings of these treatment patients demonstrated only 44.4 % decreased pain , while 51.1 % stayed the same , and two patients increased discomfort . further medical diagnostics or intervention was required in 24.4 % of treatment patients . these findings definitely show that a spinal rehabilitation work-tolerance program based on objective measurement will enhance an increased rate of return to productive employment activity . there is poor correlation of subjective pain assessment when compared to objective pcas . therefore , recommendations of patients for return-to-productive work should be based pain ratings . when adjusted for nonselection patients , the authors community-based hospital program showed similar results to other programs . the work tolerance and rehabilitation program in concord , new hampshire , demonstrated a significant cost-effective approach ; being less expensive , less time-consuming , and less psychologically oriented . 
analysis of spinal and muscular activity during flexion/extension and free lifts . detailed measurements of the relative contributions of spine motion and pelvic motion during flexion-extension and free lifts ( squat-type ) are examined . the results are consistent with the conclusion that passive stretching of the ligamentous tissues transmits significant extensor moment in these activities , the power being supplied by the hip extensor complex acting on the pelvis . in addition , certain injuries result in measurable changes in the kinematic parameters that determine the ligamentous involvement , and these changes can be used to help evaluate spinal condition . 
effect of 3-hydroxybutyrate on posttraumatic metabolism in man . of 20 patients suffering trauma , with injury severity scores greater than 20 , 11 patients received dl-3-hydroxybutyrate ( 3-ohb ) at a rate of 25 mumol/kg/min for 3 hours . the remaining nine patients received sodium dl-lactate at the same rate as the control subjects . with increased arterial concentrations of ketone bodies , the femoral arteriovenous difference ( arterial concentration minus venous concentration ) of ketone bodies increased proportionally in the 3-ohb group ( r = 0.853 , p less than 0.001 ) . venous concentrations of nonesterified free fatty acids , alanine , glycine , and valine were decreased significantly in the 3-ohb group as compared to the control group . the concentration difference between femoral vein and artery ( venous concentration minus arterial concentration ) for these substrates also decreased , indicating decreased release from the extremity . a decrease in venous concentration of alanine and difference between femoral vein and artery reached 102.3 + / - 69.3 mumol/l and 32.6 + / - 22.8 mumol/l ( mean + / - sd ) , respectively , after 3-ohb infusion . decreased alanine release from muscle during 3-ohb infusion in traumatized patients suggests a suppressive effect of ketone body on posttraumatic protein catabolism . 
use of a composite skin graft composed of cultured human keratinocytes and fibroblasts and a collagen-gag matrix to cover full-thickness wounds on athymic mice . in patients with extensive full-thickness burns , wound coverage may be accelerated if skin can be expanded to produce a skin replacement that reproducibly supplies blood to the wound and has good structural qualities . in addition , development of skin replacements may benefit patients who require reconstruction or replacement of large areas of abnormal skin . we have developed a composite skin replacement composed of cultured human keratinocytes ( hk ) and fibroblasts . cultured human fibroblasts are seeded into the interstices , and cultured hks are applied to the surface of a matrix composed of type i collagen crosslinked with a glycosaminoglycan , which has a defined physical structure . after hks reach confluence on the matrix surface , the composite grafts are placed on full-thickness wounds on the dorsum of athymic mice . graft acceptance , confirmed by positive staining with antibodies specific for human hla-abc antigens on hks , is approximately 90 % . a defined skin structure is present histologically by day 10 after grafting , with a differentiated epithelium and a subepidermal layer densely populated by fibroblasts and capillaries without evidence of inflammation . fluorescent light microscopy to identify laminin and type iv collagen and electron microscopy confirm the presence of basement membrane components by 10 days after grafting . attachment of the graft to the wound is similar with and without the addition of human basic fibroblast growth factor , a potent angiogenic agent , to the skin replacement before graft placement on wounds . 
relation between respiratory symptoms , type of farming , and lung function disorders in farmers . respiratory symptoms and function were examined in a random sample of 181 farmers ( 124 pig farmers and 57 dairy farmers ) with a mean age of 43 years . wheezing and shortness of breath during work in the animal house were significantly associated with pig farming ( odds ratio 11.4 ) , current smoking ( odds ratio 2.2 ) , bronchial hyperreactivity ( odds ratio 3.8 ) , and low fev1 ( odds ratio 3.4 ) . pig farmers had a slightly lower fev1 than dairy farmers ( 101 % versus 104 % predicted , ns ) . symptomatic farmers had significantly lower fev1 than symptomless farmers ( 93 % versus 106 % predicted ) . a multiple linear regression analysis of the cross sectional values of fev1 showed that there was a decline in fev1 associated with pig farming ( -12 ml/year of pig farming ) and smoking ( -23 ml/pack year ) in addition to the age related decline of 32 ml/year . a multiple linear regression analysis of pc20 histamine showed that bronchial reactivity increased with age , number of pack years , and number of years in pig farming . work in closed pig rearing units is a pulmonary health hazard and causes decline in lung function . 
analysis of bronchial reactivity in epidemiological studies . the measurement of bronchial reactivity in epidemiological studies has the advantage of quantifying an objective physiological feature of asthma . bronchial reactivity was developed in a clinical setting and has been conventionally expressed as the dose of agonist producing a 20 % fall in fev1 ( pd20 ) . as pd20 can be estimated for less than 20 % of subjects in general community surveys with the doses of agonist that are usually given , data from most subjects must be censored . thus pd20 alone is a poor index of bronchial reactivity for epidemiological studies . data from 809 aluminium smelter workers were used to evaluate alternative methods of analysing bronchial reactivity . dose-response relationships were analysed by four methods : ( 1 ) pd20 by the conventional method of interpolating the dose on a logarithmic scale between the last two measurements of fev1 ; ( 2 ) pd20 ( with allowance for extrapolation ) , estimated by fitting an exponential curve to the dose-response data ; ( 3 ) the linear regression slope between dose and fev1 when significant ; ( 4 ) the dose-response slope obtained in all subjects as the % change in fev1 from baseline in response to total dose . when each of these measures was related to symptoms , diagnosis , and treatment of asthma , all differentiated between " asthmatic " and " non-asthmatic " subjects . the dose-response slope ( method 4 ) had the advantages of simplicity and no censored data , and was shown to be clinically relevant . it is suggested that the dose-response slope should be used for the analysis of bronchial reactivity in epidemiological studies . 
occupational asthma in a pharmaceutical worker exposed to hydralazine . a pharmaceutical worker developed asthma when exposed to hydralazine , an antihypertensive drug . the diagnosis of occupational asthma was supported by specific inhalation challenges , which produced a late asthmatic reaction and an increase in bronchial responsiveness . no evidence of an ige or an igg dependent mechanism could be found . 
management of spinal cord compression secondary to metastatic prostatic carcinoma . spinal cord or cauda equina compression from prostatic cancer is an oncologic emergency necessitating prompt evaluation and treatment . the strong correlation between pretreatment motor status and treatment outcome underscores the importance of immediate treatment before further neurologic deterioration and before the damage to the spinal cord becomes permanent . patients with known osseous metastases should be alerted by their clinicians to seek medical help within hours should they develop weakness in an extremity . prompt mri of the entire spine should be done prior to treatment . myelography should be reserved for those patients who can not undergo a technically adequate or expeditious mri study . the convenience of mri relative to myelography allows clinicians to diagnose actual or impending spinal cord compression earlier . high-dose steroids ( dexamethasone ) should be instituted immediately , and endocrine therapy should be started if not already in use . ambulatory and moderately paraparetic patients seem best treated initially with radiation alone . immediate surgical decompression should be used in patients with an expected lifespan of at least 6 months who deteriorate during radiation , who have had previous radiation to the involved site , or who have a potentially correctable unstable spine . in addition , paraplegic patients or severely paraparetic patients with recent neurologic deterioration should be treated with immediate surgical decompression if they are judged reasonably able to tolerate the surgery . these patients should then receive postoperative radiation treatment . 
congenital duodenal diaphragm : conversion of stable chronic symptoms to subacute gastric outlet obstruction by penetrating foreign body . congenital duodenal diaphragms ( cdd ) are rare lesions that usually become symptomatic and require surgery in childhood . we report a patient , who , although symptomatic since early childhood , had accommodated to the condition and finally required surgical correction in late life after an ingested foreign body traumatized the diaphragm , producing subacute gastric outlet obstruction . the condition , including the reconstruction of the precipitating event , was diagnosed endoscopically prior to surgery . 
the increased frequency of cervical dysplasia-neoplasia in women infected with the human immunodeficiency virus is related to the degree of immunosuppression . cytologic and histologic investigations of the uterine cervix and studies of the lymphocyte functions were performed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected and human immunodeficiency virus antibody-negative women to study possible linkages between human papillomavirus-induced dysplasia and degree of human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression . cytologic smears of the uterine cervix of 111 human immunodeficiency virus-infected women were compared with findings in 76 female intravenous drug users negative for human immunodeficiency virus antibodies and in a group of 526 women of the outpatient population of the hospital . cervical dysplasia-neoplasia ( including five cases of invasive carcinoma ) was seen in 41 % of the human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . in human immunodeficiency virus-negative intravenous drug users dysplasia-neoplasia was seen in 9 % , and in the sample from outpatients in 4 % , including two cases of invasive carcinoma ( p less than 0.01 ) . cytologic features that were attributable to infection with human papillomavirus were observed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected women four times more often than in the sample from the outpatient population ( p less than 0.01 ) . frequency and severity of dysplasia appear to increase with diminishing numbers of cd4 + helper/inducer t lymphocytes and correlated significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) with a loss of blastogenic response to phytohemagglutinin , pokeweed mitogen , and tetanus toxoid . these results suggest an increased risk for the development of dysplasia of the uterine cervix in women with human immunodeficiency virus infection , which is related to the degree of immunosuppression . 
mucogenic secondary open-angle glaucoma in diffuse epithelial ingrowth treated by block-excision . we treated a 40-year-old man with an acute , unilateral , open-angle glaucoma caused by a gelatinous translucent material in the anterior chamber . a clinical diagnosis of mucogenic secondary open-angle glaucoma caused by diffuse epithelial ingrowth after ocular trauma one year earlier was suspected , but a primary or secondary ciliary body or iris neoplasm could not be ruled out . a curative 9-mm block-excision was performed . six years later , intraocular pressure was normal , and the visual function was unchanged . light and electron microscopy disclosed an island of diffuse columnar epithelium with numerous goblet cells on the iris surface and copious mucinous material extending into the trabecular mesh-work . 
substance abuse and cerebral blood flow . objective and method : this paper reviews acute and chronic effects of drugs of abuse on cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) and metabolism and their clinical significance . the most important source of information for the review is human research reports published in refereed journals . a few animal studies , book chapters , and abstracts that are especially relevant are also included . results : in humans , ethanol in small doses produces cerebral vasodilation ; higher doses induce cerebral vasoconstriction . chronic alcoholism is associated with reduced cbf and cerebral metabolism . sedatives and antianxiety drugs lead to global reduction in cbf and cerebral metabolism . caffeine , even in small doses , is a potent cerebral vasoconstrictor . cerebral vasodilation is seen immediately after cigarette smoking , but chronic smokers show global reduction in cbf . changes in cbf after marijuana smoking are variable ; both increases and decreases are seen . chronic marijuana smoking , however , seems to reduce cbf . most inhalants and solvents are vasodilators ; chronic abuse is accompanied by a decrease in cbf . a number of drugs of abuse , including ethanol , amphetamines , cocaine , nicotine , and caffeine-phenylpropanolamine combinations , increase the risk for stroke . reduction in cbf associated with chronic use of ethanol , nicotine , inhalants , and solvents is at least partially reversible upon abstinence . conclusions : topics for future research include regional brain function , which mediates drug-induced mood changes ( euphoria ) ; cbf concomitants of psychological and physiological characteristics that increase addiction potential ; changes in cbf that accompany withdrawal syndromes ; mechanisms responsible for drug-induced stroke ; and effects of functional and organic complications on cbf . 
self-injurious behavior : a review of the behavior and biology of self-mutilation . objective : the authors describe the clinical characteristics of self-injurious behavior , giving special emphasis to self-injurious behavior occurring among individuals with character disorders . data collection : they review data suggesting the involvement of serotonergic , dopaminergic , and opiate neurotransmitter systems in the expression of self-injurious behavior . findings : self-injurious behavior occurs among mentally retarded individuals , psychotic patients , prison populations , and individuals with severe character disorders . although theoretical psychological models of self-injurious behavior are helpful in understanding the patient 's experience of self-injury , no generally useful therapeutic approach has yet evolved from these models . data derived from animal models and treatment studies suggest the involvement of opiatergic and dopaminergic mechanisms in self-injury among the mentally retarded . serotonergic influences on self-injurious behavior may be present in varying forms of this behavior . the scientific literature on the benefits of pharmacological agents for mentally retarded individuals is beset with a number of problems . support is emerging , however , for the use of lithium and carbamazepine with self-injuring mentally retarded patients , and some behavioral interventions appear to be successful for mentally retarded individuals . self-injuring patients with borderline personality disorder may benefit from milieu treatment . conclusions : although no form of treatment has yet been demonstrated to be of general benefit , the literature suggests that therapeutic trials with dopamine antagonists , serotonin reuptake inhibitors , and opiate antagonists may be of value . 
characteristics of 60 adult chronic hair pullers . objective : this study was constructed to detail the demographic and phenomenological features of chronic hair pullers as well as to assess psychiatric comorbidity in a sizable study group . method : subjects were drawn from an outpatient population of chronic hair pullers who had been referred to a trichotillomania clinic or had responded to a newspaper advertisement announcing a treatment study of adults who pull out their hair . sixty adult chronic hair pullers completed a semistructured interview that focused on their hair-pulling behavior and demographic characteristics and that incorporated screening questions for dsm-iii-r axis i disorders . the data were tabulated to derive a comprehensive picture of this group . results : the typical subject was a 34-year-old woman who had pulled hair from two or more sites for 21 years . all subjects described either tension before or relief/gratification after pulling hair from the primary site , but 17 % ( n = 10 ) failed to describe both of these characteristics and thus failed to fulfill the dms-iii-r criteria for trichotillomania . forty-nine subjects ( 82 % ) qualified for past or current axis i diagnoses other than trichotillomania . several characteristics of the study group suggested phenomenological differences between obsessive-compulsive disorder and trichotillomania . conclusions : adult trichotillomania is a chronic disorder , frequently involving multiple hair sites , and is associated with high rates of psychiatric comorbidity . its relation to obsessive-compulsive disorder requires further clarification . the tension-reduction requirement in dsm-iii-r for the diagnosis of trichotillomania may be overly restrictive . 
transdermal nicotine and smoking behavior in psychiatric patients . the authors used a double-blind crossover design to observe the effect of transdermally administered nicotine on the smoking behavior of 13 psychiatric patients who were not trying to stop smoking . the patients smoked significantly fewer cigarettes while receiving nicotine than while receiving placebo . these data suggest that transdermally administered nicotine can be a useful adjunct in treating nicotine-addicted psychiatric patients in a non-smoking environment . 
diagnostic peritoneal lavage . limited indications due to evolving concepts in trauma care . this study was undertaken to determine the appropriateness of celiotomy in 100 consecutive patients who underwent celiotomy solely because of positive diagnostic peritoneal lavage ( dpl ) following blunt ( b ) or stab ( s ) abdominal trauma . a total of 32 ( 32 % ) patients had positive dpl by laboratory criteria : blunt trauma : greater than 100k rbc/mm3 , greater than 500 wbc/mm3 ; stab trauma : greater than 50k rbc/mm3 , greater than 250 wbc/mm3 . dpl in 68 patients was positive by gross inspection ; 18 of these 68 patients ' dpl laboratory results returned after surgery and did not satisfy the laboratory definition of positive dpl . in all 61 per cent underwent therapeutic celiotomy ( tc ) and 39 per cent underwent nontherapeutic celiotomy ( ntc ) . grade i and ii spleen and/or liver injuries led to 79 per cent of ntcs . positive dpl , determined by gross inspection or by laboratory testing , has a very poor accuracy rate when evaluated in light of evolving beliefs that promote nonoperative therapy for grade i and ii liver and spleen injuries . when positive dpl is the sole indication for celiotomy in patients with blunt or stab abdominal trauma , an unacceptably large number of ntcs will be performed . dpl should have a limited role in the evaluation of patients with abdominal trauma . 
management of subglottic stenosis in the adult . twenty-one adult patients were surgically treated for severe subglottic stenosis refractory to endoscopic treatment . patients were treated by anterior or anterior and posterior cricoid division with costal cartilage grafting . seventy-six percent of the patients were successfully decannulated . success of treatment was not dependent on cause of the stenosis or age or sex of the patient . there was a significantly better outcome ( p less than .05 ) in patients with isolated subglottic stenosis versus those with combined glottic and subglottic stenosis . 
serum levels of bone gla-protein in inhabitants exposed to environmental cadmium . serum levels of bone gla-protein ( bgp ) -- the vitamin k-dependent ca2 ( + ) - binding protein -- were evaluated in 76 cadmium ( cd ) - exposed subjects with renal tubular dysfunction ( 32 men , 44 women ) and 133 nonexposed subjects ( 53 men , 80 women ) . serum bgp levels were higher in the cd-exposed subjects than in nonexposed subjects . significant correlations between bgp and each index measured by bone microdensitometry ( md ) , serum alkaline phosphatase activity , and cd in blood and urine were found . for all of the cd-exposed and nonexposed men and women , bgp showed a significant standard partial regression coefficient ( multiple regression analysis ) with the metacarpal index ( mci ) , which was one of the md indicators . bone gla-protein also correlated significantly with urinary beta 2-microglobulin in the men and with serum creatinine in the women . serum bgp values strongly reflect the degree of bone damage and also reflect , although less strongly , the degree of renal damage induced by exposure to cd . 
proportion of lung and bladder cancers in males resulting from occupation : a systematic approach studies conducted in several countries that investigated the relationship of occupation and cancer in men were reviewed and compared . estimates of the proportion of cancers due to occupational exposure that occurred in the general population were analyzed , and sources of variation were explored . a systematic and standardized evaluation of studies on lung and bladder cancer were undertaken , and only investigations that allowed for confounding from tobacco smoking were included . the proportion of lung cancers attributable to occupation ranged between 1 and 5 % ( when considering only exposure to asbestos ) and 40 % ( in a study with a high proportion of subjects exposed to ionizing radiation ) ; for bladder cancer , estimates were between 0 and 3 % in a few studies and between 16 and 24 % in several investigations . no similar attempt of systematic comparison was possible for other cancers . 
splenic trauma . choice of management . the modern era for splenic surgery for injury began in 1892 when riegner reported a splenectomy in a 14-year-old construction worker who fell from a height and presented with abdominal pain , distension , tachycardia , and oliguria . this report set the stage for routine splenectomy , which was performed for all splenic injury in the next two generations . despite early reports by pearce and by morris and bullock that splenectomy in animals caused impaired defenses against infection , little challenge to routine splenectomy was made until king and schumacker in 1952 reported a syndrome of " overwhelming postsplenectomy infection " ( opsi ) . many studies have since demonstrated the importance of the spleen in preventing infections , particularly from the encapsulated organisms . overwhelming postsplenectomy infection occurs in about 0.6 % of children and 0.3 % of adults . intraoperative splenic salvage has become more popular and can be achieved safely in most patients by delivering the spleen with the pancreas to the incision , carefully repairing the spleen under direct vision , and using the many adjuncts to suture repair , including hemostatic agents and splenic wrapping . intraoperative splenic salvage is not indicated in patients actively bleeding from other organs or in the presence of alcoholic cirrhosis . the role of splenic replantation in those patients requiring operative splenectomy needs further study but may provide significant long-term splenic function . although nonoperative splenic salvage was first suggested more than 100 years ago by billroth , this modality did not become popular in children until the 1960s or in adults until the latter 1980s . patients with intrasplenic hematomas or with splenic fractures that do not extend to the hilum as judged by computed tomography usually can be observed successfully without operative intervention and without blood transfusion . nonoperative splenic salvage is less likely with fractures that involve the splenic hilum and with the severely shattered spleen ; these patients usually are treated best by early operative intervention . following splenectomy for injury , polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine decreases the likelihood of opsi and should be used routinely . the role of prophylactic penicillin is uncertain but the use of antibiotics for minor infectious problems is indicated after splenectomy . 
humoral immunity in surgical patients with and without trauma . we measured antitetanus toxoid antibody responses after blunt ( n = 24 ) and penetrating ( n = 7 ) trauma and compared them with responses in patients without trauma ( n = 55 ) . patients were defined as anergic or reactive on the basis of delayed type hypersensitivity response . the response to tetanus toxoid vaccination on admission of patients surviving trauma for over 2 weeks was defined as the ratio of day 14 to day 0 serum igg antitetanus toxoid levels . antitetanus toxoid responses were normal after both blunt and penetrating trauma . when stratified according to delayed type hypersensitivity responses , patients with trauma showed better antibody responses than patients without trauma . major infection rates were similar between trauma groups ( three of 24 with blunt trauma vs two of seven with penetrating trauma ) and independent of delayed type hypersensitivity ( two of 20 reactive patients vs three of 11 anergic patients ) , in contrast to patients without trauma ( one of 19 reactive patients vs 15 of 36 anergic patients ) . we conclude that decreased delayed type hypersensitivity after moderate trauma is temporary , and that this transient immunodeficiency is not as strongly associated with reduced antibody responses and increased risk of infection as anergy in surgical patients without trauma . 
increased gut permeability following burn trauma . twenty female hartley guinea pigs , weighing 350 to 400 g , were given a 30 % full-thickness burn injury . gastrointestinal permeability was assessed before burn and on postburn days 1 through 3 , 7 , and 14 by administering 5 ml of an isotonic mixture of 8 % lactulose and 1.15 % l-rhamnose by gavage and measuring the urinary excretion for the next 7 hours . in normal guinea pigs , lactulose ( molecular weight , 342d ) is mostly absorbed by the paracellular route , whereas l-rhamnose ( molecular weight , 164 d ) is mostly absorbed by the transcellular route . gut permeability to l-rhamnose did not increase after burn injury ( 211 micrograms before burn vs 230 , 260 , 180 , 238 , and 221 micrograms on days 1 , 2 , 3 , 7 , and 14 , respectively , after burn ) . by contrast , gut permeability to lactulose increased significantly and was greatest in the first 48 hours after burn injury ( 60 micrograms before burn vs 380 , 354 , 203 , 364 , and 279 micrograms on days 1 , 2 , 3 , 7 , and 14 , respectively , after burn ) . gut permeability to low-molecular-weight compounds increases immediately after burn trauma , and this may be by a paracellular rather than transcellular mechanism . 
street-recruited intravenous drug users and sexual risk reduction in new york city . previous studies have reported that intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) have made considerable drug-use risk reduction , but less sexual risk reduction . this paper presents findings about sexual risk reduction by street-recruited ivdus in new york city , and examines the predictors of sexual risk reduction . sixty-one per cent of these street-recruited ivdus have initiated deliberate sexual risk reduction in order to avoid aids . for the total sample ( n = 568 ) , as well as for the male ivdus , specific health belief and social influence factors were significant predictors of sexual risk reduction . for female ivdus , drug-risk reduction , having a friend or acquaintance who practices sexual risk reduction , and wanting to have a ( nother ) child were significant predictors of sexual risk reduction . these findings suggest the importance of social support and community organization to promote risk reduction . 
surveillance of aids in the european community : recent trends and predictions to 1991 . statistical modelling is applied to routine aids surveillance data to assess recent trends and to provide a range of short-term predictions . several alternative functions have been fitted to half-yearly incidence data reported by the countries of the european community by 31 december 1989 and adjusted for reporting delays . among homosexual/bisexual men , recent trends in aids incidence are more nearly linear than exponential . higher though less than exponential rates of growth are observed among intravenous drug users and among those presumed infected by heterosexual contact . extrapolations to the end of 1991 using each of five functions provide a range of forecasts . projections of total cumulated cases to the end of 1991 lie in the range 60,000-78 ,000 , with 24,000-30 ,000 projected cases among homosexual/bisexual men , 23,000-33 ,000 among intravenous drug users , and 6000-8000 in the heterosexual transmission group . with the possible exception of the latter group , the lower parts of these ranges appear more probable . 
t-cell subsets and serum immunoglobulin levels in infants born to hiv-seropositive mothers : a longitudinal evaluation . t-lymphocyte subsets and serum immunoglobulins were assayed in 27 neonates and 12 infants younger than 6 months , all born to hiv-seropositive mothers . no differences in t-lymphocyte subsets between the 27 seropositive and 34 seronegative infants were found at birth . twelve seroreverted and 14 infected children were followed . cd4 + cell counts were significantly lower in the latter at 3 and 24 months of age . serum immunoglobulin levels and cd8 + percentages became higher in the infected group , starting from the sixth month , while cd4 + percentages and cd4 + / cd8 + ratios became lower , starting from the twelfth month . 
injecting drug use and female street-working prostitution in glasgow . there are considerable difficulties associated with calculating the prevalence of covert , illegal and stigmatized activities . this paper outlines new methods we have developed for calculating the prevalence of both drug-injecting street prostitution and non-injecting street prostitution in glasgow . our data indicate that glasgow has a much higher level of injecting drug use than has been reported among prostitutes in other british cities . 
downregulation of the platelet surface glycoprotein ib-ix complex in whole blood stimulated by thrombin , adenosine diphosphate , or an in vivo wound . in washed platelet systems , thrombin has been demonstrated to downregulate the platelet surface expression of glycoprotein ( gp ) ib and gpix . in the present study , we addressed the question as to whether , in the more physiologic milieu of whole blood , downregulation of platelet surface gpib and gpix can be induced by thrombin , adenosine diphosphate ( adp ) , and/or by an in vivo wound . thrombin-induced downregulation of gpib and gpix on the surface of individual platelets in whole blood was demonstrated by the use of flow cytometry , a panel of monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) and , to inhibit fibrin polymerization , the peptide glycyl-l-prolyl-l-arginyl-l-proline . platelets were identified in whole blood by a gpiv-specific moab and exclusion of monocytes by light scattering properties . flow cytometric analysis of whole blood emerging from a standardized bleeding-time wound established that downregulation of platelet surface gpib and gpix can occur in vivo . a gpib-ix complex-specific antibody indicated that the gpib and gpix remaining on the surface of platelets activated in vivo or in vitro were fully complexed . simultaneous analysis of individual platelets by two fluorophores demonstrated that thrombin-induced platelet surface exposure of gmp-140 ( degranulation ) was nearly complete at the time that downregulation of platelet surface gpib-ix was initiated . however , degranulation was not a prerequisite because adp downregulated platelet surface gpib-ix without exposing gmp-140 on the platelet surface . inhibitory effects of cytochalasins demonstrated that the activation-induced downregulation of both gpix and gpib are dependent on actin polymerization . in summary , downregulation of the platelet surface gpib-ix complex occurs in whole blood stimulated by thrombin , adp , or an in vivo wound , and is independent of alpha granule secretion . 
superior humeral dislocation . a complication following decompression and debridement for rotator cuff tears . very large rotator cuff tears may be surgically irreparable and under such circumstances debridement of the edges of the cuff and bursal decompression may relieve pain . in this paper , four cases are described of the development of superior migration of the humeral head following a debridement and bural decompression . in all four patients attempts were made to repair the rotator cuff . in each case the repair failed and the humeral head migrated . two of the patients had the humeral head replaced because of a fracture ; in these patients the prosthesis displaced upwards . this serious complication may follow debridement and release of the subacromial bursa when rotator cuff repair can not be achieved . in the correction of superior humeral migration , reestablishment of the roof of the bursa was carried out in two cases . this procedure appears effective and may be considered in the future for such cases . 
the surgical treatment of severe comminuted intraarticular fractures of the distal radius with the small ao external fixation device . a prospective three-and-one-half-year follow-up study . although fractures of the distal radius are very common , an optimal treatment has not been clearly delineated . this is a prospective study of 40 patients , mainly young and active adults , with comminuted and unstable intraarticular fractures of the distal radius . the end results of closed reduction and rigid fixation with the small ao external fixator includes 36 patients ( 90 % ) with excellent and good results . roentgenograms of 33 of these patients showed accurate alignment of the healed fractures . four patients ( 10 % ) had a fair functional result , with a partial restriction of the range of movement , although roentgenograms demonstrated good alignment of the healed fractures . the small ao external fixator is both a useful and convenient method for the reconstruction and treatment of comminuted intraarticular fractures of the distal radius . 
a semiinvasive method for articular colles ' fractures . an external fixation device that allows limited motion of the wrist joint without disruption of the anatomic alignment was used for the articular colles ' fractures in this study . from july 1985 to april 1989 during a 45-month period , 87 patients with 90 articular colles ' fractures ( three cases with bilateral involvement ) were treated with a modified dynamic external skeletal device after a closed reduction in full supination of the forearm . excellent anatomic reduction near 91 % of the sound wrist as well as satisfactory functional results around 90.5 % of the sound wrist were gained during the 24-month follow-up period . forearm muscles exert compression forces on distal radial metaphyseal fractures throughout the healing period . any procedure or device that can not provide constant counterforce to the action of forearm muscles during fracture healing will result in the loss of anatomic reduction . adequate distraction counter-force was provided by an external fixation device that was superior to other conventional methods because of its simple application , low rate of complications , and excellent anatomic and functional results . 
diagnostic and operative arthroscopy of the wrist . the evaluation and diagnosis of wrist disorders has traditionally been difficult and problematic . ligamentous wrist sprains and their associated carpal instabilities , triangular fibrocartilage complex disruptions , and cartilage injuries have been virtually impossible to fully assess because of the inadequacy of current diagnostic techniques . arthroscopy of the wrist allows a thorough evaluation of the soft-tissue structures and cartilaginous surfaces within the radiocarpal and midcarpal joints . in selected cases , wrist arthroscopy can be employed to surgically modify the intraarticular lesions and to assist in the planning of reconstructive operations . 
intercondylar notch measurements with special reference to anterior cruciate ligament surgery . the femoral intercondylar notch width was measured in 93 patients with chronic anterior cruciate ligament ( acl ) insufficiency ( group 1 ) , in 62 patients with an acute tear of the acl ( group 2 ) , and in 38 fresh anatomic specimen knees ( group 3 ) . in six of the specimen knees , further anatomic studies of the intercondylar notch were performed after tissue removal . the average intercondylar distance was 16.1 mm in group 1 , 18.1 mm in group 2 , and 20.4 mm in group 3 . all differences were highly significant . the intercondylar notch was wider in the posterior part and had no crossing bony ridges but had generally concave walls , which provided a functional shelf for the acl to insert on the lateral side . significant osteophyte formation and stenosis of the anterior outlet of the intercondylar notch occur early in the acl-deficient knee . a narrow anterior outlet of the intercondylar notch without osteophytes was also found in knees with an acute acl rupture . at reconstruction of the acl , notchplasty should be performed concomitantly . 
anterior-cruciate-insufficient knees treated with physiotherapy . a three-year follow-up study of patients with late diagnosis . to evaluate a functional neuromuscular training program focusing on strength , endurance , postural control , and agility , 26 patients with a rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament ( acl ) diagnosed late were examined before starting a training period and then followed for three years . during the study period , four of the patients had an acl reconstruction . twenty-two patients treated without surgery were satisfied with the improvement in their knee function and activity level after three to six months of physiotherapy . compliance with the rehabilitation program was good and the improvement achieved on completion of the training period was maintained for three years in this group of recreational sportsmen and women . quadriceps strength , functional knee score , activity level , and functional performance were all improved after training and were maintained during the follow-up period . 
dislocation of the knee . the results of treatment for vascular and ligamentous injuries in 17 patients who suffered complete dislocation of the knee were reviewed . eight patients had 23 associated injuries . all nine patients who had injuries of the popliteal artery had arterial reconstruction with saphenous vein bypass grafts , which were successful in eight ( 89 % ) . intraoperative arteriography after vascular repair showed a narrowed anastomosis requiring revision in two ( 22 % ) of the nine patients and distal thrombi requiring removal in five ( 55 % ) patients . delay in arterial repair was responsible for the one failure . eleven patients had satisfactory results after early open ligament repair . the results were less favorable in the patients not treated with early ligament repair . 
varus of the talus in the ankle mortise secondary to calcaneus fracture . a case report . varus displacement of the talus in the ankle mortise secondary to a calcaneus fracture was observed in a 33-year-old man . similar to the calcaneus fracture-dislocation , the mechanism involved inferior and medial displacement of the talus into the body of the calcaneus . the patient 's ankle deformity was not corrected by a lateral ankle ligament reconstruction . correction required a distraction subtalar bone block fusion . successful reconstruction of the hindfoot after calcaneus fractures requires a careful analysis of the pathologic lesion . in this unusual case , correction required restoration of lost hindfoot bone structure . 
recovery from disturbed colonic transit time after alcohol withdrawal . the effects of alcohol withdrawal on total and segmental transit time were evaluated in 20 chronic alcoholic subjects . after withdrawal , colorectal transit time significantly increased from 24.9 + / - 3.6 to 33.3 + / - 4.5 hours mean + / - se ( p less than 0.01 ) . this was the result of an exclusive increase in rectosigmoid transit time from 2.8 + / - 0.7 to 9.8 + / - 2.1 hours ( p less than 0.001 ) . no variations were found in right or left colon transit time . distal colonic motility is thus a crucial factor in the genesis of diarrhea in chronic alcoholic subjects . 
the role of continued drinking in loss of portal perfusion after distal splenorenal shunt . fifty percent of patients with alcoholic cirrhosis who undergo distal splenorenal shunting for variceal bleeding lose portal perfusion within 1 year . although it was previously considered that this loss of portal flow was irrevocable , the present study shows that with resolution of alcoholic hepatitis , portal perfusion can be restored . a 34-year-old patient with alcoholic liver disease and a distal splenorenal shunt lost portal perfusion 1 year after the operation . he had continued to drink alcohol and had high sinusoidal pressure . following forced abstinence over the next 2 years , his sinusoidal pressure fell , liver volume decreased , results of liver biopsy improved , and portal perfusion was restored . shunt patency was documented , and the same collaterals from the portal vein to the shunt could still be visualized as had been seen when portal flow was absent . restoration of portal perfusion was attributed to decreased intrahepatic resistance secondary to abstinence from alcohol . a return to drinking in the next 9 months led to alcoholic hepatitis and once again loss of portal perfusion . this study places emphasis on increased intrahepatic resistance rather than the development of portal-to-shunt collaterals as important in the loss of portal flow in such patients . 
chronic rupture of the achilles tendon : a new technique of repair . a new operative technique is described for the treatment of patients who have a rupture of the achilles tendon . the large gap between the proximal and distal stumps of the achilles tendon in seven patients was bridged by use of the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus as the graft . at the most recent follow-up examination ( average follow-up , thirty-nine months ; range , two to six years ) , the result was excellent or good in six patients and fair in one . postoperatively , two patients needed an adjuvant procedure : one , a local rotation flap and the other , a split-thickness skin graft . both patients had excellent restoration of function . the patient who had a fair result had a persistent limp and residual discomfort . there were no re-ruptures . 
management of pseudarthrosis after arthrodesis of the spine for idiopathic scoliosis . sixty-three first , second , or third-time repairs of one or more pseudarthroses were done in fifty-one patients who had had an arthrodesis for idiopathic scoliosis . forty-five of the patients were female and six were male . the average age was 30.2 years . the indications for the sixty-three repairs were pain ( twenty-five repairs ) , progression of the curve ( sixteen ) , both pain and progression of the curve ( twelve ) , and radiographic changes only ( ten ) . failure of the implant was identified before 27 per cent of the sixty-three procedures . the pseudarthroses were diagnosed an average of 2.8 years after the initial arthrodeses . sixty-eight per cent of the defects were visible on plain radiographs preoperatively and 32 per cent were identified at operation . during the time between the original arthrodeses and the repairs of the pseudarthroses , the scolioses increased by a mean of 7 degrees and the kyphoses , by a mean of 10 degrees . harrington distraction was the most commonly used instrumentation ( twenty-six [ 41 per cent ] of the sixty-three procedures ) , and autogenous iliac bone was the most commonly used material for the graft ( thirty-three [ 52 per cent ] of the procedures ) . 
lumbosacral evoked potentials and vesicourethral function in patients with chronic suprasacral spinal cord injury . persistent detrusor acontractility despite normal somatic reflex activity in some patients with high spinal cord injury is an enigma . previous work has suggested disordered integration of afferent activity in sacral roots or the sacral spinal cord . forty male patients with chronic stable suprasacral cord lesions were studied by filling and voiding videocystometrography , and recording lumbosacral evoked potentials from posterior tibial nerve stimulation . only five of 15 patients with decreased detrusor contractility had abnormal lumbosacral evoked potentials . similar abnormalities were found in four of 11 patients with efficient hyperreflexic bladders . the finding of normal lumbosacral evoked potentials in the majority of patients with suprasacral cord injuries and decreased detrusor contractility supports the argument that the pathophysiology of this specific form of neurogenic bladder dysfunction is multifactorial . 
radiation-induced optic neuropathy : a magnetic resonance imaging study . optic neuropathy induced by radiation is an infrequent cause of delayed visual loss that may at times be difficult to differentiate from compression of the visual pathways by recurrent neoplasm . the authors describe six patients with this disorder who experienced loss of vision 6 to 36 months after neurological surgery and radiation therapy . of the six patients in the series , two had a pituitary adenoma and one each had a metastatic melanoma , multiple myeloma , craniopharyngioma , and lymphoepithelioma . visual acuity in the affected eyes ranged from 20/25 to no light perception . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging showed sellar and parasellar recurrence of both pituitary adenomas , but the intrinsic lesions of the optic nerves and optic chiasm induced by radiation were enhanced after gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid ( dtpa ) administration and were clearly distinguishable from the suprasellar compression of tumor . repeated mr imaging showed spontaneous resolution of gadolinium-dtpa enhancement of the optic nerve in a patient who was initially suspected of harboring recurrence of a metastatic malignant melanoma as the cause of visual loss . the authors found the presumptive diagnosis of radiation-induced optic neuropathy facilitated by mr imaging with gadolinium-dtpa . this neuro-imaging procedure may help avert exploratory surgery in some patients with recurrent neoplasm in whom the etiology of visual loss is uncertain . 
blunt traumatic rupture of the heart and pericardium : a ten-year experience ( 1979-1989 ) . blunt traumatic rupture of the heart and pericardium , rarely diagnosed preoperatively , carries a high mortality rate . from 1979 to 1989 , more than 20,000 patients were admitted to a level i trauma center . a retrospective review identified 59 patients requiring emergency surgery for this condition . injuries resulted from vehicular accidents ( 68 % ) , motorcycle crashes ( 10 % ) , pedestrians being struck by vehicles ( 7 % ) , falls ( 5 % ) , crushing ( 7 % ) , and being struck by a horse ( 2 % ) or crane ( 2 % ) . seventeen patients ( 29 % ) had isolated rupture of the pericardium ; 37 ( 63 % ) had ruptures of one or more cardiac chambers . all patients had signs of life at the scene or during transportation , but only 29 ( 49 % ) had vital signs on admission : 15 with chamber injury , 12 with pericardial rupture , and two with combined injuries . diagnosis was established by emergency thoracotomy in the 30 patients who arrived in cardiac arrest . in the remaining 29 patients , diagnosis was made by urgent thoracotomy ( 41 % ) , by subxiphoid pericardial window ( 34 % ) , during laparotomy ( 21 % ) , or by chest radiography ( 3 % ) . the overall mortality rate was 76 % ( 45 patients ) , but only 52 % for those with vital signs on admission . rapid transportation and expeditious surgical treatment can save many patients with these injuries . 
the rat lung organotypic culture : an in vitro model for studying surfactant metabolism abnormalities . the amount of surfactant present in the intra-alveolar space is mainly regulated by the synthesis and recycling of surfactant by type ii pneumocytes . biochemical analyses have shown that the surfactant level is frequently diminished and that protein-rich exudate can further interfere with surfactant function in the lungs of adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) patients . the microenvironmental changes that occur in the alveoli of burned patients , who are prone to developing ards , are unclear . therefore , using an in vitro rat lung organotypic culture , we showed that the sera of rats with a 3-day old , third-degree thermal injury ( 25-30 % total body surface area ) inhibited surfactant synthesis in organotypically cultured rat lung cells . surfactant precursor , 3h-choline , incorporation into the surfactant was 58 % of control . using liposomes made of dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylglycerol ( 8:1 , v/v ) or surfactant we showed that surfactant endocytosis by purified type ii alveolar cells is an active , temperature-dependent process , and correlates with the quantity of surfactant present in the milieu . we also found that plasma protein-rich fluid interfered with surfactant endocytosis by the purified type ii pneumocytes . these two processes of inhibition of surfactant synthesis and its reutilization by these cells may contribute to the pathogenesis of ards . 
functional outcome of pediatric trauma patients identified as ' non-salvageable survivors ' . a retrospective study of 305 pediatric trauma patients seen over 17 months was undertaken to evaluate the functional outcome of patients categorized as " non-salvageable survivors " ( nss ) . functional outcome was determined by denver developmental screen tests ( ddst ) for children less than 5 years of age and rappaport severity rating scale ( rdrs ) for those 5 years old and older . each patient was assigned abbreviated injury scores ( ais ) . injury severity score ( iss ) , glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) , and trauma score ( ts ) . the total number of patients classified as severe was 65 ( 21 % ) , and 13 were classified as non-salvageable , with seven non-salvageable survivors and six non-preventable deaths . our study suggests that current trauma scoring systems tend to overestimate the non-salvageable population . those identified as non-salvageable and who survived have a high probability of meaningful functional recovery . current trauma scoring systems are in need of revision to better identify non-salvageable survivors and those children who will not make a meaningful neurologic recovery . 
optimal escort for interhospital transport of pediatric emergencies . the charts of 130 seriously ill or injured children transported to tertiary level intensive care were examined to determine the incidence of secondary insults incurred , as a function of escort training . of all insults incurred , approximately 8 % occurred with specialized pediatric transport escorts who were accompanied by a tertiary care physician ( group iii , n = 52 ) ; 20 % with specialized pediatric transport escorts alone ( group ii , n = 44 ) ; and 72 % with escorts who had not received specialized pediatric transport training ( group i , n = 34 ) . based on our results , we recommend that all transport coordinators review the qualifications and experience of their transport team members and all potential escorts to assess their ability to provide optimal care for the children they transport , particularly during long journeys , transfer by air , and when serious illness or injury is involved . 
relative effects of brain and non-brain injuries on neuropsychological and psychosocial outcome . based on the 242 consecutive surviving head injury cases and 132 general trauma cases , this study examined the contribution of brain and non-brain injuries to cognitive and psychosocial outcome 1 month postinjury . the study also examined the relationships among various head injury severity indices . the head injury severity indices were all correlated but patients with glasgow coma scale scores in the mild range had broadly ranging scores on the other head injury severity indices ( abbreviated injury scale and time to follow commands ) . neuropsychological outcome was related to brain injury severity , but was not independently influenced by severity of other systems injuries . psychosocial outcome related to both brain and non-brain injuries independently . when evaluating trauma outcome , it is important to consider the contributions of both brain and other system injuries . 
humeral mobility after treatment with hanging cast . a retrospective review of 23 patients after treatment of humeral fractures with hanging cast was performed . the average followup time was 8.59 years ( range , 1.0 to 15.5 years ) . functional results were good in eight ( 34.8 % ) and excellent in 15 patients ( 65.2 % ) . to assess the flexibility of shoulder and elbow joints 24 parameters were measured on each body side using the neutral-zero method of debrunner . a cumulative comparison of each parameter revealed decreased flexibilities of the upper limb after treatment with hanging cast : reduced abduction without moving shoulder blade ( 84.08 + / - 7.53 vs. 77.34 + / - 11.38 ; p less than 0.05 ) , reduced free abduction ( 166.09 + / - 14.4 vs. 158.22 + / - 19.28 ; p less than 0.01 ) , reduced anteelevation ( 155.26 + / - 10.12 vs. 149.35 + / - 3.22 ; p less than 0.01 ) , reduced external rotation with hanging arm ( 48.96 + / - 19.05 vs. 41.18 + / - 16.75 ; p less than 0.01 ) , increased flexion of the shoulder ( 25.65 + / - 10.37 vs 27.3 + / - 10.0 ; p less than 0.05 ) and reduced extension of the elbow ( 0.86 + / - 6.92 vs. -2.68 + / - 9.63 ; p less than 0.05 ) . these findings show that longterm deficiencies of humeral mobility after treatment with hanging casts exist . 
results of operative treatment for intra-articular fractures of the calcaneus . since 1980 our treatment of displaced intra-articular calcaneal fractures consists of open reduction with distractor , bone grafting , and internal fixation . thereby no splints are applied and early postoperative movement is possible . for precise preoperative planning a ct scan is required . proper timing and careful preoperative planning are essential to prevent soft-tissue complications . in a total of 16 fractures good clinical and radiologic results were achieved in 50 % of the cases ; results were satisfactory in 25 % and poor in 25 % . the patients returned to work after an average of 5 months . only three patients ( 19 % ) received disability compensations , which compares favorably with nonoperative treatment . we believe that a majority of comminuted intra-articular fractures of the calcaneus profit from open reduction and internal fixation and that more reliable functional results are achieved than with conservative therapy . 
differential regulation of t - and b-lymphocyte activation in severely burned patients . we studied the in vitro expression and regulation of the cd23 and cd25 ( tac ) surface antigens by peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbl ) from severely burned patients ( burn injuries ranging from 25 % to 72 % tbsa ) in order to evaluate t - and b-lymphocyte activation processes after thermal trauma . the spontaneous and cytokine ( il-4 , il-2 ) - induced expression of cd23 which represents a b-cell activation marker was significantly reduced during the second to fifth week postburn when compared to healthy donors . in contrast , cd25 , which is expressed on activated t cells , showed a marked increase both spontaneously , indicating an in vivo activation , and after stimulation with il-2 or pha . concomitantly , t-cell proliferation induced by pha or con a was suppressed . however , the number of t and b cells remained unchanged . the data demonstrate the impairment of early events in the lymphocyte program in severely burned patients . the activation of b cells is downregulated , since they become refractory to external helper signals . in addition , t cells are highly activated but fail to proceed to proliferation in response to mitogenic stimuli . 
sonographic screening of mass casualties for abdominal and renal injuries following the 1988 armenian earthquake . the value of sonography in acute trauma evaluation is generally underestimated , and the opinions are controversial . sonography was performed as a primary screening procedure in 400 of 750 mass casualty patients with trauma admitted to a large hospital within the first 72 hours after the 1988 armenian earthquake . two real-time sector scanners were used in the reception area of the hospital , and the average time spent on one patient was 4 minutes . more than 130 followup sonographic examinations were required . trauma-associated pathology of the abdomen and retroperitoneal space was detected in 12.8 % of the patients , with 1 % false negatives and no false positives . the authors believe that sonographic screening of mass casualties is a quick and effective means for detection of abdominal and retroperitoneal injuries . sonography should be used for this purpose more routinely to gain experience and maintain preparedness of the sonographers for screening of trauma cases in mass casualty situations . 
computed tomography in the evaluation of the aorta in patients sustaining blunt chest trauma . computed tomography is used with increasing frequency to evaluate blunt chest trauma . since traumatic aortic rupture ( tar ) is a rapidly lethal condition , unnecessary ct scanning may not be justified . to determine the accuracy of chest ct scanning for tar , we reviewed 17 patients who underwent both chest ct scanning and aortography . five patients had tar by aortography . ct scanning yielded three true positives and two false negatives . in 12 patients with a negative aortogram , ct scanning recorded four false positives and eight true negatives . the specificity was 23 % and the sensitivity was 83 % compared with aortography . the overall accuracy for ct scanning was 53 % . from these data we conclude that in the presence of an unstable patient or where there is a strong clinical suspicion of tar the patient should proceed directly to aortography . 
delayed diagnosis of extremity injuries in patients with multiple injuries . a total of 340 patients treated in the intensive care unit of the department of orthopedics and traumatology at helsinki university central hospital were analyzed in this study . they had in all 1,071 fractures and luxations of the pelvis and extremities , of which the trauma surgeons and radiologists on duty initially missed 45 injuries , i.e. , 4.2 % . taking into account the eventual late symptoms , the most severe delayed diagnoses were of injuries located around the hip and knee joints . the patients with delayed diagnoses were , on the average , the most severely ill : their needs for primary blood transfusions and assisted respiration resembled the needs of patients who later died of their trauma or its complications . the most common causes of the delay in diagnosis were : radiographs not done in 60 % of patients , and no notation of visible injury in radiographs in 31 % . inferior quality of radiographs , unnoticed radiologists ' reports , a fracture visible at the outermost corner of a radiograph , a fracture hidden by other fractures , or excessive obesity of the patient may also contribute to a delay . the study presents measures for improving diagnostic strategies , but it would appear that delayed diagnoses can not be totally eradicated . 
timing of osteosynthesis of major fractures in patients with severe brain injury . a retrospective study was performed to assess the effects on outcome of early osteosynthesis of major extremity fractures in patients with severe brain injury ( gcs less than or equal to 7 ) . in a consecutive series of 58 patients , early osteosynthesis was performed on the day of injury in 15 patients . ( group a ) . in 43 patients no major fractures were present or no early osteosynthesis was performed ( group b ) . the severity of brain injury as seen on ct scan was similar in both groups . mortality was significantly lower in group a , despite a significantly higher iss . as to the functional end result of brain injury , an indication of a better outcome was present in group a. 
successful replantation of both legs in a child -- 5-year followup : case report . replantation of lower extremities is an infrequent procedure , and is rarely indicated , due to the usual severity of the primary injury plus the possibility of good prosthetic substitution . we report a case of successful replantation of both legs in an 8-year-old boy ( despite aspergillus flavus septicemia ) with followup of 5 years . this case suggests that leg replantation should be considered in young patients . this appears to be the second reported case of successful replantation of both legs . 
isolated hyoid bone fracture : a case report and review of the literature . isolated hyoid bone fractures secondary to trauma other than strangulation are rare and have few , if any , complications . we report a case of an isolated hyoid bone fracture that resulted in sudden and severe upper airway compromise . diagnosis of these fractures is difficult and usually can be made only with a strong degree of suspicion . patients who suffer neck injuries in whom a hyoid fracture is diagnosed or strongly suspected should be observed for 48 to 72 hours , considered for endoscopy , and treated as warranted . 
ossified chronic subdural hematoma : case report . a case of ossified chronic subdural hematoma is presented in a 13-year-old male in whom the mass was surgically removed . his neurological deficits continued afterward but were less severe . 
reflex sympathetic dystrophy after clavicle fracture : case report . reflex sympathetic dystrophy ( rsd ) of the anterior chest wall is a rare entity . a medline search in all languages of the world 's literature from 1966 to the present yielded no report of the association of clavicle fracture with this pain syndrome . two cases are presented and the anatomic variations of the supraclavicular nerves in relation to the clavicle are discussed . 
spontaneous healing of a traumatic thoracic aortic tear : case report . a patient with deceleration trauma of the thoracic aorta causing significant intimal disruption is described in whom complete angiographic resolution was documented during a period of medical management . review of the literature , along with our experience , suggests that traumatic aortic disruption constitutes a spectrum of injury rather than an all-or-none phenomenon . immediate surgery , especially in multiply injured patients , may be delayed or even postponed indefinitely if the injury is relatively limited . 
pathologic fracture through a solitary enchondroma of the radial diaphysis : case report . solitary enchondromata are rare but well recognised benign bone tumours . they are extremely rare in the radius . we report the case of a pathologic fracture through a solitary enchondroma in the radial diaphysis and its successful treatment . 
thoracoabdominal repair of a post-traumatic aortorenal vein fistula following a previous transabdominal attempt : case report . aortorenal vein fistula from trauma is a rare entity . a case is reported in which previous anterior abdominal attempts at repair rendered a thoracoabdominal approach necessary . previous reports and techniques are compared and discussed . 
hepatic portal venous gas identified by computed tomography in a patient with blunt abdominal trauma : a case report . an abdominal computed tomographic ( ct ) scan in a middle-aged man injured in a high-speed motor vehicle accident demonstrated the presence of portal venous gas . findings on initial peritoneal lavage were entirely negative . exploratory celiotomy performed because of increasing abdominal pain and leukocytosis revealed gangrene of the cecum . this report illustrates the importance of the finding of portal venous gas on ct scan in patients with blunt abdominal trauma . 
intracranial bullet migration -- a sign of brain abscess : case report . an unusual case of migration of an intracranial bullet fragment within a brain abscess is reported . movement of the bullet was first detected on skull films , and the significance of this finding on plain radiographs is emphasized . 
the role of computerized tomography in the diagnosis of an occult femoral neck fracture associated with an ipsilateral femoral shaft fracture : case report . we report a nondisplaced femoral neck and head fracture diagnosed acutely by ct scanning . this case illustrates the potential benefits of an acute femoral neck/head ct scan in obtunded polytrauma patients with high-energy femoral shaft fractures . 
bilateral fracture-dislocation of the sacroiliac joint : a case report . bilateral fracture-dislocation of the sacroiliac joint with intrapelvic displacement of the sacrum is a rare and extremely severe injury . we treated a patient with bilateral fracture-dislocation of the sacroiliac joint using a nonoperative method and obtained an excellent functional result . 
traumatic renal avulsion into the chest : case report . this is a case report of a patient who survived blunt renal avulsion and herniation of the kidney through a ruptured diaphragm . symptoms were mild considering the severity of injury . prompt diagnosis of this unusual combination of injuries was aided by contrast-enhanced computed tomography ( ct ) . 
educational status and drinking patterns : how representative are college students ? using data from a large , nationally representative sample , multiple regressions using sex , ethnicity , age and educational status showed that drinking patterns of college students differed significantly from those of dropouts , high school graduates and former college students . college students were more likely to use alcohol but tended to drink less quantity per drinking day than nonstudents of the same age . sex differences were smaller among college students than among other groups , especially in proportions of abstainers . while whites were most likely to drink if they were in college , among blacks the college students were the least likely to drink . age had little association with drinking . conclusions based on in-school samples may not generalize well to nonschool populations and should be tested , if possible , using more representative databases . 
associations between alcohol and cocaine use in a sample of problem-drinking employees . increases in cocaine use have created a new and challenging cohort of problem drinkers with dual or multiple addictions . as part of a randomized trial comparing alternative alcoholism treatments at a 10,000-employee industrial plant , we interviewed 224 new alcoholic clients of an employee assistance program ( eap ) ; 40 % used cocaine during the 6 months just prior to eap intake . compared to employees reporting no recent cocaine use , the cocaine users were younger , less often married and reported heavier drinking and more alcohol-related problems , on the job and off . even after controlling for demographic and occupational factors , and drinking indicators , cocaine users reported more binges ( being drunk 24 hours or more ) , more blackouts ( marginally significant , p = .06 ) , more absenteeism and more warnings about unacceptable job performance . alcoholic eap clients who use cocaine appear to engage in riskier drinking and to have more trouble on the job than do those who report no cocaine use , and this seems to be a difference specifically attributable to their use of cocaine . 
sex differences in personality traits and coping styles of hospitalized alcoholics . forty inpatients on an alcohol detoxication unit of a large municipal hospital were administered a battery of tests consisting of a coping styles scale , a personality profile scale , a depression scale and the brief mast . a demographically comparable comparison group of 40 outpatients attending the medical screening clinic at the same hospital also completed the battery . the two groups did not differ in terms of age , education or the ratio of men to women . there were significant differences in coping styles and personality characteristics between alcoholics and nonalcoholics and , to a large extent , between men and women within the alcoholic group . practically no significant differences were found between the men in the two groups , but female alcoholics differed greatly from nonalcoholic women in terms of coping styles , personality variables and also in terms of conflict . these findings indicate that the differences between alcoholic and nonalcoholics in the sample were due largely to patterns uniquely characterizing the female alcoholic group . results are discussed in terms of cultural expectations . 
the effectiveness of alcoholism screening in an ambulatory care setting . two hundred and eighty subjects in three ambulatory care clinics participated in this study designed to assess the psychometric properties of the smast using dsm-iii criteria for alcoholism as the diagnostic standard . eighty-two subjects ( 30 % ) who completed the nimh diagnostic interview schedule met dsm-iii criteria for alcohol abuse and/or dependence . the sensitivity of the smast , using the generally accepted weighted cut-off score of five or greater , was .56 and the specificity was .83 . an unweighted cut-off score of two or greater produced a sensitivity of .72 and a specificity of .64 . the results of this study suggest that , when the smast is used for screening in an ambulatory care clinic population , the optimum balance of sensitivity and specificity is achieved using an unweighted cut-off score of two or greater . in addition , the alcohol subscale of the diagnostic interview schedule was easy to administer and should be considered for use as the diagnostic standard in clinical settings . 
patient factors predicting early alcohol-related readmissions for alcoholics : role of alcoholism severity and psychiatric co-morbidity . the current study was undertaken primarily to identify whether psychiatric co-morbidity was associated with the rate and time of alcohol-related inpatient readmissions for a group of 255 patients discharged from alcoholism treatment at a midwestern rural medical center . a structured interview obtained information regarding psychiatric disorders , including depression , antisocial personality disorders and polysubstance abuse , as well as alcohol history and sociodemographics . ninety-eight subjects ( 38.4 % of sample ) were readmitted for alcoholism-related diagnoses within 15 months of discharge . patients with a long history of heavy drinking , high daily alcohol consumption and history of previous alcoholism treatment were most likely to be readmitted with an alcoholism-related primary diagnosis . once these variables were controlled for , other major psychiatric disorders , polysubstances abuse and sociodemographic variables did not appear to predict time to readmission . however , other potentially more sensitive outcome measures such as return to drinking were not evaluated in the present study . 
the long-term course of treated alcoholism : i. mortality , relapse and remission rates and comparisons with community controls . this study examines the course of alcoholism for a sample of patients who were followed 2 years and 10 years later after an index residential treatment episode . the alcoholic patients were 9.5 times as likely to die as matched community controls over the 8-year interval between the two follow-ups , a ratio considerably higher than that found in previous studies . of the 83 surviving and successfully followed patients , 57 % were classified as remitted at the 10-year follow-up . of the patients classified as remitted at the 2-year follow-up and recontacted 8 years later , 77 % had the same outcome status at the long-term follow-up , 67 % of the initially relapsed patients retained that status at the 10-year follow-up . the 10-year remitted patients generally were functioning as well as matched , nonproblem-drinking community controls , whereas the relapsed patients exhibited dysfunction in a number of areas . retrospective data on drinking patterns during each of the 6 years prior to the 10-year follow-up indicated a slight increase over time in the proportion of patients reporting abstinence or nonproblem drinking , with a concomitant decrease in the proportion indicating heavy or binge drinking . overall , our data show a substantially elevated mortality risk among these alcoholic patients . for those patients who survive , however , the average course is one of modest improvement . 
factors associated with alcohol use in later adolescence . the relative influence of a number of family and individual characteristics on the frequency and intensity of alcohol use in a group of older adolescents was assessed . the sample consisted of 8,661 persons ranging in age from 20 to 21 years obtained from the " high school and beyond " study . logistic regression analyses performed on both frequency and intensity of alcohol use indicated that white males from higher socioeconomic backgrounds , living in urban or suburban areas and having an external locus of control and a weak family orientation , tended to drink more frequently and consume a larger quantity of alcohol per drinking episode . results are explained from a sociocultural perspective . 
changes in anxiety among abstinent male alcoholics . symptoms of anxiety are prevalent features of alcoholics seeking treatment . in the present study levels of state anxiety among male primary alcoholics ( with no preexisting major psychiatric disorders ) were examined 3 times per week during inpatient treatment for alcoholism and again at 3 months following treatment . the 171 male alcoholics also completed the trait scale of the state trait anxiety inventory upon admission to an inpatient program and at 3 months following treatment . results indicate that recently detoxified males experience multiple anxiety symptoms , with 40 % reporting significantly elevated levels of state anxiety at admission ( greater than or equal to 75th percentile ) . by the second week of treatment state anxiety scores typically returned to the normal range although symptoms continued to decrease significantly with each week of continued abstinence . elevated levels of anxiety symptoms were more common among primary alcoholics with a history of panic episodes or generalized anxiety disorder symptoms . while abstainers and relapsers did not differ in level of anxiety observed during treatment , the relapsers report significantly higher state and trait anxiety scores at follow-up . 
antisocial alcoholics : are there clinically significant diagnostic subtypes ? of 360 alcoholic male inpatients assessed with a diagnostic interview , 106 ( 29 % ) were found to have a co-occurring diagnosis of antisocial personality . of these asp alcoholics , 86 were further subdivided into those with only asp and alcoholism ( n = 38 ) , those with asp , alcoholism and drug dependence ( n = 30 ) and those with asp , alcoholism and depression ( n = 18 ; 9 of whom also had drug abuse ) . comparisons among the three antisocial groups indicated that they differed in measures of psychopathology and course and severity of alcoholism . when the asp groups were compared to an alcoholism only group , an earlier onset , more rapid course and increased percentage of many alcoholism symptoms were found in the asp groups , confirming the findings of other studies . 
development of a measure examining children 's roles in alcoholic families . a measure assessing the roles played by children in their alcoholic families is presented . in study 1 , an item pool was generated targeting four distinct roles discussed in the alcohol literature , and the items were reviewed by a panel of experts . the children 's roles inventory ( cri ) was then administered to 140 adult children of alcoholics and their responses were used to refine the measure . observed levels of internal consistency seemed adequate ( cronbach 's alpha ranged from .89 to .95 ) . in a replication effort ( study 2 ) , the cri was administered to 142 adult children of alcoholics . internal consistency remained at acceptable levels , ranging from .90 to .95 . study 3 examined the cri 's convergent and discriminant validity . a sample of 138 adult children of alcoholics as well as a sample of 105 adults from nonalcoholic families completed the cri , a measure of self-esteem and an index of one 's use of social support . reliability results from studies 1 and 2 were replicated ( in both samples ) . likewise , in both samples the cri subscales were differentially predictive of self-esteem as well as size of and satisfaction with one 's social support network . 
children of alcoholic parents in the community . the relationship between parental alcoholism and risk for maladjustment in the offspring was investigated in a community sample . children of parents who met criteria for dis/dsm-iii alcohol abuse or dependence and children of parents who met criteria for ten other diagnoses were compared to children of " normal " parents . the data were obtained from the merging of the data banks of two major psychiatric epidemiology studies of the adult ( 17-64 ) and child ( 4-16 ) population of puerto rico . results indicated that parental alcoholism in addition to creating an adverse family environment had an effect on the relative risk for maladjustment in the offspring ( as measured by scores on the child behavior checklist ) . although previous studies have reported higher levels of externalizing behaviors in children of alcoholics , an increased risk for internalizing symptoms was observed in the children studied . similar findings were obtained for the children of parents with other psychiatric disorders suggesting that the effects of parental alcoholism in children ages 4 to 16 may not be different from the consequences of parental mental illness per se . 
snow skiing for the physically disabled . the sport of snow skiing by the physically disabled , which originated in europe in 1935 and first received attention in the united states in the 1940s , is reviewed in terms of opportunities available , instructions , adaptive equipment necessary , and benefits provided . persons with a wide variety of disabilities ( such as cerebral palsy , multiple sclerosis , spinal cord injury , hemiplegia , amputation , blindness , spina bifida , and muscular dystrophy ) can participate . accordingly , a wide range of adaptive equipment is available -- including outrigger skis , flip-skis , canting wedges , ski bras , " toe spreaders , " sit-skis , and mono-skis -- to allow safe enjoyment of the sport . programs for instruction of the disabled skier are increasing in number and popularity , and numerous opportunities are available to enter competitive events sponsored by national handicapped sports . both the participants and the instructors relate the numerous physical and psychologic benefits that can be derived from skiing ; the sport provides an almost universal enjoyment of the sense of freedom and independence . snow skiing is an enjoyable , beneficial , outdoor cold-weather activity that the disabled population can safely learn with proper instruction . 
spontaneous renal rupture during pregnancy . spontaneous rupture of the renal parenchyma or renal pelvis during pregnancy has been previously reported in 16 cases . in the case we describe in this report , the patient initially had right flank pain and nausea for 48 hours , which progressed to severe abdominal symptoms that necessitated exploratory laparotomy . cystoscopic placement of a ureteral stent relieved the obstruction and allowed spontaneous healing of the renal pelvis . dilatation of the urinary collecting system commonly occurs during pregnancy . spontaneous rupture of the renal parenchyma or renal pelvis , however , is unusual and often associated with diseased kidneys . our case is the 8th one of spontaneous rupture of the renal collecting system with no identifiable underlying pathologic condition and the 17th case of spontaneous renal rupture overall . 
traumatic intracranial aneurysms caused by missiles : their presentation and management . only 30 cases of traumatic intracranial aneurysm ( tica ) secondary to missile injury have been reported to date . to these we add 15 more cases . missile ticas are often seen on a secondary branch of the middle cerebral artery and are usually accompanied by a intracerebral hematoma ( 80 % ) or by an acute subdural hematoma ( 26 % ) . fourteen of our cases were secondary to shrapnel injuries and only one was secondary to a bullet . none of the injuries was through-and-through . ticas may enlarge in time and , seemingly inoffensive , may rupture and lead to death . all seven ticas studied histologically proved to be false aneurysms . ticas are best treated through trapping and excision . the outcome depends on the patient 's status and level of consciousness before surgery . indications for angiography are discussed . 
rupture of a giant carotid aneurysm after extracranial-to-intracranial bypass surgery . we report a case of a fatal rupture of a previously unruptured giant aneurysm of the bifurcation of the internal carotid artery ( ica ) , which occurred after an extracranial-intracranial ( ec-ic ) bypass and the partial occlusion of the ica . interim angiography showed retrograde filling of the proximal middle cerebral artery to the aneurysm . there have been four previously reported cases of giant aneurysms rupturing after treatment with an ec-ic bypass and carotid ligation , and it appears likely that a change in pressure/flow dynamics produced by the bypass may have been the cause . the technique of carotid ligation with an ec-ic bypass is used frequently to treat unclippable intracranial aneurysms , and the resulting hemodynamic changes need to be considered carefully to prevent this type of complication . to minimize hemodynamic stress on the aneurysm , we suggest that 1 ) the bypass caliber should be as small as possible consistent with sufficient cerebral blood flow after ica occlusion , and 2 ) complete ica occlusion should be performed as soon as possible after the bypass . 
nitinol gooseneck snare for removal of foreign bodies : experimental study and clinical evaluation . the authors describe their use of a new right-angle snare made of nickel-titanium ( nitinol ) cable for retrieval of foreign bodies and iatrogenically placed devices . the snare loop is at right angles to the cable and comes in five sizes ( 5 , 10 , 15 , 25 , and 35 mm ) ; its radiographic visualization is enhanced by gold-plated tungsten coils . this snare was used to retrieve wire and catheter fragments introduced into the thoracic vasculature of four dogs . eleven of 13 attempts were successful . three attempts to retrieve intravascular foreign bodies were successful in two patients ; in one of these patients , a 10-mm snare was used to remove a fractured end of a ventriculoatrial shunt tube from the left pulmonary artery . in three other patients , four ureteral stents were successfully removed under fluoroscopic guidance . all retrievals were performed through a vascular sheath and with standard techniques and angiographic equipment . no complications were seen in any of the patients or dogs . 
nerve root avulsion of birth palsy : comparison of myelography with ct myelography and somatosensory evoked potential . findings at myelography and computed tomographic ( ct ) myelography were reviewed in 21 patients ( 22 limbs ) with birth palsy ; nerve root shadows were the focus of this study . myelography demonstrated 51 completely avulsed roots ( 78 % ) and 14 incompletely avulsed roots ( 22 % ) . a traumatic meningocele was detected at 38 roots on myelograms and 51 roots on ct myelograms . thirteen avulsed roots ( eight completely and five incompletely avulsed roots ) ( 20 % ) were not associated with a meningocele . in nine patients who underwent brachial plexus exploration , myelographic findings were compared with root somatosensory evoked potential ( sep ) . sep was not induced at 22 of 25 completely avulsed roots and was induced at all seven incompletely avulsed roots . myelography and sep were consistent in 29 of 32 roots ( 91 % ) . it is concluded that myelography is indispensable for preoperative evaluation of cervical nerve root avulsion of birth palsy , because ct myelography is not sensitive to nerve root avulsion without a traumatic meningocele , and sep can not enable one to discriminate incomplete avulsion from intact roots . 
tears of cruciate ligaments and menisci : evaluation with cine mr imaging . a cine magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging technique , involving the acquisition of kinematic sagittal images during knee movement , was used to evaluate 52 symptomatic knee joints . results were compared with those obtained by means of static three-dimensional ( 3d ) mr imaging . twenty-seven of the 28 anterior cruciate ligament ( acl ) tears and 22 of 24 normal ligaments were correctly identified at cine mr imaging for a sensitivity of 96 % and a specificity of 92 % . static 3d mr imaging yielded a sensitivity of 71 % and a specificity of 88 % . all four posterior cruciate ligament tears were identified at cine and 3d mr imaging . for meniscal tears , cine mr imaging yielded a sensitivity of 48 % and a specificity of 96 % ; the sensitivity and specificity for 3d mr imaging were 71 % and 96 % , respectively . cine mr imaging proved to be more useful than static mr imaging in assessing the tightness of cruciate ligaments , especially of those that were partially torn , and in assessing the movement of meniscal-free fragments . the increased information obtained with cine mr imaging may warrant continued investigation and clinical application . 
maternal predictors of fetal demise in trauma during pregnancy . trauma complicates 6 to 7 per cent of all pregnancies , but fetal demise secondary to maternal trauma occurs much less frequently . this study was done to analyze the incidence of fetal demise as a function of 21 maternal characteristics determined within the first 24 hours after trauma . nine instances of fetal demise were identified from 73 pregnant patients with trauma admitted to four level i trauma centers from a combined data base of 30,000 patients . maternal factors examined by logistic regression were injury severity score ( iss ) , trauma score ( ts ) , abbreviated injury scale ( ais ) , fluid requirements in the initial 24 hours , systolic blood pressure ( sbp ) , heart rate ( hr ) , hemoglobin , hematocrit and arterial blood gas analysis . fetal demise was found to be associated with increasing iss , increasing face and abdominal ais , increasing fluid requirements , maternal acidosis and maternal hypoxia . standard maternal laboratory and physiologic parameters , such as hemoglobin and hematocrit , oxygen and hemoglobin saturation , partial pressure of carbon dioxide , sbp and hr were not predictive . the ts was also found to be nonpredictive . 
bull horn injuries . bull horn injury is not uncommon , and during a 12 year period from 1977 to 1988 , 101 patients required inpatient treatment at the christian medical college hospital , a teaching hospital at vellore in south india . the ages of these patients ranged from two years to 90 years and the male to female ratio was 4:1 . sixty-one per cent of the injuries occurred either to the perineum or abdomen and wounds were directed obliquely upward . thirty-five per cent required extensive surgical intervention . the over-all wound infection rate was 12.9 per cent . of wounds that were primarily closed , 42.9 per cent had wound infection , while only 6.3 per cent that were secondarily closed developed infection . two patients died as a consequence of the injury . based on the results of this study , we recommend that a careful evaluation of the injury and timely and appropriate management of each patient must be done to reduce morbidity and mortality . primary closure of wounds must be avoided even when surgical intervention is possible soon after injury . 
skateboarding injuries in children . a second wave . motivated by a number of skateboard-related injuries seen in an emergency department , we undertook an investigation of skateboarding injuries in the mid-1980s . we studied us consumer product safety commission injury frequency estimates , which indicated a resurgence of these injuries : 19,182 in 1984 and 37,180 in 1985 . children 10 to 14 years old were injured with greatest frequency . nontrivial injuries were more common among children younger than 5 years old , reflecting a larger proportion of head and neck injuries . boys sustained more frequent and more severe skateboard-related injuries . observed injury patterns ( head and neck injuries in younger children , extremity injuries in older children , and more severe head and neck injuries in older children ) probably reflect the role of psychomotor development on both risk exposure and biomechanics . likely prevention strategies include warnings against skateboard use by children younger than 5 years , prohibition of skateboards on streets and highways , and the promotion of use of helmets and other protective gear . 
predicting onset and chronicity of women 's problem drinking : a five-year longitudinal analysis . background . longitudinal studies of adult drinking have typically excluded or sampled only small numbers of problem drinking women , and have measured a limited range of influences on women 's drinking behavior . methods . to study the development of women 's problem drinking over time , five-year follow-up interviews were conducted with two groups of respondents from a 1981 national survey of women 's drinking : 143 problem drinkers and 157 nonproblem drinkers . regression analyses examined effects of 1981 predictors on six measures of 1986 problem drinking , for problem drinkers and nonproblem drinkers separately . results . among 1981 nonproblem drinkers , predictors of onset of problem drinking indicators by 1986 included younger age , cohabiting , and lifetime use of drugs other than alcohol . the most consistent predictor of persistent ( chronic ) problem drinking was sexual dysfunction ; other predictor included being employed part-time or never married , and experiencing recent depression . divorce or separation predicted lower levels of subsequent alcohol dependance among problem drinkers . conclusions . findings suggest that different personal and social factors predict the onset of problem drinking as compared with its continuation , and point to nontraditional life-style , sexual dysfunction , and role deprivation as potentially important variables . 
a prospective , randomized study of three surgical techniques for treatment of acute ruptures of the anterior cruciate ligament . treatment of acl tears is controversial . recent reports on nonoperative treatment have shown poor results . results after primary repair have deteriorated with time , leading to augmentation procedures that seem to have improved the results . however , there have been few prospective , randomized studies in this field . our goal was to compare primary repair with a bone-patellar tendon-bone augmentation method and with a new method using the kennedy ligament augmentation device . one hundred fifty patients aged 16 to 50 , all of whom had acute acl tears , were randomized with the closed envelope method to one of three groups treated with open surgical methods . fifty patients were treated with primary repair , 50 patients with patellar tendon augmentation , and 50 patients were augmented with the kennedy ligament augmentation device . all patients were operated on within 10 days of injury . the rehabilitation protocol was identical , consisting of a long leg cast for 2 weeks , followed by a brace with no weight-bearing and limited motion for 6 weeks . the patients were followed prospectively by one surgeon ( le ) using the lysholm functional score , tegner activity level score , clinical evaluation and kt-1000 arthrometer at 6 months , 1 , and 2 years . three patients were lost to followup . there was no age or activity level difference between the groups . sport activities led to 85 % of the injuries , with skiing , soccer , and european handball representing 80 % of injuries . all three groups reduced their activity level the 1st year . the repair group remained at the same level after 2 years . 
on the importance of planned health education . prevention of ski injury as an example . the planning of health education aimed at preventing sports injuries is often incomplete and not stated explicitly . in most instances , the evaluation is incomplete or nonexistent . we present a theoretical framework for planning and evaluating health education , illustrating the main points by using as an example the health education for downhill skiers . systematic planning consists of analyzing the magnitude of the problem and the behavioral risk factors , studying behavior determinants , designing an optimal intervention , and implementing the intervention . the evaluation phase deals with the effects on these five levels ( implementation , intervention , determinants , behavior , and incidence of injury ) . some common pitfalls are mentioned and special attention is given to the study of determinants of behavior and to the design of the intervention . the importance of pretesting health education material and the community approach in educating sports participants is underlined . health education , together with regulations and facilities , constitutes the health promotion strategy in the prevention of sports injuries . for most sports , there seems to be a strong need for further research on the etiology and determinants of behavior before effective prevention can be realized . 
meniscus repair in the anterior cruciate deficient knee . from 1979 to 1986 , isolated repair of a peripheral vascular zone meniscal tear was performed in 22 patients ( 23 menisci ) who had acl insufficiency . for various reasons none of these patients underwent repair or reconstruction of their acl . the meniscus repair was done by open arthrotomy in 12 cases and by arthroscopic techniques in 11 cases . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the success rate of a meniscal repair in an anterior cruciate deficient knee . the average age of the patients at the time of surgery was 25 years and the average followup was 56 months . six patients ( 26 % ) had mild occasional pain not requiring medication and one patient had moderate pain requiring nonnarcotic pain medication . eight patients ( 26 % ) had occasional giving way episodes and one of them underwent acl reconstruction 5 years later because of frequent giving way . one patient required a postoperative manipulation for inadequate range of motion , but there were no neurovascular injuries or infections . there were three patients ( 13 % ) who had failed repairs or a retear and required subsequent subtotal meniscectomies . none of the other patients had any clinical symptoms or signs of a meniscal tear . there were no significant differences between the results of open or arthroscopic repair . even though the failure rate of meniscus repair may be greater in an unstable knee , we conclude that meniscus repair is not contraindicated in an anterior cruciate deficient knee . 
the conservative treatment of the anterior cruciate deficient knee . seventy-nine recreational athletes ( average age , 26 years ) with complete acl tears were treated with nonligamentous arthroscopic surgery , monitored rehabilitation , functional bracing , and activity modification . the average followup was 52 months ( range , 36 to 102 months ) . six ( 8 % ) patients ultimately underwent ligament reconstruction and were considered failures of nonreconstructive treatment . the remaining 73 patients were the subject of detailed analysis . there were 9 ( 11 % ) excellent , 25 ( 32 % ) good , 17 ( 22 % ) fair , and 28 ( 35 % ) poor results . although 71 patients ( 97 % ) were satisfied with their knee for activities of daily living , only 36 ( 49 % ) were satisfied with their knee for sports . twenty-nine ( 40 % ) had significantly modified their athletic activities . age , sex , interval from injury to treatment , associated meniscal tears ( 49 or 67 % ) , and articular cartilage damage ( 21 or 29 % ) had no apparent effect on the outcome . poor results were noted in 29 ( 40 % ) patients with significant pivot shifts . multiple repeat injuries , repeat arthroscopy , isokinetic deficits , and increased length of followup were also associated with poor results . 
prevention of common overuse injuries by the use of shock absorbing insoles . a prospective study . sedentary individuals , particularly new military recruits , who start a physical training program have a substantial risk of developing an overuse injury of the lower limb . in this study we investigated the effect of neoprene insoles on the incidence of overuse injuries during 9 weeks of basic military training . the experimental group consisted of 237 randomly selected new recruits , while 1151 recruits were the control group . insoles were given to the experimental group and compliance was monitored . a panel of doctors documented and classified all injuries occurring during the 9 week period . a total of 54 ( 22.8 % ) and 237 ( 31.9 % ) injuries were reported in the experimental and control groups , respectively . in both groups , the majority of injuries were overuse ( experimental group , 90.7 % ; control group , 86.4 % ) . the mean weekly incidence of total overuse injuries and tibial stress syndrome was significantly lower ( p less than 0.05 ) in the experimental group . the mean incidence of stress fractures was lower in the experimental group but not significantly so ( 0.05 less than p less than 0.1 ) . this study shows that the incidence of total overuse injuries and tibial stress syndrome during 9 weeks of basic military training can be reduced by wearing insoles . 
cerebellar and frontal hypometabolism in alcoholic cerebellar degeneration studied with positron emission tomography . local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was studied utilizing 18f-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose and positron emission tomography ( pet ) in 14 chronically alcohol-dependent patients and 8 normal control subjects of similar age and sex . nine of the 14 patients ( group a ) had clinical signs of alcoholic cerebellar degeneration , and the remaining 5 ( group b ) did not have signs of alcoholic cerebellar degeneration . pet studies of group a revealed significantly decreased local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in the superior cerebellar vermis in comparison with the normal control subjects . group b did not show decreased rates in the cerebellum . both groups a and b showed decreased local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose bilaterally in the medial frontal area of the cerebral cortex in comparison with the normal control subjects . the severity of the clinical neurological impairment was significantly correlated with the degree of hypometabolism in both the superior cerebellar vermis and the medial frontal region of the cerebral cortex . the degree of atrophy detected in computed tomography scans was significantly correlated with local cerebral metabolic rates in the medial frontal area of the cerebral cortex , but not in the cerebellum . the data indicate that hypometabolism in the superior cerebellar vermis closely follows clinical symptomatology in patients with alcoholic cerebellar degeneration , and does not occur in alcohol-dependent patients without clinical evidence of cerebellar dysfunction . hypometabolism in the medial frontal region of the cerebral cortex is a prominent finding in alcohol-dependent patients with or without alcoholic cerebellar degeneration . 
diagnostic capabilities of magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography in acute cervical spinal column injury . the present study was conducted to evaluate the imaging capabilities of magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in evaluating acute cervical spinal column injury and compare these results to that of computed tomographic ( ct ) imaging . forty-nine patients undergoing mri at a level i and regional spinal cord trauma center to evaluate cervical spinal column injury were studied . seventy-one injuries were identified by mri . these injuries were classified as osseous ( fracture/dislocation ) ( n = 21 ) , disc herniation ( n = 29 ) , and spinal cord injury ( edema/contusion/transection ) ( n = 21 ) . diagnostic imaging results in 33 of the 49 patients undergoing both mri and ct were compared . ct demonstrated 22 fracture/dislocations compared to 10 on mri . mri demonstrated 19 disc protrusions compared to 7 on ct . additionally , mr imaged 13 cord injuries as compared to 0 by ct . mr imaging proved superior in demonstrating spinal cord pathology and intervertebral disc herniation . ct was superior to mri in demonstrating osseous injury . ct and mri may be useful together in determining presence and extent of spinal column injury . 
evaluation of minor head trauma in children younger than two years . the recent medical literature emphasizes the limitations of skull films in the evaluation of minor head trauma . however , the emergency medicine literature places little emphasis on the particular risks in children younger than 2 years old with blunt head injury . these children have immature bone and unfused sutures that may increase risk of cranial injury and delayed complications . a case is presented to illustrate this point . unlike severe head trauma , where evaluation is directed toward computed tomography , the literature continues to be controversial regarding the indications for skull radiographs and computed tomography in minor head trauma . the authors recommend a low threshold for radiographic imaging in blunt heat injuries in children younger than 2 years . 
bilateral vocal cord hematomas associated with shoulder harness use . a case of bilateral vocal cord hematomas caused by a shoulder harness injury is presented . the patient was restrained by a three-point belt system and was involved in a front-end collision . she presented with mild facial and chest injuries and a contusion of the neck . one hour after injury she began to complain of hoarseness without airway compromise . fiberoptic laryngoscopy showed bilateral true vocal cord hematomas . the patient had an uneventful hospital course and a full recovery . the importance of the mechanism of injury and associated injuries is discussed . 
saltpeter ingestion . a 37-year-old man presented to the emergency department after an attempt to self-treat his priapism with saltpeter ( k+no 3 ) . initially he had a potassium of 7.6 with electrocardiographic changes and a markedly elevated co2 . the potassium and carbon dioxide normalized in less than 24 hours with standard treatment for hyperkalemia . hyperkalemia is expected with large oral potassium ingestion ; and the elevated co2 was spurious , caused by the misreading of serum nitrates by the ektachrom 700 system . ingestion of k+no 3 should be added to the differential of hyperkalemia with a markedly elevated co2 . 
tension pneumothorax associated with hyperbaric oxygen therapy . the authors present three patients who developed a tension pneumothorax while receiving emergent hyperbaric oxygen therapy for acute carbon monoxide poisoning . each patient was intubated and received closed chest compressions for cardiac arrest prior to hyperbaric oxygenation . despite the apparent absence of pneumothorax prior to hyperbaric therapy , tension pneumothorax was detected soon after decompression . these cases illustrate the need for vigilance in detecting and addressing pneumothorax prior to hyperbaric decompression in obtunded patients . serial physical examinations , arterial blood gas determinations , properly positioned chest radiographs , and a high index of suspicion for pneumothorax in the setting of emergent hyperbaric therapy are recommended . 
histology of the lens in the weill-marchesani syndrome . the weill-marchesani syndrome is a rare systemic connective tissue disease characterised by small stature , brachydactyly , ectopia lentis , and spherophakia . three siblings with typical manifestations of this syndrome were reported . the ophthalmological findings in all these cases were spherophakia , severe myopia , a shallow anterior chamber , and narrow angle glaucoma . two cases underwent laser iridotomy and drug treatment . in the third case the lens was removed from the eye because of injury , and this lens was examined by light and electron microscopy . 
radiation-associated valvular disease . the prevalence of radiation-associated cardiac disease is increasing due to prolonged survival following mediastinal irradiation . side effects of radiation include pericarditis , accelerated coronary artery disease , myocardial fibrosis and valvular injury . we evaluated the cases of three young patients with evidence of significant valvular disease following mediastinal irradiation . one patient underwent the first reported successful aortic and mitral valve replacement for radiation-associated valvular disease ( ravd ) as well as concurrent coronary artery revascularization . a review of the literature revealed 35 reported cases of ravd , with only one successful case of valve replacement that was limited to the aortic valve . asymptomatic ravd is diagnosed 11.5 years after mediastinal irradiation compared with 16.5 years for symptomatic patients , emphasizing that long-term follow-up is important for patients receiving mediastinal irradiation . this study defines a continuum of valvular disease following radiation that begins with mild asymptomatic valvular thickening and progresses to severe valvular fibrosis with hemodynamic compromise requiring surgical intervention . 
barium sulfate bronchography . report of a complication . alveolarization of the barium sulfate and subsequent retention of barium sulfate for years was demonstrated in three patients in whom dilute suspension of barium sulfate in water was used for bronchography . pathologic examination in one patient showed barium sulfate within macrophages in the alveolar spaces and walls and in the perivascular and peribronchial interstitium . since the residual barium sulfate interferes with imaging procedures of the lungs , it represents an unwanted event in patients with pulmonary disease . high-resolution computed tomography is the preferred method of evaluating for bronchiectasis . if bronchogram is performed , it should be performed after bronchoscopy using oily propyliodone ( dionosil ) . 
circulating tumor necrosis factor , interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 concentrations in chronic alcoholic patients . although altered cytokine homeostasis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of alcoholic liver disease , the relationship between cytokines and metabolic consequences of alcoholic liver disease is unknown . we , therefore , sought to correlate circulating concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha , interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 to clinical and biochemical parameters of liver disease in chronic alcoholic patients . we used an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to measure plasma tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1 and a bioassay to measure serum interleukin-6 in three groups of alcoholic men as follows : ( a ) actively drinking alcoholic men without evidence of chronic liver disease , ( b ) nondrinking alcoholic men with stable cirrhosis and ( c ) patients with acute alcoholic hepatitis . mean cytokine concentrations were elevated in cirrhotic patients and alcoholic hepatitis patients compared with controls and alcoholic patients without liver disease . tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 alpha concentrations remained elevated for up to 6 mo after diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis , whereas interleukin-6 normalized in parallel with clinical recovery . concentrations of all three cytokines were correlated with biochemical parameters of liver injury and hepatic protein synthesis plus serum immunoglobulin concentrations . we could not demonstrate a relationship between cytokine concentrations and peripheral endotoxemia . percentages of peripheral blood monocytes that reacted with monoclonal antibodies to cd25 ( interleukin-2 receptor ) and human lymphocyte antigen-dr were similar for alcoholic patients and controls . these data suggest that tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 alpha are related to some of the metabolic consequences of both acute and chronic alcohol-induced liver disease , whereas interleukin-6 is related to abnormalities seen in acute liver injury . 
pancreatic pseudocyst in the left hepatic lobe : a report of two cases . the ultrasound and computed tomographic imaging features in a rare pancreatic pseudocyst of the liver are described in two patients . the pseudocysts occurred in the left lobe in both cases , one after a traumatic injury and the other after alcoholic pancreatitis . the possible topographical sequences with which pancreatic secretions entered the left hepatic lobe to form a cyst are discussed . 
the 1990 everett idris evans memorial lecture : the inhalation injury . the most important question that had to be answered from our animal data was whether a significant difference existed between the two groups . it could be observed that the resuscitation with ringer 's lactate did not lead to any increased lymph flow or total transcapillary protein flow in spite of the drop in protein and oncotic pressure in plasma . with ringer 's lactate there was a lower lymph to plasma protein ratio , which might be significant . no negative difference could be observed either in the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure or pulmonary vessel resistance . all animals survived throughout the experiment , and in all experiments no advantages regarding the vital parameters could be ascertained with the administration of albumin ; however , several factors must be borne in mind . the inhalation injury was from a heat source alone and no toxic substances were involved . only inhalation trauma was induced in the absence of a surface burn wound . the duration of the observation was for only 36 hours . thus some caution must be observed in applying these findings to a clinical situation . in our evaluation of the clinical results , we have seen that no differences could be established in regard to pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and extravascular lung water between the ringer 's lactate and the albumin group . in spite of a 50 % drop in oncotic pressure , however , this is only valid for the first 24 to 36 hours , after which one could assume that a further protein drop coupled with a still raised hydrostatic filtration coefficient would lead to interstitial edema . 
hageman factor-dependent kinin activation in burns and its theoretical relationship to postburn immunosuppression syndrome and infection . burn injury and intradermal injection of bradykinin or histamine cause permeability changes visualized as dye-release lesions in the skin of guinea pigs injected intravenously with evans blue dye . antihistamine pretreatment ablates the histamine but not the effect of thermal injury or bradykinin . bradykinin is generated via activation of hageman factor in a two-step reaction . steps 1 and 2 can be inhibited by corn trypsin inhibitor and soy bean trypsin inhibitors , respectively . dye-release lesions were reduced from thermal injury and bradykinin injections when these substances were injected into the skin first . angiotensin-converting enzyme deactivates bradykinin by degrading it . angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor neutralizes angiotensin-converting enzyme . dye-release lesions from both thermal injury and bradykinin injection were enhanced because of continued bradykinin build-up when these treatments were preceded by subcutaneous injections of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor . thus bradykinin is generated in thermal injury via the hageman factor-dependent pathway . hageman factor sits at the apex of a series of interrelated cascade systems , all of which impinge on the animal 's immune status . uncontrolled hagemen factor activation in thermal injury may be the link among all the events collectively known as the " post thermal injury immunosuppression syndrome . " . 
persistence of fetal bovine serum proteins in human keratinocytes . cultured human keratinocytes are used for skin grafts , but their success is limited by late graft loss . development of antibody to fetal bovine serum ( fbs ) protein used in culture media for in vitro keratinocyte growth has been identified . the persistence of fbs antigen in skin grafts is important in the induction of the immune response and the susceptibility of the keratinocytes to immune-mediated injury . the magnitude and longevity of fbs protein persistence on human keratinocytes was studied . secondary passage human keratinocytes were grown in media supplemented with 5 % fbs . the media was changed to one supplemented with pooled human ab serum , and the amount of fbs protein incorporated in the tissue was measured over the following 8 days by an elisa reaction directed against fbs antigen . incorporated fbs antigen decreased for the first 3 days to 31 % of maximum . there was no further significant decrease for 5 days . keratinocytes grown in alternative serum supplements ( nuserum [ collaborative research inc. , bedford , mass. ] and serum plus [ hazelton research products inc. , lenexa , kan. ] ) , which contain reduced amounts of fbs , offered no significant reduction in fbs protein incorporation . this duration of antigen persistence would make human keratinocytes susceptible to cell destruction by immune response to fbs and may contribute to delayed loss of human keratinocyte grafts . 
time course of alterations in lung lymph and bronchial blood flows after inhalation injury . the effects of inhalation injury on the pulmonary microvascular fluid flux and bronchial blood flow were examined in a long-term study of sheep ( n = 13 ) . they were insufflated with either 48 breaths of cotton smoke ( n = 8 ) or air ( n = 5 ) while they were deeply anesthetized with halothane . after injury , anesthesia was discontinued and the animals were mechanically ventilated throughout the experimental period ( 24 hours ) . bronchial blood flow increased significantly at all time points recorded and reached its peak 20 minutes after the inhalation trauma ( 11 + / - 1 ml/hr to 106 + / - 18 ml/hr ; p less than 0.05 ) . thereafter , bronchial blood flow decreased to a value that was six to eight times above the baseline measurement for the remainder of the study period . with these changes in blood flow , there was a concomitant increase in lung lymph flow . this variable gradually increased and was 633 % of the baseline value ( 6 + / - 1 ml/hr to 44 + / - 8 ml/hr ) 24 hours after the challenge with smoke . the control animals showed little or no change in cardiopulmonary function during the experimental period . there is no correlation between the increase in bronchial blood flow and lung lymph flow patterns after cotton smoke inhalation injury . 
determination of tissue viability in experimental electrical injuries . electrical burns or ischemia ( induced by vascular ligation ) were produced in the legs of 15 anesthetized dogs to study evolution of tissue changes compared with impedance alterations . after the application of 1-ampere currents at 60 hz , animals were monitored from 1 to 4 days . muscle impendance was measured with frequency sweeping to determine tissue destruction . nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( phosphorus 31 ) was used to assess metabolic activity , and results were compared to impedance measurements . in burned limbs , 70 % reduction in muscle impedance was seen , which corresponds to decreased metabolic activity ( absent organic phosphates ) and suggests necrosis . visually viable tissue had impedance decreases of 25 % and levels of organic phosphates slightly lower than normal . relaxation frequencies in dogs with severe burns exceeded 80 khz ; in viable tissue , 30 to 40 khz ( normal : 30 khz ) . in ischemic muscle , organic phosphates decreased rapidly ( 1 to 2 hours ) ; impedance changes evolved more slowly ( 1 day ) , but they ultimately reached the same degree of severity . measurement of impedance may be a valuable adjunct in the evaluation of electrical burns , since significant changes strongly suggest nonviability . 
elevated serum aluminum levels in severely burned patients who are receiving large quantities of albumin . aluminum contaminates various fluids that are used in intravenous therapy , and it is associated with bone disease and encephalopathy . albumin is highly contaminated with aluminum , which is eliminated primarily by renal excretion . patients with burns receive large quantities of albumin and have impaired renal function , which puts them at hypothetical risk for aluminum loading . to assess the risk of aluminum loading we analyzed sera from 12 patients with burns for aluminum concentrations . serum aluminum concentration was elevated in 8 of the 12 patients , and levels were at or near toxicity in 3 of the 8 . serum aluminum and serum creatinine levels directly correlated , r = 0.71 and p less than 0.005 . no relation was found between serum aluminum and amount of albumin received . however , patients with the highest serum aluminum levels were the most severely burned and none survived . thus patients with burns who are receiving albumin are at risk for aluminum loading . impaired renal function contributes to aluminum retention . 
observations on stability and contraction of composite skin grafts : xenodermis or allodermis with an isograft overlay . composite skin grafts of xenodermis or allodermis with a thin split-thickness isograft overlay were evaluated for stability and contraction . male inbred lewis rats were used as recipients , with buffalo rats serving as allogeneic dermis donors . cryopreserved human skin was used for xenodermis grafts . the two components of the composite graft , the xenodermis or allodermis and the isograft overlay , were grafted in one operation to a surgically created wound . wounds were observed for 1 year . the composite skin grafts took fairly well , although spotty loss of the overlaid isograft was noted . the xenodermis and allodermis remained grossly intact even at 1 year after grafting . however , composite skin grafts in this animal model contracted more than did sheet isografts alone . 
burns from hot oil and grease : a public health hazard . we examined the incidence , etiology , and morbidity of burns due to hot oil and grease . over a 10-year period from 1976 to 1985 , of 1818 patients hospitalized for burns , 85 ( 4.7 % ) injuries were due to hot grease or oil . the mean age was 20 years ; 34 % of patients were less than 8 years old . the mean total body surface areas of second - and third-degree burns was 11.5 % ( range 0.5 % to 40 % ) , and the average length of hospital stay was 19.6 days . fifty-eight percent of patients required split-thickness skin grafting ( n = 49 ) , three required intubation , and one required tracheostomy . seventy-eight percent of oil burns occurred in the home . the most common circumstances consisted of children who grabbed the handle or electric cord of a frying pan and pulled the hot oil down onto themselves . ( nineteen of the 29 children were less than 8 years old ( 66 % ) . ) burns due to cooking oil and grease are associated with considerable morbidity . the high boiling point , high viscosity , and potential combustibility of oil increase the potential soft-tissue damage when compared with typical scald injuries from hot water . the dangers of children pulling on the appliance , the dangers of transporting hot oil , the importance of supervision while children are cooking , and the importance of knowledge of the management of grease fires is stressed . public education is needed to underline the potential seriousness of these burns . 
bad advice ; bad burn : a new problem in burn prevention . deep partial-thickness burns had been inflicted on the perineal area of an infant who was recently treated in our burn center . the burns were a result of advice to the patient 's mother by a pediatrician . the doctor told her to use a hair dryer to prevent diaper rash . we surveyed pediatricians , well-baby clinics , and pediatric nurse practitioners in our area and found that approximately half of them advised the use of hair dryers to treat or prevent diaper rash . we tested four widely available hand-held hair dryers to determine potential for inflicting burn injury . all of the dryers are capable of delivering air heated to at least 53 degrees c after 2 minutes of use . we believe that warnings against the use of hair dryers for perineal hygiene should be included in burn prevention programs . 
a descriptive summary of new jersey 's 1985 burn population . data obtained from the new jersey state department of health on the 1985 hospitalized patients with burns and data collected from the national burn victim foundation 's standard burn reporting form were analyzed to gather information about the epidemiology of burns . children ( 0 to 4 years of age ) continue to be the largest percentage of the 0 - to 18-year-old age group who sustain burn injuries , and 67 % of those injuries are sustained by children under the age of 5 . males accounted for 69 % of the total burn population ; 58 % of admissions were white ; 69 % of patients were admitted for partial-thickness burns , and 31 % were admitted for full-thickness burns ; the largest primary payer was third-party payers ; and 92 % of patients with burns were discharged to home or self-care . data were also analyzed by examination of selected age groups to determine individual needs of specific groups . an analysis of burn injuries reported to the national burn victim foundation confirmed previous reports that the home is the most likely place for a burn injury to occur and that flame and scald injuries predominate ; scald injuries comprise 50 % of all sustained burns . gasoline vapors accounted for 54 % of burn injuries caused by flames . the data supported efforts to develop programs that address the needs of the urban child , the 17 - to 19-year-old age groups , and the elderly . the information that was collected served to redefine objectives for burn prevention programs . 
infection control in a burn center . no consensus has been reached on the ideal isolation technique to prevent hospital-acquired infection in the patient with burns . this study reports four 2-month consecutive periods of microbial surveillance in a burn center intensive care unit . phase i , the first period of surveillance , demonstrated a unit-acquired colonization rate of 63 % , with the marker organisms appearing at 4 to 8 days . direct observation of isolation technique showed a 51 % error rate . a mandatory educational session reviewing the high colonization rates , observed breaks in isolation technique , and principles of infection control failed to decrease the colonization rates as measured in phase ii . a simplified isolation technique was adopted , which led to a decrease in unit-acquired colonization , from 63 % to 33 % in phase iii from phase i values ( p = 0.0514 ) ; and to a significant delay in inception , from 7.8 to 21 days , in those colonized with pseudomonas aeruginosa ( p less than 0.05 ) . the simplified isolation technique decreased isolation costs over a 6-month period from $ 53,000 to $ 30,000 . to confirm the decrease colonization rates from phase i to phase iii , a fourth 2-month surveillance period was undertaken 6 months later . phase iv demonstrated similar results to those of phase iii . 
sudden death and sleeping history among finnish men . an autopsy was performed in 460 consecutive cases of sudden death among 35 - to 76-year-old men . the closest cohabiting individual known to each decreased subject was interviewed . snoring history was obtained in 321 of the 371 interviews . in 86 cases there was a history of ' habitual ' ( almost always or always ) snoring , and 88 men snored ' often ' . the mean age of subjects was 55.4 years . the mean body mass index ( bmi ) was 26.3 kg m-2 . among the obese snorers ( n = 82 ) , apnoeas had been observed ' occasionally ' , ' often ' , or ' habitually ' in 49 cases . death was classified as cardiovascular in 186 ( 40.4 % ) cases . cardiovascular cause of death was more common among those who snored habitually or often than among those who snored occasionally or never ( p less than 0.05 ) . ' habitual ' snorers died more often while sleeping ( p less than 0.05 ) . habitual snoring was found to be a risk factor for morning death ( p less than 0.01 ) . the possibility of obstructive sleep apnoea as a cause of sudden death should at least be considered if the decreased is known to have been a habitual snorer . 
drugs and femoral neck fracture : a case-control study . two hundred consecutive patients with femoral neck fractures ( fnf ) and 200 controls matched by age , sex , nursing home residency and number of admissions within the last 2 years , were interviewed about recent drug use . the matching criteria were chosen to achieve case and control groups that were comparable with regard to overall physical disability . thus a preliminary study had shown fnf to be strongly associated with nursing home residency and to be correlated with the number of recent hospital admissions . fnf was found to be negatively associated with use of coronary drugs ( or = 0.27 ; 95 % ci = 0.11-0 .70 ) and positively associated with drug use in general ( or = 2.00 ; 95 % ci = 1.04-3 .05 ) . the or for the various classes of psychotropic drugs was consistently greater than 1. , although this was not statistically significant . an inherent problem in interpreting such findings is that underlying disease may predispose the subject to both fnf and drug use , thus creating a non-causal relationship . 
job dimensions associated with severe disability due to cardiovascular disease . this study explored associations among job activities and disability due to cardiovascular disease by merging national disability data with independently-obtained job activity data . disability data were taken from a 1978 u.s. health interview survey ( n = 9855 ) . expert ratings of job activities ( dimensions ) were obtained from a job analysis database ( n = 2485 occupations ) . the two databases were merged such that job dimension data were imputed to each occupation in the disability database . odds ratios for cardiovascular disability were calculated for scores in the second , third , and fourth quartiles for each of the 32 job dimensions , using scores in the first quartile as the standard . job dimensions associated with cardiovascular disability were ( a ) hazardous situations ; ( b ) vigilant work and responsibility for others ; ( c ) exchanging job-related information ; and ( d ) attention to devices . occupations identified with high scores on these job dimensions included transportation jobs ( air traffic controllers , airline pilots and attendants , bus drivers , locomotive engineers , truck drivers ) , teachers ( preschool , adult education ) , and craftsmen/foremen ( machinists , carpenters , and foremen ) . 
lag screw fixation of mandibular angle fractures . this article presents a technique of applying lag screws for treating fractures of the mandibular angle . a review of 30 patients who had lag screws placed to treat such fractures showed that it is an extremely useful , but technique-sensitive , method of providing rigid internal fixation . the advantages and complications of this technique over bone-plate fixation are discussed . 
controlled drinking , treatment effectiveness , and the disease model of addiction : a commentary on the ideological wishes of stanton peele . despite a long history of extravagant claims followed by sobering discomfirmations , advocates of controlled drinking continue to promote nonabstinent treatment goals and procedures for alcoholics . recent claims by stanton peele in favor of controlled drinking are examined critically in the context of a continuing debate concerning empirical studies of nonabstinent treatment goals , treatment effectiveness , and inpatient versus out-patient treatment of alcoholism . peele 's views concerning " conventional disease-based alcoholism treatment , " controlled drinking , and " the disease model " are shown to be based largely on inadequate scholarship , misrepresentations of the literature , inappropriate comparisons , unwarranted generalizations , and straw-man arguments . 
a spreadsheet for aids : estimating heterosexual injection drug user population size from aids statistics in san francisco . a single-page computer spreadsheet can be used to back-calculate the size of the population at risk from the reported number of aids cases and hiv seropositivity levels for that population . however , cohen ( 1988:35 ) has cautioned that " this method requires some heroic assumptions , and is , therefore , fraught with difficulty . " slight variations in the definition of aids , in the progression rate , and in reported seropositivity rates used as data in the spreadsheet can make enormous differences in the results obtained through back-calculation . despite the limitations of the method , an estimate of the possible size of the idu population can be derived from back-calculation , with careful consideration of ethnographic realities taken into account . in san francisco , the present authors believe that there were approximately 13,000 heterosexual idus as of the end of 1989 . further demographic divisions by ethnicity , age , sex , and even neighborhood could be made using the same techniques , if aids cases and seropositivity levels could be obtained for each variable . table ii predicts a cumulative 705 aids diagnoses among san francisco heterosexual idus by the end of 1993 , or nearly six times as many as reported through 1988 . this prediction is based on an assumption of 2.5 % seroconversion per year ( 1989-1993 ) and on modest progression-rate increments of 5 % , 5 % , 4 % , 3 % , and 3 % in the eleventh through fifteenth years after hiv infection . thus , it shows the magnitude of the epidemic that san francisco will shortly face and emphasizes the need to act vigorously to prevent further hiv contagion among idus as well as from them to their heterosexual partners ( drug using or not ) . 
should alcoholics compete equally for liver transplantation ? the circumstances of liver transplantation are unique among organ transplantation because of the dire , absolute scarcity of donor livers and the predominance of one disease -- alcohol-related end-stage liver disease -- as the principal cause of liver failure . we propose that patients who develop end-stage liver disease through no fault of their own should have higher priority for receiving a liver transplant than those whose end-stage liver disease results from failure to obtain treatment for alcoholism . we base our proposal on considerations of fairness and on whether public support for liver transplantation can be maintained if , as a result of a first-come , first-served approach , patients with alcohol-related end-stage liver disease receive more than half the available donor livers . we conclude that since not all can live , priorities must be established for the use of scarce health care resources . 
alcoholics and liver transplantation . the ethics and social impact committee of the transplant and health policy center . two arguments underlie a widespread unwillingness to consider patients with alcoholic cirrhosis of the liver as candidates for transplantation . first , alcoholics are morally blameworthy , their condition the result of their own misconduct ; such blameworthiness disqualifies alcoholics in unavoidable competition for organs with others who are equally sick but blameless . second , because of their habits , alcoholics will not exhibit satisfactory rates of survival after transplantation ; good stewardship of a scarce lifesaving resource therefore requires that alcoholics not be considered for liver transplantation . these arguments are carefully analyzed and shown to be defective . there is not good moral or medical reason for categorically precluding alcoholics as candidates for liver transplantation . it would , in addition , be unjust to implement such a preclusion simply because others might respond negatively if we do not . 
are universal precautions effective in reducing the number of occupational exposures among health care workers ? a prospective study of physicians on a medical service using a daily questionnaire , we prospectively studied 277 physicians from two hospital medical services for incidents of exposure to blood and body fluids and barrier use before and after the implementation of universal precautions . we found that implementation significantly increased the frequency of barrier use during exposure incidents from 54 % before implementation to 73 % after implementation of universal precautions . implementation led to a decrease in the number of exposure incidents that resulted in direct contact with blood and body fluids ( actual exposures ) , from 5.07 to 2.66 exposures per physician per patient care month , and to an increase in averted exposures in which direct contact was prevented by the use of barrier devices , from 3.41 exposures per patient care month before implementation to 5.90 exposures per patient care month after implementation . implementation affected neither the types of body fluid or procedures involved nor the overall rate of exposure incidents ( 8.5 per patient care month ) but , through an increase in barrier use , it did prevent direct contact with blood and body fluids and thus converted what would have been an actual exposure into an averted one . we conclude that universal precautions were effective in reducing the risk of occupational exposures among physicians on a medical service . 
the clinical course of osteoporosis in anorexia nervosa . a longitudinal study of cortical bone mass . women with anorexia nervosa have reduced bone mass and may develop fractures . neither the pathophysiology of this osteoporosis nor its natural history is known . to study the clinical course of osteoporosis , we followed up 27 women with anorexia nervosa for a median of 25 months ( range , 9 to 53 months ) . at study entry , cortical bone density , measured by single-photon absorptiometry of the radial shaft , was low ( mean + / - sd , 0.63 + / - 0.07 g/cm2 ) and inversely related to the duration of amenorrhea ( r = -0.49 ) . during follow-up , most patients gained weight ( n = 19 ) , took calcium supplements ( n = 16 ) , and exercised regularly ( n = 22 ) , but fewer than half reached 80 % or more of ideal body weight ( n = 11 ) , resumed menses ( n = 6 ) , or received estrogen ( n = 4 ) . cortical bone density was stable during follow-up for the group as a whole ; the mean annual change ( + / - sd ) was +0.005 ( + / - .015 ) g/cm2 ( 95 % confidence interval , -0.0009 to +0.0109 ) . there was no significant difference in the mean change in bone density between women who attained 80 % of ideal weight and those who did not or between groups who did or did not regain menses , take estrogen or calcium , or exercise vigorously . four fractures were clinically observed in three women during follow-up . the rate of 0.05 nonspine fractures per person-year ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.02 to 0.13 ) exceeds that of normal women in this age range ( relative risk , 7.1 ; 95 % confidence interval , 3.2 to 18.5 ) . we conclude that reductions in cortical bone density appear not to be rapidly reversed by recovery from anorexia nervosa and that anorectic women may have an increased risk of fracture . 
catastrophic injuries and fatalities in high school and college sports , fall 1982-spring 1988 . direct and indirect deaths and catastrophic injuries , defined as any injury incurred during participation in a high school/college sponsored sport in which there is permanent severe functional neurological disability ( nonfatal ) or transient but not permanent functional neurologic disability ( serious ) , are presented for all sports during the period of fall 1982 to spring 1988 . football contributed the greatest numbers of catastrophic injuries but also had the largest number of participants . ice hockey , gymnastics , and wrestling are the other sports where participants are at greatest risk of catastrophic injury or death . mechanisms of injury in each sport and corrective actions are identified and discussed . while high school and college catastrophic injuries may never be totally eliminated , they can be dramatically reduced by reliable injury data collection and analysis . 
hydrocephalus : overdrainage by ventricular shunts . a review and recommendations . selected literature review of the clinical course of patients with ventricular shunts for hydrocephalus shows that the effects of cerebrospinal fluid overdrainage are subdural hematoma , craniosynostosis , slit ventricle syndrome , and low intracranial pressure syndrome . these occur sequentially at different age groups , but approximate averages of incidence and time of occurrence after first shunt reveal an overall incidence of 10 % -12 % for at least one of these appearing at 6.5 years after shunting . the basic etiology , diagnosis , and variety of treatment modalities available are reviewed , including the need for shunt closing intracranial pressure control . included is a hydrocephalus program designed to minimize the need for long-term extracranial shunts and to maximize therapeutic intracranial procedures for hydrocephalus . 
antivenom therapy in russell 's viper bite . bleeding and renal failure are the two main manifestations responsible for the high morbidity and mortality in untreated russell 's viper bite victims . this study was an effort to find prognostic factors and a practical therapeutic approach for the care of such patients . early detection of abnormalities in the clot quality test and/or evidence of systemic bleeding followed by immediate correction of the clotting defects using specific antivenom can reduce morbidity in russell 's viper envenomation . 
immune function and anti-htlv-i/ii status in anti-hiv-1-negative intravenous drug users receiving methadone . purpose : the study objective was to evaluate the effects of long-term methadone use and human t-cell leukemia virus ( htlv ) types i and ii seropositivity on the distribution of lymphocyte subsets and on lymphocyte function as measured in vitro in intravenous drug users seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . patients and methods : anti-hiv-1-negative intravenous drug users receiving methadone maintenance therapy ( n = 24 ) were studied in a veterans administration drug abuse treatment center . these subjects were compared to 38 age - and sex-matched control subjects who did not abuse drugs . hiv-1 and htlv serostatus was determined by repetitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and confirmed by immunoblot . lymphocyte subsets were determined by two-color flow cytometry . lymphocyte function was measured by proliferative response to plant mitogens and by natural killer ( nk ) cell-mediated cytotoxicity to a tumor cell target . results : significant differences were seen in lymphocyte phenotype in the methadone-treated group , with elevations in the t-cell helper subset cd4 + cd26 + ; in cd8 and cd8 + i2 + cells , suppressor/cytotoxic t lymphocytes , and activated suppressor/cytotoxic t cells ; and in cd2 + cd26 + cells and activated total t lymphocytes . lymphocyte function was suppressed in the methadone group , with poor responses to pokeweed mitogen and phytohemagglutinin in culture . moreover , nk-cell cytotoxicity was significantly reduced in the methadone group . none of these immunologic differences were attributable to htlv serostatus . conclusion : the immune abnormalities seen suggest that a clinically significant degree of immune impairment exists in methadone-treated intravenous drug users . however , these abnormalities could not be explained by the presence of other retroviruses in this hiv-1-negative study group , as there was no significant difference in immune function when htlv-seropositive patients were compared to htlv-seronegative subjects treated with methadone . 
characteristics of natural antibody responses to the circumsporozoite protein of plasmodium vivax . the antibody response to the prototype circumsporozoite ( cs ) protein of plasmodium vivax ( cspv ) was studied in thai soldiers experiencing occupational malaria . seventy-four ( 65 % ) of 114 men followed during assignment to a malaria transmission area developed blood-stage infection with p. vivax . igg antibodies against the central repeat region of the cspv protein were quantitated by elisa using the recombinant protein , ns181v20 , as the capture antigen . one quarter of the subjects had detectable anti-cspv antibodies at the beginning of the study . cspv antibody seroconversion was documented in 16 of 26 subjects assessed during their first observed episodes of vivax malaria . this antibody response was of moderate magnitude , fell off after the first week post-diagnosis and appeared , at the low levels observed , to be unassociated with protection . continued assessment of anti-cspv antibody after subjects left the transmission area found no increase associated with release of p. vivax . these findings indicate that cs antibody responses to p. vivax during occupational malaria share many characteristics with responses to p. falciparum . 
venomous snakebite in eastern ecuador . treatment outcome of 294 hospitalized victims of snakebite injuries in eastern ecuador are reported , documenting high rates of morbidity and mortality . one or more major complications occurred in 25 % of patients . complications included blood loss severe enough to require transfusion ( 29 patients ) , abscess ( 26 patients ) , intracranial hemorrhage ( 15 patients ) and major tissue loss ( 10 patients ) . sixteen patients died , yielding a mortality rate of 5.4 % . death resulted from intracranial hemorrhage in 12 patients and from sequelae of hypovolemic shock in 4 patients . 
midazolam-induced benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome a case history of a patient who developed severe anxiety and agitation on two occasions after discontinuation of a midazolam infusion is presented . the withdrawal symptoms interfered with effective mechanical ventilation and the patient required the reintroduction of a long-acting benzodiazepine to treat the withdrawal state and to facilitate weaning from mechanical ventilation . 
rupture of the oesophagus during cricoid pressure rupture of the oesophagus occurred during the application of cricoid pressure at induction of anaesthesia when the patient vomited . the patient , who was bleeding from a gastric ulcer , was found to have a lower oesophageal tear which , although repaired at operation , resulted in a fatal mediastinitis . 
flexion-extension views in the evaluation of cervical-spine injuries . study objective : to determine the efficacy of flexion-extension ( f/e ) cervical-spine radiographs in detecting acute cervical-spine instability in emergency patients . design : we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 141 consecutive trauma patients who had f/e views performed after a routine cervical-spine series ( three views ) was obtained in the emergency department . interpretations of the routine series were compared with those of the f/e views to determine if additional useful information was provided by the latter . the charts also were reviewed to determine if any variables were associated with an increased use of f/e views , an increased likelihood of these views demonstrating instability , or any neurologic sequelae resulted from these studies . setting : an urban level i adult trauma center . measurements : the interpretations of the routine series were noted to be either normal , abnormal but without demonstrable fracture/dislocation , or demonstrating a fracture/dislocation . the f/e views were categorized as stable , unstable , or uninterpretable . results : cervical-spine instability was demonstrated by f/e views in 11 of the 141 patients ( 8 % ) , four of whom had normal routine cervical-spine films . three of these four patients required surgical stabilization . prolonged neck pain ( more than 24 hours ) , an initially abnormal spine series , and a neurosurgical consult were all associated with an increased use of f/e views . ten of 11 patients with radiographic instability had significant neck pain by history ; the remaining patient was intoxicated . no neurologic sequelae resulted from performing f/e studies . there was one false-negative f/e study , which raises concern about the reliability of this procedure in the ed . conclusion : we believe that a large prospective study is required to determine which patients warrant f/e views . 
use of clinical toxicology resources by emergency physicians and its impact on poison control centers . study objective : the need for clinical toxicology resources by emergency physicians is unclear and may have implications for future training and resource availability . this study was designed to assess current emergency physician use of available resources . design : prospective evaluation by mail using a 49-item questionnaire . type of participants : all 170 emergency physicians in utah . interventions : none . results : the response rate was 75.3 % ( 128 of 170 ) . resources " outside their own fund of knowledge " were consulted " occasionally " to " frequently " by 98.3 % . they used the following resources " occasionally " to " frequently " : poison control center ( pcc ) ( 93.7 % ) , toxicology textbook ( 77.6 % ) , " expert colleague " ( 34.0 % ) , and " in-house poisindex " ( 23.9 % ) . they often contacted the pcc for toxicity information ( 93.7 % ) and management recommendations ( 87.3 % ) and for acute , symptomatic overdose cases ( 88.3 % ) . they " almost never " contacted the pcc for adverse drug reactions ( 76.6 % ) , pill identification ( 70.2 % ) , consultation with physician toxicologist ( 68.1 % ) , asymptomatic exposures ( 62.9 % ) , chronic toxicity ( 50.4 % ) , or solely to report the case to the american association of poison control centers data base ( 90.2 % ) . those who had access to in-house poisindex often did not consult the pcc ( 82.6 % ) . of those who did not have in-house poisindex , 42.8 % contacted the pcc to access it . providing access to physician toxicologist consultations was thought to be an important role for the pcc by 86.7 % , but only 32 % of physicians were using this option . conclusion : the vast majority of emergency physicians in utah consult the pcc only for acute , symptomatic overdoses . they view access to physician toxicologist consultation as an important role for the pcc but seldom use it . the availability of in-house poisindex decreases the likelihood of pcc consultations from emergency departments . the frequency of emergency physician consultation with the pcc may decrease as poisindex becomes available at more hospitals . 
toxicology screening of the trauma patient : a changing profile . study objectives : to determine the current ingestants found in the multiply injured trauma patient and to determine if this select group of ingestants affected the resuscitation , evaluation , or convalescent management of these patients . design : a one-year retrospective analysis was performed on all patients who were admitted to an urban trauma center with a discharge diagnosis of multiple trauma and who received a comprehensive toxicology screening test . main results : one hundred twenty-seven of the 177 patients ( 72 % ) who fulfilled the criteria had positive toxicology screens . ethyl alcohol was the only drug present in 26 of these patients ( 20 % ) ; 57 ( 45 % ) were positive for drugs other than ethyl alcohol . a combination of ethyl alcohol and at least one other drug was quantified in 44 patients ( 35 % ) . the most often encountered substances were ethyl alcohol ( 55 % ) , marijuana ( 24 % ) , and cocaine ( 21 % ) . twelve drug screens ( 9 % ) demonstrated pharmaceuticals ( eg , acetylsalicylic acid , acetaminophen , or cyclic antidepressants ) that may require specific antidotal treatment . conclusion : the ingestant profile found in this subgroup of trauma patients differed from those of previous studies . although a select group of these ingestants requires specific treatment or affects the physical assessment of the patient , none of these trauma patients received more than supportive care . 
china white epidemic : an eastern united states emergency department experience . study objective : the purpose of this study was to isolate significant clinical or demographic findings concerning overdose patients treated during a china white ( 3-methyl fentanyl ) epidemic and compare them with data for all unintentional narcotic overdose patients during a 24-month period . design : we reviewed charts from 85,246 patient visits to our emergency department during the 24-month period of january 1987 through december 1988 to study this narcotic epidemic . data from the allegheny county coroner 's office pertaining to unintentional drug overdose deaths that occurred during this same period also were reviewed . setting : the first outbreak of narcotic overdoses in the eastern united states involving china white occurred in allegheny county , pennsylvania , in 1988 . type of participants : patients were included if they met the criteria of a suspected unintentional narcotic overdose , but excluded if they were not given naloxone . interventions : emergency physicians became suspicious of china white use after an unusual increase in narcotic overdoses presenting to the ed coupled with " routine drug of abuse " screens negative for opiates despite dramatic patient responses to naloxone . in most of the cases in which specific testing was done , there were positive indicators of fentanyl derivatives . investigations found china white present in street drugs and paraphernalia . measurements and main results : a cluster was defined as a time period with a statistically significant increase in overdoses over the expected number for an interval of equal length . although there were no significant clinical differences in case presentation during the 24-month period , there was a statistically significant 13-fold increase in overdoses during the september through november 1988 cluster ( mean , 13 vs 0.95 per month , p less than .001 by wilcoxon rank-sum test ) . a dramatic increase in unintentional drug overdose deaths occurred in the county during this cluster . a total of 18 fentanyl-positive unintentional drug overdose deaths , predominantly male ( 89 % ) and black ( 56 % ) , with an age range of 19 to 44 years ( mean , 34.9 years ) , were reported by the county coroner ( 13 during the cluster ) . narcotic overdoses and unintentional drug overdose deaths declined sharply with confiscation of a clandestine china white laboratory . conclusions : china white was responsible for a dramatic rise in unintentional drug overdose deaths in allegheny county in 1988 . there were no significant clinical differences between china white overdose survivors and other unintentional narcotic overdose victims . overdoses responsive to naloxone with inconsistent routine toxicologic screens may be due to a fentanyl analogue . 
the cardiovascular effects of cocaine . cocaine use and abuse continue to overwhelm urban economic , social , and health care systems . patients frequently present to the emergency department with life-threatening manifestations of cocaine use , including trauma , acquired immune deficiency syndrome , psychomotor agitation , and cardiovascular collapse . adequate treatment of the cocaine-intoxicated patient requires a critical understanding of the risk-to-benefit ratios for pharmacologic , toxicologic , and surgical or obstetric interventions . the pharmacologic and physiologic bases for the vascular manifestations of cocaine toxicity and experimental evidence for treatment strategies are reviewed . 
flumazenil : a new benzodiazepine antagonist . flumazenil is a recently discovered pharmacologic antagonist of the cns effects of benzodiazepines . it acts by binding cns benzodiazepine receptors and competitively blocking benzodiazepine activation of inhibitory gabaergic synapses . animal studies and some human studies appear to demonstrate that flumazenil has weak intrinsic agonist activity ; on the other hand , studies are inconclusive in demonstrating any inverse agonist effects of this agent . evidence available suggests that flumazenil is well tolerated in human beings over a broad range of doses when given either orally or parenterally and does not produce serious adverse effects . in the setting of isolated benzodiazepine overdose , flumazenil is capable of completely reversing coma within one to two minutes , with this effect lasting between one and five hours . repeat doses can be given safely to reverse recurrent effects of longer-acting benzodiazepines . flumazenil is undergoing further evaluation by the food and drug administration ; should this drug receive approval , it is likely to be used in emergency departments as well as in a variety of other clinical settings . first , it could be used to effect rapid reversal of benzodiazepine-induced sedation that has been administered to facilitate medical , orthopedic , and surgical procedures , particularly in the event of inadvertent respiratory depression . second , flumazenil might have a therapeutic role in the management of patients who have taken benzodiazepine overdoses . although most of these patients can be managed successfully with supportive therapy alone , it is possible that the use of flumazenil may obviate the need for intubation and respiratory support in such patients and eliminate the possible adverse effects of even short-term endotracheal intubation . finally , flumazenil could have both diagnostic and therapeutic value in patients with acute alterations of mental status of unknown etiology , particularly when possible drug overdose is a consideration . because flumazenil appears to be specific in its antagonism of benzodiazepine-induced respiratory and cns depression , it could be used empirically to confirm or exclude a role of benzodiazepines in the generation of mental status changes in the setting of overdose or coma of unknown origin . this in turn might obviate the need for further expensive ( eg , computed tomography ) and sometimes invasive ( eg , lumbar puncture ) diagnostic modalities . this might be particularly useful because there is nothing about benzodiazepine-induced coma that clearly distinguishes it from other causes of coma ; thus , there are no signs or symptoms that may reasonably allow benzodiazepine overdose to be confirmed or eliminated on clinical grounds . further studies will continue to define the ultimate use of this new agent . 
ultrasound for the detection of foreign bodies . study objective : to determine the ability of an emergency physician to detect a variety of foreign bodies in an experimental model using a portable ultrasound device . design : ten pieces of beef were sliced into cubes approximately 6 cm on each side . six different groups of foreign bodies were examined : gravel , cactus spine , glass , metal , wood , and plastic . an independent observer placed the objects in a random fashion into the beef cubes . one hundred twenty observations were made using sets of ten beef cubes at a time . five foreign bodies were placed into each set of ten beef cubes . interventions : a blinded emergency physician used a portable ultrasound with a 7.5-mhz transducer to determine the presence or absence of a foreign body in each cube . measurements and main results : ultrasound detected 59 of 60 foreign bodies , including all cubes of meat embedded with gravel , cactus spine , plastic , metal , and wood . glass was detected nine of ten times . of the 60 cubes of meat with no foreign bodies , one false-positive was recorded . this yielded sensitivity , specificity , positive predictive value , and negative predictive value of 98 % . positive determinations by ultrasound were significantly greater in the meat cubes with foreign bodies compared with the control group with no foreign bodies ( p less than .001 by chi 2 ) . although the subset of glass foreign bodies had one false-positive and one false-negative , it was not significantly different in comparison with the other groups ( p greater than .05 by chi 2 ) . conclusion : ultrasound has promise as a diagnostic tool for the detection of a variety of foreign bodies . further clinical studies using ultrasound for the detection of foreign bodies are warranted . 
delayed onset of cardiac arrhythmias from sustained-release verapamil . sustained-release products in overdose are known to produce prolonged effects as well as delayed onset . the availability of sustained-release calcium channel blockers may produce an initial misleading picture for patients who are at risk for serious toxicity . we report the cases of two adults who had delayed onset of arrhythmias after ingestion of sustained-release verapamil . in both cases , a single dose of activated charcoal was administered , but the patients still developed toxicity . some of the unique problems encountered with sustained-release formulations are discussed , and 24-hour cardiac monitoring for sustained-release calcium channel blocker overdoses , despite a possible early asymptomatic period , is suggested . 
poisoning with equine phenylbutazone in a racetrack worker . phenylbutazone is a potent nonsteroidal , anti-inflammatory drug often used by veterinarians to treat racetrack animals . its use in human beings is limited because of significant adverse effects and the availability of newer , safer drugs . we report the case of a 24-year-old man who ingested 17 g of equine phenylbutazone over a 24-hour period to treat the pain of a toothache . he developed grand mal seizures , coma , hypotension , respiratory and renal failure , and hepatic injury . serum phenylbutazone concentration obtained approximately eight hours after presentation was 900 micrograms/ml . the patient recovered during six weeks of intensive supportive care and repeated hemodialysis . 
estimation of myocardial ischemic injury during ventricular fibrillation with total circulatory arrest using high-energy phosphates and lactate as metabolic markers . study objective : to define the time course of myocardial ischemic injury using high-energy phosphate ( hep ) depletion and the cessation of lactate production as metabolic markers . setting : data were collected in a laboratory animal model . type of participants : ten immature mixed breed swine weighing 23.2 + / - 3.5 kg . design : after thoracotomy , transmural myocardial biopsies were taken in vivo during normal sinus rhythm and at designated times during ventricular fibrillation with total circulatory arrest ( vf-tca ) . measurements and main results : frozen tissue samples were analyzed for adenine nucleotides , by high-performance liquid chromatography , and lactate by enzymatic assay . at five minutes of vf-tca , myocardial adenosine triphosphate averaged 50 % of control . at 15 minutes of vf-tca , 89 % of animals had myocardial adenosine triphosphate levels above 20 % of control and adenylate charge ratio above 0.60 . with more than 30 minutes of vf-tca , all animals had adenosine triphosphate levels below 10 % of control and adenylate charge ratio below 0.30 . in addition , myocardial lactate levels plateaued after 30 minutes of vf-tca , indicating the cessation of lactate production . conclusion : these results suggest that the myocardium can tolerate vf-tca for as long as 15 minutes without irreversible injury ; however , post-ischemic myocardial dysfunction may occur after as little as five minutes of vf-tca . with more than 30 minutes of vf-tca , myocardial injury is likely to be irreversible . 
the empiric use of naloxone in patients with altered mental status : a reappraisal . study objective : to determine whether clinical criteria ( respirations of 12 or less , mitotic pupils , and circumstantial evidence of opiate abuse ) could predict response to naloxone in patients with acute alteration of mental status ( ams ) and to evaluate whether such criteria predict a final diagnosis of presence or absence of opiate overdose as accurately as response to naloxone . cases and setting : seven hundred thirty patients with ams who received naloxone for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes at the discretion of two large , urban , paramedic base teaching hospitals . methods : we reviewed paramedic run sheets and audiotapes on all 730 patients as well as available hospital records of all patients who demonstrated any response to naloxone to determine whether overdose was responsible for their clinical presentations . we also reviewed hospital records for a selected sample of naloxone nonresponders . main results and conclusion : only 25 patients ( 3.4 % ) demonstrated a complete response to naloxone , whereas 32 ( 4.4 % ) manifested a partial or equivocal response . nineteen of 25 complete responders ( 76 % ) , two of 26 partial responders ( 8 % ) ( with known final diagnosis ) , and four of 195 non-responders ( 2 % ) ( with known final diagnosis ) were ultimately diagnosed as having overdosed . respirations of 12 or less or the presence of any one of the three clinical findings as a group were each highly sensitive in predicting response to naloxone , and at least as sensitive as response to naloxone in predicting a diagnosis of opiate overdose . selective administration of naloxone for ams would have decreased the use of this drug by 75 % to 90 % while still administering it to virtually all naloxone responders who had a final diagnosis of opiate overdose . 
the " fallen lung with absent hilum " signs of complete bronchial transection [ published erratum appears in ann emerg med 1991 jun ; 20 ( 6 ) :671 ] a 19-year-old pedestrian who was the victim of a motor vehicle accident had a left pneumothorax with a large air leak . despite a well-placed chest tube , a chest radiograph showed that the left lung had fallen down and away from the mediastinum and that no hilar structures were visible . this " fallen lung with an absent hilum " is considered virtually diagnostic of complete mainstem bronchus transection . 
the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia in neuroleptic-treated diabetics . a controlled study . in a controlled study , we compared the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia in 38 neuroleptic-treated diabetics with the prevalence of tardive dyskinesia in a group of 38 nondiabetic neuroleptic-treated controls , matched for age , sex , psychiatric diagnosis , and dose and duration of neuroleptic treatment . members of each group were evaluated for movement disorders by a rater who used standard rating scales and was " blind " to all diagnoses and treatments . neuroleptic-treated diabetics had a significantly higher prevalence and severity of tardive dyskinesia . there were no differences between groups on other possible risk factors for tardive dyskinesia , including parkinsonism , anticholinergic drug treatment , or cognitive function . these data suggest that diabetes mellitus should be examined further as a risk factor for tardive dyskinesia . 
review of clinical experience with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) . following the development of methods for eliciting and purifying digoxin-specific fab fragments with high affinity and specificity for cardiac glycosides , clinical studies were undertaken as a multicenter , open-label trial to test safety and efficacy in patients with advanced and potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity that failed to respond to conventional therapeutic measures . one-hundred fifty such patients were treated with digoxin-specific antibody fragments purified from immunoglobulin g ( igg ) produced in sheep . doses of fab were equivalent to the amount of digoxin or digitoxin in the patient 's body , as estimated from the medical history or serum concentration measurements . of 150 patients included in this trial , detailed information is available on 148 . one-hundred nineteen ( 80 % ) had resolution of all signs and symptoms of digitalis toxicity following specific fab fragment infusions , 14 ( 10 % ) improved , and 15 ( 10 % ) showed no response . among 14 patients with adverse events possibly or probably caused by fab , the most common events were development of hypokalemia and exacerbation of congestive heart failure . analysis of the available clinical data indicates that a treatment response was observed in at least 90 % of patients with convincing evidence of advanced and potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity . the data from this multicenter trial have been augmented by findings from an observational surveillance study conducted to monitor the safety and effectiveness of treatment with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) following commercial availability . in this experience , 74 % of patients were judged to have a complete or partial response to treatment , and 12 % no response . the response for the remaining 14 % was not reported or reported as uncertain . in this clinical experience , digoxin-specific fab was generally well tolerated and clinically effective in patients with potentially life-threatening digitalis toxicity . 
risk factors and manifestations of digoxin toxicity in the elderly . the incidence of digoxin toxicity increases with age , largely because the two most common conditions that benefit from use of digoxin , congestive heart failure and atrial fibrillation , are markedly more prevalent in old age . whether the elderly are more sensitive to the effects of digoxin because of age per se is unclear . however , several other factors render the elderly more susceptible to digoxin toxicity . these include an age-related decline in renal function and a decrease in volume of digoxin distribution . there is also an increase in the number of comorbid conditions , including cardiovascular and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , which heighten susceptibility to digoxin toxicity . moreover , treatment of these diseases with such interactive medications as quinidine and calcium channel blockers may increase the serum level of digoxin . similarly , such electrolyte imbalances as hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia occur more frequently in the elderly as a result of diuretic therapy . however , recent data suggest that manifestations of digoxin toxicity among younger and older patients do not differ . similar incidences of cardiac toxicity , gastrointestinal toxicity , and altered mental status are found in both patient populations . treatment of digitalis toxicity in the elderly is the same as for younger patients . response rates to digibind are not diminished in the elderly . 
results of multicenter studies of digoxin-specific antibody fragments in managing digitalis intoxication in the pediatric population . digitalis toxicity continues to be a problem for pediatric patients undergoing therapy with cardiac glycosides for heart failure or arrhythmias , as well as in accidental ingestions . in this article the previous use of digoxin-specific antibody fab fragments to treat digitalis overdose or intoxication in children is reviewed . the case reports cited in the medical literature and the 57 pediatric cases gathered as a result of the multicenter clinical trial and postmarketing surveillance study reported here indicate that digoxin-specific antibody fab fragments are effective in ameliorating signs of digitalis poisoning in children . not only can fab fragments rapidly eradicate potentially life-threatening arrhythmias and conduction defects , but they are also effective in treating hyperkalemia and other noncardiac manifestations of digitalis toxicity . in the small samples of patients studied to date , complications have been minimal and no allergic reactions to digoxin-specific fab fragments have been observed . recommendations for the management of digitalis intoxication in children are outlined . 
experience with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) in patients with renal impairment . digibind is a purified antigen binding fragment ( fab ) of immunoglobulin g antibodies raised to bind digoxin . studies in animals suggest renal excretion accounts for a substantial portion of fab 's elimination . thus it is expected that elimination of antidigoxin fab fragments would be prolonged in patients with renal impairment ; it remains unclear whether digoxin might be released with possible recurrence of toxicity . to shed light on this potential for recrudescent digitalis toxicity following release of bound digoxin , the author scrutinized the records of patients with impaired renal function who were treated with digibind . data are available from three sources : the original multicenter investigation of digibind in 150 patients with life-threatening digoxin or digitoxin toxicity , a postmarketing surveillance study of 745 patients treated with digibind , and all other reports in the literature or to burroughs wellcome co of physician experience with any antidigoxin fab . sixty percent of patients in the multicenter trial and 80 % of patients in the postmarketing surveillance trial had some degree of renal impairment . patients with poor renal function had no evidence of decreased effectiveness or safety either in terms of percent of patients responding , onset of effect or evidence of recrudescence . from all sources the authors identified 28 patients treated with fab who were functionally anephric . twenty-seven of these patients had no evidence of recrudescent toxicity . one patient was reported to have complete resolution of digoxin-induced third-degree atrioventricular ( av ) block , but av block recurred 10 days after fab treatment and persisted for 10 days thereafter . although this case offers the only clinical evidence suggesting recrudescence can occur , there were no likely alternative explanations for the clinical findings . 
which cardiac disturbances should be treated with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) antibody ? digoxin excess can produce characteristic bradyarrhythmias , tachyarrhythmias , and hyperkalemia . the bradyarrhythmias , which consist of disturbances in conduction and block at the level of the atrioventricular and sinus nodes , are mediated by a direct and vagotonic effect . the vagotonic effect of excess digoxin may also result in a marked slowing of the sinus rate in the setting of severe toxicity . digoxin increases automatic and triggered electrical activity in atrial muscle , his-purkinje system , and ventricular muscle , which predisposes to tachycardias . many of the tachyarrhythmias are relatively specific for the toxic effects of digoxin . atrial tachycardias with variable atrioventricular block , accelerated junctional rhythms ( especially in the setting of atrial fibrillation ) , and fascicular tachycardias are characteristic digoxin toxic rhythms . digoxin-specific antibody fragments should be considered the treatment of choice for any digoxin toxic arrhythmia associated with hemodynamic compromise or the threat of hemodynamic compromise . hyperkalemia , when due to acute severe digoxin toxicity , is also an appropriate indication for digoxin-specific fab fragment therapy . when assessing the risk : benefit ratio for using digoxin-specific fab fragment therapy , one needs to determine , in addition to the electrocardiographic manifestations and patient 's hemodynamic status ( 1 ) the severity of toxicity , as indexed by the amount ingested and/or the serum digoxin concentration ; ( 2 ) the expected time course for reversal of toxicity , which is usually determined by the status of renal function ; ( 3 ) the need for digoxin to provide ventricular rate control or improved ventricular contractility and therapeutic alternatives to digoxin ; ( 4 ) the presence of a strong allergy history ; ( 5 ) the presence of such factors as increased age and severity of heart disease that may predispose to digoxin toxicity . 
recognition and management of digitalis intoxication : implications for emergency medicine . digitalis intoxication is among the most common serious adverse drug reactions in clinical medicine . while the recent development of a radioimmunoassay to accurately measure serum concentrations of digoxin has been of assistance , digitalis intoxication remains a difficult diagnosis to make with certainty . the difficulty in diagnosing digitalis intoxication arises from the nonspecificity of its associated signs and symptoms . the most common symptoms include fatigue , weakness , nausea , and anorexia . these symptoms can occur with many illnesses other than digitalis intoxication . similarly , the electrocardiographic disturbances caused by cardiac glycosides may be nondiagnostic . the arrhythmias commonly associated with digitalis toxicity are often nonspecific and can be a reflection of the patient 's underlying heart disease . the measurement of serum digoxin levels is useful , but studies have demonstrated overlap of the levels between groups with and without toxicity . due to the modulation of the cardiac effects of digitalis glycosides by such clinical variables as underlying myocardial or renal disease , electrolyte and acid-base imbalances , and other factors , the correlation of toxicity with particular serum digoxin concentrations may vary . because of the inherent difficulties in confirming the diagnosis of digitalis intoxication in some cases , digoxin-specific fab antibodies may play a role as a diagnostic tool . certainly , digoxin-specific fab antibodies play a significant part in the treatment of digitalis intoxication . fab antibodies have been successfully used to reverse the effects of digoxin , digitoxin , and oleander poisoning . these antibodies are useful in the treatment of acute and chronic digitalis intoxication in all age groups , including geriatric and pediatric populations . 
allergic histories and reactions of patients treated with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) antibody . the digibind study advisory panel . seven hundred seventeen adult patients with life-threatening digitalis intoxication were treated with fab fragments of ovine antidigoxin immunoglobulin g ( igg ) . results of the efficacy of treatment and adverse effects were collected with standard report forms . eighty-two ( 11 % ) of the patients were recorded as having histories of allergy ( 71 patients ) and/or asthma ( 11 patients ) . of the " allergic " subjects , 35 described reactions to antibiotics , 19 to other medications , 3 to foods , and 2 to pollens ; in 12 subjects the etiologic agent was not specified . six subjects had adverse reactions that were probably or possibly due to allergy to components of the antibody preparation . of these 4 ( 5 % ; 95 % confidence interval ( cl ) 1.8 % to 12 % ) occurred in the 82 subjects with histories of allergy or asthma and 3 ( 9 % ; 95 % cl 1.8 % to 23 % ) of these occurred in the 35 persons with histories of allergy to an antibiotic . in contrast , only 2 ( 0.3 % ; 95 % cl 0.04 % to 1.1 % ) similar reactions occurred in the 635 subjects with no histories of allergy or asthma . all reactions responded to symptomatic treatment . the authors conclude that treatment of digitalis intoxication with ovine antidigoxin igg-fab ( digibind ) is generally well tolerated and allergic reactions are rare . however , there is a significantly increased risk of reactions in patients with histories of allergy or asthma . 
muscle biopsy for diagnosis of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility in two patients with severe exercise-induced myolysis . muscle biopsy and in vitro contracture tests for diagnosis of susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) were performed in two patients who had developed fever and severe myolysis during exercise . mh susceptibility was confirmed in one patient , but in the other , exercise-induced heat stroke proved to be the correct diagnosis . clinical presentation and epidemiology of exercise-induced mh and its relation to the heat stroke syndrome are discussed . 
changing patterns in the management of fractures in children . advances in radiographic imagery have greatly facilitated the diagnosis and treatment of pediatric musculoskeletal injuries . in recent years , the indications for operative intervention in the treatment of children 's fractures have become more clearly defined . 
traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistula in a child . a case report . a seven-year-old girl sustained a gunshot wound to the chest and spine . evaluation of a persistent pleural effusion demonstrated a subarachnoid-pleural fistula . surgical closure of the dural defect resulted in resolution of the fistula . traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistulae are rare . the diagnosis is reached by an awareness of fistula formation from penetrating or blunt trauma to the chest . 
influences of the protected passive mobilization interval on flexor tendon healing . a prospective randomized clinical study . a prospective multicenter clinical study was carried out to determine whether improved tendon gliding could be achieved with greater durations of daily passive-motion rehabilitation after flexor tendon repair . fifty-one patients were placed randomly into two controlled passive-motion protocols . group 1 patients received greater intervals of passive-motion rehabilitation using a continuous passive-motion device . group 2 patients were treated with a traditional early passive-motion protocol for tendon rehabilitation . for group 1 patients , the mean interval of controlled motion rehabilitation was 75 hours a week , and the mean number of cycles was 12,000 . for group 2 patients the mean interval of controlled passive motion was four hours a week , and the mean number of cycles was 1000 . the minimum follow-up time was six months ( mean , 10.8 months ) . using strickland and glogovac 's formula , the mean active motion for digits in group 1 was 138 degrees + / - 6 degrees . mean motion for tendons in group 2 was 119 degrees + / - 8 degrees . the difference between groups 1 and 2 was statistically significant . the effect of the number of tendons injured per digit within each group was not significant . the data from this experiment indicate that the duration of the daily controlled motion interval is a significant variable insofar as postrepair flexor tendon function is concerned . 
fracture of the index metacarpal base with subluxation of the trapeziometacarpal joint . a case report . a 40-year-old man fell on his outstretched arm and suffered a fracture of the index metacarpal base with subluxation of the thumb basal joint . the small fracture fragment at the base of the index metacarpal was attached to the base of the thumb metacarpal by a strong ligament , as noted at the time of surgery . this pattern of injury , a ligament-reversed bennett 's fracture , seems not to have been previously reported . 
a test for knee posterolateral rotatory instability . a test for knee posterolateral instability , which is a modification of the standard posterolateral rotatory instability test , is described . in this test , the patient lies supine on the examination table with hips and knees flexed to 90 degrees . the examiner grasps both feet and attempts to maximally externally rotate them . a positive test is indicated by ( 1 ) excessive external rotation of the affected tibia , which is easily recognized since the feet act as pointers and amplify the external rotation , and ( 2 ) a slight posterior sag of the affected tibial tubercle , which is more subtle but still a very recognizable sign . 
pes anserinus interposition in a proximal tibial physeal fracture . a case report . a ten-year-old girl suffered a salter-harris type ii fracture of the proximal tibia . inspection revealed interposition of the pes anserinus ( pa ) within the open physis , which prevented reduction . this may be the first case report of pa interposition . 
knee function after surgical or nonsurgical treatment of acute rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament : a randomized study with a long-term follow-up period . one hundred fifty-six patients with a total rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament ( acl ) were reexamined 41 to 80 months after injury . they were randomized to three treatment groups : ( 1 ) repair and augmentation of the acl with an iliotibial strip , ( 2 ) repair without augmentation , and ( 3 ) nonsurgical acl treatment . associated injuries of menisci and other ligaments were treated in the same way for the three groups . two-thirds of the patients in the nonsurgically treated group complained of instability and 17 % had had a subsequent reconstruction of the acl at the follow-up examination . the group treated with an augmented repair had a less abnormal laxity measured by a laxity-testing device . sixty-three percent returned to competitive sports , as compared with 27 % in the nonsurgical group and 32 % in the only repair group . relative strength of the quadriceps and hamstrings muscles were similar for all groups . the augmented-repair group had better hop tests , reflecting a superior stability , whereas running was not affected by treatment but was correlated with the activity level . 
magnetic resonance imaging for ineffectual tarsal tunnel surgical treatment . tarsal tunnel syndrome ( tts ) is an entrapment neuropathy caused by compression of the posterior tibial nerve beneath the ankle flexor retinaculum . treatment of tts consists of surgical release of the retinaculum . the failure rate is 10 % -20 % . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was used to evaluate a patient with an unsatisfactory response . mr imaging demonstrated incompleteness of the surgical release of the flexor retinaculum . 
the occurrence of accessory immunologic cells in bone induction . the differentiating tissues in fracture healing and in demineralized bone-powder-induced ( dbp ) bone formation were investigated with monoclonal antibodies with respect to the occurrence of ia-positive cells , macrophages , and lymphocytes with interleukin-2 receptors ( il-2 ) . ia refers to molecules on the cell surface belonging to class ii of the major histocompatibility complex and is specific for the species and the individual . in both types of granulation tissues ( fracture healing and following dbp implantation ) , the mesenchymal cells from the surrounding musculature were accompanied by large numbers of ia-positive cells and common macrophages . the occurrence of il-2 receptors was sparse in fracture healing but rich in dbp induction , probably because of its immunogenic properties , though weak . on day 7 , almost all existing cells in dbp induction were ia-positive , signifying an immunologic effector phase apparently directed to the remaining still-passive bone powder in the periphery , while the central part of the inserted bone powder was producing cartilaginous cells and matrix . the presence of accessory immunologic cells in fracture healing is perhaps due to a surveillance function ( a standard response on injury ) , but the cell differentiation might also be dependent on the active mediators emitted from ia-positive cells and macrophages . this investigation strengthens the concept that induced bone development occurs in experimental fracture healing . 
the stimulating effect of growth hormone on fracture healing is dependent on onset and duration of administration . the effect of onset and duration of growth hormone administration on the biomechanical properties of healing rat tibial fractures was investigated after 40 days of healing . biosynthetic human growth hormone , 2.7 mg/kg body weight/day , was given in two daily injections to three groups of rats : ( 1 ) for the entire healing period ; ( 2 ) for the first 20 days ; and ( 3 ) for the last 20 days of healing . three corresponding groups of control rats were injected with saline . in group 1 , maximum load and stiffness of the healing fractures increased to 165 % and 175 % , respectively , compared to the control group . in group 2 , maximum load , stiffness , maximum stress , and energy absorption at maximum load increased to 222 % , 175 % , 171 % , and 247 % , respectively , compared to the control group . in group 3 , no statistically detectable effects were found . the results show that growth hormone stimulates fracture healing both when given during the first part of the healing period and when given during the entire healing period . 
surgical treatment of brachial plexus birth palsy . brachial plexus birth palsy remains a challenging condition . in the 1000 infants followed from 1977 to 1988 , functional results were much improved over those obtained by observation only , if surgical exploration and repair were performed when no clinical recuperation of biceps function occurred by three months of age . recovery is slow , and comprehensive follow-up study of reconstructed and conservatively managed children is required to prevent joint contractures . children who will benefit from palliative procedures such as tendon transfers must also be identified . 
mechanical ventilation in medical and neurological diseases : 11 years of experience . mechanical ventilation ( mv ) is imperative in many forms of acute respiratory failure ( arf ) . the aim of this work was to review all episodes of mv in a medical intensive care unit ( micu ) during the 11-year period 1976-1986 . four per cent ( n = 1008 ) of 24,899 admissions to the micu were treated with mv . the mean age of ventilator-treated patients was 53 + / - 18 years , and obviously it increased during the period of study . the average duration of mv was 4.7 d. micu mortality , hospital mortality and 2-year mortality rates for patients subjected to mv were 33 % , 38 % and 46 % , respectively . the mortality rate did not change during the study period . cerebrovascular and malignant diseases carried the highest mortality rates , 75 and 79 % , respectively , whereas mortality in patients ventilated because of drug overdose ( n = 313 ) was only 2 % . the results of this study confirm previously published findings concerning the outcome of mv , and we conclude that the effects of mv remain discouraging in medical and neurological patients . improved quality of ventilator therapy and monitoring , as well as continued research directed at the causes of arf , are equally important in reducing the mortality in arf . 
patterns of neuropsychological impairment after severe blunt head injury . a consecutive series of 100 subjects with severe blunt head injuries was followed up 6 years after trauma . neuropsychological test performances of 82 subjects and of a noninjured control group were analyzed by two principal components analyses ( pcas ) . each pca extracted 15 factors relating to a range of cognitive impairments , as well as neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality changes . measures identified by the pcas were applied to 85 head-injured subjects in the series to examine the incidence of impairment in four neuropsychological areas : disorders of learning and memory , neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality change , slowness in rate of information processing , and a range of basic neuropsychological skills . overall , impairments occurred in 70 % of the series . disorders of learning and memory were the most common type of deficit ( 56.5 % ) , with disturbances in basic neuropsychological skills the least frequent ( 16.5 % ) . variability among subjects with respect to the types and combinations of neuropsychological impairments was a characteristic feature of this clinical group , but the largest proportion ( one-third ) demonstrated isolated impairments . the implications of the incidence and selectivity of neuropsychological impairments are discussed . 
individualized care for the treatment of alcoholism . through a discussion of several case vignettes , the author emphasizes the utilization of an individually tailored treatment approach when working with people experiencing problems related to alcohol consumption . patients may achieve abstinence without believing in the disease concept of alcoholism , and attending alcoholics anonymous meetings need not always be a part of the treatment . furthermore , for some patients , controlled drinking may be as desirable an outcome as abstinence . the importance of entertaining a multiplicity of perspectives when conducting clinical work with such patients is discussed . 
staffing patterns of american methadone maintenance programs . methadone maintenance is the most frequently utilized treatment for heroin addiction and also represents one of the best aids-prevention tools for the iv drug using population . despite these important roles , very little has been reported about how methadone maintenance clinics are staffed . surveys covering various aspects of program operations , including staffing , were sent to all clinics ( n = 557 ) listed in the 1984 national directory of drug abuse and alcohol treatment programs . using anova , staffing patterns were compared across programs as a function of clinic size , city size , region of the country , and funding resources . while few differences were found based on city or clinic size , staffing patterns varied as a function of regional location as well as the sources of a clinic 's funding . 
depression among alcoholics in a turkish sample . the aim of the present study was to identify the predictor variables of depression among alcoholics in a turkish mental hospital . a questionnaire and the beck depression inventory ( bdi ) were utilized to collect data from 71 male alcoholics . a stepwise multiple regression analysis between the bdi scores and demographic and health-related variables resulted in the identification of marital problems and physical problems due to alcohol as the risk factors . the findings are discussed within the context of the findings from western countries and the similarities are pointed out . 
a seromuscular stripping method to create a nipple valve without metal stapling for continent urinary reservoir . urinary continence with a kock or mainz pouch is achieved by a nipple valve of the invaginated ileum which is usually fixed with metal staples . however , metal staples can cause various complications as a foreign body . the seromuscular stripping method , a new technique to create a nipple valve , was applied to 17 patients with bladder cancer in the construction of a continent urinary reservoir by the ileocolonic pouch ( mainz pouch ) . metal staples were not used . the results were satisfactory except for 2 patients who became incontinent because of prolapse of the nipple in one and insufficient valve function due to ischemic change of the nipple valve in the other . histology of the nipple valve from an autopsy case showed a good double layer nipple valve that functioned well to preserve continence . 
management of auto-emasculation in the psychotic state . we report 2 cases of self-inflicted penile amputations , which offered differing surgical options and contrasting surgical results due to varying time delays . in 1 case repair was done immediately , while repair in the other case was delayed by 3 days due to the psychotic state of the patient . the psychiatric backgrounds of such episodes are discussed , as well as the techniques of repair and reconstruction . 
bladder perforation resulting from the use of the neodymium : yag laser . complications resulting from the use of the neodymium : yag ( nd : yag ) laser to treat superficial bladder cancer are uncommon and are usually associated with abnormally high laser power outputs . we report a case of bladder perforation in a human attributed to the nd : yag laser used at a low power setting and comment on those factors that contributed to this complication . 
thigh muscle function after partial tear of the medial ligament compartment of the knee . the purpose of the study was to assess the isokinetic and isometric strength and power profile of the knees of 48 patients who had a previous second-degree sprain ( partial tear ) of the medial ligament compartment , the most common knee ligament injury in sports . the cybex ii isokinetic dynamometer was used in the measurements . on an average of 8 yr after the injury , the mean strength deficit of the injured knees was minimal : 4 + / - 5 % ( range 0-28 % ) in extension and 2 + / - 4 % ( 0-20 % ) in flexion . the average strength score ( max . 100 points ) was 90 + / - 11 ( 56-100 ) , representing an excellent classification . in hamstrings , the relative strength deficit increased significantly with a higher speed of isokinetic movement ( p less than 0.05 ) . compared with the strength parameters ( peak torques ) , the other functional parameters of the injured knees ( total work , average power , and peak torque acceleration energy ) showed some but not significantly greater deficits ( hamstrings 9-11 % , quadriceps 6-8 % ) . in conclusion , the general thigh muscle function in knees with old second-degree sprain of the medial ligament compartment appears good and acceptable , but the strength deficits are systematically greater in higher speeds of isokinetic movement . therefore , rehabilitation utilizing high speed extension and flexion exercises is recommended . 
paralytic shellfish poisoning -- massachusetts and alaska , 1990 [ published erratum appears in mmwr morb mortal wkly rep 1991 apr 12 ; 40 ( 14 ) :242 ] paralytic shellfish poisoning ( psp ) is a foodborne illness caused by consumption of shellfish or broth from cooked shellfish that contain either concentrated saxitoxin , an alkaloid neurotoxin , or related compounds . this report summarizes outbreaks of psp that occurred in massachusetts and alaska in june 1990 . 
evidence that histamine is the causative toxin of scombroid-fish poisoning background . the highest morbidity worldwide from fish poisoning results from the ingestion of spoiled scombroid fish , such as tuna and mackerel , and its cause is not clear . histamine could be responsible , because spoiled scombroid fish contain large quantities of histamine . whether histamine is the causative toxin , however , has remained in question . to address this issue , we investigated whether histamine homeostasis is altered in poisoned people . methods . the urinary excretion of histamine and its metabolite , n-methylhistamine , was measured in three persons who had scombroid-fish poisoning ( scombrotoxism ) after the ingestion of marlin . we measured 9 alpha , 11 beta-dihydroxy-15-oxo-2 ,3,18,19 - tetranorprost-5-ene-1 ,20 - dioic acid ( pgd-m ) , the principal metabolite of prostaglandin d2 , a mast-cell secretory product , to assess whether mast cells had been activated to release histamine . results . the fish contained high levels of histamine ( 842 to 2503 mumol per 100 g of tissue ) . symptoms of scombrotoxism -- flushing and headache -- began 10 to 30 minutes after the ingestion of fish . in urine samples collected one to four hours after fish ingestion , the levels of histamine and n-methylhistamine were 9 to 20 times and 15 to 20 times the normal mean , respectively . during the subsequent 24 hours , the levels fell to 4 to 15 times and 4 to 11 times the normal values . levels of both were normal 14 days later . pgd-m excretion was not increased at any time . two persons treated with diphenhydramine had prompt amelioration of symptoms . conclusions . scombroid-fish poisoning is associated with urinary excretion of histamine in quantities far exceeding those required to produce toxicity . the histamine is most likely derived from the spoiled fish . these results identify histamine as the toxin responsible for scombroid-fish poisoning . 
transient hypoparathyroidism during acute alcohol intoxication . background . persons with chronic alcoholism frequently have hypocalcemia , hypomagnesemia , and osteoporosis . the short-term effects of alcohol ingestion on calcium and magnesium metabolism are poorly understood , however . methods . we measured serum calcium , magnesium , and phosphate concentrations in 17 normal men and 7 normal women before and at intervals up to 16 hours after the ingestion of 1.2 to 1.5 g of alcohol per kilogram of body weight over a 3-hour period ( doses sufficient to cause acute intoxication ) . urinary excretion of calcium , magnesium , and phosphate and serum calciotropic hormone levels were measured in 16 of these subjects . as a control , the same measurements were made after the ingestion of fruit juice instead of alcohol . results . the mean ( + / - se ) peak blood alcohol level in the men was 37.5 + / - 1.6 mmol per liter , and in the women it was 38.0 + / - 3.2 mmol per liter . in the men the mean serum parathyroid hormone concentration decreased from 16.1 + / - 2.1 to 6.8 + / - 0.9 ng per liter at the end of the three-hour drinking period . the value at this time was 30 percent of that at the end of the three-hour session during which the men drank fruit juice ( p = 0.004 ) . the serum concentration of ionized calcium reached a nadir eight hours after the beginning of alcohol administration ( decreasing from 1.18 + / - 0.01 to 1.15 + / - 0.01 mmol per liter ; p less than 0.001 as compared with values during the fruit-juice study ) , and urinary excretion of calcium increased from 0.34 + / - 0.08 to 0.36 + / - 0.08 mmol per hour ( p less than 0.01 as compared with values during the fruit-juice study ) . serum parathyroid hormone levels exceeded base-line values during the last 4 hours of the 16-hour study period ; this increase was accompanied by a decrease in the urinary excretion of calcium . both serum levels of magnesium ( in the first 6 hours ) and urinary levels ( in the first 12 hours ) increased after the ingestion of alcohol . in the women , serum parathyroid hormone levels decreased from 29.2 + / - 2.8 to 17.3 + / - 2.6 ng per liter two hours after the administration of alcohol was begun ( p less than 0.001 ) and increased above base-line values during the last four hours of the study period . the serum concentration of ionized calcium decreased from 1.20 + / - 0.01 to 1.16 + / - 0.01 mmol per liter , reaching a nadir 8 to 12 hours after alcohol administration was begun ( p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions . short-term alcohol administration causes transitory hypoparathyroidism . this decline in the secretion of parathyroid hormone accounts at least in part for the transient hypocalcemia , hypercalciuria , and hypermagnesuria that follow alcohol ingestion . 
spinal cord compression from a thoracic paraganglioma : case report . a 34-year-old man with a 4-month history of midthoracic back pain sought treatment for a recent onset of lower extremity paresthesia and stiffness . a myelogram and computed tomographic myelogram disclosed an extradural block at the level of the 8th thoracic vertebral body with involvement of the pedicles , lamina , and spinous process . a posterior decompression of the spinal cord with subtotal resection of a highly vascular tumor was performed . the tumor was identified as a paraganglioma . in a second stage , the remainder of the tumor was embolized preoperatively , and gross total excision and sequential stabilization of the spine with a luque rectangle and sublaminar wires were performed . the patient has been symptom free and without signs of a recurrence in the spine for over 13 months . a large abdominal paraganglioma was recently resected from its probable origin from the adventitia of the abdominal aorta . 
epidemiology of ocular complications of childhood head trauma head trauma is a frequent cause of childhood morbidity and mortality . we have studied 293 children aged zero to 18 years who suffered from head trauma , in order to assess the importance and frequency of ocular complications of head trauma . very significant statistical differences show that children aged zero to 12 years are at risk for ocular complications more frequently than older children . the prompt diagnosis of ocular symptoms and signs and their differentiation can be of value in the early and correct diagnosis of head trauma , thus insuring effective treatment . these data emphasize the importance and prevention of head trauma in children . a pediatric victim of head trauma can surely benefit from the strict cooperation among emergency specialists , pediatricians , ophthalmologists , and neurologists . 
it may be more significant than you think : bb air rifle injury to a child 's head . bb guns of 20 years ago were constructed of coils and springs which generated relatively little force , so that a projectile posed little threat of serious injury . today , the coil and spring construction has been replaced by pump action pneumatic chambers which allow generation of muzzle velocities near 350 ft/sec . speeds of 150 ft/sec and 200 ft/sec are required for skin penetration and bone penetration , respectively . we present a seven-year-old boy who suffered intracranial parenchymal injury from an air-powered bb gun projectile while playing with friends . we discuss literature which suggests these once-innocent toys are now harbingers of severe , if not fatal , injury . 
posttraumatic cortical blindness : are we missing the diagnosis in children ? a potential etiology of anxiety and agitation in the posthead trauma patient is cortical blindness . cortical blindness can be seen after both mild and severe head trauma . early recognition and understanding of this syndrome can lead to a decreased anxiety level , not only for the patient , but for the parents as well . two cases of posttraumatic cortical blindness are presented . the signs and symptoms of cortical blindness , its presentation , diagnosis , and outcome are discussed . the available literature is reviewed and discussed . 
delayed brachial artery occlusion owing to a dog bite of the upper extremity . we report a case of delayed presentation of vascular injury from a superficial dog bite of the upper extremity in a five-year-old male . this example of a significant arterial injury , in the setting of seemingly minor trauma , is the first known report of blunt arterial trauma owing to a dog bite in any age group . blunt arterial trauma in children is rare unless associated with fractures , dislocations , or massive crush injuries . additionally , persistent pulses following arterial occlusion are rare and can potentially lead to misdiagnosis of a serious arterial injury . a brief review of pediatric blunt vascular injuries is presented with implications for diagnosis and management of such cases . 
presentation and management of an acute caffeine overdose . a one-year-old white female ingested approximately two to three grams of caffeine ( 200-300 mg/kg ) . the patient survived the ingestion with a maximum caffeine concentration of 385 micrograms/ml four hours postingestion . the child developed ventricular arrhythmias , seizures , metabolic disturbances , and severe pulmonary edema . she survived without apparent long-term sequelae despite having reached a serum caffeine concentration that is the second highest reported level in a survivor . 
early definitive bone and soft-tissue reconstruction of major gunshot wounds of the face . the use of craniofacial surgical techniques , extended open reduction , rigid fixation with plates and screws , and the replacement of severely damaged or missing bone with immediate bone grafting in the treatment of complex facial fractures has been applied to the management of severe gunshot wounds of the face . early definitive bone and soft-tissue reconstruction has been performed in 37 patients . one-hundred and seventy-seven primary bone grafts were utilized in 33 patients for orbital , nasal , zygomatic , and maxillary reconstruction . twenty-six patients required mandibular repair with compression or reconstruction plates . soft-tissue reconstruction was provided by a combination of flaps . four patients had extensive soft-tissue loss replaced by free vascularized omental flaps . the omentum provided circumferential coverage of the mandibular reconstruction and reconstruction of the floor of the mouth and was then tunneled in a circle through both cheeks into the middle and upper face . the omentum reconstructed deficits in the hard palate and upper buccal sulcus and was then wrapped around all zygomatic , orbital , and midfacial bone grafts and used to fill in dead space in the maxillary , ethmoid , and frontal sinuses . the omentum is not used to provide contour and bulk , but to cover bone grafts and plates and fill in dead space . carefully shaped bone grafts provide the correct craniofacial scaffold . early restoration of a midfacial bony scaffold and the prevention of soft-tissue contraction facilitate secondary reconstruction . four late total nasal reconstructions with tissue-expanded forehead skin wrapped around bone grafts were performed . 
the healing of facial bone fractures by the process of secondary union . the mechanism of healing of facial bone fractures was investigated in a rabbit model . twelve new zealand white rabbits underwent surgically induced fractures of the right infraorbital rim and fracture ostectomies ( 4 to 5 mm ) of the left infraorbital rim . animals were sacrificed 2 , 4 , and 8 weeks postfracture . bone , including periosteum , obtained from each fracture or fracture osteoctomy site was divided longitudinally for hematoxylin and eosin staining , fluorescent microscopy , microangiography , and microradiography . sequential fluorochrome labels of oxytetracycline ( 30 mg/kg ) , alizarin complexone ( 30 mg/kg ) , dcaf ( 20 mg/kg ) , and xylenol orange ( 90 mg/kg ) were administered 24 hours preoperatively and at 1 , 2 , 4 , and 8 weeks postfracture . all fracture and fracture ostectomy sites demonstrated vascular ingrowth , mineralization , and woven bone formation by 2 to 4 weeks postoperatively , beginning with a cartilage precursor . subsequently , the woven bone was replaced with remodeled lamellar bone , resulting in complete bony healing by 8 weeks postoperatively . these steps were substantiated by microscopic , microradiographic , and radiologic examination of the specimens . this study demonstrates that fractures of the facial bones in a rabbit model heal by a process of new bone formation that resembles secondary union in endochondral bones . 
analysis of the soft-tissue response to components used in the manufacture of breast implants : rat animal model . the implant-tissue response to the silicone gel mammary prosthesis requires a more thorough evaluation in light of recent concerns related to human connective-tissue diseases , contracture , infection , and neoplasia . the silicone prosthesis is not a homogeneous implant but is a milieu of various silicone chemistries . silicone polymer precursors and prosthesis components ( silicone shells , shells extracted of their low-molecular-weight components , silica-free silicone , silicone oil , fumed silica , and silicone extract ) were implanted subcutaneously using a nonhemorrhagic technique into the backs of lew/ssn rats ( n = 90 ) , two implants per rat , for periods of 7 , 14 , 28 , 56 , and 90 days for a total of 6 implants per material per time period . histologic analysis was performed on specimens from the harvested soft tissue . the intensity of the cellular and capsular response was lowest for the silicone oil and increased as the material 's molecular weight increased and material compliance decreased . fumed silica elicited the most highly reactive cellular response . from this study it is apparent that the polymer 's molecular weight influences its migration , encapsulation , and intensity of cellular response . further , the silicone extract distillate elicited a highly intense cellular response with pronounced lymphocyte invasion . the human relevance of this work awaits further correlation with implant retrieval and in vivo performance . 
further experience in rehabilitation of zone ii flexor tendon repair with dynamic traction splinting . a review of all flexor tendon repairs in the " no man 's land " performed from january of 1985 to june of 1987 was done to evaluate the efficacy of our method of rehabilitation . there were 60 fingers ( 57 patients ) with complete laceration of the flexor digitorum profundus and flexor digitorum superficialis tendons in zone ii . fingers with phalangeal fractures , joint injuries , or significant skin loss were excluded . follow-up ranged from 12 to 48 months . rehabilitation consisted of a 12-week protocol using the u.s. military combined regimen of controlled motion . features from the technique of controlled active extension against rubber band passive flexion as well as those of controlled passive extension and passive flexion were incorporated . the palmar pulley modification of kleinert 's dynamic traction splint was utilized . strickland 's total active motion formula was employed to determine results . the results were classified into the four categories of excellent , good , fair , and poor . fifty-two fingers ( 86 percent ) were rated excellent , 4 fingers ( 7 percent ) were rated good , 1 finger ( 2 percent ) was rated fair , and 3 fingers ( 5 percent ) were rated poor . 
island flap supplied by the dorsal branch of the ulnar artery . two cases are reported in which a fasciocutaneous island flap was employed supplied by the ulnaris dorsalis artery after the method proposed by becker and gilbert . the original technique has been modified by the authors , and this produces a better venous outflow . the vascular pedicle includes , besides the ascending branch of the artery and the venae comitantes , one of the superficial veins together with its respective subdermal band . a technique is also described that provides an optimal length for the vascular pedicle . 
efficiency of opaque photoprotective agents in the visible light range . " opaque " physical sunscreens are important for photoprotection of individuals with visible light and uv-a photosensitivity such as those with porphyria , drug photoallergy , and polymorphous light eruption . diffuse spectral transmittance of various thicknesses of opaque sunscreen formulations were measured from 350 - to 800-nm range using a spectrophotometer equipped with an integrating sphere . transmission through 20 % zinc oxide paste was high and decreased minimally despite large increases in the sunscreen layer thickness . adding a visible light absorber such as iron oxide to scattering sunscreens , however , substantially lowered transmittance below that predicted by the product of the transmittances for each component alone . opaque sunscreens protected against hematoporphyrin derivative photosensitization of albino guinea pig skin ; these results were quantitatively consistent with the in vitro findings . poor photoprotection against visible light is obtained with white paste sunscreens , even if thick layers are applied . the addition of pigments to such sunscreens , however , greatly enhances photoprotection and cosmetic acceptability . 
indications for computed tomography in children with blunt abdominal trauma . this investigation was undertaken to identify clinical variables , alone or in combination , that could be used to assign children to high - and low-risk categories for intra-abdominal injury following blunt trauma . six hundred consecutive children who were examined with computed tomography ( ct ) following blunt trauma were enrolled . complete data sets were available on 375 children . stepwise logistic regression was used to identify predictor variables for the presence of abdominal injury . there were 174 children with abdominal injury detected by ct . of these , 95 were classified as having significant injury . indicators associated with significantly higher risk of abdominal injury included the following : more than three clinical indications given ( odds likelihood ratio [ olr ] = 4.60 , 95 % confidence interval [ 95 % cl ] = 2.29 , 9.21 , p less than 0.001 ) ; gross hematuria ( olr = 5.80 , 95 % cl = 2.51 , 13.4 , p less than 0.001 ) ; lap belt injury ( olr = 12.2 , 95 % cl = 2.22 , 66.8 , p less than 0.01 ) ; assault or abuse as the mechanism of injury ( olr = 5.08 , 95 % cl = 1.07 , 24.2 , p less than 0.05 ) ; abdominal tenderness ( olr = 2.73 , 95 % cl = 1.296 , 5.82 , p less than 0.01 ) ; and trauma score less than or equal to 12 ( olr = 2.27 , 95 % cl = 1.006 , 5.13 , p less than 0.01 ) . no child with asymptomatic hematuria ( n = 56 ) , regardless of grade or neurologic impairment in the absence of abdominal findings ( n = 15 ) , had an abnormal ct examination . these data are useful as an adjunct to clinical judgment in triage when the availability of ct equipment is limited or there are competing extra-abdominal injuries . 
strut fixation of an extensive flail chest . the indications for and preferred approaches to operative stabilization of posttraumatic chest wall instability are uncertain . we suggest this simple , rapid , and effective approach to surgical stabilization by luque rod strutting of the flail segment when operation is required . 
anemia after traumatic spinal cord injury . the incidence and natural history of anemia in patients with spinal cord injuries ( sci ) were investigated in a prospective study of 68 patients consecutively admitted to a regional acute sci unit . fifty had sci and 18 had spine injuries ( si ) without neurologic deficit . thirty-six of 41 males ( 88 % ) and six of nine females ( 67 % ) with sci were anemic on at least one occasion . in the first two weeks after injury , in females and in males , there was no significant difference in mean hemoglobin level between si and sci patients . at six weeks , no male with si was anemic , and males with sci had significantly lower mean hemoglobin levels than those with si ( 121.6 g/l vs 145.4 g/l , p less than .001 ) . identified early causes of anemia were blood loss due to bony soft tissue or visceral injury , gastrointestinal bleeding , and surgery . in the postacute phase ( more than six weeks after injury ) , anemia occurred in 25 of 41 male and three of nine female sci patients , and its occurrence was associated with the presence of an identified chronic disease , especially urinary tract infection . 
electrophysiologic investigation of mandibular nerve injury . isolated lesions of the mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve have only rarely been reported . we report the occurrence of an isolated lesion of the mandibular nerve associated with a unilateral mandibular fracture , and its substantiation electrophysiologically . a 65-year-old man was involved in a motor vehicle accident resulting in multiple fractures , including a unilateral mandibular fracture and temporomandibular joint dislocation . no evidence of intracranial pathology by ct scan was noted and the neurologic examination was nonfocal except for dysfunction of the mandibular nerve ipsilateral to the fracture site . bilateral facial nerve latency and blink reflexes were normal . emg evaluation of the muscles of facial expression and mastication demonstrated denervation confined to the muscles innervated by the mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve . in patients complaining of facial sensory dysfunction , malocclusion , or weakness of muscles of mastication after mandibular fracture , an electrophysiologic examination can assist in evaluating cranial nerve integrity . 
a cellist with arm pain : thermal asymmetry in scalenus anticus syndrome . we report on a cellist with pain and coldness of the upper extremity . abnormal thermographic studies were instrumental in uncovering intermittent compression of the subclavian artery , and this prompted us to study the effects of cello playing on skin temperature asymmetry . temperature asymmetry was defined as the temperature difference ( delta-t ) from one hand to the other . in 57 controls , mean delta-t at rest was .309 + / - .254 c. exercising the upper extremities by prolonged elbow flexion or by movements mimicking cello playing in controls did not significantly affect delta-t . in our patient , delta-t was ten times control ( 3.6 c ) . angiography showed extrinsic compression of the subclavian artery occurring only after cello playing ; sympathetic ganglion block relieved the pain . our patient 's abnormal skin temperature may have reflected sympathetic vasomotor hyperactivity . intermittent neurovascular compression and sympathetic hyperactivity appear to be factors in scalenus anticus syndrome . 
candida pyelonephritis complicating traumatic c5 quadriplegia : diagnosis and management . we present the first reported case of candida pyelonephritis in a spinal cord injured patient . in addition to multiple courses of empiric antibiotics , the neurogenic bladder and alteration in cell-mediated immunity found in spinal cord injured patients may have increased this patient 's susceptibility to fungal disease . a 50-year-old patient with c5 motor functional quadriplegia developed candid albicans pyelonephritis while undergoing rehabilitation . the patient had several surgical procedures and multiple courses of antibiotic therapy during acute hospitalization . he continued to have a hectic fever curve , leukocytosis with increased band forms , lethargy , and progressive uremia during rehabilitation . successful investigation of the patient 's condition included assessment of serologic tests for candida precipitin antigen ; multiple blood and urine cultures ; exclusion of other causes of hectic fever ; abdominal computerized tomogram , which revealed a left kidney hypodensity with irregular margins ; and a retrograde pyelogram , which demonstrated multiple renal pelvic-filling defects . cystoscopically placed ureteral stents , which relieved the genitourinary obstruction , drained gross pus from which candida albicans was cultured ; the patient was treated with amphotericin b and showed clinical improvement . pathogenesis , presentation , diagnosis , and treatment of candida pyelonephritis are reviewed . 
operative exposure of the abdominal arteries for trauma . traumatic injuries to the abdominal arteries require operative exposures that allow for flexible repair . dividing the abdominal arterial tree into four zones , based on exposure , provides expedient and precise repair of all major abdominal arteries . 
why surgeons prefer not to care for trauma patients . a survey of the washington state chapter of the american college of surgeons was undertaken to document the opinions of surgeons on trauma care issues . thirty-nine percent of the total sample of surgeons who responded would prefer not to treat any trauma patients . these surgeons were more likely to be older , to practice in an urban setting , to feel that trauma call has a negative impact on elective practice , and to believe more strongly that reimbursement from trauma patients is not equal to that of nontrauma patients . they also agreed more strongly with the statements that these patients require a greater time commitment and pose an increased medicolegal risk . the most significant influence on preference not to treat trauma patients was exerted by the perception of a negative impact on practice , older age , and perception of increased medicolegal risk . reimbursement issues and location of practice were less influential factors . this information can be used to target concerns and barriers to active , willing participation in a trauma care system and to tailor strategies to deal with them effectively . 
the use of a biodegradable mesh to prevent radiation-associated small-bowel injury . radiation-associated small bowel injury occurs in up to 50 % of patients receiving postoperative radiotherapy following pelvic cancer surgery . we describe our experience using a biodegradable mesh that allows the small bowel to be supported above the pelvic inlet and is totally absorbed following radiation therapy . between 1985 and 1989 , 45 procedures were performed in patients with carcinoma of the rectum ( anterior resection in 15 patients , abdominoperineal resection in 23 patients , pelvic exenteration in six patients , and proctocolectomy in one patient ) . in 30 patients a polyglycolic acid ( dexon ) mesh was used , and in 15 patients a polyglactin 910 ( vicryl ) mesh was used . forty-four patients received postoperative radiotherapy . the mean ( + / - sem ) dose was 56.8 + / - 18.4 gy . there were no immediate complications related to the mesh . follow-up ranged from 12 to 53 months ( median follow-up , 34 months ) . with the exception of two patients who had a polyglactin 910 mesh and who developed bowel obstruction due to adhesions under the anterior abdominal wall , there has been no documented incidence of clinical radiation-associated small bowel injury . the use of the absorbable mesh may permit us to use higher doses of postoperative radiotherapy without the associated hazard of radiation-associated small bowel injury . 
frontal dysfunction and memory deficits in the alcoholic korsakoff syndrome and alzheimer-type dementia . this study investigated the intercorrelation of 8 ' frontal ' tests in 32 patients with korsakoff 's syndrome and alzheimer 's disease , and examined the relationship of frontal dysfunction to impaired release from proactive interference and impoverished retrieval from retrograde memory . amongst the frontal tests , there were statistically significant intercorrelations between 3 ' fluency ' tests and 3 ' card-sorting ' tests , although the degree of shared variance was relatively low . the relationship of another test -- picture arrangement errors -- was more equivocal ; performance for ' cognitive estimates ' was unrelated to performance in the other frontal tests , possibly because it may reflect pathology at a different frontal site . there was no evidence in this study that variability in release from proactive interference was related to measures of frontal function in either patient group , and the conditions under which these patient groups fail to show ' normal ' release appear to be tightly constrained . on the other hand , the defective retrieval of retrograde memories was correlated with frontal dysfunction in both patient groups . there was a suggestion of a double dissociation with a measure of nonverbal short-term forgetting , impairment at which was related to the degree of general cortical atrophy rather than frontal dysfunction . a stepwise regression equation based on 3 frontal tests could account for 64 % of the variability in retrograde memory performance within the total patient group , 68.5 % in the korsakoff group and 57 % in the alzheimer group . by comparison , the severity of anterograde memory impairment predicted only 21 % of the variance in retrograde memory performance . it is concluded that frontal dysfunction produces a disorganization of retrieval processes which contributes to the temporally-extensive retrograde amnesia of these two disorders . 
serious childhood injuries caused by air guns . objective : to determine the severity of nonfatal injuries to children caused by air guns and pellet guns . design : case series ( hospital chart review ) . setting : inpatient wards of the children 's hospital of eastern ontario . patients : all children under 18 years of age admitted to the hospital from jan . 1 , 1979 , to dec . 31 , 1989 , under icd code e917 , e922 , e955 , e965 , e970 or e985 who had suffered air gun injuries . main outcome measures : personal data , circumstances of event and clinical data . results : the 43 children ( 37 boys ) had a median age of 12 years . the circumstances of the accident were known in 20 cases : 17 children were playing and 3 were cleaning the gun when it went off . four children thought the gun was unloaded . in five cases the bullet ricocheted into the eye . nine injuries were self-inflicted . injury was to the extremities in 21 ( 49 % ) , the eyes in 15 ( 35 % ) and the head and neck in 7 ( 16 % ) . the median length of hospital stay was 4 days . six children had long-term disabilities , all the result of eye injuries ; two had cataract surgery , and four required enucleation of the eye . conclusions : air guns can cause serious injury to children . their sale needs to be banned or at least carefully regulated . 
adequate resuscitation of burn patients may not be measured by urine output and vital signs . objective : to compare vital sign and urine output monitoring of seriously burned patients with invasive monitoring during early resuscitation . design : retrospective review . setting : a university hospital burn unit . patients : fourteen seriously burned patients who had pulmonary arterial monitoring . monitoring data were compared at baseline and after fluid challenges . results : there was no correlation between invasively derived physiologic variables and vital signs and urine output . vital signs and urine output changed little after fluid challenge , while variables from invasive monitoring demonstrated significant change . in half of the patients , oxygen consumption increased after fluid challenge ; vital signs and urine output did not distinguish these patients . conclusions : the use of urinary output and vital signs to guide initial burn resuscitation may lead to suboptimal resuscitation . invasive cardiorespiratory monitoring may be necessary to optimize resuscitation of seriously burned patients . 
outcome following prolonged intensive care unit stay in multiple trauma patients . objective : to describe the hospital course and outcomes of trauma patients requiring icu stays greater than 30 days and the charges they incur . design : a retrospective case series analysis of data collected from patient charts and trauma registry . setting : a level i regional trauma center that is part of a statewide trauma system . patients : over a 3-yr period , 87 patients ( 3 % of all trauma icu admissions ) had prolonged stays ( greater than 30 days ) in the icu ; they constitute the study group . blunt trauma was responsible for 90 % of injuries , and the mean injury severity score was 34 + / - 16 sd . results : mechanical ventilation was required for 78.5 % of the time spent in the icu . the mean time spent on mechanical ventilators was 47 + / - 23 days ; in the icu , 60 + / - 27 days ; and in the hospital , 72 + / - 29 days . infectious complications occurred in 90 % and organ dysfunction was seen in 76 % of patients . the overall mortality rate was 17.2 % ( 31 % for patients greater than 65 yr ) . patients less than 40 yr had lower mortality rates despite a significantly higher injury severity score and lower glasgow coma scale score compared with those greater than 65 yr . more patients greater than 65 yr were discharged to chronic care facilities than those younger ( 23 % vs. 5 % ) . the number of patients followed at 3 and 12 months after discharge was 74 % and 54 % , respectively , with only two deaths . the mean hospital and professional charges to the patients were $ 101,000 + / - 61,000 and $ 35,000 + / - 13,000 , respectively . conclusion : length of icu stay was most closely associated with the need for mechanical ventilation . the presence of premorbid illness , age greater than 65 yr , and organ dysfunction was associated with increased mortality . although trauma patients requiring prolonged icu stays utilize many resources , the ultimate outcome may be fairly good . 
predictors of postextubation stridor in pediatric trauma patients . objective : to determine which factors are the best predictors of postextubation stridor in pediatric trauma patients . design : prospective cohort study . setting : the burn and trauma icus at harborview medical center from march to september 1989 . patients : children were eligible for the study if they were less than 15 yr old , were intubated for greater than 12 hr , and did not have underlying cardiopulmonary disease . the study included 25 patients with 30 extubations . risk factors assessed : age , type of injury ( burn vs. trauma ) , location of intubation ( " field " vs. hospital ) , endotracheal tube size , length of intubation , and presence of an airleak around the tube at the time of extubation at 30 cm h2o pressure . main outcome measure : moderate to severe postextubation stridor requiring treatment with racemic epinephrine , helium-oxygen , reintubation , or tracheostomy . results : treatment for postextubation stridor was required after 11 ( 37 % ) of 30 extubations , with five reintubations and one tracheostomy . the best predictor of postextubation stridor was absence of an airleak at the time of extubation ( sensitivity 100 % , positive predictive value 79 % , p less than .001 ) , followed by type of injury ( facial burn vs. all others ; sensitivity 64 % , positive predictive value 88 % , p less than .001 ) . after controlling for these two factors , no other factor studied was a significant predictor of postextubation stridor . conclusion : in pediatric trauma patients , mechanism of injury ( facial burn vs. other ) and absence of an airleak at the time of extubation are the strongest factors predicting postextubation stridor . patients with one or both risk factors require special attention to airway management . 
helium-oxygen mixture in the treatment of postextubation stridor in pediatric trauma patients . objective : to assess the effectiveness of a helium-oxygen mixture in reducing post-extubation stridor in children hospitalized for burns or trauma . design : randomized , controlled crossover trial . setting : harborview medical center 's burn and trauma icus from march to september 1989 . patients : children less than 15 yr old who were electively extubated and had symptoms of postextubation stridor , but required less than or equal to 35 % oxygen . intervention : each treatment ( helium-oxygen and oxygen-supplemented room air ) was given in random order for 15 min after extubation . measurements : respiratory distress was assessed by a physician blinded to treatment order using a standard stridor score and clinical judgment . results : there were 13 children with 15 extubations ; seven ( 47 % ) of 15 patients required subsequent treatment with racemic epinephrine or reintubation . stridor scores were lower with helium-oxygen than with oxygen-supplemented room air ( 2.8 vs. 3.7 , p less than .005 ) , and helium-oxygen was preferred in eight of nine trials in which one treatment was clearly favored by the physician . conclusion : because helium-oxygen therapy can reduce stridor scores and is clinically preferred by physicians caring for stridorous children , it may be a useful adjunctive therapy in pediatric trauma patients with postextubation stridor . 
age effects susceptibility to pulmonary barotrauma in rabbits . objective : we studied the effect of age on the development of pulmonary barotrauma after mechanical ventilation with high peak inspiratory pressures ( pip ) . design : young ( 4 to 6 wk old ) and adult rabbits were ventilated for 1 hr at pips of 15 , 30 , and either 45 cm h2o ( young group ) or 55 cm h2o ( adult group ) . measurements and main results : the pulmonary capillary filtration coefficient ( kf , c ) was measured in an isolated lung perfusion system after the animals were killed . in young rabbits , kf , c increased significantly from the 15 cm h2o pip value in both the 30 cm h2o ( 55 % ) and 45 cm h2o ( 507 % ) pip groups , whereas kf , c was increased in adult rabbits only in the 55 cm h2o ( 113 % ) pip group . kf , c was significantly ( p less than .01 ) higher in young rabbits than in adult rabbits after ventilation , with every level of pip being 91 % higher at 15 cm h2o pip and 440 % higher at 45 to 55 cm h2o pip . also , a greater incidence of pneumothorax and airleaks was observed in the young rabbits . pressure-volume loops demonstrated that the young rabbits had more compliant lungs and chest wall than adult rabbits . conclusions : these data indicate that the lungs of young rabbits had a higher baseline microvascular permeability and were more susceptible to the development of ventilator-induced increased microvascular permeability . more compliant lungs and chest wall and the larger distending volumes attained at each peak airway pressure appear to be the mechanisms . 
markers of chronic alcohol ingestion in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis : an aid to diagnosis . we report here the use of the biochemical marker desialylated transferrin to aid in the diagnosis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis . conventional biochemical tests used for the detection of chronic alcohol consumption fail to differentiate nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients from alcoholic subjects . in addition , even in those alcoholic subjects with alcoholic liver disease in whom biopsy has been performed , it is impossible to differentiate these two disease states on the basis of morphological examination alone . in this study we have examined two new markers of excessive alcohol intake , desialylated transferrin and mitochondrial ast in subjects with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and in patients consuming excessive amounts of alcohol . all nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients consumed minimal or no alcohol and were diagnosed by morphological criteria based on liver biopsy specimens . alcoholic subjects were consuming in excess of 80 gm/day ethanol , often with clinical evidence of overt alcoholism . control subjects included both healthy controls and patient controls with liver diseases unrelated to alcohol . the ratio of desialylated transferrin/total transferrin was elevated only in patients who consumed excessive amounts of alcohol , whereas the ratio of mitochondrial ast to total ast ( mitochondrial ast/total ast ) was not significantly different between alcoholic subjects and patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis . the sensitivity and specificity for the ratio desialylated transferrin/total transferrin was 81 % and 98 % , respectively , whereas the sensitivity for the mitochondrial ast/total ast ratio was 92 % ; the specificity was only 50 % , indicating that there were a large number of false-positives . all the conventional markers were less sensitive and less specific than the ratio desialylated transferrin/total transferrin . 
an unusual treatment for a rare dilemma ( oesophageal foreign body ) . identification of an intramural oesophageal fishbone at operation is difficult . such a case is discussed with an attempted accurate radiological localization of site pre-operatively . no such case has so far been reported . 
differences in access to zidovudine ( azt ) among symptomatic hiv-infected persons . object : to evaluate socioeconomic factors that determine whether symptomatic hiv-infected persons are offered zidovudine ( azt ) . design : cross-sectional survey conducted as part of the robert wood johnson foundation 's aids health services program . setting : public hospital clinics and community-based aids organizations in nine american cities . patients : 880 hiv-seropositive outpatients interviewed between october 1988 and may 1989 . main results : males were more likely to have been offered azt than were females ( adjusted odds ratio 2.99 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.67 to 5.36 ) , those with insurance were more likely to have been offered azt than were those without ( adjusted odds ratio 2.00 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.25 to 3.21 ) , and whites more likely to have been offered azt than were non-whites ( adjusted odds ratio 1.73 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.11 to 2.69 ) . intravenous drug users were less likely to have been offered azt than were non-drug users ( adjusted odds ratio 0.44 ; 95 % confidence interval 0.28 to 0.69 ) . persons who had had an episode of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia were more likely to have been offered azt than were persons who had aids and had not had pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( adjusted odds ratio 2.95 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.71 to 5.11 ) . conclusion : the authors conclude that traditionally disadvantaged groups have less access to azt , the only antiretroviral agent demonstrated to increase survival of patients who have symptomatic hiv infection . 
occlusion of the brachial artery by thrombus dislodged from a traumatic aneurysm of the anterior humeral circumflex artery . the successful treatment of a brachial artery occlusion caused by a chronic embolizing aneurysm of the anterior humeral circumflex artery is described . in the case of embolizing axillary artery aneurysms , the best therapy is resection of the aneurysm followed by distal thromboembolectomy and vascular reconstruction by a saphenous vein segment . prosthetic material should be reserved as a second choice . in this particular case successful therapy consisted of ligation of the anterior humeral circumflex artery proximal and distal to the aneurysm , resection of the aneurysm , and transcubital thromboembolectomy . 
mortality among workers at oak ridge national laboratory . evidence of radiation effects in follow-up through 1984 [ published erratum appears in jama 1991 aug 7 ; 266 ( 5 ) :657 ] white men hired at the oak ridge ( tenn ) national laboratory between 1943 and 1972 were followed up for vital status through 1984 ( n = 8318 , 1524 deaths ) . relatively low mortality compared with that in us white men was observed for most causes of death , but leukemia mortality was elevated in the total cohort ( 63 % higher , 28 deaths ) and in workers who had at some time been monitored for internal radionuclide contamination ( 123 % higher , 16 deaths ) . median cumulative dose of external penetrating radiation was 1.4 msv ; 638 workers had cumulative doses above 50 msv ( 5 rem ) . after accounting for age , birth cohort , a measure of socioeconomic status , and active worker status , external radiation with a 20-year exposure lag was related to all causes of death ( 2.68 % increase per 10 msv ) primarily due to an association with cancer mortality ( 4.94 % per 10 msv ) . studies of this population through 1977 did not find radiation-cancer mortality associations , and identical analyses using the shorter follow-up showed that associations with radiation did not appear until after 1977 . the radiation-cancer dose response is 10 times higher than estimates from the follow-up of survivors of the bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki , japan , but similar to one previous occupational study . dose-response estimates are subject to uncertainties due to potential problems , including measurement of radiation doses and cancer outcomes . longer-term follow-up of this and other populations with good measurement of protracted low-level exposures will be critical to evaluating the generalizability of the results reported herein . 
motor vehicle crash injury patterns and the virginia seat belt law . injuries to front seat occupants in tow-away crashes in the charlottesville , va , area were compared for 1 year before and 1 year after virginia 's seat belt use law took effect . vehicle and occupant data were combined to examine crash and injury patterns . reported seat belt use in crashes increased after the law , and there were substantial decreases in injuries . front seat occupants were less likely to receive medical treatment following a crash in the postlaw period . the reduction in the number of injuries was greater for passengers in the right front seat than for drivers and for frontal crashes than for other types of crashes . the injury reduction effects occurred primarily through reductions in the number of head and face injuries , particularly those that occur from contact with windshields and instrument panels . 
blood contacts during surgical procedures operating room personnel are at risk for infection with blood-borne pathogens through blood contact . to describe the nature and frequency of blood contact and its risk factors , trained observers monitored a sample of operations performed by six surgical services at grady memorial hospital , atlanta , ga , for 6 months . in 62 ( 30.1 % ) of 206 operations , at least one blood contact was observed . of 1828 operating room person-procedures observed , 96 ( 5.3 % ) had 147 blood contacts ( 133 skin contacts [ 90 % ] , 10 percutaneous injuries [ 7 % ] , and four eye splashes [ 3 % ] ) . the mean number of blood contacts per 100 person-procedures was highest for surgeons ( 18.6 ) . the frequency of percutaneous injury was similar among surgeons and scrub staff ( mean , 1.2 per 100 worker-procedures for each group ) . risk factors for surgeons ' blood contacts were ( 1 ) performing a trauma , burn , or orthopedic emergency procedure ( odds ratio [ or ] , 4.1 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 2.0 to 8.7 ) ; ( 2 ) patient blood loss exceeding 250ml ( or , 2.1 ; 95 % ci , 1.2 to 3.7 ) ; and ( 3 ) being in the operating room longer than 1 hour ( or , 3.3 ; 95 % ci , 1.6 to 7.1 ) . of 110 blood contacts among surgeons , 81 ( 74 % ) were potentially preventable by additional barrier precautions , such as face shields and fluid-resistant gowns . twenty-one ( 84 % ) of 25 blood contacts among surgeons in procedures in which all three risk factors were present were potentially preventable by additional barriers . of 29 blood contacts among anesthesia and circulating personnel , 20 ( 69 % ) would have been prevented by glove use . for surgical procedures in which operating room personnel are at increased risk of blood contact , reevaluation of surgical technique , use of appropriate barrier precautions , and development of puncture-resistant glove materials are indicated . 
increased airways reactivity after smoke inhalation . 13 fire victims who required treatment after smoke inhalation underwent lung function assessment within 3 days of injury and 3 months later . initial airways hyperreactivity improved over this period , but fev1 and airways specific conductance did not change significantly . there was a strong correlation between exposure carboxyhaemoglobin concentration ( an indicator of smoke exposure ) and initial airways specific conductance ( r + 0.79 ; p = 0.006 ) . airways obstruction after smoke inhalation in house fires may be more common and more persistent than is generally recognised . early lung function tests would allow the incidence of pulmonary complications after smoke inhalation and the potential benefits of early use of inhaled antiinflammatory drugs to be assessed . 
cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions due to thiacetazone in hiv-1 seropositive patients treated for tuberculosis the effects of the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) on tuberculosis management was investigated in 227 patients initially treated with a regimen containing streptomycin , isoniazid , and thiacetazone ( sth ) . 93 of these 227 were hiv-seropositive . 60 patients , of whom 18 were hiv-seropositive , received a regimen consisting of streptomycin , isoniazid , rifampicin , and pyrazinamide ( shrz ) in the initial phase , and thiacetazone and isoniazid ( th ) in the continuation phase . cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions occurred in 22 of 111 ( 20 % ) hiv-seropositive patients , and in 2 of 176 ( 1 % ) hiv-seronegative patients ( rr = 18 , 95 % ci 4.4-76 , p less than 10 ( -7 ] . during the first 8 weeks of treatment 18 reactions occurred among the 93 hiv-seropositive patients on sth , whereas no reaction occurred in 17 hiv-seropositive patients during the initial phase of shrz/th ( p = 0.04 ) . none of the 18 hiv-seropositive patients with cutaneous reactions who were subsequently challenged with isoniazid reacted , nor did any of the 10 tested with streptomycin , but 6 of the 7 challenged with thiacetazone reacted . 3 patients ( all hiv-positive and with toxic epidermal necrolysis ) died as a result of the cutaneous reaction . these results have major implications for tuberculosis control programmes in africa . 
efficacy of eyepad in corneal healing after corneal foreign body removal 30 patients with corneal epithelial defect due to removal of corneal foreign bodies were randomly allocated to receive either chloramphenicol with continuous application of an eyepad or chloramphenicol without the eyepad . almost all corneal defects were healed at 24 h , and all were healed by 48 h , with no statistically significant difference between the two groups . discomfort at 24 h was greater in the eyepad group than in the control group . an eyepad seems to confer no benefit in healing and is uncomfortable . 
the internal oblique-iliac crest free flap in composite defects of the oral cavity involving bone , skin , and mucosa . the reconstruction of oromandibular defects following ablative surgery is a challenging undertaking . when the defect involves skin as well as mucosa , the challenge becomes even greater . the internal oblique iliac crest osteomyocutaneous free flap is particularly useful for reconstruction of through-and-through composite defects due to the inclusion of two separate soft-tissue flaps on the same vascular pedicle . we report our experience with this flap in the reconstruction of 10 patients with such defects . the utility , and the limitations of this form of reconstruction are discussed in detail . 
anterior cruciate ligament injuries . evaluation , arthroscopic reconstruction , and rehabilitation . the advantages of arthroscopic reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament tear over arthrotomy are quite obvious : reduced pain and morbidity . some arthroscopists are performing these procedures on an outpatient basis . the physician can choose from several graft substitutes for anterior cruciate ligament replacement . autografts consisting of the iliotibial band , semitendinosus , gracilis , and meniscus have been used as grafts . the most common autograft is the bone-patellar tendon-bone , which has been used since 1930 and has been shown to have a tensile strength near that of the anterior cruciate ligament . the state of the art in surgical alternatives for anterior cruciate ligament tears is arthroscopic reconstruction using the midthird of the patellar tendon . treatment of anterior cruciate ligament injuries requires prompt and adequate evaluation of the laxity of the ligament as well as other structures in the knee , appropriate treatment options offered to the patient with complete descriptions of knee function after each treatment option , and comprehensive rehabilitation program . patient compliance is an integral part of the success of this procedure . the nurse must include a description of the injury , preoperative testing , surgical intervention , and rehabilitation program when educating the patient . the successful postoperative anterior cruciate ligament rehabilitation program is multifaceted . in general , there must be specific guidelines applied by a physical therapist who has knowledge of the surgical procedure , understands principles of ligament healing , and has the ability to individualize the program as needed . for any level of athlete or active person , there must be achievement of all goals per phase to a high performance level . in addition , there must always be objective measurements to document progress to the physical therapist and physician but , perhaps most importantly , to reassure the patient that normalcy is being restored . 
stress fractures in athletes . most stress fractures are preventable . proper conditioning and preseason training is essential . selection of the appropriate age-related sport must be taken into consideration . adequate warm-up and cool-down is important to prevent muscle injuries that may contribute to stress fractures later on . the athlete should be aware of not " over-doing it " because fatigue is a contributing factor to the stress injury rate . proper dress and equipment are necessary . using the basic methods of prevention , along with good sportsmanship , safe participation in any sport may be anticipated . because the demands and expectations of our high-performance athletes are more prevalent , education and rehabilitation of the sports-injured patient have become ever important . with the emergence of sports medicine as a discipline , injured athletes are returned to the playing arenas much more rapidly with newer protocols and techniques . we must be ready rapidly to assess , diagnose , and treat all sports injuries ; however , we must be aware and alert to the possibility that it is an injury of " wear and tear " when making any diagnosis and prescribing any treatment regime . 
meniscal injuries . the knee is the largest and one of the strongest joints in the body . it is used in all forms of vigorous activity and is relatively unprotected . this lends it to being one of the most injured joints in the body . in addition to being traumatized , there are several other forms of pathology that can manifest symptoms of pain , swelling , and instability . fortunately , most of the problems can be treated with conservative methods or by arthroscopy . 
diagnosis and treatment of shoulder injuries in the athlete . the goal of the treatment team dealing with patients who have sports-related shoulder injuries is to return them to their previous activity . there is no substitute for knowledge of anatomy , diagnosis modalities , or current treatments . realistically , some of the athletes are not able to return to the level of competition they performed originally . for those patients , recommendations and suggestions for alternatives based on a sound knowledge of arthroscopic principles need to be considered . one of the greatest roles for the nurse treating these patients may be the temporary loan of her shoulder for them to lean on . 
common spinal injuries in athletes . special needs of athletes with spine injuries must be considered when planning for treatment of these patients . the patients wish to return to competition safely but rapidly . nurses must understand the patients ' / athletes ' need but put them into perspective with respect to the diagnosis , treatment , and degree of disability . support , encouragement , and understanding from a knowledgeable health professional are invaluable . 
the foot and footwear . in the field of sports medicine we see increasing numbers of foot - and leg-related injuries that could have been avoided , either totally or in part , had the individual chosen the proper footwear . there is no such thing as the ideal shoe for all types of feet and all terrains , however . when an athlete has a chronic problem that does not respond to properly fitted shoes , a physician consultation should be considered . 
that old hip . the osteoporosis process . osteoporosis is a major health concern that will contribute to an increasing number of hip fractures as the population ages . researchers are continuing to evaluate the role that decreased level of estrogen at menopause and prolonged calcium insufficiency play in the development of osteoporosis . in addition , many health care recommendations are aimed at maximizing peak bone mass and preventing bone loss to decrease the chance of hip fracture . new studies are evaluating the efficacy of experimental medications to rebuild bone mass once osteoporosis has developed . current prevention guidelines include adequate calcium and vitamin d intake and moderate exercise . at menopause , estrogen replacement therapy is recommended for those younger than 50 years or considered at high risk for developing osteoporosis . all people are encouraged to decrease the risk of fracture by evaluating their home environment for hazards that might contribute to falls . nursing needs to develop new strategies and interventions to educate the public about osteoporosis , improve the quality of life for persons with osteoporosis , and decrease the osteoporotic hip fracture mortality rate . will it rise to the challenge ? . 
pelvic fracture patient care . reflections on the past , implications for the future . nursing care of patients with pelvic fractures has changed dramatically in the past two decades . fracture care that necessitated long periods of immobility and consequent complications has been influenced by new classification systems , the use of external fixation , and the more recent use of internal fixation . the evolution of pelvic fracture patient care has greatly influenced nursing care of these patients . 
bone stimulators for fusions and fractures . even though a complete understanding of electrical responses of bone has not been fully obtained , useful data toward this end have been gathered . the development of devices that use what is known about the bone 's electrophysiologic properties has impacted patient care . many health care professionals remain skeptical about the effects of electrical stimulation in bone healing . therefore , further research is needed to help the practitioner formulate a more educated opinion on this form of therapy . 
traumatic vulvar hematomas . assessing and treating nonobstetric patients . management of the vast majority of vulvar hematomas is conservative . most resolve spontaneously when simple measures are taken . serial examinations are necessary to distinguish uncomplicated hematomas from those requiring surgery . the clinician must also be vigilant for the possibility of sexual abuse and respond with appropriate workup and referral if this situation is suspected . 
spinal cord injury after subclavian flap aortoplasty . an experimental study in piglets . paraplegia is a rare but much feared complication of corrective surgery for coarctation of the aorta . the problem was studied in 31 newborn pigs submitted to subclavian flap aortoplasty . the aortic cross-clamping time ranged from 9-25 min . twenty-three piglets with clamping times 9-18 min were neurologically intact , whereas eight with aortic clamping for 18-25 min became paraplegic . the clinical implications for newborn children with symptomatic aortic coarctation are discussed with regard to these experimental findings . 
community-acquired pulmonary infections in a public municipal hospital in the 1980s . the relative and absolute incidences of community-acquired bacterial and tuberculous pulmonary infections , in patients admitted to a public municipal hospital , and the clinical and radiographic characteristics of these infections were retrospectively determined for the first time in 20 years . the data were compared to those previously reported in the literature . such data were also specifically determined for alcoholics and compared to those found in nonalcoholics . the absolute numbers of infections due to pneumococci and anaerobes , and to tuberculosis , were not dissimilar to those reported in the literature , even though relatively few hemophilus infections were documented . the lack of klebsiella sp infections was remarkable but not unexpected . alcoholic patients had significantly higher rates of tuberculosis , cavitary disease , lung disease presumably due to anaerobes , and blood-culture-positive pneumonia . the relative concordance of our results for bacterial and tuberculous infections with those predicted from the published literature was striking . the high frequency of tuberculosis in our patients was particularly striking at a time when the incidence of tuberculosis nationwide , in patients without acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , has declined significantly . 
transdermal clonidine versus chlordiazepoxide in alcohol withdrawal : a randomized , controlled clinical trial . in a prospective , double-blind comparison , we assessed the efficacy of transdermal clonidine with that of chlordiazepoxide in the treatment of moderately severe acute alcohol withdrawal syndrome . while having significant withdrawal symptoms , 50 hospitalized men were randomly assigned to receive either transdermal clonidine or chlordiazepoxide over a 4-day study period . outcome was evaluated daily , medically and psychiatrically , using both objective and subjective measurements for dependent variables . no patient in either study group had seizures or progression to delirium tremens . the group receiving transdermal clonidine had a more significant response globally for the signs and symptoms of alcohol withdrawal , as measured by the alcohol withdrawal assessment scale . also , clonidine more effectively lowered elevated systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate . the core target symptom , anxiety , decreased significantly more in the patients receiving transdermal clonidine when measured by the hamilton anxiety rating scale and its subscale for somatic anxiety . cognitive function responded equally in both study populations . clonidine-treated patients reported less diarrhea , dizziness , headache and fatigue , and the chlordiazepoxide-treated patients reported less nausea and vomiting . we conclude that transdermal clonidine is effective treatment for the acute alcohol withdrawal syndrome . 
patients with mental disorders who work . mental illness can devastate persons intellectually and emotionally ; with maintenance therapy , however , certain patients with chronic mental illnesses are capable of holding a variety of jobs . from the total population of psychiatric patients in our va outpatient clinic , the 87 who were gainfully employed were identified to determine common factors among them . affective disorders were the predominant diagnoses among patients who worked , while schizophrenia was more common among those who did not . alcoholism was diagnosed in approximately 25 % of working and nonworking groups . 
pediatric injury surveillance : use of a hospital discharge data base . mortality data traditionally have been used to describe the epidemiology of childhood injury . fatal outcomes , however , represent less than 1 % of injury events and thus provide a limited characterization of the problem . future epidemiologic study resulting in injury prevention depends upon the development of morbidity-based injury surveillance systems . " e-coded " hospital discharge data bases ( used to indicate external cause of injury ) are a valuable source of information for monitoring and controlling serious , nonfatal injuries . an e-coded injury discharge data base was developed and evaluated at the children 's hospital of alabama in birmingham . in addition to patient demographics , length of stay , total charge , and method of payment , e-code and " n-code " ( to indicate the anatomic site of injury ) data were collected . during the 2-year study period , 1077 discharges from the hospital were documented in children with serious injuries under 15 years of age for an adjusted discharge rate of 78.0 per 10,000 child-years . injuries accounted for $ 5.3 million in total charges and 4899 total days of stay . falls , unintentional poisonings , burns , and bicycle , motor vehicle-passenger , and motor vehicle-pedestrian injuries were the six most common causes of injury . closed-head trauma accounted for 55.4 % of motor vehicle-passenger injuries , 67.6 % of bicycle injuries , and 51.8 % of falls . hot water scalds caused 36.4 % of burns , and clonidine ingestion accounted for 22.1 % of unintentional poisonings . 
fatal incidents involving pickup trucks in alabama . death or injury resulting from crashes involving light trucks ( ie , pickup trucks ) is a significant problem . data show that fatal crashes and occupant fatalities involving light trucks have steadily increased since 1983 . this project describes vehicle crashes involving passengers riding in the beds of pickup trucks . actual crashes were identified through the fatal accident reporting system ( fars ) of the national highway traffic safety administration . the 40 incidents studied involved 204 pickup truck passengers . of these , 45 were killed , 107 sustained visible injuries or were carried from the scene , 6 had bruises and abrasions , and 2 had no visible injury but were briefly unconscious or had a documented complaint of pain . the risk of death among pickup truck passengers who were fully ejected from the vehicle was nearly six times that of passengers not fully ejected . correspondingly , the risk of ejection from the truck was 26.7 times greater among occupants riding in the bed than occupants riding in the cab . 
management of arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the forearm . we initially observed our patient , who had subcutaneous arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the volar forearm , until his wound demarcation was complete . after wound demarcation , we proceeded with debridement and partial-thickness skin grafting . upper extremity function was totally normal 3 months after this therapy . this is the first case report in the literature that describes a child with an arginine monohydrochloride-induced extravasation necrosis . 
spontaneous rupture of a normal bladder . we have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of a normal urinary bladder . patients with this rare condition characteristically have a recent history of heavy alcohol intake , sudden onset of abdominal pain coincidental with bloody urine , generalized peritonitis , and abnormal renal chemistry . a high index of suspicion will lead to early diagnosis and treatment , minimizing the mortality attributed to this condition . 
spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult . we have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult . immediate onset of severe upper abdominal pain after overindulgence in food and drink along with radiographic evidence of pneumoperitoneum and the clinical findings of massive abdominal distention , epigastric tenderness , shock , and occasionally subcutaneous emphysema should suggest the possibility of gastric rupture . the treatment is simple , but mortality is high when surgical intervention is not rapid . 
isolated subclavian artery dissection after blunt trauma . we present a case report of a patient with an isolated dissection of the subclavian artery after blunt trauma . the patient who was admitted to our center after a motor vehicle accident , complained of chest and neck pain and physical findings of diminished left extremity pulses . arteriography showed an occluded subclavian artery with the possibility of a dissection . the dissection was confirmed at surgery with the proximal extent originating just distal to the origin of the vertebral artery . the distal extent of the dissection was not determined . operative repair was performed by a carotid-to-subclavian artery bypass obliterating the false lumen of the dissection with a running vascular anastomosis . the patient , who was discharged 5 days after repair , had normal extremity neurovascular function at 4 months follow-up . 
methamphetamine . stimulant of the 1990s ? during the past several years , the use of a smokable form of methamphetamine hydrochloride called " ice " has increased rapidly . the heaviest use has occurred on the west coast and in hawaii . many regional emergency departments treat more methamphetamine users than cocaine-intoxicated patients . the ease of synthesis from inexpensive and readily available chemicals makes possible the rampant abuse of a dangerous drug that can produce a euphoria similar to that induced by cocaine . clinicians should be familiar with the medical effects and treatment of acute methamphetamine toxicity . 
histologic abnormalities of large and small coronary arteries , neural structures , and the conduction system of the heart found in postmortem studies of individuals dying from the toxic oil syndrome . hundreds died and thousands were poisoned by rapeseed oil adulterated with aniline and sold illegally in spain in 1981 . the clinical manifestations , now known as the toxic oil syndrome , include pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy plus widespread vascular and neural lesions in other organs . many of the late deaths ended with a scleroderma-like illness . because scleroderma involves the heart , in this study we examined the small and large coronary arteries , neural structures , and conduction system from eight victims dying with the toxic oil syndrome . dense fibrosis of the sinus node in two hearts resembled changes found in scleroderma . atrionodal junctional hemorrhages and cystic degeneration of the sinus node present in the other six hearts resembled changes found in lupus erythematosus . small and large coronary arteries exhibited focal fibromuscular dysplasia and a proliferative cystic myointimal degeneration . this latter abnormality was associated with sloughing of the inner wall and embolization of the detached fragment downstream in the same coronary artery . every heart had many degenerative lesions within nerves , ganglia , and the coronary chemoreceptor . both the arterial and neural abnormalities prominently involved the conduction system . based upon observations by others with experimental feeding of rapeseed oil containing either high or low erucic acid , we suggest that this oil must remain a major suspected cause of the toxic oil syndrome , particularly in conjunction with some as yet unexplained facilitative influence by oleoanilids . if this is so , it is important to reconsider the widely recommended use of any rapeseed oil product as a suitable food for man or other animals . 
extraction of implanted transvenous pacing leads : a review of a persistent clinical problem . within a few months of implantation , permanent pacemaker leads become ensheathed in fibrocollagenous tissue . this tissue may anchor the lead so that it is difficult , dangerous , or impossible to remove it . leads with bulbous or finned tips are particularly resistant to extraction . the risks of applying traction to an entrapped lead include induction of bradycardia or ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation , invagination of the right ventricle , avulsion of the right ventricular myocardium or tricuspid valve , hemopericardium , and cardiac tamponade . forceful traction may result in uncoiling of the conductor , disruption of the insulation , or complete fracture , leaving an intravascular remnant that may embolize or be a source for thrombosis . although fixation and abandonment of an inactive chronically implanted lead is frequently appropriate and is known to pose little long-term risk , the retained inactive lead may interact adversely with a new active lead and then increase the risk of venous thrombosis , serve as a potential nidus for infection , or produce spurious electrical sensing signals that may be sensed by the pulse generator . absolute indications for lead removal are those in which there would be a life-threatening situation if the lead were to remain in situ . in the absence of an absolute indication , the decision to proceed with extraction must be made by weighing the potential for serious morbidity or mortality against risks of the extraction technique . techniques for lead removal include traction and open cardiotomy operations . when a portion of the lead is intravascular , forceps , snares , baskets , countertraction , or lead-transection devices may be used to retrieve the fragment . 
marked plasmacytosis and immunoglobulin abnormalities following infusion of streptokinase . marked plasmacytosis is an uncommon clinical finding associated with plasma cell dyscrasias and certain reactive states , particularly serum sickness . moreover , serum sickness-like reactions are a well-recognized complication of therapy with streptokinase . in this report , the authors describe a patient who developed a transient , but striking , plasmacytosis and an unexplained fever following streptokinase treatment for a pulmonary embolus . an evaluation for multiple myeloma was completely negative except for the occurrence of serum monoclonal-like proteins which largely disappeared over an eight month period . 
platelet-derived growth factor-bb and transforming growth factor beta 1 selectively modulate glycosaminoglycans , collagen , and myofibroblasts in excisional wounds . recombinant platelet-derived growth factor ( pdgf ) and transforming growth factor beta 1 ( tgf-beta 1 ) influence the rate of extracellular matrix formed in treated incisional wounds . because incisional healing processes are difficult to quantify , a full-thickness excisional wound model in the rabbit ear was developed to permit detailed analyses of growth-factor-mediated tissue repair . in the present studies , quantitative and qualitative differences in acute inflammatory cell influx , glycosaminoglycan ( gag ) deposition , collagen formation , and myofibroblast generation in pdgf-bb ( bb homodimer ) - and tgf-beta 1-treated wounds were detected when analyzed histochemically and ultrastructurally . although both growth factors significantly augmented extracellular matrix formation and healing in 10-day wounds compared with controls ( p less than 0.002 ) . pdgf-bb markedly increased macrophage influx and gag deposition , whereas tgf-beta 1 selectively induced significantly more mature collagen bundles at the leading edge of new granulation tissue ( p = 0.007 ) . transforming growth factor-beta 1-treated wound fibroblasts demonstrated active collagen fibrillogenesis and accretion of subfibrils at the ultrastructural level . myofibroblasts , phenotypically modified fibroblasts considered responsible for wound contraction , were observed in control , but were absent in early growth-factor-treated granulating wounds . these results provide important insights into the mechanisms of soft tissue repair and indicate that 1 ) pdgf-bb induces an inflammatory response and provisional matrix synthesis within wounds that is qualitatively similar but quantitatively increased compared with normal wounds ; 2 ) tgf-beta 1 preferentially triggers synthesis and more rapid maturation of collagen within early wounds ; and 3 ) both growth factors inhibit the differentiation of fibroblasts into myofibroblasts , perhaps because wound contraction is not required , due to increased extracellular matrix synthesis . 
emergency laparoscopy . unnecessary abdominal explorations in severely injured patients can be reduced by employing emergent or urgent laparoscopy in blunt abdominal trauma and the obscured , acute abdominal cases . in 150 blunt abdominal trauma cases , a mini-laparoscopy was used in the emergency room or the intensive care unit without major complications . in 56 % , the findings were negative . in 19 % , the laparoscopic findings were corroborated by surgery . in 25 % , a minimal to moderate hemoperitoneum was found and the laparoscopic impression dictated close observation . unnecessary exploration was avoided except in one case . in the elderly high-risk patient with a poor history , abdominal examination can be noninformative . laparoscopy can detect acute appendicitis or organ perforation . in the young female , appendicitis can be differentiated from pelvic inflammatory disease . laparoscopy is more accurate and gives a larger latitude for decision-making than lavage . it can also be useful in the obscured problematic abdominal case . 
clinical utility of a position-monitoring catheter in the pulmonary artery . unsuspected distal migration of the tip of the pulmonary artery catheter may cause life-threatening complications . we prospectively evaluated the clinical utility of the pa watch catheter in 25 patients after cardiac surgery by hourly measurements of pulmonary artery ( distal lumen ) , right ventricular ( middle lumen ) , and central venous ( proximal lumen ) pressures . the catheter was considered to be in the proper position when the middle lumen port , located 10 cm from the tip , transmitted a right ventricular pressure waveform . satisfactory initial catheter placement was obtained in 24 of 25 patients . during the 28.4 + / - 1.8 h of postoperative monitoring , clinically unsuspected distal catheter migration , indicated by the presence of a pulmonary artery pressure waveform in the middle lumen port , occurred in 12 of the 25 patients ( 48 % ) . in these patients , 20 episodes occurred and required catheter withdrawal distances of 1.8 + / - 0.3 cm ( range 1-6 cm ) . the pa watch catheter proved to be a useful indicator of unsuspected distal catheter migration in the postoperative period . the pa watch catheter allows assessment of catheter tip placement in the proximal pulmonary artery and may decrease catheter-induced complications . 
