comparison of chloroquine , pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine , and chlorproguanil and dapsone as treatment for falciparum malaria in pregnant and non-pregnant women , kakamega district , kenya . objective -- to compare treatment and protection against falciparum malaria in pregnant and non-pregnant women with three drug regimens . design -- prospective intervention study with six weeks ' follow up . patients received one of three drug regimens in order of entry . setting -- primary care hospital and secondary girls ' school in rural western kenya . patients -- 158 of 988 pregnant women ( 89 primigravid and 69 multigravid ) in the third trimester and 105 of 1488 non-pregnant schoolgirls of reproductive age were parasitaemic ( more than 500 asexual forms/microliter . these women were divided into three treatment groups by gravid state . interventions -- women were treated with chloroquine base 25 mg/kg over three days or pyrimethamine 75 mg and sulfadoxine 1500 mg as a single dose or chlorproguanil 1.2 mg/kg and dapsone 2.4 mg/kg as a single dose . main outcome measures -- parasitaemia and haemoglobin concentrations measured at seven day intervals for six weeks . results -- primigravid women were more likely to be parasitaemic on follow up than multigravidas or nulligravidas , whose response was about the same . parasites did not clear by day 7 in primigravidas in six ( 20 % ) of 30 who received chloroquine , three ( 8 % ) of 35 treated with pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine , and none of 23 treated with chlorproguanil and dapsone . at day 28 , 83 % , 19 % , and 67 % of primigravidas in these treatment groups were parasitaemic . haemoglobin concentrations rose in all women , but improvement was sustained only in women who remained free of parasites . conclusions -- clearance of parasites was better with either pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine or chlorproguanil and dapsone than with chloroquine . longest protection was obtained with pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine . 
prevalence of hiv antibody and pregnancy in tayside , 1984-9 : background to screening . objective -- to determine age specific prevalence of hiv antibody , incidence of pregnancy , and likelihood of detection and correct assignment to risk category by antenatal screening of women known to be positive for hiv antibody , from 1984 to 1989 . design -- retrospective analysis of reproductive history and risk behaviour of women positive for hiv antibody and prediction of detection by screening on the basis of blood group samples , guthrie tests , and rubella tests . setting -- city of dundee , where the prevalence of hiv is high , since the appearance of hiv in 1984 , predominantly among heterosexual intravenous drug users . patients -- all ( 61 ) women known to be positive for hiv antibody who had had clinically indicated tests , for whom case notes were available for 60 . main outcome measures -- risk assessment according to case notes and reported to the laboratory , incidence of infection , geographical location , age , date of positive test result , and reproductive history . results -- with 61 infected women the overall minimum prevalence among women within the city of dundee was 0.67 / 1000 and 2.9 / 1000 among women in their third decade . of the 60 women whose reproductive history was available , 35 had 57 pregnancies , 36 of which occurred after seroconversion was known to have taken place , representing 8.7 % of the total number of affected pregnancies reported for the united kingdom . if antenatal screening for hiv had been performed between 1984 and 1989 it could not have detected positivity for hiv antibody in 25 ( 42 % ) women who had no pregnancies during this time . among the remaining 35 women , screening samples taken for blood grouping could have identified a maximum of 34 ( 57 % ) , samples taken to check rubella susceptibility a maximum of 22 ( 37 % ) , and blood spots on guthrie cards a maximum of 19 ( 32 % ) . retesting would have occurred in 14 women 33 times with samples taken for blood grouping , but three and four women would have been tested twice using samples taken for rubella testing and guthrie cards respectively . anonymous screening would have been unable to determine risk category as a history of intravenous drug use was known in 47 ( 79 % ) women before testing but this was increased by a further 5 ( 8 % ) who admitted to it after the test result was known . conclusion -- interpreting the results of antenatal screening programmes will be complex and will underestimate overall prevalence of hiv antibody among women ; this will be exaggerated by strategies based on anonymous testing with guthrie cards or on samples taken for rubella testing , which do not include women who have had an earlier loss of pregnancy . only open testing with consent will permit satisfactory attribution to . 
posttransplant anti-glomerular basement membrane nephritis in related males with alport syndrome . this report describes the development of anti-glomerular basement membrane ( gbm ) glomerulonephritis after kidney transplantation in related males with alport syndrome . antibodies in sera from one of these patients stained normal gbm , bowman 's capsule , tubular basement membranes , and epidermal basement membranes but did not stain tissues from an unrelated alport male . the target antigen was found to be a 26 kd peptide of the noncollagenous domain of basement membrane collagen . this study provides further evidence of the importance of abnormalities of basement membrane collagen in the pathogenesis of the alport nephropathy . we speculate that certain mutations at the alport locus , such as large intragenic deletions or frame-shift mutations , may be associated with failure to develop immune tolerance to epitopes on this 26kd peptide . in the setting of permissive immune response and regulation , transplantation of a normal kidney may result in the generation of anti-gbm antibodies . 
the use of risk factors in medical diagnosis : opportunities and cautions . we discuss in this paper the extent to which disease risk factors may assist in the diagnostic process . we caution that disease risk factors need not be very sensitive or specific . risk factor specificity and sensitivity may be further reduced if , in the former case , the risk factor is related to other illnesses having the same clinical presentation as the disease of interest , or if , in the latter case , the risk factor disappears with the onset of illness . we illustrate these points in a discussion of the utility of smoking as a diagnostic test for malignancy in two clinical situations , the patient with asymptomatic microscopic hematuria and the patient with a solitary pulmonary nodule . risk factors hold great promise as aids to medical diagnosis , as this information is readily available to clinicians at little or no cost . clinicians , however , should exercise caution when using risk factors of unproven diagnostic utility in medical diagnosis , as their presence may have little or no effect on disease probability . 
intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity . autologous lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells and recombinant human interleukin-2 ( ril-2 ) were administered intraperitoneally ( ip ) to 24 patients with malignancies limited to the peritoneal space . ten patients had ovarian cancer , 12 had colorectal cancer , and one patient each had endometrial carcinoma and primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma . all ovarian cancer patients , three of twelve colorectal cancer patients , and one patient with endometrial carcinoma had received prior therapy . patients received il-2 100,000 u/kg every 8 hours intravenously ( iv ) for 3 days , and 2 days later underwent daily leukapheresis for 5 days . lak cells were generated in vitro by incubating the peripheral blood mononuclear cells in il-2 for 7 days and were then administered ip daily for 5 days through a tenckhoff catheter ( davol , inc , cranston , ri ) together with il-2 25,000 u/kg ip every 8 hours . all but one patient completed at least one cycle of therapy . toxic side effects included minor to moderate hypotension , fever , chills , rash , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and distension , diarrhea , oliguria , fluid retention , thrombocytopenia , and minor elevations of liver function tests ; all of these rapidly improved after discontinuation of il-2 . one patient had a grand mal seizure , and one suffered a colonic perforation ; these were felt to be treatment-related . ip fibrosis developed in 14 patients and limited repeated cyclic administration of this therapy in five patients . two of 10 ( 20 % ) ovarian cancer patients and five of 12 ( 42 % ) colorectal cancer patients had laparoscopy - or laparotomy-documented partial responses . we conclude that lak cells and ril-2 can be administered ip to cancer patients , resulting in moderate to severe short-term toxicity and modest therapeutic efficacy . further investigation of this form of adoptive immunotherapy modified to address the problem of ip fibrosis and with lower ip il-2 doses is justified by these initial results . 
neonatal body proportionality and body composition after in utero exposure to cocaine and marijuana . the relationship of maternal use of marijuana and cocaine during pregnancy to measures of neonatal body proportionality and body composition was assessed in a multiethnic sample of 1082 newborn infants . maternal use of marijuana and cocaine during pregnancy was ascertained by self-report and by an enzyme-multiplied immunoassay technique for screening of urine samples obtained prenatally and again post partum . after each substance was analytically controlled for use of the other and for other potentially confounding variables , detection of marijuana metabolites in maternal urine was associated ( p less than 0.05 ) with depressed mean arm muscle circumference and nonfat area of the arm but not with any measure of neonatal fatness . in contrast , detection of cocaine in maternal urine was associated ( p less than 0.05 ) with decrements of subscapular fat folds and of the fat and nonfat areas of the arm . although both substances were associated with depressed birth weight , there was no decrement of neonatal ponderal index or of the arm circumference/head circumference ratio in association with exposure to either substance . we conclude that both marijuana exposure and cocaine exposure during pregnancy are associated with symmetric intrauterine growth retardation , but that deficits are in differing compartments of intrauterine growth . these findings suggest that marijuana may retard fetal growth through maternal-fetal hypoxia , whereas cocaine may alter nutrient transfer to the fetus and fetal metabolism . 
genital prolapse with and without urinary incontinence . procidentia , vaginal vault prolapse and severe cystocele may be associated with potential urinary incontinence , which becomes overt only after surgical repair of the genital prolapse . the normal support of the pelvic organs is provided by the pelvic diaphragm ( levator ani and coccygeus muscles ) . the levator plate is a firm , muscular plate between the coccyx and anus formed by fusion of the levator ani muscles on each side . recent investigators have indicated that the main mechanism for weakening the pelvic muscles occurs as a result of childbearing , when stretch injury of the pudendal nerve causes denervation of the muscles . this injury is aggravated with the changes of aging and has effects on anogenital prolapse and stress incontinence . there may be iatrogenic causes of both prolapse and stress incontinence when an operation produces a change in the direction of tissue forces or removes a prior barrier to incontinence . the evaluation of patients must include the actual and potential aspects of genital prolapse and incontinence . testing for stress incontinence must be performed before and after reduction of the genital prolapse . surgical repair should be planned carefully to correct all the significant and potential defects in the urogenital tract . ideally a normal vaginal axis with adequate length will be restored , and urinary function will not be compromised . 
stripping the fetal membranes at term . is the procedure safe and efficacious ? a prospective , randomized investigation was undertaken in a low-risk group of pregnant women at term ( 38-42 weeks ' gestation ) to determine if stripping the fetal membranes would safely result in earlier delivery . ninety-nine patients entered the study ; 51 underwent stripping of the membranes , and 48 controls did not . fifty-nine percent of the patients in the stripped group delivered within one week as compared to 21 % in the nonstripped group ( p less than .0003 ) . two pregnancies in the stripped group advanced beyond 42 weeks ' gestation as compared to six pregnancies in the control group ( p = .12 ) . a single gravida in the control group developed chorioamnionitis during labor . there were no other infections or other complications . stripping the membranes was associated with earlier delivery and was not associated with any complications . 
computed tomographic and ultrasonographic findings in women with acute fatty liver of pregnancy . acute fatty liver of pregnancy is associated with complications that can influence antepartum management and necessitate delivery . to date , liver biopsy has been regarded as the " gold standard " for diagnosis . radiologic evaluation of the liver has been suggested as a less invasive means of diagnosing this entity . five patients with acute fatty liver of pregnancy underwent ultrasonography ; three underwent concomitant computed tomography ( ct ) of the liver . the liver appeared to be normal in all the patients undergoing ct evaluation and all undergoing ultrasonography except one . normal liver examinations are not unusual findings in patients with acute fatty liver of pregnancy . 
coexistence of an intrauterine pregnancy with both an ectopic pregnancy and salpingitis in the right fallopian tube . a case report . the current epidemic of pelvic inflammatory disease and recent advances in gynecologic techniques have resulted in a marked increase in the incidence of combined pregnancy . in the case reported on here the coexistence of an intrauterine pregnancy with acute salpingitis and an ectopic gestation in the same fallopian tube led to early diagnostic errors . 
conservative therapy for adnexal torsion . a case report . adnexal torsion has traditionally been treated with oophorectomy because of the fear that untwisting the ovarian pedicle may result in a thrombotic embolus . such a patient had bilateral adnexal torsion secondary to dermoid cysts . since standard therapy , oophorectomy , was performed , the patient was surgically castrated . a review of the literature revealed no reported cases of a thrombotic embolus arising from the untwisting of twisted adnexa and supported conservation of the adnexa rather than routine extirpation , except when necrotic . 
localization of trophoblastic disease with vaginal ultrasonography . a report of two cases . two patients had elevated beta-human chorionic gonadotropin levels and normal abdominal ultrasound examinations . in both instances transvaginal ultrasonography demonstrated a persistent nodule of trophoblastic disease confirmed at the time of hysterectomy . this new imaging modality can assist in the diagnosis of persistent trophoblastic disease in the uterus . 
transcervical balloon tuboplasty . a multicenter study transcervical balloon tuboplasty represents a noninvasive technique to treat proximal tubal occlusion . in a multicenter study , 77 women with confirmed bilateral proximal tubal occlusion underwent the procedure . in 71 patients ( 92 % ) , at least one proximally obstructed fallopian tube was recanalized . concomitant distal bilateral tubal occlusions were diagnosed after successful proximal tubal balloon recanalizations in 13 patients ( 17 % ) . in the remaining 64 patients , 22 clinical pregnancies ( 34 % ) have been confirmed during a median follow-up period of 12 months . among those , 17 ( 77 % ) resulted in normal deliveries and five ( 23 % ) resulted in a first-trimester miscarriage . one patient was diagnosed with an ectopic pregnancy . among 25 patients who had not conceived within 6 months of the procedure , 17 ( 68 % ) demonstrated continuing tubal patency on repeated hysterosalpingogram . we conclude that transcervical balloon tuboplasty is a safe outpatient technique that may represent an alternative to in vitro fertilization or microsurgical reanastomosis of fallopian tubes . 
transmission of hiv-1 infections from mothers to infants in haiti . impact on childhood mortality and malnutrition . the cds/jhu aids project team . of 4588 pregnant women in a high-risk haitian population , 443 ( 9.7 % ) were serologically positive for the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive were more likely to be premature , of low birth weight , and malnourished at 3 and 6 months of age than were infants born to women who were hiv-1 seronegative . increased mortality was observed in infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive by 3 months of age . at 12 months of age , 23.4 % of the infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive had died compared with 10.8 % of the infants born to women who were hiv-1 seronegative ; at 24 months of age , the mortality rates were 31.3 % and 14.2 % , respectively . maternal hiv-1 infections resulted in an 11.7 % increase in the overall infant mortality rate in this population . the estimated mother-to-infant hiv-1 transmission rate in these breast-fed infants was 25 % , similar to the rates reported for non-breast-fed populations in the united states and europe . 
antenatal intervention for congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation . in 2 fetuses with congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation ( ccam ) with hydrops , in-utero resection of the enlarged pulmonary lobe reduced mediastinal shift and allowed expansion of normal lung tissue in both cases . in case 1 , the 27-week-gestation fetus died from severe hydrops after premature delivery . in case 2 , fetal ccam resection was completed at 23 weeks ' gestation . at 30 weeks a girl was delivered with no evidence of pulmonary hypoplasia . fetal surgery can now be entertained for otherwise fatal space-occupying intrathoracic lesions . 
fetal platelet counts in thrombocytopenic pregnancy fetal platelet counts were assessed by percutaneous umbilical blood sampling in 64 pregnancies ( 62 women ) with maternal thrombocytopenia . in 33 pregnancies associated with chronic immune thrombocytopenia , 11 of the fetuses had platelet counts below 150 x 10 ( 9 ) / l and 4 were severely thrombocytopenic ( less than 50 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . in 31 pregnancies with symptomless maternal thrombocytopenia as an incidental finding , 4 fetuses were thrombocytopenic , 1 of them severely . maternal indices , including antiplatelet antibodies , did not correlate with risk of fetal thrombocytopenia ; and in those with repeat measurements there was no evidence of benefit from treatment with either corticosteroids ( 4 cases ) or intravenous immunoglobulin ( 3 cases ) . percutaneous umbilical blood sampling , a safe procedure in experienced hands , provides accurate platelet counts in thrombocytopenic pregnancy , as an aid to decisions on mode of delivery and to assessment of treatments . 
hypothesis : inhibition of endothelium-derived relaxing factor by haemoglobin in the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia although the aetiology of pre-eclampsia is unknown , haemodynamic studies suggest that many of the clinical findings may be explained by a generalised vasoconstrictive disorder and abnormal endothelial cell function . vasoconstriction may be attributed to the increased concentrations of haemoglobin found in pre-eclampsia compared with normal pregnancy . free haemoglobin may be derived from haemolysis and placental haemorrhage and , at concentrations known to be present in pre-eclampsia , vasodilatation mediated by endothelium-derived relaxing factor is inhibited . infusion of oxyhaemoglobin into human coronary arteries inhibits acetylcholine-induced vasodilatation . we suggest that an increased free haemoglobin concentration is the cause of vasoconstriction in pre-eclampsia . 
outcomes of pregnancy in a national sample of resident physicians background . physically demanding , highly stressful work during pregnancy has been reported to cause a variety of adverse outcomes . it has been difficult , however , to separate the effects of work from those of socioeconomic status . methods . by means of a national questionnaire-based survey , we studied the outcomes of pregnancy during residency for 4412 women who graduated from medical school in 1985 and for the wives of 4236 of their male classmates , who served as controls . results . the rate of response to our survey was 87 percent ( 4412 of 5079 ) for the women residents and 85 percent ( 4236 of 4968 ) for the wives of the male residents . there were no significant differences in the proportion of pregnancies ending in miscarriage ( 13.8 percent for residents vs. 11.8 percent for their classmates ' wives , p = 0.12 ) , ectopic gestations ( 0.5 percent vs. 0.8 percent , p = 0.69 ) , and stillbirths ( 0.2 percent vs. 0.5 percent , p = 0.20 ) . there were 989 women residents and 1238 residents ' wives whose first pregnancy during residency resulted in the live birth of a singleton infant . although during each trimester the women residents worked many more hours than the wives of the male residents , the frequency of preterm births ( less than 37 weeks ' gestation ) was similar : 6.5 percent for residents and 6.0 percent for residents ' wives ( odds ratio = 1.1 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.7 to 1.5 ) . infants who were small for gestational age ( with birth weights less than the 10th percentile for gestational age ) were born to 5.3 percent of the residents and 5.8 percent of the residents ' wives ( odds ratio = 0.9 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 0.6 to 1.3 ) . adjustment for factors that differed between the women residents and the wives of male residents resulted in odds ratios of 1.2 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.8 to 1.7 ) for preterm delivery and 0.9 ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.6 to 1.3 ) for the delivery of an infant who was small for gestational age . however , the women residents more frequently reported having had preterm labor ( 11 percent vs. 6 percent ) , but not preterm delivery ( 6.5 percent vs. 6.0 percent ) ; preeclampsia was also more common among the women residents ( 8.8 percent vs. 3.5 percent ) . conclusions . these results suggest that working long hours in a stressful occupation has little effect on the outcome of pregnancy in an otherwise healthy population of high socioeconomic status . 
a preliminary report on oocyte donation extending reproductive potential to women over 40 background . fertility in women 40 years of age or older is decreased , and in those with ovarian failure it is thought to be irrevocably lost . the donation of oocytes to young ( less than 35 years old ) women with ovarian failure has allowed many considered infertile a chance to become pregnant . in these women gonadal hormone replacement results in an endometrium receptive to implantation . it is not known whether the endometrial response to such replacement is decreased in women over the age of 40 . methods . to test the efficacy of oocyte donation to older women , we enrolled seven women 40 to 44 years old with ovarian failure in a trial of hormone replacement and embryo transfer , using oocytes obtained from women undergoing ovarian hyperstimulation solely for gamete donation . results . seven stimulated cycles in the donors that were synchronized with nine cycles in the recipients resulted in eight embryo transfers . five viable pregnancies were established , one with twins . a sixth pregnancy ended in miscarriage . five normal infants were delivered by cesarean section , and one stillborn infant was delivered vaginally . the outcomes were compared with those in women under the age of 40 with ovarian failure who were also participating in our donor-oocyte program and in infertile ovulating women 40 or older who were undergoing standard in vitro fertilization . no significant differences in rates of implantation or ongoing pregnancy were noted in older women as compared with younger women receiving donated embryos . these rates , however , were higher than the rates in the infertile ovulating women of similar age who were undergoing standard in vitro fertilization . conclusions . these preliminary results suggest that the endometrium retains its ability to respond to gonadal steroids and provides a receptive environment for embryo implantation and gestation even in older women . 
computed tomography-guided fine-needle aspiration of retroperitoneal lymph nodes in gynecologic oncology . computed tomography-guided fine-needle aspiration was performed on 30 retroperitoneal lymph nodes in 29 patients with gynecologic cancer . there were no serious complications . review of the cytologic material demonstrated malignant cells in 83 % of the aspirates . because the predictive value of a positive aspirate approaches 100 % , therapy for metastatic disease can be initiated in these patients with the need for an open biopsy . among five aspirates in which malignant cells were not seen , the cellularity of the specimen appeared to be the critical factor determining the predictive value of the aspirate . whereas neither of two patients with negative aspirates of adequate cellularity has developed recurrent disease , two of three patients with hypocellular negative aspirates have . because a hypocellular negative aspirate from a retroperitoneal lymph node may not be a true reflection of disease status , either repeat aspiration or open biopsy is advisable . 
postoperative urinary tract infection in gynecology : implications for an antibiotic prophylaxis policy . a prospective observational study of postoperative infection after gynecologic surgery assessed the need for antibiotic prophylaxis with special reference to the urinary tract . catheterization requirements in the postoperative period were compared with the development of urinary tract infection after excluding both preoperative and postoperative bacteriuria . forty-six of 115 patients ( 40 % ) developed a urinary tract infection in the postoperative period . furthermore , this was not clearly related to the need for postoperative catheterization . significant wound and vaginal vault infections were uncommon , indicating that antibiotic prophylaxis should be directed specifically at the urinary tract . 
the effects of chlamydia trachomatis on the female reproductive tract of the macaca nemestrina after a single tubal challenge following repeated cervical inoculations . the effects of repeated cervical infections followed by a single direct tubal inoculation with chlamydia trachomatis , serovars d and f , were examined in 11 pig-tailed macaques to test the hypothesis that tubal inoculation after cervical priming causes a more severe disease than primary tubal inoculation alone . animals were cervically inoculated between two and five times . fallopian tubes were inoculated with serovar d or f 1 week after the last cervical challenge . three control monkeys received only one direct tubal inoculation without previous cervical inoculation . infection was confirmed by isolating the microorganism from the endocervix in 13 of 14 monkeys and from the endosalpinx in four only after the tubal inoculation . antibody was detected in post-infection sera of all 14 . tubal edema occurred in seven of 11 animals after the first cervical inoculation , and uterine erythema occurred in 11 of 11 after the second cervical inoculation . peritubal adhesions were induced before the tubal inoculation in zero of seven given three or fewer cervical inoculations and four of four given five cervical inoculations ( p less than .01 ) . after direct tubal inoculation , peritubal adhesions became more prominent , and the 11 hysterectomy specimens showed plasma cell endometritis in nine and salpingitis in nine . two control monkeys developed minor adhesions , the other none . one tube in two of three controls showed mild plasma cell infiltrates , whereas no evidence of endometritis was observed in controls . histopathology in these monkeys was characteristic of chlamydial endometritis and salpingitis . however , the pathogenesis of these changes is uncertain because c trachomatis was not isolated from the endosalpinx after cervical inoculations alone . 
topical podofilox for the treatment of condylomata acuminata in women . the purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy and safety of 0.5 % podofilox solution ( condylox ) for the treatment of genital warts in women . thirty-seven women with anogenital warts applied the solution to the surface of these warts twice daily for 3 days , followed by 4 drug-free days . a minimum of two and a maximum of four treatment cycles were given . the subjects were evaluated weekly for the first 4 weeks and again at 6 and 10 weeks . at the end of 10 weeks , the mean number of warts per patient was reduced from 6.27 to 1.1 , and half of the patients were completely cleared of warts . only eight of 37 subjects ( 21.6 % ) developed new warts during the study period . approximately 15 % of patients reported " severe " local reactions to the treatment after the first treatment cycle , but this was reduced to only 5 % by the last treatment cycle . during the same period , the patients reporting no side effects increased from 44 to 86 % . the only woman who discontinued the study did so because of dizziness and epigastric discomfort , probably unrelated to drug use . thus , 0.5 % podofilox solution appears to be an effective treatment for condylomata acuminata , with acceptable side effects that are local and temporary . 
does the treatment of genital condylomata in men decrease the treatment failure rate of cervical dysplasia in the female sexual partner ? three hundred ninety women treated for cervical dysplasia by local tissue ablation were studied retrospectively to test the hypothesis that the treatment failure rate is lower if the male sexual partner is also treated . in 190 cases , the male sexual partner was examined and treated successfully for genital condylomata . controls were 200 women treated during the same time period and closely matched to the study group regarding age , race , socioeconomic status , histologic grade of dysplasia , distribution of the lesions , and methods of therapy , but the male partner was neither examined nor treated . the treatment failure rate for women whose partners were also treated was not significantly different from that for women whose partners were not treated ( 6.8 versus 7.5 % ; p greater than .05 ) , suggesting that treating genital condylomata in men does not affect the failure rate of cervical dysplasia in female sexual partners . 
human papillomavirus associated with poor healing of episiotomy repairs . a retrospective case-control investigation was conducted for risk factors in 47 parturients whose episiotomies dehisced in the immediate postpartum period . data were extracted from the inpatient , outpatient , and pathology records of each of these 47 patients , as well as from the same records for each of the next two patients who delivered with the same type and degree of episiotomy . no difference between subjects and controls was found for age , parity , or medical history . except for human papillomavirus ( hpv ) , past or present history of sexually transmitted diseases was not a risk factor . however , active lesions , history thereof , or subsequent development of infection with hpv was found in 14 of 47 patients ( 29.8 % ) who had episiotomy breakdown , compared with 13 of 94 women ( 13.8 % ) who did not experience this complication , a statistically significant difference ( p less than .023 ) . eleven subjects ( 23.4 % ) and nine controls ( 9.6 % ) gave a history of smoking during pregnancy , also a statistically significant difference ( p less than .026 ) . 
premature rupture of membranes at term in nulliparous women : a hazard ? one hundred five consecutive women with premature rupture of the membranes ( prom ) at term were managed expectantly for at least 24 hours . seventy-six went into spontaneous labor , of whom 38 were augmented with oxytocin . twenty-nine had labor induced . subjects who delivered during the same study interval after artificial rupture of the membranes served as controls . there were no statistically significant differences in the frequency of amnionitis , endometritis , cystitis , neonatal infection , low apgar score , low cord arterial blood ph , instrumental delivery , or cesarean delivery . morbidity was seen most often in induced labor whether or not the membranes were ruptured for a long time . it is concluded that expectant management of prom at term does not increase perinatal morbidity . 
zinc status in women with premature rupture of membranes at term . zinc concentrations were measured by atomic absorption spectrometry in whole blood , scalp hair , pubic hair , and colostrum from patients at term with and without premature rupture of membranes ( prom ) . a maternal zinc index was established for each patient , expressed as an average ranking of the four determinations . the mean + / - sd value of the maternal zinc index in patients with prom was significantly lower than in patients without this complication ( 4.33 + / - 1.18 versus 5.97 + / - 1.39 , respectively ; p = .0002 ) . the inverse relationship between maternal zinc index and parity was statistically significant ( r = -0.61 ; p = .04 ) . these results suggest that the subnormal tissue zinc content in pregnancy may play a role as a causative factor in prom at term . 
evaluation of the gram stain as a screening tool for maternal carriage of group b beta-hemolytic streptococci . the vaginal infections and prematurity study group . to determine the usefulness of the vaginal gram stain as a screen for maternal group b streptococcal carriage , we compared the presence of gram-positive cocci on gram stain with a cervicovaginal culture in 7755 women at 23-26 weeks ' gestation and in 1452 women at delivery . group b streptococci were isolated from 18.4 % of women at 23-26 weeks and 14.9 % of women at delivery . the sensitivity , specificity , positive predictive value , and negative predictive value of the gram stain were 28 , 69 , 17 , and 81 % , respectively , in mid-gestation and 34 , 72 , 18 , and 86 % , respectively , at delivery . the presence of gram-positive cocci on gram stain was strongly associated with the isolation of gardnerella vaginalis and with the presence of bacterial vaginosis . we conclude that most gram-positive cocci seen on gram stain are probably anaerobes or micrococci and that the vaginal gram stain is neither sensitive nor specific enough to be of use as a tool in the diagnosis of maternal group b streptococcal carriage . 
enhanced anaphylatoxin and terminal c5b-9 complement complex formation in patients with the syndrome of hemolysis , elevated liver enzymes , and low platelet count . complement activation was studied in ten consecutive pregnant women developing hemolysis , elevated liver enzymes , and low platelet count ( hellp syndrome ) and ten other women with normal pregnancies . blood samples for anaphylatoxin ( c3a/c3a desarg and c5a/c5a desarg ) and terminal c5b-9 complement complex determinations were drawn at delivery and 24 hours and 7 days later . women developing hellp syndrome had higher plasma levels of anaphylatoxins with delivery than did women with uneventful pregnancies . the plasma levels of terminal c5b-9 complement complexes at the time of delivery were increased as compared with levels 1 and 7 days after delivery in women with hellp syndrome . the plasma concentrations of the anaphylatoxins and the terminal c5b-9 complement complexes returned to normal levels within 1 week after delivery in the hellp group . the formation of c5b-9 complement complex indicates that the terminal part of the complement cascade has been activated and that c5a has been formed and eliminated . complement activation with release of anaphylatoxins and terminal c5b-9 complement complexes may be one etiologic factor behind the elevated blood pressure , hemolysis , liver insufficiency , and platelet consumption seen in these patients . 
enumeration of clue cells in rehydrated air-dried vaginal wet smears for the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis . among 235 women attending an outpatient clinic , the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis was made using three of the following four criteria : typical discharge , ph more than 4.5 , positive amine sniff test , and clue cells in a wet smear . these findings were correlated with the finding of clue cells in air-dried wet smears rehydrated more than 1 month after the visit . the rehydrated specimens had the same microscopic appearance as a nonpreserved wet smear . the demonstration of clue cells in the rehydrated smears correlated with the composite diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis with a sensitivity of 96 % and specificity of 98 % . in a busy multi-physician setting , the scoring of clue cells in stored and rehydrated smears can be used to obtain consistent readings for wet-smear diagnostics , thus simplifying teaching and increasing the utility of wet smears in clinical research . 
pregnancy complicated by preeclampsia-eclampsia with the syndrome of hemolysis , elevated liver enzymes , and low platelet count : how rapid is postpartum recovery ? the rapidity of postpartum disease recovery for severe preeclampsia associated with hemolysis , elevated liver enzymes , and low platelet count ( hellp syndrome ) has not been well studied . between january 1980 and march 1989 , 158 pregnancies with preeclampsia-eclampsia complicated by hellp syndrome were managed at the university of mississippi medical center . the 70 patients with platelet nadir below 50,000 / microl ( class 1 hellp syndrome ) required as long as 11 days for all members to achieve a platelet recovery concentration of more than 100,000 / microl , whereas all 88 gravidas with platelet nadir between 50,000-100 ,000 / microl ( class 2 hellp syndrome ) exceeded this platelet concentration by the sixth postpartum day , a statistically significant difference ( p less than .0001 ) . the interval between delivery and the onset of diuresis ( mean + / - sd ) was significantly longer in class 1 than in class 2 patients with milder disease ( 22.7 + / - 18.9 compared with 15.9 + / - 11.1 hours ) . significantly more postpartum days were required in class 1 than in class 2 hellp parturients for the lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) concentration to decrease below 500 iu/l ( 4.2 + / - 4.9 compared with 3.2 + / - 2.7 days ) . no women in the class 2 group required plasma exchange therapy to effect disease arrest and reversal , but 11 of 58 severely ill women in class 1 were treated with this modality . we conclude that the platelet count and ldh serum concentration , as indicators of hellp severity and recovery , are clinically useful tools and that a more protracted postpartum recovery period should be expected for progressively severe expressions of hellp syndrome . 
low-dose aspirin does not influence the clinical course of women with mild pregnancy-induced hypertension . the effect of low doses of aspirin on women with mild pregnancy-induced hypertension was investigated by means of a prospective , randomized , double-blind trial . forty-seven women hospitalized at 30-36 weeks ' gestation because of mild pregnancy-induced hypertension were treated by a daily dose of either 100 mg aspirin or placebo . the mean blood pressure values , rates of development of severe preeclampsia , gestational ages at delivery , newborn weights , and 5-minute apgar scores were similar in the aspirin-treated and the placebo-treated groups . we conclude that low-dose aspirin is not curative but is essentially a preventive treatment which , in order to be effective , should be started weeks before clinical signs of preeclampsia are present . 
real-time microcomputer-based analysis of spontaneous and augmented labor in an attempt to develop a reproducible , objective measure of adequate uterine activity in labor , real-time measurements of intrauterine pressure amplitude and contraction frequency , interval , duration , and integral were made in 54 patients , 11 of whom received oxytocin augmentation . we determined the active pressure integral required per centimeter of cervical dilatation , expressed in kpa seconds , and the mean active pressure , expressed in kpa . the augmented group had a significantly higher mean active pressure integral per centimeter than those in normal labor ( p less than .01 ) . there was a trend , which did not reach statistical significance , for subjects who required oxytocin augmentation of labor to develop a higher mean active pressure than those in normal labor . however , the correlation of any uterine contractility index ( montevideo units , alexandria units , mean active pressure ) with progress in labor was poor . we conclude that women with dysfunctional labor require more uterine activity for progress in labor than women with normally progressing labor , and that the computer-derived " area under the curve " is not a better predictor of labor progress than montevideo units . 
accuracy and safety of transvaginal sonographic placental localization . transvaginal sonographic localization of the placenta was performed in 100 patients suspected of having placenta previa . except in one patient , the diagnosis was confirmed at cesarean delivery in all cases of placenta previa found by sonography before delivery , resulting in a 93.3 % predictive value of a positive test . the predictive value of a negative test was 97.6 % ; in two patients a low-insertion placenta diagnosed by sonography was found to be a placenta previa at delivery . the sensitivity and specificity of the technique were 87.5 and 98.8 % , respectively . although in some instances transvaginal sonography was performed during vaginal hemorrhage , aggravation of bleeding was never observed . transvaginal sonographic localization of the placenta proved to be an accurate and safe diagnostic procedure . 
effect of peritoneal fluid from endometriosis patients on endometrial stromal cell proliferation in vitro . late proliferative phase endometrial stromal cells grown in short-term culture were used as a model for the stromal component of endometriotic implants . cells were grown in medium alone and in medium supplemented by 5 , 10 , and 20 % concentrations of the cell-free fractions of peritoneal fluid obtained from patients with and without endometriosis . nine fluid-sample pairs were matched based on the presence or absence of endometriosis at laparoscopy and the similarity of peritoneal fluid estradiol concentrations . stromal cell proliferation as reflected by 3h-thymidine incorporation during sequential cell harvests over 72 hours was greater for cells exposed to endometriosis peritoneal fluid than for those exposed to non-endometriosis peritoneal fluid . this reached statistical significance with exposure to peritoneal fluid concentrations of 10 and 20 % ( p less than .05 ) . a linear dose-response relationship between 3h-thymidine incorporation and peritoneal fluid concentration could be derived only for stromal cells exposed to fluid samples obtained from endometriosis patients ( r = 0.51 ; p less than .001 ) . in addition , proliferation over 72 hours was significantly greater for cells grown in 20 % endometriosis peritoneal fluid than for those grown in nutrient medium alone ( p less than .001 ) . these data imply that factor ( s ) secreted into the peritoneal fluid of endometriosis patients may play a role in the proliferation or maintenance of disease implants . 
increased cell adherence of group b streptococci from preterm infants with neonatal sepsis . most women with group b streptococcus cervical colonization have uncomplicated pregnancies , but about 1 % experience preterm premature rupture of membranes ( prom ) followed by neonatal group b streptococcal sepsis . in such cases , streptococcal adherence to and penetration of the membranes may be an important step in the pathogenesis . in the present study , chorionic epithelial cells were incubated with group b streptococci isolated from either children developing sepsis after preterm prom ( complicated pregnancies ) or from uncomplicated pregnancies . incubation periods varied . the numbers of adherent bacteria per chorionic epithelial cell were counted by microscopic examination . after 70 minutes ' incubation , the number of adherent group b streptococci in complicated pregnancies was 38 , compared with 14 in uncomplicated pregnancies ( p less than .001 ) . this difference in vitro might reflect the virulence of group b streptococci . 
antepartum and intrapartum events in women exposed in utero to diethylstilbestrol . using a retrospective cohort design , we analyzed the effects of intrauterine diethylstilbestrol ( des ) exposure on various antepartum and intrapartum events . gravidas exposed to des had a higher likelihood of being delivered abdominally , undergoing manual removal of the placenta , and hemorrhaging in the postpartum period . the increased risk for these events remained after controlling for age , race , and parity . we also constructed labor curves in des-exposed women by plotting cervical dilation against time . the curves were similar for nulliparous des-exposed women and nulliparous controls , but des-exposed parous women experienced prolonged labors . these findings suggest that , in addition to the well-known adverse effects of intrauterine des exposure , the interaction between the uterus and placenta is altered in some des-exposed patients . 
removal of large symptomatic intrauterine growths by the hysteroscopic resectoscope . fifty-three patients underwent 55 procedures with a resectoscope for the removal of large symptomatic intrauterine growths . the presenting complaint was menorrhagia , menometrorrhagia , or heavy postmenopausal bleeding in 38 patients ; excessive menses plus infertility in 13 patients ; and infertility alone in two patients . forty-three patients had pedunculated or sessile submucous myomas and ten patients had large endometrial polyps . the long-term results are based on 45 patients followed for longer than 1 year . excessive bleeding was controlled in 40 of the 43 women ( 93 % ) . failure to control abnormal bleeding was apparent within the first year . seven of the 12 infertility patients ( 58 % ) delivered live-born infants . five patients have undergone subsequent hysterectomies ( 9 % ) . two patients had repeat resectoscopic removal of myomas and two had subsequent non-resectoscope myomectomies . no major complications were encountered . 
experimental and clinical studies with radiofrequency-induced thermal endometrial ablation for functional menorrhagia . a method of ablating the endometrium has been introduced into clinical practice that uses radiofrequency electromagnetic energy to heat the endometrium , using a probe inserted through the cervix . preliminary studies suggest that over 80 % of patients treated will develop either amenorrhea or a significant reduction in flow . the advantages of radiofrequency endometrial ablation over laser ablation or resection are the avoidance of intravascular fluid absorption , simplicity ( no special operative hysteroscopic skills are required ) , speed of operation , and reduced cost compared with the nd : yag laser . in this paper , we describe the experimental studies performed during development of this new technique . 
a rapid method for detection of group b streptococcal colonization : testing at the bedside . vertical transmission of group b streptococci , the most frequent cause of early neonatal sepsis , can be interrupted by intrapartum antibiotics . however , rapid methods for detecting colonized women must be developed to limit the administration of antibiotics to those who are at risk of delivering an infected infant . the accuracy of a colorimetric test using starch serum medium on vaginal and rectal specimens from women with preterm labor or prolonged rupture of membranes was evaluated . the test was interpreted by labor and delivery room nurses without special microbiologic training . starch serum medium results were compared with those obtained from routine cultures . thirteen of 29 positive vaginal cultures ( 45 % ) and eight of 18 positive rectal swabs ( 44 % ) were identified by nurses using the rapid method . this was significantly different ( p less than .001 ) from sensitivities of 93 and 95 % , respectively , for the same vaginal and rectal specimens interpreted by a bacteriology technologist . the specificity for the test from both sites was 95 % for the nurses . the sensitivity was 53 and 36 % for vaginal and rectal swabs , respectively , for a subgroup of mothers whose infants were assessed as clinically septic . the low sensitivity of starch serum medium as interpreted by nurses in the labor suite is inadequate to allow the test to replace cultures in identifying women colonized with group b streptococci . efforts to increase the sensitivity should be directed toward improving nursing staff interpretation rather than improving the medium itself . 
window operation : an alternative treatment method for bartholin gland cysts and abscesses recently , we developed the " window operation " as a more effective way to treat bartholin gland cysts and abscesses . the window operation was used to treat 25 bartholin cysts and 22 bartholin abscesses during a 3-year period from october 1 , 1986 to september 30 , 1989 . under local anesthesia , a small piece of skin including the cyst wall was excised in an oval shape , and suturing was performed along the excised margin . postoperative antibiotics were given in cases of acute inflammation . a new mucocutaneous junction was observed at the 4-week postoperative checkup . no complications or recurrences have been observed during the study period . the window operation can be an alternative method of treatment for bartholin gland cysts or abscesses . 
prolapse of a neovagina created by self-dilatation . in patients with congenital absence of the vagina , a neovagina may be created by either operative or nonoperative techniques . a 25-year-old patient with a neovagina created by self-dilatation developed complete prolapse of the neovagina with an enterocele . a transabdominal sacral colpopexy successfully suspended the vaginal vault and allowed the patient to resume sexual function . 
vaginal mullerian cyst presenting as an anterior enterocele : a case report . a case is discussed of an extremely large vaginal mullerian cyst that presented as an anterior enterocele . sonographic and radiologic studies are described . the patient underwent operative excision of the cyst with reconstructive vaginoplasty . 
laparoscopic repair of bladder injury . this case report describes laparoscopic suturing for bladder repair . this technique affords the laparoscopic surgeon another means of managing a surgical complication without resorting to laparotomy . 
ovarian suspension in massive ovarian edema . massive ovarian edema is an uncommon condition found in young women that is speculated to occur as a result of incomplete ovarian torsion . we present the second patient to our knowledge to undergo ovarian suspension as a treatment for this condition . this approach succeeded after ovarian wedge resection had failed . our patient remained symptom-free at 1 year of follow-up . ovarian suspension should be considered when this pathologic entity is diagnosed . 
rectovulvar fistula in a child secondary to an unusual foreign body . foreign bodies in the female genital tract are well recognized as a cause of pain , discharge , secretions , and infection . in the small child , the presence of a vaginal discharge is usually associated with either a common object which has been inserted or sexual abuse complicated by a sexually transmitted disease . a 3-year-old child presented with a recurrent labial secretion and drainage due to an unusual foreign body . it was only during a second operation that the possibility of a foreign body was entertained , and diagnostic testing was begun . a third operation permitted removal of the foreign body , a large bone probably of animal origin . the fistula tract was closed after a colostomy was performed . this represents the first reported case of a rectovulvar fistula not of a congenital nature . 
combined vesicovaginal-ureterovaginal fistulas associated with a vaginal foreign body . a case is presented of vesicovaginal-ureterovaginal fistulas associated with a neglected vaginal foreign body . the patient complained of a foul-smelling vaginal discharge and was found to have a 4-cm hard vaginal mass on examination . urinary incontinence developed subsequently . examination under anesthesia was performed , and an aerosol deodorant cap was operatively removed from her posterior vagina/perirectal space . subsequent work-up demonstrated the presence of both a vesicovaginal fistula and a right ureterovaginal fistula . the patient underwent a combined vaginal repair of the vesicovaginal fistula and abdominal ureteroneocystostomy . the frequency , types , etiology , and treatment of genitourinary fistulas are reviewed with particular attention to those associated with a vaginal foreign body . 
hyperthecosis of the ovaries in a woman with a placental site trophoblastic tumor . rapidly increasing testosterone levels were observed in a patient presenting with sudden onset of virilization . exploratory laparotomy revealed a placental site trophoblastic tumor in the uterus . wedge biopsies of the ovaries showed extensive luteinization of the ovarian stroma in both ovaries . concentrations of testosterone , dihydrotestosterone , and androstenedione were markedly increased in the ovarian vein serum , indicating ovaries as the source of these steroids . the serum concentration of hcg was 69 miu/ml . pulsatile secretion of lh persisted in spite of elevated hcg levels . follicle-stimulating hormone levels were low or undetectable . elevated hcg levels and low fsh levels resulted in a hormonal environment similar to that seen in polycystic ovary disease ( high lh to fsh ratio ) , resulting in extensive stromal luteinization . decline in hcg levels after removal of the tumor resulted in the return of androgen levels to normal . 
giant-cell arteritis of the uterus with associated temporal arteritis : a case report . giant-cell arteritis involving the uterus was identified incidentally upon hysterectomy and anterior colporrhaphy for uterine prolapse . subsequently , the patient was found to have giant-cell temporal arteritis presenting with fever of unknown origin . fourteen previous cases involving the female genital tract have been reported . there appears to be an association between constitutional symptoms of fever , weight loss , malaise , headache , and polymyalgia rheumatica in elderly women with uterine prolapse and giant-cell arteritis of the genital tract . the rare presentation of giant-cell arteritis in the female genital tract does not support invasive costly evaluation in asymptomatic patients . however , a thorough investigation for involvement of other sites , including appropriate treatment for generalized disease , should be undertaken . 
preoperative angiographic uterine artery embolization in the management of cervical pregnancy . the diagnosis of a cervical ectopic pregnancy is often made intraoperatively in the presence of extensive hemorrhage during attempted evacuation . in some cases , hysterectomy has been the necessary treatment to control bleeding . we report two cases of cervical pregnancy detected by ultrasound . before pregnancy termination , the uterine arteries were successfully embolized using angiographic techniques . as a result , surgical evacuation was performed with minimal hemorrhage ; hysterectomy was not required and the patients ' potential fertility was retained . 
angiographic arterial embolization and computed tomography-directed drainage for the management of hemorrhage and infection with abdominal pregnancy . hemorrhage during or after surgery , pelvic abscess , bowel obstruction , and prolonged febrile morbidity can complicate the puerperal course of the gravida after removal of an extrauterine fetus with nondisturbance of the extrauterine placenta . in this report we describe the successful angiographic arterial gelfoam embolization of the placental vascular bed to control heavy postoperative hemorrhage in a mother suffering adult respiratory distress syndrome after removal of the fetal portion of her abdominal pregnancy . six weeks later , computed tomography ( ct ) - directed drainage by catheter of a placental abscess was performed . selective angiographic transcatheter embolization with gelfoam is a useful tool for the control of hemorrhage in the gravida who is an unfavorable operative candidate or who may present technical hemostasis problems peculiar to the placenta with abdominal pregnancy . later use of ct-directed catheter drainage of the infected residual placental mass provided a nonoperative means of treatment . 
successful treatment of cervical pregnancy with oral etoposide . cervical ectopic pregnancy is an uncommon entity associated with significant morbidity and devastating effects on future fertility . a woman with a cervical gestation with quantitative serum beta-hcg levels higher than 46,000 miu/ml and fetal cardiac activity on ultrasound was treated successfully with one course of oral etoposide , a fetocidal agent , which avoided operative intervention and preserved the patient 's fertility . 
methotrexate therapy for persistent ectopic pregnancy after conservative laparoscopic management . persistent ectopic pregnancy is a recognized complication of conservative laparoscopic surgery . three such cases were treated successfully with methotrexate and citrovorum factor rescue . all three patients experienced mild lower abdominal pain for a maximum of 36 hours ; no other adverse effects were noted . more experience with this therapy will be necessary before subsequent fertility rates can be determined . 
fetal posterior urethral valve syndrome : a prospective application of antenatal prognostic criteria . a case of posterior urethral valve syndrome is presented . four weeks after a normal 24-week ultrasound examination , diminished amniotic fluid , megacystis , and renal hyperechogenicity were observed . a repeat ultrasound examination at 30 weeks ' gestation identified oligohydramnios and increased renal echogenicity . these findings prompted the performance of a percutaneous cystocentesis to assess fetal renal function indirectly . the specimen was evaluated for osmolality and sodium and chloride concentrations . the urine electrolyte concentrations ( sodium 115 meq/l ; chloride 93 meq/l ) and the osmolality ( 230 mosm/l ) were elevated , suggesting impaired renal function and a poor prognosis . despite these findings , aggressive management was used , including administration of antenatal corticosteroids and elective preterm delivery . a percutaneous cystocentesis was required during the infant 's initial resuscitation , followed by a difficult urethral catheterization . ultimately , a vesicostomy performed on day 4 of life was associated with prompt return of renal function ( serum creatinine 0.7 mg/dl at the time of discharge ) . at 6 months of age , normal renal function has been documented and the vesicostomy has been closed . this case demonstrates the potential limitations of available prognostic criteria in evaluating fetal urinary obstruction and residual renal function . in selected cases ( when the onset of obstruction is documented in the third trimester ) , refinement of these prognostic criteria may be indicated . similar cases may be best managed by preterm delivery and prompt postnatal decompression . 
congenital chyloperitoneum as a cause of isolated fetal ascites . isolated fetal ascites is an unusual prenatal finding and must be differentiated from immune and nonimmune hydrops . this entity is most commonly associated with gastrointestinal and genitourinary anomalies . fetal chyloperitoneum , however , should be considered as a possible cause . pulmonary hypoplasia and abdominal dystocia during attempted vaginal delivery are potential complications . we present a case of isolated fetal ascites due to congenital chyloperitoneum . 
ascites not due to congestive heart failure in a fetus with lupus-induced heart block . hydrops developing in fetuses with lupus-associated heart block has usually been assumed to result from congestive heart failure . we present a case in which fetal ascites associated with complete heart block resolved promptly after administration of betamethasone and prednisone to the mother , who had anti-ssa and who developed clinical lupus erythematosus . this resolution occurred with no demonstrable change in fetal cardiac function . we conclude that an immune mechanism , rather than congestive heart failure , was responsible for the fetal ascites . 
trap sequence -- successful outcome with indomethacin treatment . a case of twin reversed arterial perfusion ( trap ) sequence ( acardiac twin ) complicated by hydramnios was managed by maternal administration of indomethacin . successful outcome was achieved after 8.5 weeks of therapy with delivery of a normal live-born infant at 34 weeks . 
contemporary management of a potentially lethal fetal anomaly : a successful perinatal approach to epignathus . prenatal diagnosis of epignathus ( a teratoma originating in the oropharynx ) has been reported previously . however , in many of these cases the neonates succumbed to acute respiratory distress secondary to airway obstruction at the time of birth . we describe a case of antepartum diagnosis of epignathus using ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging as complementary techniques . the ability to accurately define the fetal anomaly permitted us to plan a unique strategy for peripartum management . after cesarean delivery of the infant from the uterus , the umbilical cord was not clamped and the fetoplacental circulation was left undisturbed . a tracheostomy was then performed , after which the umbilical cord was clamped and the infant was stabilized . several hours later , a debulking procedure was performed in the operating room to remove the tumor from its attachment to the bony palate . both mother and infant did well postoperatively . the ability to plan and perform a controlled tracheostomy while the infant remained oxygenated and ventilated proved to be lifesaving in this case . 
prenatal findings in brachmann-de lange syndrome . brachmann-de lange syndrome is a congenital disorder of uncertain cause characterized by severe mental retardation , small stature , microbrachycephaly , hirsutism , limb deformities , and characteristic facies . although more than 300 neonatal cases have been reported , a lack of specific fetal markers has precluded successful antepartum diagnosis . we describe a case of brachmann-de lange syndrome identified at 15 weeks ' gestation by a low maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein ( msafp ) value . sonography revealed a fetus with a posterior nuchal cystic hygroma and early-onset symmetrical intrauterine growth retardation ( iugr ) . the fetal karyotype was 46 , xx , but the infant fulfilled the phenotypic criteria of the brachmann-de lange syndrome at delivery . the triad of an abnormally low msafp value , early-onset symmetrical iugr , and characteristic ultrasound findings during the second trimester of pregnancy may define adequate criteria for prenatal diagnosis of brachmann-de lange syndrome . 
congenital nephrosis as a cause of elevated alpha-fetoprotein . two cases of congenital nephrosis were detected through routine maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein ( msafp ) screening of 95,135 patients . no other cases of congenital nephrosis from this group were reported , resulting in an incidence of approximately one in 47,500 in this low-risk population . in both of these cases , similar to other reported cases of congenital nephrosis having msafp screening , the protein concentrations were greater than or equal to 10 multiples of the median ( mom ) . therefore , in the case of an msafp over 10 mom and a normal ultrasound examination , congenital nephrosis should be included in counseling regarding the possibility of undetected malformations . furthermore , in the case of a pregnancy with elevated amniotic fluid afp with negative acetylcholinesterase and normal ultrasound , the possibility of congenital nephrosis should be mentioned , regardless of family history or ancestry . when a pregnancy is terminated because of these biochemical findings , special and immediate attention to the fetal kidneys using electron microscopy is necessary to evaluate properly the possibility of congenital nephrosis . 
fetomaternal bleeding as a cause of recurrent fetal morbidity and mortality . a woman had fetomaternal bleeding of unknown cause during at least three of five pregnancies . each event was associated with significant fetal morbidity or mortality . although fetomaternal bleeding has been reported as a cause of unexplained fetal death , its occurrence in subsequent pregnancies has not been described previously . 
pregnancy associated with friedreich ataxia . the pregnancy of a woman with friedreich ataxia was complicated by the onset of preterm labor and preeclampsia . administration of magnesium sulfate ( mgso4 .7 h2o ) in the usual intravenous dosage resulted in the dramatic development of profound motor weakness and respiratory distress . magnesium acts to antagonize the action of acetylcholine at the motor end plate of the neuromuscular junction and may operate synergistically with underlying neuromuscular disorders . therefore , the use of magnesium sulfate in patients with friedreich ataxia and other similar neurodegenerative diseases is contraindicated . 
use of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of cortical blindness in pregnancy . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) may be helpful in the assessment of eclampsia and preeclampsia with central nervous system symptomatology such as cortical blindness . we describe a rare case of complete binocular blindness postpartum with no other neurologic deficits , in which mri abnormalities were undetected on computed tomography . the better soft-tissue discrimination of mri may visualize important but subtle lesions which ultimately may help to explain the underlying pathophysiologic mechanism in such cases . 
immune hydrops fetalis attributable to anti-hjk . we describe a new low-frequency antigen as the cause of immune hydrops fetalis in a fetus presenting at 27 weeks with a hematocrit of 6 % . the fetus was treated successfully by intravascular transfusion . this antigen , temporarily identified as hjk , has been detected in only one family . 
fetal levels of tobramycin following maternal administration . a single dose of tobramycin 2 mg/kg was given intravenously to a woman who presented a 22-week heterotopic pregnancy with both intrauterine and ovarian gestations and two living fetuses . after excision of the adnexum , tobramycin levels were measured in the maternal serum and in the fetal fluids and tissues . antibiotic levels were especially high in the fetal spleen and kidney . 
the ucla-university of utah epidemiologic survey of autism : prenatal , perinatal , and postnatal factors . in a recent epidemiologic survey conducted in utah , 241 autistic patients ( dsm-iii criteria ) were found . medical records of 233 autistics were surveyed for the presence of 36 potentially pathologic prenatal , perinatal , and postnatal factors . these results were compared with those of an identical survey of 62 of their nonautistic siblings , with the results of four previously published surveys , and with normative data . no potentially pathologic factor or group of factors occurred significantly more frequently among the autistic patients . also , previous observations of significant differences in the occurrence of certain factors in the histories single vs multiple siblings with autism were not confirmed , with the exception of increased viral-type illness during gestation in single-incidence cases . thus , the etiology of the brain pathology that characteristically disrupts normal development and produces the syndrome of autism remains obscure . other data from the epidemiologic survey , however , suggest that the role of genetic factors needs to be explored further . 
chronic fetal hypoxia and sudden infant death syndrome : interaction between maternal smoking and low hematocrit during pregnancy . to investigate the hypothesis that chronic fetal hypoxia contributes to the etiology of sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) , a possible interaction between the effect of maternal cigarette smoking and low hematocrit during pregnancy on the risk of sids was studied using the us collaborative perinatal project cohort . the 193 sids cases identified in the cohort were analyzed with 1930 controls randomly selected from infants who survived the first year of life . after adjustment for maternal age , infants born to mothers who smoked 10 or more cigarettes per day and who were anemic ( hematocrit less than 30 % ) during pregnancy were at a much higher risk of sids than infants born to mothers who did not smoke and were not anemic ( odds ratio = 4.0 ; 95 % confidence limits , 2.1 and 7.4 ) . smoking 10 or more cigarettes per day vs none increased the risk of sids by 70 % among women with hematocrit at or above 30 % but increased risk threefold among women with hematocrit below 30 % . after adjustment for more potential confounders in a logistic regression model , the effect of smoking on sids continued to increase with lower levels of hematocrit during pregnancy . birth weight accounted for very little of these associations . low hematocrit was not a risk factor for sids among nonsmokers but became an important predictor among heavy smokers . these findings are in agreement with the hypothesis that chronic fetal hypoxia may predispose to sids , possibly by impairing the normal development of the fetal central nervous system . 
vaginitis . systematically solving a bothersome problem . vaginitis is a common cause of patient visits to primary care physicians . causes include allergic and irritative factors and infectious agents . diagnosis is readily made with use of simple office procedures such as wet smears , stains , and cultures . treatment with appropriate antibiotics or vaginal preparations is usually effective . 
preventing cervical cancer by treating genital warts in men . why male sex partners need androscopy . the increased incidence of cancer of the genitourinary and anorectal areas has been directly related to the coexistence of genital human papillomavirus infection . the diagnosis and treatment of condyloma acuminatum in men is important not only to prevent cancer but also to decrease the reservoir of virus that is being transferred to women . screening with androscopy ( examination of male genitals with a colposcope after a vinegar solution has been applied to the skin ) is indicated for all men who are at risk for this infection . treatment options include chemical application , cryosurgery , laser therapy , and interferon injections . to be effective , treatment must include both sexual partners . 
derivation and validation of a clinical diagnostic model for chlamydial cervical infection in university women we developed and prospectively tested a logistic regression model for chlamydial cervical infection . study subjects included 2271 women receiving gynecologic care in our student health clinic . clinical data were collected in a standardized fashion . we identified cell culture -- isolated chlamydia trachomatis from 133 ( 9 % ) of 1458 subjects in the derivation set and 73 ( 10 % ) of 729 subjects in the validation set . model variables included a new sexual partner within 2 months or more than one sexual partner within 6 months ; cervical ectopy ; cervical friability ; at least 20 polymorphonuclear leukocytes per high-power field in cervical secretions ; white blood cells in vaginal secretions ; and use of an antibiotic active against c trachomatis within a month . this model can distinguish women with low , medium , and high risks of chlamydial infection ( on derivation set : receiver operating characteristic curve area , 0.710 ; se , 0.026 ; on validation set : area , 0.698 ; se , 0.035 ) using simple clinical information obtained in the office . 
barrier contraceptive methods and preeclampsia . recent investigations have suggested that women who use barrier methods of contraception may be at increased risk for preeclampsia . we used data from two prospective pregnancy studies to examine the relationship between contraceptive use before conception and preeclampsia . the preeclampsia rates among women using barrier contraceptives were not significantly higher than the rates in women using nonbarrier contraceptives or the rates in women using no contraceptives in either study . the odds ratios for preeclampsia in barrier contraceptive users in the two studies were 0.89 ( 95 % confidence interval [ cl ] , 0.71 to 1.12 ) and 0.85 ( 95 % cl , 0.49 to 1.45 ) compared with nonbarrier contraceptive users and 0.91 ( 95 % cl , 0.71 to 1.16 ) and 0.81 ( 95 % cl , 0.48 to 1.35 ) compared with women using no contraceptives . after adjusting for other risk factors , we found no association between preeclampsia and barrier contraceptive use . additional studies are needed to resolve this issue ; however , we would recommend that women not be advised to avoid barrier contraceptives unless more data linking their use to preeclampsia appear . 
gynecologic cancer in patients with subacute cerebellar degeneration predicted by anti-purkinje cell antibodies and limited in metastatic volume . between 1982 and 1989 , 19 patients with gynecologic carcinoma , paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration , and seropositivity for anti-purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies were identified at our institution . seven of the patients had no clinical , computed tomographic , or magnetic resonance imaging evidence of cancer but had undergone laparotomy solely because anti-purkinje cell antibodies were found in their serum ; all had high-grade adenocarcinoma . cerebellar symptoms preceded or coincided with the initial cancer diagnosis in 15 patients and preceded the diagnosis of recurrent cancer in 4 patients . the cancers were 14 ovarian , 2 fallopian tube , 2 surface papillary , and 1 poorly differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma in a periaortic lymph node . two remarkable surgical observations in patients with high-grade ovarian and tubal cancers were the conspicuous lack of peritoneal implants and the small metastatic volume . a comparison of the 8 patients who had primary stage iii cancer with 24 matched control patients without paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration revealed no difference in primary tumor volume but a significantly smaller volume of metastatic tumor in the seropositive group ( p = 0.05 ) . anti-purkinje cell antibodies were not detected in 111 neurologically normal patients with advanced ovarian cancer . the small metastatic volume in the face of high-grade and advanced stage malignancy in seropositive patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration suggests that an immune response to the tumor ( presumably cross-reactive with cerebellar cells ) may impair the metastatic process . earlier diagnosis and treatment of cancer , based on prompt serologic testing , may offer an improved neurologic and oncologic prognosis . 
selected neurologic complications of pregnancy . many neurologic disorders , such as eclampsia , pseudotumor cerebri , stroke , obstetric nerve palsies , subarachnoid hemorrhage , pituitary tumors , and choriocarcinoma , can develop in the pregnant patient . maternal mortality from eclampsia , which ranges from 0 to 14 % , can be due to intracerebral hemorrhage , pulmonary edema , disseminated intravascular coagulation , abruptio placentae , or failure of the liver or kidneys . associated fetal mortality ranges from 10 to 28 % and is directly related to decreased placental perfusion . pseudotumor cerebri can be associated with serious visual complications ; thus , the therapeutic goal is to prevent loss of vision . the risk of stroke in the pregnant patient is 13 times the risk in the nonpregnant patient of the same age . the major causes of stroke in pregnant patients are arterial occlusion and cerebral venous thrombosis . lumbar disk prolapse is common in pregnant patients , and lumbosacral plexus injuries can occur during labor or delivery . in addition , peripheral nerve compression or entrapment syndromes are thought to be caused by the retention of fluid during pregnancy . the incidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage during pregnancy is 1 in every 10,000 patients , a rate 5 times higher than in nonpregnant women . because of a proliferation of prolactin-secreting cells , the pituitary gland can enlarge dramatically during pregnancy , a change that can disclose a previously unknown tumor or cause a known pituitary tumor to become symptomatic . the incidence of choriocarcinoma is 1 in 50,000 full-term pregnancies but 1 in 30 molar pregnancies . this malignant tumor has a high rate of cerebral metastatic lesions . in addition to these disorders that develop during pregnancy , the pregnant state can affect numerous preexisting neurologic conditions , including epilepsy , headaches , multiple sclerosis , myasthenia gravis , spinal cord injury , and brain tumors . we discuss advice for patients with such conditions who wish to become pregnant , recommendations for medical and surgical management , and surgical considerations for neurologic complications during pregnancy . 
umbilical artery doppler velocimetry as a labor admission test . doppler ultrasound of the umbilical artery flow velocity waveform was studied prospectively as an admission test at the labor ward . recordings were made in 575 women in various stages of labor before , during , and after uterine contractions , and evaluated in relation to intrapartum and fetal outcome variables . no association was found between abnormal flow velocity waveforms and cord complications , meconium-stained amniotic fluid , or abnormal fetal heart rate tracing , nor was there any association with operative delivery for fetal distress or low apgar scores at 1 and 5 minutes . small for gestational age fetuses had significantly more abnormal flow velocity waveforms than appropriate for gestational age fetuses , and so had those with umbilical artery acidemia compared with those with normal ph. the results indicate that doppler recording of the umbilical artery flow velocity waveform as an admission test at the labor ward is not a good predictor of fetal distress in an unselected population . 
flow cytometric analysis of dna content in partial hydatidiform moles with persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor . hydatidiform moles may be classified as partial or complete based on genetic and pathologic criteria . between january 1979 and january 1990 , 17 ( 5.5 % ) of 310 patients followed for partial mole developed persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor . tissues from 14 partial moles were available for flow cytometric analysis of dna content . eleven partial moles ( 85 % ) were triploid , two ( 15 % ) were diploid , and one dna histogram was uninterpretable . all patients with triploid partial moles achieved complete remission with one course of single-agent chemotherapy . the two with diploid partial mole required multiple courses of chemotherapy to achieve gonadotropin remission . although the dna content of most partial moles with persistent gestational trophoblastic tumor was triploid , diploid partial moles with persistent tumor were less sensitive to single-agent chemotherapy . 
clinical and pathologic correlation of endometrial cavity fluid detected by ultrasound in the postmenopausal patient . a registry of ultrasound procedures spanning nearly 5 years was searched retrospectively to discover cases of endometrial cavity fluid collections in postmenopausal women . twenty cases were identified ; all medical records were available for review . one patient was lost to follow-up . seventeen patients had surgical procedures : 11 had only a d&c , and six had a primary evaluation of laparotomy with removal of the uterus and adnexa . five women had cancer ( two ovarian , one tubal , one endometrial , and one cervical ) ; eight women had benign gynecologic conditions , including uterine fibroids ( five ) , ovarian serous cystadenoma ( two ) , and cervical dysplasia ( one ) . there were two cases of apparent subclinical pyometra . five women had endometrial pathology consistent with prescribed hormone therapy for breast cancer ( four ) or endometrial hyperplasia ( one ) . 
infertility-associated endometrial cancer risk may be limited to specific subgroups of infertile women . data from previous studies suggest that infertility is a risk factor for endometrial cancer . we used data from the cancer and steroid hormone study to further characterize this relationship . the subject group comprised 399 women ages 20-54 with newly diagnosed epithelial endometrial cancer ascertained through six cancer registries . the control group comprised 3040 women in the same age range selected by random-digit telephone dialing from the same geographic areas where cancer patients resided . compared with women who reported no fertility problem , women with physician-diagnosed infertility who had reported at least 2 years of infertility had an odds ratio for endometrial cancer , adjusted for age , of 1.7 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.1-2 .6 ) . women who reported infertility resulting from ovarian factors had an adjusted odds ratio of 4.2 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.7-10 .4 ) . these results suggest that factors such as anovulation may explain much of the increased risk of endometrial cancer found among subgroups of infertile women . 
persistent trophoblast after conservative treatment of tubal pregnancy : prediction and detection . the incidence of persistent trophoblast and risk of second surgical intervention after conservative treatment of tubal pregnancy are substantial . the preoperative and postoperative hcg patterns in patients with tubal pregnancy were studied to see whether this information could predict and detect persistent trophoblast at an early stage . ninety-eight women with tubal pregnancy underwent conservative surgical treatment by laparoscopy or laparotomy . eight developed postoperative complications necessitating a second operation , and seven of them had both biochemical and histologic evidence of persistent trophoblastic activity . in seven of 31 patients with preoperative hcg above 3000 iu/l , a second operation was necessary , whereas in 67 with preoperative hcg levels below 3000 iu/l , only one such intervention was necessary . eight of the 22 patients with hcg above 1000 iu/l on the second day after surgery and seven of 11 patients with hcg above 1000 iu/l on the seventh day after surgery later needed a second surgical procedure . in contrast , 86 of 87 women with hcg below 1000 iu/l on the seventh day after surgery had an uneventful convalescence . we conclude that pre - and postoperative hcg measurements can identify patients at risk of developing persistent trophoblast . further , in patients with preoperative hcg titers below 3000 iu/l , we recommend conservative surgery followed by measurement of hcg 1 week postoperatively . 
cocaine abuse is associated with abruptio placentae and decreased birth weight , but not shorter labor many of our patients report having ingested cocaine hoping to decrease the duration of labor . we reviewed the computerized records of 592 women who abused cocaine . compared with 4687 controls , women who ingested cocaine were older and had higher parity . birth weight , birth weight percentile , and gestational age at delivery were significantly decreased among their neonates , and the incidence of abruptio placentae was nearly doubled among these women . although these factors tend to shorten labor , the total duration of labor was not significantly different between the two groups . these data add to the accumulating evidence that cocaine abuse is associated with increased obstetric morbidity , but do not support the belief that cocaine shortens labor . 
vulvar paget disease : fluorescein-aided visualization of margins . two women with extramammary paget disease of the vulva were given fluorescein intravenously in order to visualize disease margins with the use of an ultraviolet light . as a diagnostic modality , the technique was found to have a positive predictive value of 97.4 % and a negative predictive value of 99.9 % . the accuracy of the fluorescein technique was compared with gross visualization using a histologic mapping technique . a total of 2424 fields were mapped and the predictive accuracy of each test was determined . a chi 2 test demonstrated fluorescein visualization to be a significantly better predictor of a disease state . fluorescein visualization is suggested as an adjunct to surgical management of patients with primary vulvar paget disease . 
transcatheter arterial embolization in the management of postpartum hemorrhage due to genital tract injury . six patients with uncontrollable postpartum hemorrhage due to genital tract injury were treated with transcatheter arterial embolization . the causes of hemorrhage were laceration of the cervix and vagina in five cases and rupture of the uterus in one . four cases included a large hematoma in the paravaginal and/or retroperitoneal space . two women had a hysterectomy before arterial embolization . angiography revealed extravasation in five cases . all six subjects had their hemorrhage arrested dramatically using transcatheter arterial embolization with gelatin sponge particles . no major complication was encountered in any case . normal menstruation resumed in the women who did not undergo a hysterectomy . transcatheter arterial embolization therapy seems to be the treatment of choice in patients with uncontrollable hemorrhage . 
the effects of epidural anesthesia on the doppler velocimetry of umbilical and uterine arteries in normal and hypertensive patients during active term labor . to study the effects of epidural anesthesia on uterine and umbilical artery blood flow in preeclampsia , we observed 25 patients in active labor at 36 or more weeks ' gestation . seven had preeclampsia , eight had chronic hypertension , and ten had no complications . doppler velocimetry of the uterine and umbilical arteries was performed before and after intravenous fluid loading and at 30 and 60 minutes after epidural blockade . maternal vital signs and fetal heart rate were monitored continuously . after epidural block , mean maternal blood pressure fell significantly in all groups , but no maternal hypotension was observed . mean maternal and fetal heart rates were unchanged . after epidural block , mean uterine artery systolic-diastolic ( s-d ) ratios did not change in the chronic-hypertension and normal groups , but fell significantly in the preeclamptic group to values similar to those of the normal group . umbilical artery s-d ratios did not change in any group . in preeclamptic pregnancy , epidural anesthesia may help to reduce uterine artery vasospasm and may benefit intrapartum fetal well-being . 
imaging the fetal brain in the second and third trimesters using transvaginal sonography . high-frequency transvaginal probes were used at 20-40 weeks ' gestation to develop a systematic examination of the fetal brain . modeling the procedure after the standard neonatal neurosonographic examination , we attempted to obtain three coronal sections ( anterior , midline , posterior ) and two sagittal sections ( midsagittal , right or left parasagittal ) . in 70 normal patients , all planes were imaged with a similar frequency ( 74-76 % ) except for the posterior coronal plane , which was imaged 59 % of the time . among the first 35 cases , 17 % had a complete study , compared with 71 % of the second 35 cases . transvaginal sonography established or changed the diagnosis in five of the 13 cases with central nervous system or other abnormalities . we recommend that a complete fetal neurosonographic examination include transvaginal sonography to complement and enhance the transabdominal examination , especially for cases in which a fetal abnormality is suspected . 
successful use of gamete intrafallopian transfer does not reverse the decline in fertility in women over 40 years of age . to assess the impact of assisted reproductive technologies on the potential fertility of older women , we report our experience with gamete intrafallopian transfer ( gift ) in a large number of women 40 years of age and older . one hundred twenty-two gift cycles were initiated in 59 women over 18 months . seventy-three tubal transfers were performed , resulting in seven clinical pregnancies , a rate of 9.6 % per transfer . this contrasts with a 27.3 % clinical pregnancy rate per transfer in women under 40 . thus , older patients require thorough counseling regarding the decreased likelihood of success despite the use of assisted reproductive technologies . 
third-trimester fetal death in triplet pregnancies . during the last decade , 89 sets of triplets were born in denmark with a gestational age of more than 25 completed weeks . fifteen pregnancies ( 16.9 % ) were complicated by fetal death in the third trimester , with a total of 17 intrauterine deaths . six neonatal deaths occurred , leaving 22 survivors among these 15 patients . four triplet gestations were diagnosed as twins until delivery . eight women conceived spontaneously , two gestations followed assisted fertilization and embryo transfer , and five women had had various forms of ovulation stimulation . the mean maternal age was 27.8 years ( range 17-38 ) . seven women were parous and eight wer nulliparous . maternal complications included hydramnios ( three ) , preeclampsia/hypertension ( three ) , and anemia ( nine ) . all women delivered preterm . of the 11 gestations diagnosed as triplets , fetal death was diagnosed at 32.2 + / - 2.9 weeks ( mean + / - sd ) and delivery occurred at 32.6 + / - 3.0 weeks . nine of 11 women had cesarean deliveries . continuation of pregnancy after fetal death could be considered in only three subjects . in eight women , obstetric reasons required immediate delivery . fetal death was associated with monochorionic or dichorionic placentation , and growth retardation was a frequent complication before fetal death . anencephaly of one fetus , umbilical cord problems in two , and severe hydrops in two were the only obvious causes of fetal death . fetal death should not be the sole indication for delivery . in cases with severe prematurity and a stable intrauterine situation , frequent assessments of fetal well-being are recommended , with prompt delivery when indicated . 
a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of oral antibiotic therapy following intravenous antibiotic therapy for postpartum endometritis . one hundred thirty-six patients were enrolled in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of oral antibiotic therapy ( amoxicillin ) versus placebo following successful intravenous ( iv ) antibiotic therapy for postpartum endometritis . no subjects were readmitted to the hospital for recurrent endometritis and there were no wound infections or recurrent fevers . minor side effects were seen in 10 % of those taking amoxicillin and 14 % of those taking placebo . compliance was fair ; only 52 % of those taking amoxicillin and 65 % of those taking placebo completed therapy . the lack of infectious complications in this high-risk population suggests that oral antibiotic therapy is unnecessary after successful iv antibiotic therapy for endometritis . 
sensitivity and specificity of screening for down syndrome with alpha-fetoprotein , hcg , unconjugated estriol , and maternal age [ published erratum appears in obstet gynecol 1991 may ; 77 ( 3 ) :462 ] the sensitivity and specificity of maternal serum screening for down syndrome with different biochemical markers were evaluated . detection rates with different combinations of maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein ( msafp ) , hcg , and unconjugated estriol ( ue3 ) were established by retrieving and analyzing 54 serum specimens from women with confirmed down syndrome pregnancies , compared with 657 specimens from women with normal outcomes . with a risk cutoff of 1:270 at the second trimester , the detection rate with msafp , hcg , and ue3 was two to three times higher than with msafp alone . with all three markers , the detection rate for down syndrome increased from 50 to 77 % as maternal age increased , and was 60 % in a representative screened population . if ue3 was omitted , the detection rate decreased from 60 to 48 % . one thousand women were screened prospectively , either with msafp or with all three markers prospectively , either with msafp or with all three markers and 4.1 % with msafp . with the three markers , the positive predictive value for down syndrome was 2.2 % overall and as high as 5.9 % in older women . therefore , the addition of hcg and ue3 to the maternal serum screen increases the positive predictive value by 50-300 % , depending on maternal age . these results confirm the efficacy of screening for down syndrome using maternal age and three serum markers . 
factors associated with postpartum hemorrhage with vaginal birth . a case-control study was performed to study risk factors for postpartum hemorrhage . cases of hemorrhage were defined by a hematocrit decrease of 10 points or more between admission and post-delivery or by the need for red-cell transfusion . patients with antenatal bleeding were excluded . among 9598 vaginal deliveries , postpartum hemorrhage occurred in 374 cases ( 3.9 % ) . three controls were matched to each case and multiple logistic regression was used to control for covariance among predictor variables . factors having a significant association with hemorrhage were prolonged third stage of labor ( adjusted odds ratio 7.56 ) , preeclampsia ( odds ratio 5.02 ) , mediolateral episiotomy ( 4.67 ) , previous postpartum hemorrhage ( 3.55 ) , twins ( 3.31 ) , arrest of descent ( 2.91 ) , soft-tissue lacerations ( 2.05 ) , augmented labor ( 1.66 ) , forceps or vacuum delivery ( 1.66 ) , asian ( 1.73 ) or hispanic ( 1.66 ) ethnicity , midline episiotomy ( 1.58 ) , and nulliparity ( 1.45 ) . these data may help predict postpartum hemorrhage and may be useful in counseling patients about the advisability of home delivery , intravenous access in labor , or autologous blood donation . 
factors associated with hemorrhage in cesarean deliveries . a case-control study was performed to study risk factors for hemorrhage in cesarean deliveries . hemorrhage was defined by a pre - to post-delivery hematocrit decrease of 10 points or more or by the need for red-cell transfusion . patients with antenatal bleeding were excluded . among 3052 cesarean deliveries , hemorrhage occurred in 196 cases ( 6.4 % ) . three controls were matched to each case and multiple logistic regression was used to control for covariance among predictor variables . factors having a significant association with hemorrhage were : general anesthesia ( adjusted odds ratio 2.94 ) , amnionitis ( odds ratio 2.69 ) , preeclampsia ( 2.18 ) , protracted active phase of labor ( 2.40 ) , second-stage arrest ( 1.90 ) , and hispanic ethnicity ( 1.82 ) . after adjustment for these variables , a classic uterine incision had a small but significant association ( odds ratio 1.06 ) with hemorrhage . previous cesarean , parity , gestational age , and several other factors had no association with hemorrhage . these data allow one to anticipate hemorrhage in patients at risk and may be useful in planning appropriate use of blood bank resources , including antepartum autologous blood donation . 
reduced frequency of hypertensive disorders in placenta previa the isthmic segment of the uterine artery 's ascending branch has a freer course and wider diameter than distal parts of the vessel . therefore , we assumed that this arterial segment would provide better blood flow and prevent hypoxia of the trophoblast . as a result , placenta previa pregnancies would be complicated by hypertensive disorders less often than are pregnancies with normally implanted placentas . to test this hypothesis , 491 placenta previa pregnancies , among a population of 106,866 pregnant women , were compared with pregnancies with normally implanted placentas . clinically meaningful and statistically significant reductions in the rates and risks of hypertensive disorders were found in placenta previa pregnancies ( p = .002 , relative risk = 0.44 , 95 % confidence interval 0.25-0 .78 ) . the differences persisted when primiparous and multiparous women were examined separately and when preterm and term deliveries were separated . in a multivariate logistic regression analysis , patients with placenta previa had a third of the risk for hypertensive disorders compared with pregnant women with normally implanted placentas ( relative risk = 0.36 , 95 % confidence interval 0.20-0 .64 ) , even after controlling for parity and preterm or term delivery . in the same model , primiparity and preterm delivery were each associated with a doubling of risk for hypertensive disorders , regardless of the placental implantation site . thus , regardless of parity and preterm or term delivery , placenta previa and hypertensive disorders are inversely related . 
haemophilus influenzae : an important cause of maternal and neonatal infections . although haemophilus influenzae is recognized as a major pathogen of infants , its role in maternal and neonatal infections is not as well appreciated . we analyzed the records of all mothers and neonates infected with h influenzae over a 10-year period . twenty-eight mother/neonate sets were identified in which at least one had documented infection with h influenzae . of the 18 mothers with documented infection , 13 had chorioamnionitis , endometritis , or both , and two of these mothers were bacteremic with h influenzae . of the 23 infected neonates , 15 presented with early sepsis and/or pneumonia and nine had conjunctivitis . during the period of the study , only group b streptococci and escherichia coli were more common as causes of early neonatal bacteremia . under the conditions of this retrospective study , maternal infection predicted neonatal infection . however , prospective studies in which asymptomatic patients are cultured will be required to determine how well maternal colonization/infection with h influenzae predicts neonatal infection . 
craniofacial anomalies in twins . studies of twins provide insight into the relative contribution of genetic and environmental factors in the causality of structural anomalies . thirty-five affected twin pairs were identified from a group of 1114 patients with congenital craniofacial deformities evaluated from 1972 to 1989 . forty-three of these 70 twins exhibited one or more craniofacial anomalies ; these were analyzed for dysmorphic characteristics , zygosity , concordance , and family history . the anomalies were categorized into two groups : malformations and deformations . the malformations ( n = 36 ) included hemifacial microsomia ( n = 10 ) , cleft lip and palate ( n = 8 ) , cleft palate ( n = 4 ) , rare facial cleft ( n = 2 ) , craniosynostosis ( n = 2 ) , binder syndrome ( n = 2 ) , treacher collins syndrome ( n = 2 ) , craniopagus ( n = 2 ) , charge association ( n = 1 ) , frontonasal dysplasia ( n = 2 ) , and constricted ears ( n = 1 ) . the deformations ( n = 7 ) included plagiocephaly ( n = 5 ) , hemifacial hypoplasia ( n = 1 ) , and micrognathia ( n = 1 ) . twenty-one monozygotic and 14 dizygotic twin pairs were identified . the concordance rate was 33 percent for monozygotic twins and 7 percent for dizygotic twins . 
structural genitourinary defects detected in utero . fetal genitourinary anomalies are detected with increasing frequency due to the large numbers of fetuses that undergo screening ultrasonography ( us ) for nonspecific indications . one hundred seventy-seven patients were evaluated for fetal urinary abnormalities over a 2-year period . fetal hydronephrosis accounted for 154 ( 87 % ) of the cases , with the remaining diagnoses including multicystic dysplastic kidney , autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease , and renal agenesis or hypodysplasia . ureteropelvic junction obstruction was the most common postnatal anatomic abnormality ( 29 % ) , with a large number of cases of prenatally diagnosed hydronephrosis resolving either prenatally ( 33 % ) or postnatally ( 24 % ) . prenatal us findings were retrospectively analyzed with regard to the degree of hydronephrosis at different stages of gestation . data showed that there is a gradual rise in anteroposterior renal pelvic diameter during gestation and that there is a correlation between this diameter and the ultimate renal outcome in regard to surgical repair . this information can provide guidance in making recommendations to parents and physicians . 
hysterosalpingo-contrast sonography of the uterus and fallopian tubes : results of a clinical trial of a new contrast medium in 120 patients . the feasibility , diagnostic efficacy , and patient tolerance of a new diagnostic modality , hysterosalpingo-contrast sonography ( hycosy ) , were evaluated in a clinical study of 120 patients with suspected infertility . a new echogenic contrast medium for ultrasound was administered transcervically with conventional tools for hysterosalpingography or a balloon catheter . the flow of multiple fractions of the contrast medium through each fallopian tube was observed in real time in appropriate imaging planes by means of a transvaginal probe . all patent tubes were diagnosed correctly with hycosy , results comparing well with findings at hysterosalpingography or laparoscopy . with b-mode scanning only , sensitivity was 88 % for the right tube and 90 % for the left ; specificity was 100 % for each tube . the supplementary use of doppler techniques ( duplex , color doppler ) provided additional information in special cases of suspected tubal occlusion and led to an improvement in diagnostic accuracy . the contrast agent was well tolerated . hycosy demonstrates normal anatomy and tubal patency with high reliability and permits advance selection of patients in whom more invasive diagnostic procedures may be required . 
potential prenatal predictions of down syndrome : a statistical analysis . to determine the feasibility of combining several screening tests for the prenatal detection of down syndrome , we evaluated the potential relationship among three proposed predictors . we determined the concentration of chorionic gonadotropin in frozen serum samples from women of known maternal age and weight , fetal biparietal diameter , and femur length , and alpha-fetoprotein concentration . when corrected for gestational age and maternal weight , the potential predictors were independent , except for a slight correlation ( r = 0.10 ) between maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein and maternal serum human chorionic gonadotropin . both maternal serum human chorionic gonadotropin and biparietal diameter/femur length demonstrated an approximately log-normal distribution similar to maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein . therefore it is scientifically sound to use any or all of these variables in combination for the identification of pregnancies at increased risk for down syndrome . 
the course of labor after endurance exercise during pregnancy . this study was designed to test the hypothesis that continuation of a regular running or aerobics program , or both , during the latter half of pregnancy would have a negative effect on the course and outcome of labor . the onset , course , and outcome of labor were independently monitored in 131 well-conditioned recreational athletes who had an uneventful first half of pregnancy . daily exercise performance was quantitated before conception and throughout pregnancy . comparisons were made between the 87 women who continued to exercise regularly at or above 50 % of their preconceptional level throughout pregnancy and the 44 who discontinued their regular exercise regimen before the end of the first trimester . the incidence of preterm labor was similar in the two groups ( 9 % ) . labor began significantly earlier in the exercise group ( 277 + / - 6 vs 282 + / - 6 days ) . the women who continued to exercise had a lower incidence of abdominal ( 6 % vs 30 % ) and vaginal ( 6 % vs 20 % ) operative delivery , and active labor was shorter ( 264 + / - 149 vs 382 + / - 275 min ) in those who were delivered vaginally . finally , clinical evidence of acute fetal stress ( meconium , fetal heart pattern , and apgar score ) was less frequent in the exercise group ( 50 % vs 26 % ) , although birth weight was reduced ( 3369 + / - 318 vs 3776 + / - 401 gm ) . these data negate the initial hypothesis and indicate that , in well-conditioned women who regularly perform aerobics or run , continuation of these exercise regimens has a beneficial effect on the course and outcome of labor . 
does fasting interval affect the glucose challenge test ? the relationship between fasting interval and glucose screening was assessed in a prospective study of 153 non-diabetic pregnant patients undergoing a standard 50g glucose challenge test . an interval of less than 3 hours after the last meal was found to be associated with a significantly greater insulin response as opposed to a fasting interval of more than 3 hours ( 121.3 pmol/l vs. 83.5 pmol/l , p less than .001 ) and a greater insulin/glucose index ( 0.92 vs. 0.66 , p less than .001 ) , with no difference in plasma glucose . overall , obese patients had a higher glucose response than non-obese , but only higher insulin levels ( 107 pmol/l vs. 69 pmol/l , p less than .001 ) and insulin/glucose index ( 0.79 vs. 0.59 , p less than .02 ) when the fasting interval was greater than 3 hours . our data suggest that the fasting interval can influence insulin response during a glucose challenge test and the aberration in insulin secretion may effect screening results , especially in the high-risk gravida with glucose abnormality . 
relationships between glucose levels and insulin secretion during a glucose challenge test . the relationship between glucose and insulin levels was examined in a prospective study of 153 pregnant patients without diabetes who underwent a standard 50 gm glucose challenge test . one hundred eighteen women had normal screening results ( glucose level less than 140 mg/dl ) and 35 had abnormal screening values but a normal oral glucose tolerance test . abnormal responders had greater insulin levels ( 149 vs 82 pmol/l , p less than 0.0001 ) , and a higher insulin/glucose index ( 0.96 vs. 0.72 , p less than 0.007 ) . patients with glucose levels less than 100 mg/dl had significantly lower insulin/glucose indices . overall , obese patients had significantly greater glucose and insulin measurements than did nonobese women , but there was no difference within normal and abnormal groups . glucose levels accounted for 52 % of the insulin output and 29 % of the insulin/glucose index variance . neither age , parity , nor obesity contributed significantly to insulin levels in the multiple regression model . therefore the accepted threshold for glucose screening reflects abnormal insulin output and this aberration may be indicative of the primary defect in gestational diabetes . 
growth factor activity in the blood of women in whom preeclampsia develops is elevated from early pregnancy . preeclampsia is a pregnancy-specific disorder of uncertain cause and pathophysiology that appears to be associated with endothelial cell injury . our current studies demonstrate that a pregnancy growth factor activity is elevated compared with postpartum values in the blood of women with preeclampsia months before the onset of clinical manifestations of toxemia . a cohort of primigravid women was followed throughout pregnancy and multiple serial plasma samples from six women with preeclampsia and six matched normal women were assayed for mitogenic activity . the data indicated that the ratio of predelivery/postdelivery plasma mitogenic activity was greater in women predestined to meet strict criteria for the diagnosis of preeclampsia compared with matched normal primigravid women . growth factor activity could distinguish women in whom preeclampsia would develop from their normal peers throughout pregnancy , and as early as the first trimester of gestation ( p less than 0.05 ) . similar studies performed with plasma obtained greater than 6 weeks post partum , when the two groups of patients were clinically indistinguishable , revealed no differences in this index of mitogenic activity . our results indicate that elevated mitogenic activity ratios of prepartum versus postpartum plasma antedate the clinical recognition of preeclampsia , and return to normal with the resolution of the syndrome . 
the effect of nifedipine therapy on fetal and placental doppler waveforms in preeclampsia remote from term . twenty patients with preeclampsia at a gestational age of 26 to 35 weeks were treated with oral nifedipine until delivery . the mean oral daily dose was 45.1 + / - 11 mg/day ( range , 40 to 80 mg/day ) . fetal aorta , internal carotid artery , umbilical artery , and uteroplacental doppler flow velocity waveforms were recorded before treatment and then serially . the mean nifedipine concentration at the time of the doppler studies was 60.3 ng/ml ( range , 10 to 90 ng/ml ) . the use of nifedipine therapy was associated with a significant decrease in both maternal systolic blood pressure ( baseline , 154 to 135 mm hg , p less than 0.001 ) and diastolic blood pressure ( baseline , 100 to 88 mm hg , p less than 0.001 ) . however , there was no significant difference in the resistance index between baseline and postnifedipine doppler studies in either the fetal or uteroplacental vessels . the use of oral nifedipine to control blood pressure in preeclampsia does not affect the resistance indices in fetal or uteroplacental vessels as measured by the doppler technique . 
low-dose aspirin . ii . relationship of angiotensin ii pressor responses , circulating eicosanoids , and pregnancy outcome . forty pregnant women ( 28 to 32 weeks ' gestation ) were given low-dose aspirin therapy ( 81 mg/day ) from the time of enrollment until delivery ; circulating eicosanoid levels and angiotensin ii pressor responses were measured before and after 1 week of aspirin therapy . subsequent clinical outcome was correlated with these results . all women had significant reductions in serum and plasma thromboxane b2 levels with aspirin treatment ( p less than 0.01 ) . eleven women who remained sensitive to the pressor effects of angiotensin ii ( effective pressor dose less than 10 ng/kg/min ) after 1 week of low-dose aspirin treatment exhibited significant decreases ( p less than 0.05 ) in plasma 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha ( 264 + / - 119 vs 161 + / - 31 pg/ml , mean + / - sd ) and prostaglandin e2 ( 476 + / - 174 vs 351 + / - 112 pg/ml ) levels . in contrast , patients who were either nonsensitive ( refractory ) to angiotensin ii ( n = 18 ; greater than or equal to 10 ng/kg/min ) before aspirin or became nonsensitive after aspirin administration ( n = 11 ) had no change in either plasma 6-keto-prostaglandin f1 alpha or prostaglandin e2 concentrations . the occurrence of pregnancy-induced hypertension was 100 % in the women who remained angiotensin ii sensitive during aspirin therapy as compared with 36 % and 39 % in the other two groups ( x2 = 16.14 ; p less than 0.001 ) . thus during low-dose aspirin therapy a failure to develop refractoriness to infused angiotensin ii is associated with a nonselective inhibition of eicosanoids and the almost certain development of pregnancy-induced hypertension . these observations may reflect a basic defect in vascular adaptation to pregnancy . 
maternal and uteroplacental hemodynamic effects of chronic captopril in the hypertensive , term-pregnant rat . the chronic effects of captopril on maternal hemodynamics and organ perfusion were investigated in 10 untreated and 10 captopril-treated pregnant spontaneously hypertensive rats by means of the radioactive-labeled microsphere technique . the normal decrease in blood pressure during gestation was prevented by reduction of litter size to two conceptuses on day 7 of gestation . captopril ( approximately 10 mg/kg/day ) or drug vehicle ( 50 % ethyl alcohol ) was administered intraperitoneally by an osmotic pump from day 7 to 21 . at term mean arterial pressure was 23 % lower in the captopril-treated group as the result of a 29 % decrease in total peripheral resistance without a significant change in cardiac output . the decrease in total peripheral resistance was primarily caused by a decline in splanchnic and skin resistances . maternal organ and uteroplacental perfusion were not significantly altered . we conclude that administration of captopril during the last 2 weeks of pregnancy in the hypertensive rat effectively lowers maternal blood pressure without adverse effects on organ and uteroplacental perfusion . 
inhibition of spontaneous uterine contractions during the last trimester in pregnant baboons by an oxytocin antagonist . the effect of a potent oxytocin antagonist , produced in our laboratories , on spontaneous uterine contractions in the pregnant baboon was examined . three types of uterine contractions were studied : immediately after operation , during the nocturnal period , and near or at labor . bolus intravenous injections of oxytocin antagonist were given and uterine activity was examined + / - 1 hour after the injection . the oxytocin antagonist caused a precipitate decrease ( approximately 70 % ) in contractile force ( mean amplitude x frequency ) in the first 15 minutes after injection ( p less than 0.05 ) ; this force diminished to approximately 90 % at the end of 1 hour for both nocturnal and labor contractions . in contrast , uterine contractions immediately after operation were diminished by only 60 % within 60 minutes after the oxytocin antagonist . these results indicate that the oxytocin antagonist is a potent inhibitor and suggest that oxytocin is a primary regulator of spontaneous nocturnal and labor uterine contractions in the pregnant baboon . 
observations on the cause of oligohydramnios in prolonged pregnancy . there is increasing evidence that implicates reduced amnionic fluid volume as a major determinant of fetal risk in prolonged pregnancy . we sought to determine whether reduced fetal urine production might be associated with oligohydramnios in pregnancies that reach 42 weeks or more . ultrasonographic measurements of the fetal bladder were obtained every 2 to 5 minutes for 1 hour in 38 gestations verified to be at least 42 weeks . oligohydramnios was present in eight of the prolonged pregnancies . similar measurements were performed in 15 normal pregnancies delivered by elective repeat cesarean section between 38 and 40 weeks ' gestation . hourly fetal urine production rates were calculated with sequential bladder volume measurements . the result of this investigation suggest that diminished fetal urine production is associated with oligohydramnios in prolonged pregnancy . the mechanism by which fetal urine production is reduced in prolonged pregnancy remains unknown . a likely possibility is reduced fetal swallowing because of already diminished amnionic fluid volume , the latter a result of placental senescence . 
a mechanism leading to reduced lung expansion and lung hypoplasia in fetal sheep during oligohydramnios . our aim was to determine the mechanism whereby oligohydroamnios causes reduced fetal lung expansion and eventual lung hypoplasia . we studied 20 fetal sheep during 2 to 9 days of oligohydramnios produced by drainage of amniotic and allantoic fluids during the last third of gestation . oligohydramnios led to a reversible reduction in lung liquid volume of 19.5 % within 48 hours . during oligohydramnios tracheal pressure , relative to amniotic pressure , rose by 1.7 mm hg ( p less than 0.001 ) ; pressures also tended to rise in the fetal pleural space and abdomen , relative to amniotic pressure , and to fall in the amniotic sac . pressure increments , relative to amniotic pressure , which normally occur in the fetal trachea , pleural cavity , and abdomen during nonlabor uterine contractions , were significantly increased by 1.9 to 2.5 mm hg during oligohydramnios . oligohydramnios increased flexion of the fetal thoracolumbar spine , quantified as a reduction in the ratio of spinal radius of curvature to spine length ( 0.76 in controls vs 0.40 after oligohydramnios , p less than 0.001 ) . in three sets of twins , only the fetus exposed to oligohydramnios was affected . a similar degree of spinal flexion imposed on normal fetal sheep cadavers increased abdominal ( 1.6 mm hg ) , pleural ( 1.5 mm hg ) , and tracheal ( 2.0 mm hg ) pressure , and caused a significant reduction in fetal lung expansion . we conclude that oligohydramnios in fetal sheep increases spinal flexion , leading to compression of abdominal contents , upward displacement of the diaphragm , and lung compression , favoring loss of fetal lung liquid . these changes , which are accentuated during nonlabor uterine contractions and are reversible , may lead to pulmonary hypoplasia if prolonged . 
in vitro inhibition of esterase activity in amniotic fluid : comparison with bacterial cultures . assessment of leukocyte esterase activity in amniotic fluid for the rapid and reliable diagnosis of chorioamnionitis has been demonstrated previously . we compared in vitro inhibition of esterase activity in amniotic fluid with bacterial cultures to identify the origins of the specific esterases released by the infecting organisms . one hundred forty-one samples were tested ( 90 uninfected , 51 infected ) . each sample was evaluated for gram stain , cultures , and an in vitro esterase assay followed by ebelactone inhibition . forty-two patients had positive amniotic fluid cultures . ebelactone produced varying degrees of inhibition of esterase activity ( range , 20 % to 60 % ) in the uninfected samples and in those infected with gram-negative organisms . there was no inhibition in the samples infected with gram-positive organisms . thus different groups of bacteria may elicit the production of different and specific esterases in infected amniotic fluid , as shown by the differences in in vitro inhibition . 
correlation of the testicular determinant factor sequence zinc finger y with varying gonadal phenotypes in a series of 13 subjects with gonadal dysgenesis due to y aneuploidy . deoxyribonucleic acid samples from a series of 13 subjects with 45 , x/46 , x , altered y , and varying gonadal phenotypes ( streak-streak , n = 9 ; streak-testis , n = 2 ; testis-testis , n = 2 ) were analyzed for the presence of the candidate testicular determinant factor sequence zinc finger y. the y-specific probes y97 mapped to y centromere , pdp105 a , b mapped to yp and distal yq11 , respectively , hybridized with the deoxyribonucleic acid from all the 13 study subjects . the same deoxyribonucleic acid samples were analyzed for the presence of the zinc finger y sequence . eleven of the 13 subjects were positive for the zinc finger y sequence . four zinc finger y-positive subjects had unilateral ( n = 2 ) or bilateral ( n = 2 ) testicular differentiation . among the nine subjects with bilateral streak gonads , seven showed the presence of this sequence . the lack of testicular differentiation in the presence of quantitatively normal or almost normal zinc finger y bands could not be explained by mosaicism alone . mutations not detectable by analysis with the method of southern with pdp1007 , may occur in the testicular determinant factor gene vitiating testicular development . 
isolation and characterization of the gene from a human genome encoding 17 beta-estradiol dehydrogenase : a comparison of jar and bewo choriocarcinoma cell lines . 17-beta-estradiol dehydrogenase is required for the enzymatic interconversion of estradiol and its weaker related sex steroid , estrone . we isolated and sequenced a complementary deoxyribonucleic acid clone for 17 beta-estradiol dehydrogenase from the bewo choriocarcinoma cell line . comparison of the bewo complementary deoxyribonucleic acid sequence to a previously derived placental complementary deoxyribonucleic acid sequence yields greater than 98 % homology . we also isolated the gene for 17 beta-estradiol dehydrogenase from the jar human choriocarcinoma cell line and elucidated its primary nucleic acid structure . significant differences in the jar-deduced complementary deoxyribonucleic acid sequence clearly differentiate it from both the human placental and bewo forms of 17 beta-estradiol dehydrogenase , indicating the existence of two genes for 17 beta-estradiol dehydrogenase in the human genome . evaluation of 17 beta-estradiol dehydrogenase gene expression in bewo and jar cells was compared with expression in luteinized granulosa cells . messenger ribonucleic acid for human placental 17 beta-estradiol dehydrogenase was identified in all three cell types as a 1.3 kilobase band on northern blot analysis . a second messenger ribonucleic acid species measuring 2.1 kilobase was abundantly present in the granulosa cells . whether these two species of messenger ribonucleic acid are involved in the regulation of the estradiol dehydrogenase genes is yet to be determined . 
asthma and pregnancy : responsibility of physicians and patients the successful management of asthma during pregnancy requires a cooperative approach between the obstetrician , the physician managing the asthma , and the patient . this is emphasized by a case report describing a patient with uncontrolled asthma subsequently managed with appropriate medical and obstetrical care . concern for maternal and fetal health and reassurance of patients are primary concerns . guidelines for physicians and patients are outlined as are the safety of drugs and therapy in pregnant patients . physicians must have knowledge of appropriate use of medications during pregnancy . 
vestibular papillae of the vulva . lack of evidence for human papillomavirus etiology . vestibular papillae of the vulva are usually considered as anatomical variants of the vestibular mucosa . clinically , however , they are quite often interpreted as condylomata acuminata and recent studies have suggested that they could be related to human papillomavirus infection . this prompted us to search for human papillomavirus dna using the southern blot hybridization technique , by analyzing biopsy specimens taken from 29 patients who presented with papillae of the vestibular mucosa . human papillomavirus sequences were detected only in two ( 6.9 % ) cases . by the same technique , human papillomavirus sequences were detected in 24 ( 96 % ) of 25 vulvar warts used as the control specimens . thus , it appears unlikely that vestibular papillae are related to human papillomavirus infection . they are usually distinguishable from condylomata acuminata by clinical examination alone . 
postpartum renal failure in systemic lupus erythematosus . the present report describes an unusual association between postpartum renal failure and systemic lupus erythematosus . two healty young women developed progressive renal failure several weeks after delivery accompanied by the presence in their serum of strongly reactive anti-nuclear antibodies and positive anti-dna antibodies . in both cases kidney biopsy disclosed light and electron microscopy pictures typical of idiopathic postpartum renal failure , with multiple intravascular thrombi and no evidence of active lupus nephritis . intrarenal microthrombi formation may represent a form of exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus after delivery . the early recognition of this syndrome may have therapeutic implications . 
interferon as an agent against herpes simplex virus . the effectiveness and limitations of interferon as an antiviral agent in man is exemplified by its actions against herpes simplex types 1 and 2 . given in adequate doses parenterally before or shortly after infection , interferon can ameliorate or reduce clinical manifestations or reduce the virus yield . it usually can not completely prevent disease and may be particularly problematical if used late after infection in an acute disease . it is ineffective against the state of latent infection in ganglia . interferon may have more potential in slower virus diseases and diseases in which other pathogenetic mechanisms affected by interferon 's pleiotropic actions are operative . 
growth hormone for short stature not due to classic growth hormone deficiency . the advent of recombinant dna technology has resulted in potentially unlimited supplies of growth hormone . sufficient quantities are now available not only for the long-term , uninterrupted treatment of gh-deficient children but potentially for the treatment of non-gh-deficient patients with other short stature or growth attenuating disorders . short-term studies have demonstrated an improvement in the growth rates of subjects with isolated short stature , turner syndrome , and chronic renal failure ; and additional studies are under way to assess the efficacy of gh therapy of other short stature syndromes . however , the long-term efficacy and possible adverse effects of gh treatment in these situations is not known . until there has been more experience , gh deficiency should remain the primary indication for gh treatment . growth hormone should not be considered routine therapy for other conditions associated with or resulting in short stature . however , research should continue in these areas to define which children may benefit from gh treatment . 
hyperandrogenism in peripubertal girls . androgens arise from either adrenal or ovarian secretion or by peripheral conversion of secreted precursors . the adrenals and ovaries normally contribute about equally to testosterone and ad production . dhas is the major adrenal 17-ks . testosterone is the major circulating form of androgen . more than 96 % of plasma testosterone is bound to shbg ; the free testosterone seems to be the bioavailable fraction . hyperandrogenism must be considered in any girl with premature or excessive development of public hair or acne , menstrual irregularity ( whether it be oligo-amenorrhea or dysfunctional uterine bleeding ) , or obesity . the most common cause of premature public hair development ( pubarche ) is premature adrenarche . the most common cause of hyperandrogenism presenting in a teenage girl is polycystic ovary syndrome . however , the differential diagnosis includes " exaggerated adrenarche , " late-onset congenital adrenal hyperplasia , virilizing tumors , cushing 's syndrome , hyperprolactinemia , acromegaly , and abnormalities of androgen action or of metabolism . the plasma free testosterone is a more sensitive indicator of hyperandrogenism than is the total testosterone concentration . the pattern of response of plasma free testosterone , dhas , and cortisol to dex-suppression testing is diagnostic of the source of androgen excess . most hyperandrogenic adolescents will be found to have pcos . the treatment is chosen according to particular symptoms , such as menstrual irregularity , hirsutism , or obesity . 
turner syndrome and its variants . turner syndrome is suspected in females with short stature , gonadal dysgenesis , and lymphedema ; however , there are no pathognomonic features of turner syndrome , and the disorder should be considered in any girl with short stature or delayed puberty . this article discusses the natural history of turner syndrome and complications that occur in various organ systems ; it reviews the physical features and complications seen with various karyotypic changes in turner syndrome . age-specific screening and therapies are covered . 
adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder . a premalignant lesion ? gallbladder cancer is the most common malignant tumor of the biliary tract , but its early diagnosis is uncommon . the use of ultrasonography has increased the detection of benign gallbladder tumors , and the premalignant potential of gallbladder adenomas is now undisputed . adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder has recently been suggested to have malignant potential , and we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder occurring in localized adenomyomatosis that was successfully treated by radical curative surgery . the more rigorous use of ultrasonography and a more aggressive approach to " benign " polypoid lesions of the gallbladder may represent the best way of achieving early diagnosis and cure in gallbladder cancer . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome during pregnancy and immediately postpartum . from 1976 to 1983 , the adult respiratory distress syndrome occurred in 14 patients during pregnancy or within a month postpartum . there were 8 survivors , giving a 43 % mortality . all but 2 patients had obstetric-related precipitating events -- labor problems , infections , eclampsia-toxemia , and obstetric hemorrhages . during emergency cesarean sections , 3 patients had respiratory problems that may have caused their respiratory distress syndrome . the average duration of mechanical ventilatory support was 16 days . six patients had barotrauma with 1 patient sustaining an irreversible anoxic central nervous system injury . infections were documented in 8 patients , 6 of whom had obstetric foci . there is a lack of information regarding the adult respiratory distress syndrome in this patient group . though uncommon , it can cause substantial mortality and morbidity . 
recent trends in cesarean section use in california . cesarean section use in the united states has increased to 24.7 % of deliveries in 1988 and is the most common hospital surgical procedure . california cesarean section rates were examined to measure recent trends in obstetric practices and to project future patterns of cesarean section use . using discharge abstracts from 1983 to 1987 california hospital deliveries , total cesarean section rates were found to increase from nearly 22 % in 1983 to 25 % in 1987 , an increase of 15 % . using a series of least-squares regression models , time trends in the distribution of indications associated with cesarean section among all deliveries and indication-specific cesarean section rates were evaluated . increases in the number of women with previous cesarean section and fetal distress contributed to rising cesarean section rates . in addition , indication-specific cesarean section rates increased for breech presentation and dystocia . these trends were counterbalanced , in part , by declining rates of repeat cesarean sections . trends noted for july 1985 through 1987 did not differ substantially from those observed for january 1983 to june 1985 , suggesting that recent policy attempts to alter cesarean section use have not had a measurable effect on existing trends . projections suggest that california cesarean section rates will rise to a level of 34 % by the year 2000 . 
emergency department approach to managing seizures in pregnancy . seizures in pregnancy pose risks for both the mother and the fetus and must be managed aggressively . antiepileptic drugs have some teratogenic potential , but the risks are not as profound as reported in earlier literature . there is definitely less risk to the fetus from anticonvulsant exposure than from uncontrolled seizures . the evaluation of a pregnant woman with new-onset seizures is the same as for the nonpregnant patient , including head computed tomography with appropriate abdominal shielding . status epilepticus management is based on iv benzodiazepines , phenytoin , or phenobarbital . good fetal outcome is dependent on rapid seizure control . management of eclampsia is controversial . there is little evidence that magnesium sulfate has anticonvulsant properties , and its use as such will probably decline steadily in the future . at present , it is reasonable to manage eclamptic seizures in the same way that status epilepticus is managed . 
isolation of a complementary dna clone encoding an autoantigen recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration . we isolated a complementary dna clone encoding a 52-kd protein recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody in serum from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration associated with uterine carcinoma . the recombinant protein expressed in prokaryotic cells was specifically recognized by the anti-neuronal cell antibody from the patient , and its molecular weight was identical to that of antigenic proteins in the cerebellum . the deduced protein consisted of 450 amino acids dominated by hydrophilic residues , the calculated relative molecular mass was 51,238 , and the predicted value of the isoelectric point was 4.99 . this complementary dna sequence and the deduced protein sequence have not been reported previously , and the sequences showed no homologies with the complimentary dna or the amino acid sequences in the genbank , embl , or nbrf databases , including the complementary dna for a 34-kd cerebellar protein ( cdr34 ) that is recognized by an anti-purkinje cell antibody . unexpectedly , the transcript of this gene was detected not only in the cerebellum and the brain stem but also in an extraneural tissue , the intestine . 
pregnancy and the risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis . there have been conflicting reports on , and no plausible biologic explanation for , a protective effect of oral contraceptive ( oc ) use on the development of rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . therefore , we investigated aspects of behavior related to oc use that could explain the preventive effect of oc on the onset of ra . in the present case-control study , past pregnancy , age at first pregnancy , and pregnancies with adverse outcome were studied as possible risk factors for ra . interview information on reproductive variables was obtained from 135 young adult women with confirmed definite or classic ra of recent onset , and from 378 control patients with soft tissue rheumatic disorders or osteoarthritis . all patients had at least 2 years of followup to confirm the consistency of the diagnosis . we found a decreased risk of ra in women who had been pregnant . the risk of ra in women who had ever been pregnant compared with women who had never been pregnant was 0.49 ( 95 % confidence interval 0.27-0 .91 ) . the earlier the first pregnancy , the lower the risk of ra . pregnancy with adverse outcome ( i.e. , gestation less than 25 weeks ) did not substantially change the risk of ra ( relative risk 0.73 , 95 % confidence interval 0.50-1 .07 ) . the protective effect of pregnancy was independent of oc use , the presence of hla-dr4 , or a family history of ra . immune modulation by female hormonal influences could be an explanation for the results of the present study . 
impact of maternal hiv infection on obstetrical and early neonatal outcome . in a case-control study of 177 hiv-seropositive and 326 seronegative women and their newborns in nairobi , kenya , maternal hiv infection at term was independently associated with travel to other african countries [ odds ratio ( or ) 4.9 , p less than 0.0001 ] , history of a blood transfusion since 1980 ( or 3.5 , p = 0.01 ) , history of more than one sexual partner in the previous 5 years ( or 1.8 , p = 0.02 ) and unmarried status ( or 1.8 , p = 0.02 ) . neonates of hiv-positive and hiv-negative women differed little with respect to occurrence of congenital malformations , stillbirths , in-hospital mortality , sex , apgar score , or gestational age . however , the mean birth weight of singleton neonates of hiv-positive women was significantly lower than that of controls ( 3090 versus 3220 g , p = 0.005 ) , and birth weight was less than 2500 g in 9 % of cases and 3 % of controls ( or 3.0 , p = 0.007 ) . among neonates of hiv-seropositive women , birth weight was less than 2500 g in 17 % if mothers were symptomatic and 6 % if mothers were asymptomatic ( or 3.4 , p = 0.08 ) . 
hiv-1 and pregnant women : associated factors , prevalence , estimate of incidence and role in fetal wastage in central africa . the major goals of this study were to measure the current prevalence and estimate the annual incidence of hiv-1 infection in young pregnant women from urban malawi , to identify factors that were associated with hiv-1 infection , and to examine adverse pregnancy outcomes . four hundred and sixty-one consecutive pregnant women were studied when they presented for prenatal care . the overall seroprevalence for hiv-1 infection in these urban populations was 17.6 % ( 81 out of 461 ) during early 1989 . based on previous seroprevalence in similar unselected pregnant women , the estimated annual incidence of hiv-1 seroconversion in urban pregnant women ranged from 3 to 4 % per annum between 1985 and 1987 and from 7 to 13 % between 1987 and 1989 . hiv-1 infection was significantly associated with reactive syphilis serology . reported history of sexually transmitted disease was also correlated with hiv-1 infection but was not statistically significant . other variables , such as history of transfusion , history of tuberculosis , parity or occupation were not associated with hiv-1 infection . history of spontaneous abortion was significantly associated with reactive syphilis serology , hiv-1 infection and history of sexually transmitted disease . in logistic regression analysis , hiv-1 infection remained the only significant variable that was correlated with spontaneous abortion . this study suggests that hiv-1 infection may play a role in fetal wastage . 
a pilot study of the prevalence of herpes genitalis among selected groups of patients seeking care in a family practice center . herpes genitalis is typically studied in patient panels identified at specialized sexually transmitted disease clinics or with information obtained from herpes self-help groups . this article reports the results of a descriptive pilot study of the prevalence of herpes genitalis in family practice . the feasibility of obtaining psychosexual information on sexually transmitted diseases from more than 600 patients from five family practice practices was assessed . these initial data show that in the family practices participating in this study : 1 ) genital herpes is a low prevalence disease ; 2 ) psychosocial adjustment to the disease among infected persons is usually reported as good , apart from sexual effects ; and 3 ) close to 30 % of the study population reported having prior sexually transmitted diseases . problems involved in generalizing the results of this research and the limitations of conducting collaborative clinical research in family practice settings are reviewed . 
recurrent acute fatty liver of pregnancy associated with a fatty-acid oxidation defect in the offspring . a case of a 29-year-old woman who has had two episodes both clinically and biochemically consistent with acute fatty liver of pregnancy is described . these episodes occurred in two successive pregnancies , and liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in the second pregnancy . both pregnancies were managed by prompt fetal delivery ; on both occasions this led to a complete biochemical resolution of the liver function abnormalities . two healthy babies were delivered by ceasarian sections . this case is of particular importance because a rapidly progressive and devastating illness developed in both infants , leading to death at 6 1/2 and 6 months , respectively . the illness in both babies was characterized by wide-spread fatty infiltration of several vital organs and a failure of any treatment to influence the outcome of that illness . studies suggested that the illness in the children was caused by a still ill-defined disorder of fatty acid oxidation . the biochemical disorder evidenced in this family is discussed , in an attempt to shed light on the etiology of acute fatty liver of pregnancy . 
almitrine mimics hypoxia in fetal sheep with lateral pontine lesions . almitrine bimesylate is a potent and long-lasting respiratory stimulant in adult species . it acts by stimulating the peripheral chemoreceptors , where it has been shown to accumulate specifically , although its exact mechanism of action is uncertain . in the fetal lamb , however , it produces a profound inhibition of breathing even after denervation of the peripheral chemoreceptors . in this respect its action is similar to hypoxia . to investigate whether almitrine is hypoxia mimetic , we examined the effect of almitrine in nine fetal lambs of 120-130 days gestation . five had lesions in the lateral pons that changed the fetal depressive response to hypoxia to one of stimulation . in the remaining four fetuses , the lesions did not bilaterally encompass the appropriate area of the pons ; thus they still showed the normal fetal depressive response to hypoxia and so acted as controls . almitrine ( 10 mg iv ) caused a pronounced stimulation of breathing that lasted 406 + / - 26 min in all five fetuses with lesions that caused a stimulatory response to hypoxia . however , in the remaining four fetuses , in which the response to hypoxia was inhibitory , almitrine caused an inhibition of breathing that lasted 184 + / - 28 min . we conclude that the action of almitrine is like that of hypoxia and that , because it acts specifically on the chemoreceptors , it may prove to be a useful tool in the study of possible central chemoreceptor mechanisms . 
venous dysfunction of late pregnancy persists after delivery . pregnancy is associated with dvt , pelvic thrombophlebitis , and lower extremity varicosities . pelvic venous compression by the gravid uterus is blamed . a prospective controlled study using plethysmography was performed . venous capacitance and outflow were measured at term , and at 1 week , 6 weeks and 3 months following delivery . results show decreased venous capacitance and venous outflow at term pregnancy , no improvement 1 week after delivery , modest improvement at 6 weeks , and dramatic statistically significant improvement in both parameters by 3 months . the persistence of venous dysfunction for several weeks after delivery indicates that changes in venous function at term pregnancy are largely the result of factors other than pelvic venous compression by the gravid uterus . 
detection and typing of human papillomavirus using the vira type " in situ " kit : comparison with a conventional dot blot technique . a new commercial kit ( vira type " in situ " , life technologies , inc. , molecular diagnostics division , guithersburg , maryland , usa ) for the detection of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 6 , 11 , 16 , 18 , 31 , 33 and 35 in routinely processed human anogenital tissue was compared with a conventional dot blot assay for hpv 6 , 11 , 16 and 18 . both systems use double-stranded genomic dna probes for the detection of type specific hpv dna . the probes used on the dot blots were labelled with 32p and visualised autoradiographically . the vira type probes were labelled with biotin and visualised using a streptavidin-alkaline phosphatase conjugate with nbt-bcip substrate . biopsy specimens from the cervix , vagina , and vulva of 46 women were processed by both methods and compared . the histological diagnoses ranged from benign changes , to dysplasia , and invasive carcinoma . overall , 50 % of biopsy specimens were positive for hpv dna by dot blot hybridisation ; only 39 % were positive by vira type in situ hybridisation . three of the specimens positive by the vira type " in situ " kit showed no cross hybridisation and were the same hpv type as the dot blot . a further 13 showed hybridisation , but the showed cross hybridisation , but the to the dot blot results . one biopsy specimen was positive for different hpv types by the two tests and one was positive by vira type and negative by dot blot . six biopsy specimens were negative by vira type but positive by dot blot . it is concluded that the vira type " in situ " kit has a similar specificity but lower sensitivity than the dot blot hybridisation method for the detection of hpv dna . 
fetal death due to nonlethal maternal carbon monoxide poisoning . fetal death due to acute carbon monoxide poisoning is rarely reported in the medical literature . of the eight cases found in literature review , only one documented the fetal carboxyhemoglobin concentration . this paper reports a fetal death due to accidental nonlethal maternal carbon monoxide intoxication in which both maternal and fetal carboxyhemoglobin concentrations were obtained . the corrected carboxyhemoglobin concentration was 61 % at the time of death in utero , while the maternal carboxyhemoglobin was measured at 7 % after one hour of supplemental oxygen . the authors review the mechanisms of fetal death and emphasize the different carbon monoxide kinetics in the fetal circulation . 
swine influenza virus infections . transmission from ill pigs to humans at a wisconsin agricultural fair and subsequent probable person-to-person transmission . in september 1988 , a previously healthy 32-year-old pregnant woman was hospitalized for pneumonia and died 8 days later . the only pathogen detected was an influenza virus antigenically related to the swine influenza virus ( siv ) . four days before illness onset , the patient visited a county fair swine exhibition where there was widespread influenzalike illness among the swine . to detect other persons who were possibly infected by contact with the ill swine , we measured serum siv hemagglutination-inhibition antibody titer in 25 swine exhibitors who were 9 to 19 years old . nineteen ( 76 % ) had siv hemagglutination-inhibition titers of 20 or greater . antibody was undetectable in serum samples from 25 swine exhibitors from a neighboring county . additional studies suggest that one to three health care personnel who had contact with the patient developed influenzalike illnesses with laboratory evidence of siv infection . an outbreak of apparent siv infection in swine resulted in multiple human infections , and , although no recognized community outbreak resulted , there was evidence of virus transmission from the patient to health care personnel . 
management of asymptomatic , term gestation neonates born to mothers treated with intrapartum antibiotics . intrapartum antibiotics are frequently administered to parturient women for suspected chorioamnionitis to treat infection in the mother and to prevent or treat infection in the baby . we sent a questionnaire to the 150 united states fellowship program directors in neonatology and pediatric infectious disease , focusing on recommendations for evaluation and therapy of apparently healthy , pretreated , term gestation infants . eighty-three ( 55 % ) of the completed responses were analyzed . sixteen ( 19 % ) respondents do no initial laboratory evaluation but simply observe the baby , 65 ( 78 % ) take a complete blood count as well as a platelet count , 59 ( 71 % ) obtain blood cultures , 41 ( 49 % ) check urine antigen for group b streptococcus ( gbs ) and 23 ( 28 % ) perform a lumbar puncture . only 39 % of respondents would begin antibiotic therapy for all pretreated infants . if the evaluation were unremarkable 65 directors would treat for less than or equal to 3 days . if only the urine gbs antigen were positive 47 would treat for greater than or equal to 7 days , while if an elevated immature neutrophil : total neutrophil ratio were the sole abnormality 19 would treat for greater than or equal to 7 days . forty-four respondents thought that a combination of an elevated immature neutrophil : total neutrophil ratio and a positive urine gbs antigen should always be considered indicative of bacteremia . given a different scenario , that of a mother treated with intrapartum antibiotics because of a positive cervical culture for gbs and a risk factor ( e.g. temperature greater than or equal to 38 degrees c ) , 58 respondents would begin antibiotics . there is no consensus regarding management of pretreated , healthy appearing , term gestation neonates . 
human papillomaviruses : pediatric perspectives on a family of multifaceted tumorigenic pathogens as summarized here human papillomaviruses are associated with a wide spectrum of epithelial lesions , ranging from benign warts to invasive carcinomas . they have been difficult to study in part because they have not yet been propagated in tissue culture . fortunately advances in molecular biology have allowed characterization of hpv genomes and identification of some hpv gene functions . in addition to their clinical importance hpvs represent an important tool for exploring virus-cell interactions , gene expression , cellular differentiation and cancer . hpv infections are not only common but also difficult to treat and prevent . depending on the hpv type and location , the modes of hpv transmission may involve casual physical contact , sexual contact and perinatal vertical transmission . hpv dna genomes replicate at a low copy number in basal cells and , as most clinicians know , are difficult to eradicate . there is often a long latent period and subclinical infections , and hpv dna can be found in normal tissue adjacent to lesions . hpvs can cause widely disseminated lesions , especially in the immunocompromised host and in epidermodysplasia verruciformis . aside from the rare carcinomas , the most serious life-threatening hpv-induced illness in children is recurrent respiratory papillomatosis . somewhat surprisingly in malignant lesions hpv dna is also found as fragments incorporated into the cellular genome . unlike retroviruses such as human immunodeficiency virus which integrate into the cellular genome as part of their life cycle , hpv integration is a terminal event for viral replication . such integration may be critical , however , for viral-induced abnormal cell growth . perhaps the most important implication of the finding that some anogenital cancers are in part sexually transmitted infectious diseases is that they may be preventable . the data overwhelmingly suggest that avoidance of exposure to hpv via abstinence or monogamy in both partners markedly reduces the risk of cervical cancer . a more realistic goal , however is prevention of hpv transmission by the use of barrier method contraceptives , which may be protective against development of cervical carcinoma . the america association of pediatrics committee on adolescents has outlined the obligation of pediatricians to be actively involved in adolescent education on sexually transmitted diseases . certainly a fundamental knowledge of hpv epidemiology , the risks of hpv-related sequelae and prevention of hpv infection are important considerations for adolescent sexuality . although helpful , such awareness alone falls far short of making an impact on sexual behaviors . a significant reduction in hpv infection rates could be achieved only by inundating adolescents at an early age with a highly visible society-wide campaign directed at these issues . 
asthma and pregnancy . a challenge for everyone concerned . the asthmatic patient who becomes pregnant needs expert management to minimize the possibility of a poor outcome . dr barsky stresses the importance of good rapport and cooperation between physician and patient , explains the effects of pregnancy on asthma and vice versa , and discusses the pharmacotherapy that is often necessary to maintain the health of both mother and baby . 
an algorithm for diagnosis and therapy of management and complications of urolithiasis during pregnancy . from 1 january 1986 to 30 june 1989 , 15 pregnant women were diagnosed as having urolithiasis . patients presented in the last two trimesters with an infection of the lower part of the urinary tract ( 60 per cent ) , flank and abdominal pain ( 27 per cent ) and hematuria ( 13 per cent ) . ultrasonographic findings confirmed the diagnosis in 47 per cent of the patients . other roentgenologic procedures were required in the remaining patients . initially , therapy was conservative in all , and in 67 per cent of patients , no further intervention was necessary . only 33 per cent required invasive measures ; cystoscopic passage of an internal ureteral stent was the initial procedure of choice at our institution . three of five patients who underwent invasive procedures had surgical intervention for relief of ureteral obstruction . intensive care management was necessary for one of these three patients who had acute hemorrhage occur during the procedure . these data emphasize the need for the accurate diagnosis of urolithiasis during pregnancy . ultrasonography was a valuable diagnostic technique , but a limited excretory urogram is safe and appropriate when there is uncertainty . conservative management ( hydration , analgesia and antibiotics as indicated ) of obstructive uropathy was successful in the majority of instances . a specific clinical algorithm facilitated the successful management of patients necessitating operative intervention . optimal management requires clinical suspicion and a precise diagnostic and therapeutic plan . 
high output failure in patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy : a comparative study with dilated cardiomyopathy . although few studies have reported on relatively preserved ventricular function in patient with peripartum cardiomyopathy , the condition is usually believed to have the typical low-output congestive hemodynamic pattern of the dilated congestive cardiomyopathies . two groups of patients , 14 with peripartum cardiomyopathy and 12 with dilated congestive cardiomyopathy who were matched for gender and age , were studied . they had normal blood pressure and similar new york heart association functional class , nutritional status , thyroid function and routine laboratory evaluation . all patients were catheterized during stable in-hospital compensation of heart failure , which was achieved by bed rest , sodium restriction , and administration of digoxin and diuretics long ( more than 3 months ) after delivery . significant differences ( p less than 0.05 ) between patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy and those with dilated congestive cardiomyopathy were observed in regard to : ( 1 ) cardiac index : 3.34 + / - 1.36 l/min/m2 versus 2.24 + / - 0.72 l/min/m2 , ( 2 ) systemic vascular resistance : 1713 + / - 567 dynes.sec.cm-5 versus 2194 + / - 603 dynes.sec.cm-5 , ( 3 ) right ventricular stroke work index : 8.6 + / - 4.2 g.m / m2 versus 14.8 + / - 8.2 g.m / m2 in the peripartum cardiomyopathy and the dilated congestive cardiomyopathy groups , respectively . three of the patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy had resting cardiac index values that were even higher than the normal upper limit for our laboratory ( 4.5 l/min/m2 ) : 4.80 , 5.70 , and 5.63 l/min/m2 . they also had nearly normal left ventricular ejection fractions : 0.68 , 0.41 , and 0.51 , respectively . these results indicate that , unlike the common dilated cardiomyopathy , the hemodynamic pattern in patients with peripartum cardiomyopathy is not homogeneous , and some patients have high-output failure and near normal left ventricular function . 
elevated plasma norepinephrine levels in infants of substance-abusing mothers . infants of substance-abusing mothers ( isam ) have significant growth and neurodevelopmental abnormalities . the origin of these abnormalities is unknown . we postulated that isam have increased sympathetic nervous system tone and altered catecholamine levels . therefore , we measured plasma norepinephrine , epinephrine , and dopamine levels and the number and receptor affinity of beta-adrenoreceptor binding sites on lymphocytes and alpha-adrenoreceptor binding sites on thrombocytes in 22 otherwise healthy isam ( age , 2.1 + / - 0.5 months ; mean + / - sd ) and 15 healthy controls ( age , 2.5 + / - 0.8 months ) . norepinephrine levels in venous blood were 1.8-fold higher in isam than in control infants ( 6.30 + / - 3.85 nmol/l vs 3.55 + / - 2.45 nmol/l ) . there were no differences in plasma epinephrine or dopamine levels . there were no differences in the number of binding sites or receptor affinity for beta - and alpha-adrenoreceptors . we conclude that isam have elevated circulating norepinephrine levels compared with controls . we speculate that this is associated with increased sympathetic nervous system tone in isam and that the absence of adrenoreceptor down-regulation may create catecholamine suprasensitivity . 
neuropsychological deficits in fetal alcohol syndrome and fetal alcohol effects . a clinical sample of 19 school-aged native children diagnosed with fetal alcohol syndrome ( fas ) or fetal alcohol effects ( fae ) was compared with age - and sex-matched normal controls . results on a battery of intellectual and neuropsychological tests indicated large and significant differences between alcohol-affected children and controls . fas differed significantly from controls on measures of intellectual abilities , while fae did not ; fas mean scores on these measures were significantly lower than fae means . for neuropsychological measures , fas were significantly poorer than controls on most measures , while fae showed deficits compared with controls only on grip strength . the results suggest that neuropsychological measures would be a valuable supplement to intellectual measures for the purpose of assessing alcohol effects because they are less vulnerable than intellectual measures to the influence of cultural and educational experiences . 
attention deficits in children exposed to alcohol prenatally . twenty children with fetal alcohol syndrome or fetal alcohol effect ( fas/fae ) were compared with 20 attention deficit disorder ( add ) children and 20 normal controls on three experimental tasks designed to isolate four different components of attention . parents completed three questionnaires regarding their child 's activity level and overall functioning , and the children completed a short form of an iq test . the children in each group ranged from 5 to 12 years . results indicate that although the children with fas/fae are significantly more impaired intellectually , their attentional deficits and behavioral problems are similar to those of children with add . these findings imply that the treatments known to facilitate learning in children with add may also benefit children with fas/fae . 
moderate prenatal alcohol exposure : effects on child iq and learning problems at age 7 1/2 years . this longitudinal , prospective , population-based study examined the long-term effects of moderate prenatal alcohol exposure on 482 school aged children . maternal reports of alcohol use obtained during pregnancy were significantly related to child iq , achievement test scores , and classroom behaviors in second grade children , even after statistical adjustment for appropriate covariates . consumption of two drinks per day or more on the average was related to a 7-point decrement in iq in 7-year-old children even after statistically adjusting for appropriate covariates . low paternal education and more children in the household were identified as environmental factors exacerbating the effect of prenatal alcohol exposure on child iq . learning problems were associated with the alcohol " binge " pattern of five or more drinks on at least one occasion . this study shows that alcohol use patterns within the social drinking range can have long lasting effects on iq and learning problems in young school aged children . these patterns should not be interpreted as biologic thresholds . it should also be noted that these are group effects of prenatal alcohol exposure , not necessarily predictable in the individual child , and that for the most part these children were functioning within the normal range of intelligence . 
the long-term behavioral effects of prenatal alcohol exposure in rats . prenatal exposure to alcohol can cause a variety of behavioral disturbances later in life . many of the reports in animals of the behavioral teratogenic effects of alcohol have focused on assessing younger animals . the purpose of this paper is to review some of the longer lasting behavioral consequences of gestational alcohol exposure in animals . it is not meant as a comprehensive review , but rather focuses on selected studies . it is concluded that prenatal alcohol exposure does have long lasting effects , although some of these might only occur under challenging or stressful circumstances . it is hypothesized that as the animal matures compensatory mechanisms or strategies develop to compensate for these dysfunctions . thus , behavioral problems may only be detected when these compensatory systems break down , either as a result of stress , because of complex testing procedures , or old age . 
neuroanatomic and neurochemical abnormalities in nonhuman primate infants exposed to weekly doses of ethanol during gestation . ethanol was orally administered once per week to 54 gravid pigtailed macaques ( macaca nemestrina ) in doses of 0.0 , 0.3 , 0.6 , 1.2 , 1.8 , 2.5 or 4.1 gm/kg from the 1st week in gestation or in doses of 2.5 , 3.3 or 4.1 gm/kg from the 5th week . mean maternal peak plasma ethanol concentrations ( mppec 's ) ranged from 24 + / - 6 mg/dl at the 0.3 g/kg dose to 549 + / - 71 mg/dl at the 4.1 g/kg dose . thirty-three live born infants were assessed for abnormalities of physical and behavioral development . ocular pathology , neuropathologic and neurochemical assessements were done on 31 animals at 6 months postnatal age . microphthalmia was noted in three of the 26 animals exposed to ethanol . retinal ganglion cell loss was significantly associated with intra-uterine ethanol exposure . microphthalmia and retinal ganglion cell loss was observed in both the delayed and full-gestational exposed animals . no structural anomalies were found in the brains via gross inspection or light microscopy . chemical abnormalities in the striatal nuclei were identified . striatal dopamine concentrations increased with increasing mppec exposure ( 0-249 mg/dl ) among animals exposed weekly to ethanol throughout gestation . striatal dopamine concentrations decreased with increasing mppec exposure ( 260-540 mg/dl ) among animals whose weekly exposure to ethanol was delayed until the 5th week of gestation . the same pattern of association was also noted between mppec and ultrastructural alterations in the caudate nucleus . the extent of ultrastructural alterations increased with increasing mppec among the full-gestational exposed animals and decreased with increasing mppec among the delayed-dose animals . 
new approaches to research on the long-term consequences of prenatal exposure to alcohol . as the summary presentation of a symposium on prenatal alcohol-induced brain damage and long-term postnatal consequences , this paper proposes the establishment of two main research priorities -- to begin to correlate long-term behavioral effects with alterations in underlying neural substrates , and to explore the mechanisms of neuroteratogenicity . to reach these goals , three objectives are described . first , animal and human research must become more interrelated . second , experimental observations should be integrated into formal models that incorporate both neural structure and function . third , researchers should choose well-defined dependent measures that are derived from models of brain function based on modern concepts of cognitive neuroscience . examples of neuropsychological tests that may serve as the bases for structure/function relationships are presented . incorporating these objectives into future research will facilitate understanding of the fundamental issues concerning prenatal alcohol exposure and will begin to provide the bases for rational intervention or treatment . 
effects of ethanol on hexose uptake by cultured rat brain cells . the effects of ethanol on hexose uptake by glial cells was investigated using primary cultures prepared from term rat fetuses . specific 3h 2-deoxy-d-glucose ( 2dg ) uptake was significantly reduced by a 4-hr exposure to ethanol at concentrations of 25 , 50 , and 100 mm , but not 200 or 300 mm . the inhibitory effect of 50 mm ethanol increased with the duration of exposure , with 2dg uptake inhibited by 36 % after 18 hr . astrocytes cultured from the brains of term fetuses of rats fed ethanol during pregnancy showed essentially the same 2dg uptake response to in vitro ethanol treatment . kinetics of 2dg uptake showed a significant decrease of vmax in the presence of ethanol . no interaction was found between ethanol and insulin , which stimulated 2dg uptake and protein content of the cultures . the data suggest that ethanol can modulate hexose uptake by astrocytes cultured from fetal rat brain . however , insulin actions on glial cells were not affected by ethanol . 
factor analysis in patients with a history of failed tracheal intubation during pregnancy . eight patients with a history of failed tracheal intubation during pregnancy were investigated by x-ray laryngoscopy after delivery . partial elevation of the epiglottis with no view of glottic structures was found in five patients who were therefore considered to still present difficulty . in each of these five patients the blade tip failed to make contact with the hyoid and in four this was explained by the tongue being compressed into a pear shape such that it prevented sight of the larynx . relatively few abnormal anatomical indices were seen in these patients and this was in keeping with the level of difficulty encountered . an angular measure of jaw protrusion from a line joining the upper incisors and a point just above and anterior to the vocal cords , to the mid-point on the inner surface of the mandible was useful : the lower angle of this triangle was as important as the angle at the incisors . 
clear cell carcinoma of the inguinal region arising from endometriosis . the second and third examples of clear cell carcinoma of the inguinal region arising from endometriosis are reported . in one patient a right inguinal mass was excised along with an inguinal lymph node dissection . the tumor recurred in the retroperitoneum and was removed , and postoperative radiation therapy was administered . the patient died of recurrent tumor after 11 years . the other patient was treated by excision of a left inguinal mass and an inguinal lymph node dissection and was alive without recurrence 4 years and 8 months later . 
pregnancy outcome in hematologic malignancies . by means of a mail questionnaire , information on a series of 56 pregnancies i in 48 women diagnosed with leukemia or lymphoma was collected from ten hospitals . seven patients conceived while receiving treatment for their neoplasms ; in 22 patients , the hematologic disease was diagnosed during pregnancy , and the remaining 27 patients became pregnant after completion of the antineoplastic treatment . when a comparison was made of the evolution of these pregnancies to that of pregnancies in a healthy population , no increase in the incidence of complications was observed : 64 % of the pregnancies went to term , 9 % resulted in spontaneous abortion , and 5 % resulted in premature births . the observed incidence of one major malformation in 56 pregnancies did not differ from the frequency of malformations in the offspring of healthy individuals . there were no fetal losses in six pregnancies in which conception occurred during the first year after chemotherapy . in spite of the inherent limitations derived from the design of this type of study and the type of subject analyzed , the data here support the hypothesis that the cytostatic treatment of hematologic malignancies , if deemed necessary , should not be postponed because of pregnancy . moreover , the authors agree with advice recommending that no antifolic or alkylating agents be used for prolonged periods and that radiotherapy be avoided , especially to those fields involving the pelvic area . 
comparative epidemiology of cancer between the united states and japan . a second look . vital statistics were examined for the years 1955 through 1985 for japanese natives and united states whites to elucidate changes in cancer mortality and related antecedent patterns of life-style in these two populations . results show that lung cancer rates are rapidly accelerating among japanese males as a consequence of their prior history of heavy cigarette smoking . oropharyngeal cancer rates are also rising in japan paralleling increases in alcohol and tobacco utilization . as the japanese life-style and diet continue to become more " westernized , " the rates of malignancies of the breast , ovary , corpus uteri , prostate , pancreas , and colon also continue to rise . nevertheless , the mortality patterns of certain malignancies , viz. , laryngeal , esophageal , and urinary bladder cancer , are discrepant with their established risk factor associations , suggesting the existence of other differences in risk factor exposure between the two countries . epidemiologists and health educators need to develop innovative international programs of investigation and health promotion with preventive impact on common malignancies associated with risk factors of life-style . 
comparison of two preparatory techniques for urine cytology . two methods of preparation of urine for cytology were compared retrospectively . in method 1 cells in the urine were fixed after the preparation of the smear ; in method 2 the cells were fixed before smear preparation . urine cytology reports were correlated with subsequent histological analysis . the specificities of urine cytology using both methods were high ( 99 % ) . the sensitivity using method 1 was 87 % ; using method 2 it was 65 % . this difference was significant . the cell preparation technique therefore significantly changes the sensitivity of urine cytology . cellular fixation after smear preparation is preferable to smear preparation after fixation . 
small bowel obstruction associated with a leiomyomatous uterus . a case report and review of the literature . a 38-year-old woman developed small bowel obstruction shortly after a cholecystectomy because of a massively enlarged leiomyomatous uterus . small bowel obstruction is a relatively rare complication from fibroid tumors and results from entrapment of the bowel between serosal pedunculated fibroids ( as in this patient ) , adhesions to infarcted leiomyomas , or from compression of the small bowel by the large mass . large uterine leiomyomas clearly must be considered in the etiology of intestinal obstruction . 
gene mapping in alport families with different basement membrane antigenic phenotypes . the present study was undertaken to determine whether differences among alport kindreds in the antigenic phenotypes of their basement membranes result from defects at distinct genetic loci or from allelic mutations at a single locus . we analyzed linkage of the alport gene to polymorphic loci on the x chromosome in three families with alport syndrome . in two of the families , epidermal basement membranes of affected members showed altered immunohistologic reactivity with a discriminating antibody ( fns1 ) that identified a 26 kd peptide in the ncl domain of basement membrane collagen . in the third family epidermal basement membranes of affected individuals reacted normally with the antibody . the disease gene mapped to the xq21-q22 region of the long arm of the x chromosome in the two families with altered basement membrane antigenicity and in the family with normal basement membrane antigens . we conclude that alport syndrome in each of these kindreds arose from allelic mutations at a single genetic locus , although we can not at this time exclude the possibility that two or more tightly linked genes are involved . as the genes for the known chains of type iv collagen are on chromosome 13 , our findings suggest that the alport gene may encode a new basement membrane collagen chain . 
cuban programme for prevention of sickle cell disease . the percentage of carriers of the sickle cell gene in cuba ranges from 3 to 7 % in different regions . in 1983 the national medical genetics centre initiated a programme for the control of sickle cell disease , which was started in havana and later extended nationwide . the programme is based on mass education , screening and supportive genetic counselling , care of affected individuals , and availability of prenatal diagnosis . 806,935 pregnant women had been screened by the end of 1989 : 29,913 ( 3.7 % ) were heterozygous , homozygous or doubly heterozygous for abnormal haemoglobin . 19,686 fathers ( 67 % ) were also tested : 1268 at-risk couples were detected . 531 elected to have prenatal diagnosis ; 404 results were obtained and 98 affected fetuses ( ss or sc ) found . in 72 cases the pregnancy was terminated . 
obstetric complications in young teenagers . we compared pregnancy outcome in 286 teenaged primigravidas ( less than or equal to 16 years old ) and 267 adult primigravidas ( 21 to 25 years old ) who had similar prenatal care , socioeconomic status , and racial balance . the incidence of preterm labor and delivery of a low birthweight infant was significantly higher in the teenagers . the incidence of preeclampsia was significantly higher in the adults . cesarean delivery was not done more frequently in teenagers , nor was there a higher incidence of infants small for gestational age , anemia , and abnormal presentation in labor . the birthweight of infants of black teenagers was significantly lower than the birthweight of those of white teenagers , and overall birthweight was significantly lower in infants of teenagers than those of adults . although prenatal care , socioeconomic factors , and racial balance were comparable for young teenagers and adults , teenagers were still at a significantly greater risk for delivery of smaller infants , preterm labor , and low birthweight infants . 
physiologic observations of pregnant women undergoing prophylactic erythrocytapheresis for sickle cell disease . five women in the second or early third trimester of pregnancy underwent prophylactic partial red cell exchange by automated erythrocytapheresis for sickle cell disease . the purpose of this pilot study was to characterize the hematologic , hemodynamic , and metabolic changes associated with this procedure . pretransfusion hematocrit increased 49 percent by 3 to 5 days after the transfusion . paired observations indicate a 14-percent drop in maternal oxygen consumption . there was a slight tendency for reduced posttransfusion cardiac output that resulted primarily from changes in maternal heart rate and not from changes in stroke volume . left ventricular contractility also tended to decrease after transfusion . neither fetal bradycardia nor alteration in the umbilical circulation by doppler ultrasound was observed during the transfusion procedures . despite substantial hematologic alterations , this procedure is associated with small or negligible changes in maternal hemodynamic and metabolic function for minimally symptomatic pregnant patients with sickle cell disease . 
perinatal transmission of human papillomavirus . human papillomavirus infection is probably the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease in the united states . in adults , it is associated with condylomata acuminata and with neoplastic changes ranging from dysplasia to carcinoma . infected mothers may transmit human papillomavirus during the perinatal period ; affected children face prolonged , difficult treatment for respiratory papillomatosis . prevention of infection remains the best approach , since diagnostic and therapeutic methods are suboptimal . 
spontaneous abortion . spontaneous abortion , or the early termination of pregnancy without outside interference , may be caused by fetal , maternal or external factors . in many cases , a specific etiology may never be identified . a variety of clinical presentations are possible , ranging from imperceptible loss to profound life-threatening shock . physicians should be able to diagnose and manage the six recognized types of spontaneous abortion : threatened , inevitable , incomplete , complete , missed and septic . in all cases , uterine evacuation , avoidance of complications and psychologic support of the family are important . the prognosis for a subsequent successful pregnancy is good , except in cases of habitual abortion . 
the accuracy of clinical findings and laparoscopy in pelvic inflammatory disease . the accuracy of clinical diagnosis for pelvic inflammatory disease was determined in 95 women who presented with pelvic pain to primary care physicians and then were referred to gynecologists . laparoscopy or laparotomy with endometrial biopsy and fimbrial minibiopsy revealed that prevalence of pelvic inflammatory was 46 % ( 44/95 ) and positive and negative predictive values of gynecologists were 74 % ( 23/31 ) and 67 % ( 43/64 ) ( p = 0.0002 ) . if histopathologic diagnosis was the standard , clinical accuracies of the gynecologists were no better than chance ( p = 0.43 ) , suggesting an expectation bias for visual diagnosis . laparoscopy had a sensitivity of 50 % ( 12/24 ) and a specificity of 80 % ( 40/50 ) for salpingitis if the standard was fimbrial histopathologic diagnosis ( p = 0.01 ) . these results support the routine use of laparoscopy , supplemented when negative by endometrial and fimbrial minibiopsy , to accurately diagnose pelvic inflammatory disease . 
antiepileptic medication in pregnancy : late effects on the children 's central nervous system development . in a follow-up study long-term effects of antenatal exposure to two anticonvulsant drugs , phenobarbital and carbamazepine on central nervous system development were evaluated . children aged 6 to 13 years of epileptic mothers who used phenobarbital ( n = 13 ) , carbamazepine ( n = 12 ) , phenobarbital plus carbamazepine ( n = 12 ) , or no medication ( n = 24 ) during pregnancy were studied . none of the mothers had seizures during pregnancy . a control group carefully matched for confounding variables was selected of children of nonepileptic mothers ( n = 61 ) . minor and major congenital anomalies appeared to be more related to mother 's epilepsy than to maternal medication . there were no neurologic differences between the groups . exposure to phenobarbital was associated with smaller head circumference . an accompanying negative effect of phenobarbital on cognitive development was suggested . further research on this intriguing phenomenon seems warranted . 
the effects of indomethacin and a beta-sympathomimetic agent on the fetal ductus arteriosus during treatment of premature labor : a randomized double-blind study . to study the effect of maternal indomethacin or nylidrine hydrochloride treatment on the fetus ductus arteriosus and the pulmonary artery , 27 women with threatened preterm labor between 24 and 34 weeks ' gestation were studied by echocardiography . fourteen women were treated with indomethacin and 13 with nylidrin . both systolic and diastolic velocities in the ductus increased after administration of indomethacin indicating constriction in nine fetuses , and exceeded the corresponding velocities in the fetuses of the nylidrin group ( p = 0.001 ) . however , there were no changes in pulmonary artery flow velocities ( p greater than 0.5 ) . in the indomethacin group , there was a significant linear positive relationship between the gestational age and the change in ductal flow velocity . three of the nine patients with ductal constriction also had tricuspid regurgitation . these findings indicate that indomethacin , not nylidrin , causes transient constriction of the ductus arteriosus and the constrictive response increases with the gestational age . we recommend echocardiographic surveillance of fetal hemodynamics when prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors are used in the treatment of spontaneous preterm labor . 
overexpression of her-2 / neu in endometrial cancer is associated with advanced stage disease . prior studies have shown that overexpression of her-2 / neu occurs in one third of breast and ovarian cancers and that overexpression is associated with poor prognosis . we used a monoclonal antibody to assess immunohistochemically the level of her-2 / neu expression in normal and malignant endometrium . in 24 normal endometrial samples light to moderate ( 1 + to 2 + ) staining for her-2 / neu was seen in the glands , and there was no variation in intensity of staining during the menstrual cycle . among 95 endometrial adenocarcinomas , nine ( 9 % ) were found to have heavier staining for her-2 / neu than was seen in normal endometrium ( 3 + ) . high expression of her-2 / neu was found in 27 % of patients with metastatic disease compared with 4 % of patients with disease confined to the uterus ( p less than 0.005 ) . high her-2 / neu expression also was associated with absence of estrogen receptor ( p less than 0.005 ) and with increased mortality from cancer . further studies are needed to determine the significance of her-2 / neu overexpression in endometrial cancer . 
endoscopic sclerotherapy in extrahepatic portal hypertension in pregnancy . extrahepatic portal hypertension usually occurs during childhood , but a substantial number of patients may reach adult life . there is a general agreement that pregnancy may become hazardous to these patients , and some authors even consider this condition as a contraindication to conceiving . a case of endoscopic sclerotherapy in such a patient is herein presented , and the approach to such patients is discussed . 
heterotopic pregnancies after in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer . seventeen cases of heterotopic pregnancies are reported among 1648 clinical pregnancies after in vitro fertilization . the high prevalence of tubal damage among ivf patients and the use of superovulation and multiple embryo transfer might predispose patients to the condition . nine patients reported abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding , five patients did not have symptoms , and three had acute abdominal emergencies . transvaginal ultrasonography was superior to transabdominal ultrasonography in the diagnosis of extrauterine pregnancies . the presence of an intrauterine gestation sac in a patient without symptoms should not exclude the diagnosis of a concomitant extrauterine pregnancy until the pelvis is carefully visualized . early diagnoses of viable ectopic pregnancies before rupture abolishes mortality and morbidity and offers the chance of patient selection for conservative treatment . in two patients the extrauterine gestation sac was treated by transvaginal aspiration and injection of potassium chloride under ultrasonographic guidance . the outcome of the intrauterine pregnancy was favorable regardless of the method of treatment of the ectopic pregnancy . 
spontaneous and steroid-induced recurrence of endometriosis after suppression by a gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist in the rat . recurrent endometriosis in women is difficult to study because of the ethical consideration of performing repeated surgeries . previously in the rat model we described therapeutic regression of endometriosis with the gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist antide . presently we report the spontaneous and steroid-induced recurrence of endometriosis after withdrawal from antide therapy . rats with endometriosis received antide or vehicle on days 0 ( proestrus ) , 3 , 6 , and 9 and were killed on days 0 , 6 , 12 , 18 , 24 , 30 , and 42 ( n = 4 antide-treated and 4 vehicle-treated rats killed per day ) . additional antide-treated rats ( n = 4 per treatment ) received estrogen , progesterone , both estrogen and progesterone , cholesterol , and no steroid on day 9 and were killed on day 12 . antide significantly suppressed endometriotic implant size on days 12 , 18 , and 24 . however , implant size spontaneously returned to pretreatment values by day 30 . administration of steroids on day 9 elicited regrowth of antide-suppressed endometriosis ( estrogen plus progesterone greater than estrogen , progesterone , or cholesterol greater than no steroid ) by day 12 . this resilience of endometriosis offers an explanation for treatment failure and recurrence of the disease in women . 
forskolin and methotrexate induce an intermediate trophoblast phenotype in cultured human choriocarcinoma cells . the human placenta and its associated membranes are vital to the maintenance , nutrition , and protection of the developing fetus . during placental development some cytotrophoblasts give rise to the chorionic membrane whereas others fuse to form a differentiated syncytium of cells that are responsible for placental protein and steroid hormone production . the mechanisms involved in the differentiation of the trophoblasts are unknown ; however , an intermediate stage with a characteristic phenotype has been documented in vivo . we have observed that chemically dissimilar xenobiotic agents induced bewo choriocarcinoma cells to change their usual cytotrophoblastic phenotype and acquire morphologic and functional characteristics typical of intermediate trophoblast . incubation of bewo cell cultures in the presence of 1 mumol/l methotrexate for 48 hours stimulated human chorionic gonadotropin secretion ( 2.3-fold ) and aromatase activity ( 4.9-fold ) . morphologic findings associated with these hormonal changes , including increased nuclear size and cytoplasmic expansion , were also observed . with the use of a computer-interfaced image analyzer , planimetric morphometry of the nuclear area of the cells revealed a 1.8-fold increase after incubation with methotrexate . the effect of forskolin , a direct activator of adenylyl cyclase , was also evaluated by means of this model of cytotrophoblast differentiation . the addition of 10 mumol/l forskolin to bewo cultures also resulted in dramatic changes in trophoblast cell phenotype . increases in human chorionic gonadotropin synthesis ( 7.3-fold ) , aromatase activity ( 13.5-fold ) , and nuclear area ( 3.0-fold ) were induced over those of untreated cells . in addition , increases in [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation ( 1.7-fold ) were afforded by both treatments . these results suggest that biochemical and cytologic changes associated with human trophoblast differentiation can be induced in vitro via activation of the adenylyl cyclase pathway by forskolin and through unknown and apparently independent signals by methotrexate . 
the relationships among umbilical artery velocimetry , fetal biophysical profile , and placental inflammation in preterm premature rupture of the membranes . the relationships among umbilical artery velocimetry , fetal biophysical profile , and placental inflammation in 44 consecutive patients with preterm premature rupture of the membranes were determined . all patients were followed up with daily fetal biophysical profiles and systolic/diastolic ratios . after delivery , placental pathologic examination for histologic evidence of infection ( umbilical vasculitis ) was performed in all cases according to a standard protocol . the longitudinal trends of fetal biophysical profile scores and systolic/diastolic ratios were analyzed for patients with and without umbilical vasculitis . analysis of the longitudinal trend during the period of 2 to 7 days before delivery showed that there were no differences of biophysical scores of systolic/diastolic ratios in either group . however , in the last examination , within 24 hours of delivery , patients with umbilical vasculitis had higher systolic/diastolic ratios and lower biophysical profile scores as compared with previous examinations . in addition , the biophysical profile score of the last examination 24 hours before delivery in patients with umbilical vasculitis was found to be significantly lower as compared with patients without umbilical vasculitis ( mean + / - sd , 6.6 + / - 2.3 versus 8.2 + / - 2.4 , respectively ) . these data suggest that subclinical stages of infection are associated with biophysical alterations of the fetoplacental unit ( i.e. , simultaneous decrease in fetal biophysical activities and increase in systolic/diastolic ratios ) . daily umbilical artery systolic/diastolic ratios , in conjunction with biophysical profiles , may be useful to follow up patients with preterm premature rupture of the membranes . 
endometriosis associated with massive ascites and absence of pelvic peritoneum . although massive ascites associated with endometriosis has been reported in rare cases , this patient was also noted to have massive destruction of the pelvic peritoneum . failure of medical suppression necessitated total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy . several months after surgery ascites resolved , possibly with reestablishment of the pelvic peritoneum . 
endometrial thickness as measured by endovaginal ultrasonography for identifying endometrial abnormality . diagnostic curettage has for many years been the method of choice to diagnose endometrial cancer in women with postmenopausal bleeding . the costs for curettage performed today are huge , and approximately only 10 % in this group of women will be diagnosed with endometrial cancer . thus less expansive techniques to obtain endometrial samples have been evaluated , but all of them are invasive . the value of endovaginal ultrasonography for identifying endometrial abnormality in this group of women has not been evaluated until now . this study used endometrial thickness as measured by endovaginal ultrasonography as an indicator of endometrial abnormality . it was demonstrated in 205 women with postmenopausal bleeding that if the endometrium was less than 9 mm thick , no endometrial cancer was found at curettage . the mean endometrial thickness in those women with endometrial cancer was 18.2 + / - 6.2 mm as compared with 3.4 + / - 1.2 mm in those women with atrophic endometrium . if the cutoff limit for endometrial abnormality was 5 mm , the positive predictive value for identifying endometrial abnormality was 87.3 % . if this limit had been used in this study , 70 % of the curettage procedures could have been avoided . 
the use of the cytobrush cervical sampler in patients with cervical stenosis . in 37 of 43 patients ( 86 % ) with cervical stenosis ( inability to undergo passage of the cotton-tipped applicator ) , the cytobrush cervical sampler was successfully passed into the endocervical canal . the use of the cytobrush sampler for cervical cytologic screening appears to be valuable in patients with cervical stenosis . 
successful antepartum treatment of listeriosis . a pregnant patient had a flulike illness at 27 weeks . listeria monocytogenes infection was diagnosed by blood cultures . electronic monitoring suggested the fetus was stressed . use of tocolytics inhibited uterine contractions while the mother was treated with intravenous ampicillin . four days later when labor began because of chorioamnionitis , the infant was delivered in good condition . 
anemia and spontaneous preterm birth . the association between anemia during pregnancy and spontaneous preterm birth was studied with a two-stage case-control design in a large , multiethnic cohort . results of all hematologic measurements were abstracted from the prenatal and delivery records of 1706 of the 26,901 women in the cohort . among women delivered of infants at term , mean hematocrit value was low during the early phase of the second trimester , stable until near term , then reached a maximum at 40 weeks ' gestation . the mean hematocrit value of black women was consistently lower than that of asian , mexican , and white women . anemia ( hematocrit value less than the tenth percentile for ethnic group and duration of pregnancy ) at any time during the second trimester was positively associated with subsequent spontaneous preterm birth ( odds ratio , 1.9 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.3 to 2.8 ) . compared with white women , the odds ratios for preterm birth were 2.0 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.6 to 2.4 ) for black , 1.2 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.9 to 1.6 ) for asian , and 1.2 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.0 to 1.5 ) for mexican women . adjustment for second-trimester anemia had minimal influence on the odds ratios . we conclude that anemia during the second trimester was associated with preterm birth . however , it does not account for the large ethnic differences in preterm birth . 
fetal urine output does not influence residual amniotic fluid volume after premature rupture of membranes . fetal urine production in 12 women with premature rupture of membranes did not differ from that of a control group , and there was no correlation between fetal urine output and residual amniotic fluid volume . residual amniotic fluid volume after premature rupture of membranes does not appear to depend on or alter fetal renal function . 
angiosarcoma of the uterus : a case report . we are reporting a case of angiosarcoma of the uterus in which the diagnosis was confirmed ultrastructurally by demonstration of weibel-palade bodies in the tumor cells . only 10 cases of this entity have been previously documented in the literature . 
quantitative and qualitative platelet abnormalities during pregnancy . in a 1-year period , 15 of 4048 pregnant women were found to have thrombocytopenia during their first prenatal visit . their qualitative and quantitative platelet abnormalities were followed up prospectively for 1 to 6 months post partum . platelet counts returned to normal in 14 of 15 patients 4 to 6 weeks post partum . von willebrand factor antigen and ristocetin cofactor activity were low in three of 15 patients 4 to 6 weeks post partum , but had been normal during the antepartum period . two of these three patients had prolonged bleeding times ante partum and post partum . all three patients subsequently were found to have mild type i von willebrand disease . six patients had detectable platelet antibodies . neonatal thrombocytopenia was found in one term infant of a patient with mild thrombocytopenia and negative platelet antibodies . this study suggests that mild , transient , isolated thrombocytopenia can occur in an otherwise normal pregnancy and its incidence may be lower than previously reported . extensive testing is not indicated unless there is an associated prolonged bleeding time . the possibility of von willebrand disease or a qualitative platelet disorder should be considered . 
the clinical implications of subchorionic placental lucencies . forty-six patients were identified at a perinatal diagnostic referral center as having subchorionic placental lucencies . these lucencies varied from simple to multicystic and covered up to 50 % of the subchorionic placental surface . clinical follow-up of 40 patients demonstrated no increase in the incidence of adverse pregnancy outcome . we conclude that these pregnancies are not at higher risk when the subchorionic placental lucencies are not associated with other intraplacental or fetal anomalies . 
ultrasonic morphology of the uterus and ovaries after treatment of invasive mole and gestational choriocarcinoma . ultrasound imaging of the uterus and ovaries was performed on 41 patients after completion of apparently successful cytotoxic chemotherapy for invasive mole and choriocarcinoma . uterine volume was calculated and the echopattern of the uterus and ovaries assessed . forty-nine per cent of subjects had an abnormal uterine appearance and 20 % had ovarian theca-lutein cysts . two patients relapsed on follow-up but no predictive ultrasonic features could be established on uterine or ovarian morphology after chemotherapy . 
evidence that human chorionic gonadotropin/luteinizing hormone receptor down-regulation involves decreased levels of receptor messenger ribonucleic acid . injection of pseudopregnant rats with pharmacological doses of hcg leads to a characteristic decrease in lh/hcg binding by the isolated luteal cells . the steady state levels of lh/hcg receptor mrna were determined in rat ovaries during hcg-induced down-regulation of the receptor . northern blots were performed using a 20-mer probe corresponding to a guanine cytosine-rich carboxyl-terminal untranslated region of the lh/hcg receptor cdna . the hybridization of the probe to lh/hcg receptor mrna was highly specific , since the probe hybridized only to rat luteal cell rna fraction , with no signal detected in nontarget tissues . the lh/hcg receptor level was quantitated by [ 125i ] hcg binding to the isolated membrane fractions from the corresponding treatment and control groups . examination of mrna levels of the receptor during hcg-induced down-regulation showed a steady decrease from 0-24 h , followed by a gradual increase to control levels from 24-72 h corresponding to days 8-9 of pseudopregnancy . the [ 125i ] hcg-binding activity during down-regulation paralleled the mrna profile in both the experimental and control groups . examination of the levels of mrna for alpha-actin showed no change during this period , suggesting that the loss of lh/hcg receptor mrna at 24 h was not due to a general loss of mrna in luteal cells . these results suggest that hcg-induced down-regulation of the lh/hcg receptor in luteal cells involves regulation of the receptors at the message level . 
retinoic acid stimulates placental hormone secretion by choriocarcinoma cell lines in vitro . retinoic acid ( ra ) , an active metabolite of vitamin a , is an important mediator of cellular differentiation and has been shown to stimulate human cg ( hcg ) secretion by jeg-3 choriocarcinoma cells in vitro . in order to determine whether ra stimulates the hcg secretion by other trophoblastic cell lines , we evaluated the effect of ra on hcg , hcg-alpha subunit ( hcg-alpha ) , and progesterone secretion in three choriocarcinoma cell lines : jeg-3 , jar , and bewo . ra stimulated hcg and hcg-alpha secretion in a dose-dependent fashion by each of the three cell lines . the time required to give a statistically significant increment of hcg and hcg-alpha over control cells was 48 h. the addition ra to cholera toxin ( 10 micrograms/ml ) resulted in an additive or synergistic stimulation of hcg and hcg-alpha secretion by the three cell lines . cycloheximide ( 1 microm ) abolished the effect of ra on hcg and hcg-alpha secretion in the bewo cell line . progesterone secretion in response to ra was inconsistent . progesterone secretion by both jeg-3 and bewo cell lines were stimulated at high concentrations of ra ( 1 x 10 ( -6 ] , whereas progesterone secretion by jar cells was not stimulated . intracellular levels of camp were not affected by ra treatment in the jeg and jar cells . in the dosages used , ra did not significantly alter cell number in any of the cell lines . ra in physiologic concentrations stimulates hcg and hcg-alpha secretion by three choriocarcinoma cell lines in vitro . whether ra is a physiologic mediator of placental hormone production is unknown . 
psychosocial distress and infertility : men and women respond differently . the purpose of this study was to evaluate gender differences in psychosocial responses of 449 consecutive first-admission couples in a fertility clinic . consistent with previous research , infertile women showed higher distress than their partners on a global measure of psychiatric symptoms and subscales of anxiety , depression , hostility , and cognitive disturbances , as well as on measures of stress and self-esteem . when compared with same-sexed population norms on the measure of psychiatric symptoms , both male and female infertile patients were significantly more distressed than average . no evidence was found for unusually high levels of marital or sexual distress at intake . implications of results for clinical management are explored . 
in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer ( ivf-et ) in the united states : 1989 results from the ivf-et registry . medical research international , society for assisted reproductive technology , the american fertility society . this is the fourth annual report of the united states registry of in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer ( ivf-et ) and related practices . the present report describes the 1989 experiences of 163 united states member clinics with respect to treatments and outcomes . during 1989 , the clinics reported performing 24,183 ovarian stimulation cycles . from all treatments , including frozen et and ivf with donor oocytes , there were with 4,598 clinical pregnancies and 3,472 live deliveries . ninety-eight percent of the clinics had at least one delivery , and overall a total of 4,736 babies were born . the overall live delivery rates were 14 % for ivf ( based on 15,392 retrievals ) , 23 % for gamete intrafallopian transfer ( gift ) ( based on 3,652 retrievals ) , 26 % for ivf and gift in combination ( based on 452 retrievals ) , and 17 % for zygote intrafallopian transfer ( zift ) and related practices ( based on 908 retrievals ) . in addition to these treatments , results are presented for frozen ets and ivf of donated oocytes . 
handling of tubal infertility after introduction of in vitro fertilization : changes and consequences . this study aimed at quantifying some important social and economic consequences of the altered handling of tubal infertility after the establishment of ivf treatment . the number of tubal operations was reduced by 50 % . this had most important and positive implications on the availability of the operating theater for other elective operations , on the availability of hospital beds for other patient groups , and on the total duration of the certificate of illness . the calculated costs per live birth were $ 17,000 after tubal surgery , compared with $ 12,000 after ivf treatment . life table analyses demonstrated a highly significant increased rate of deliveries after a complete ivf treatment ( 72.3 % per patient ) compared with tubal surgery ( 23.7 % , p less than 0.001 ) . 
fertility before and after surgery for primary ovarian pregnancy . primary ovarian pregnancy usually occurs in parous fertile women . it is an accidental event probably related to the presence of the iud affecting implantation rather than an indicator of altered fertility . reproductive performance postoperatively remains unmodified . 
immunomodulation with pentoxifylline abrogates macrophage-mediated infertility in an in vivo model : a paradigm for a novel approach to the treatment of endometriosis-associated subfertility . although present consensus holds that endometriosis-associated subfertility is the result of an adverse effect of hyperactivated macrophages on early reproductive events , most treatments for endometriosis are directed at the suppression of endometriotic implants . we hypothesized that periovulatory immunomodulation of macrophage activation and inflammatory mediator production might be a more effective approach to this problem . in this experiment , heterologous transfer of activated peritoneal inflammatory cells within a syngeneic strain of mice was used as an in vivo model for the peritoneal inflammatory environment of the endometriosis patient . intraperitoneal transfer of hyperactivated macrophages , but not basal state macrophages , significantly inhibited fertilization . this activity was reversed by periovulatory pentoxifylline treatment . immunomodulation of peritoneal inflammatory cell hyperactivation with pentoxifylline may represent a new modality for the treatment of endometriosis-associated subfertility . 
oocyte and pre-embryo donation to women with ovarian failure : an extended clinical trial . the outcome of a series of pre-embryo transfers to 31 women with ovarian failure is described . twenty six fertile women functioned as nonanonymous donors , providing oocytes for in vitro fertilization after undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and transvaginal ultrasound directed oocyte aspiration . recipients , 24 to 44 years of age , received hormone replacement therapy before pre-embryo transfer ( et ) . a mean of 13.7 + / - 1.1 oocytes were obtained per aspiration resulting in the transfer of 4.5 + / - 0.2 pre-embryos to each recipient couple . twenty-five of 47 et resulted in pregnancy ( 53.2 % per et ) ; 5 preclinical , and 20 clinical , of which 18 are ongoing or delivered . the overall implantation rate per individual transferred fresh pre-embryo was 21.1 % . we conclude that oocyte donation is a safe and highly efficient means of achieving pregnancy for women with ovarian failure . 
treatment of tubal ectopic pregnancy by salpingotomy with or without tubal suturing and salpingectomy [ published erratum appears in fertil steril 1991 jun ; 55 ( 6 ) :1213 -4 ] thirty-four women with unruptured tubal ectopic pregnancy ( ep ) were randomly assigned to undergo salpingotomy without tubal suturing ( n = 15 ) or salpingotomy with tubal suturing ( n = 19 ) . the reproductive performance of these patients was compared with 24 patients who underwent salpingectomy for their ep ( historical control ) . using life table analysis , the cumulative probability of intrauterine pregnancy ( iup ) at 12 and 24 months was 45 % and 45 % after salpingotomy without tubal suturing and 21 % and 47 % after salpingotomy with tubal suturing , respectively . the cumulative probability of iup after salpingectomy ( 21 % and 26 % at 12 and 24 months , respectively ) was significantly lower than after salpingotomy with or without tubal suturing . there was no difference in the cumulative probability of ep after salpingotomy with or without tubal suturing , but it was significantly higher than after salpingectomy . in 18 women who subsequently underwent laparoscopy or laparotomy , no significant difference was found between the degree of adhesions after salpingotomy with or without tubal suturing . these findings suggest that iup after conservative treatment is higher than after salpingectomy , but recurrent ep is also higher . intrauterine pregnancy occurs earlier after salpingotomy without tubal suturing than after salpingotomy with tubal suturing . this might be because of rapid return of tubal function after healing by secondary intention . 
ovarian hyperandrogenism : the role of and sensitivity to gonadotropins . to determine if ovarian hyperandrogenism represents enhanced gonadotropic stimulation , augmented ovarian sensitivity to gonadotropins , or both , we have undertaken to evaluate ( 1 ) the 24-hour integrated concentrations of serum total testosterone ( t ) and luteinizing hormone ( lh ) and ( 2 ) the ovarian response of t to exogenous gonadotropic stimulation . to this end , two groups of women , hyperandrogenic anovulatory ( n = 4 ) and early follicular phase ( n = 4 ) normally-cycling controls , were subjected to continuous blood withdrawal over 24 hours with a portable cormed pump ( cormed inc. , middleport , ny ) and to exogenous stimulation with human chorionic gonadotropin . our current observations support the notion that ovarian hyperandrogenism represents the combined impact of an overall increase in gonadotropic support coupled with augmented ovarian sensitivity to gonadotropic stimulation . 
endometrial antibodies versus ca-125 for the detection of endometriosis . detection of endometrial antibodies using an indirect immunofluorescence method along with a well-established human endometrial carcinoma cell line was evaluated and compared with ca-125 for detecting endometriosis . two hundred two patient sera from the infertility , gynecological , and gynecological oncology services were evaluated . the sensitivity for antibody testing was 83.1 % with a specificity of 78.8 % , in contrast to a sensitivity of 27.3 % and a specificity of 82.6 % for ca-125 . these preliminary findings offer promise that antibody detection methods may be a useful adjunct in the diagnosis of endometriosis . 
maturation of immature oocytes by coculture with granulosa cells . to increase the number of embryos available for transfer , immature human oocytes were cocultured with granulosa cells from preovulatory follicles . greater numbers of immature oocytes incubated with granulosa cells had dispersion of the cumulus and corona cells compared with immature oocytes cultured in media alone . fifty-four percent of immature oocytes were fertilized after coculture with granulosa cells compared with 20 % fertilization of immature oocytes cultured without granulosa cells . there were no cases in which only embryos developed from immature oocytes were transferred , and thus we could not determine if the immature oocytes could contribute to a pregnancy . 
tricuspid valve disease with significant tricuspid insufficiency in the fetus : diagnosis and outcome . the echocardiographic studies and clinical course of 27 fetuses ( mean gestational age 26.9 weeks ) diagnosed in utero with tricuspid valve disease and significant tricuspid regurgitation were reviewed . the diagnosis of ebstein 's anomaly was made in 17 of the fetuses , 7 had tricuspid valve dysplasia with poorly developed but normally attached leaflets and 2 had an unguarded tricuspid valve orifice with little or no identifiable tricuspid tissue . one fetus was excluded from data analysis because a more complex heart lesion was documented at autopsy . all fetuses had massive right atrial dilation and most who were serially studied had progressive right-sided cardiomegaly . hydrops fetalis was found in six cases and atrial flutter in five . associated cardiac lesions included pulmonary stenosis in five cases and pulmonary atresia in six . four fetuses with normal forward pulmonary artery flow at the initial examination were found at subsequent study to have retrograde pulmonary artery and ductal flow in association with the development of pulmonary stenosis ( n = 1 ) and pulmonary atresia ( n = 3 ) . on review of the clinical course of the 23 fetuses ( excluding 3 with elective abortion ) , 48 % of the fetuses died in utero and 35 % who were liveborn died despite vigorous medical and , when necessary , surgical management , many of whom had severe congestive heart failure . of the four infants who survived the neonatal period , three had a benign neonatal course , all of whom were diagnosed with mild to moderate ebstein 's anomaly ; only one had pulmonary outflow obstruction . an additional finding at autopsy was significant lung hypoplasia documented in 10 of 19 autopsy reports . 
limitations in the laboratory diagnosis of vertically acquired hiv infection . at present , the only well-standardized and widely available diagnostic techniques for hiv infection are detection of igg hiv antibodies and hiv antigen . the antibody detection is sensitive , but is useful only in infants and children older than 15 months because of the presence of maternal antibodies . the utility of hiv antigen testing in neonates and young infants has not been established . a number of sensitive techniques , such as pcr , elispot , and detection of hiv-specific igm and iga antibodies , are under development and promise to be very useful in the early diagnosis of vertical hiv infection . however , we will be able to accurately establish the sensitivity or specificity of the individual tests only when we have results of large prospective studies . these studies should compare different diagnostic methods and correlate the results of tests performed sequentially in neonates and young infants with the natural history of their disease process and eventual clinical outcome . 
thyroid disease and pregnancy . thyroid disease is common in younger women and may be a factor in reproductive dysfunction . this probably only applies to severe cases of hyper - or hypothyroidism . once adequately treated , neither of these disorders significantly impacts on fertility . the key is to recognize and to treat thyroid disorders in the reproductive-age woman before conception . thyroxine therapy and even antithyroid drug therapy should be continued during pregnancy as necessary . pregnancy is a euthyroid state that is normally maintained by complex changes in thyroid physiology . the fetal and neonatal hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid system develops independently , but it may be influenced by thyroid disease in the mother . early pregnancy is characterized by an increase in maternal t4 secretion stimulated by hcg and an increase in tbg , resulting in the elevated total serum t4 in pregnancy . the debate continues as to whether maternal t4 is important in early or late fetal brain development . if so , the physiologic changes in thyroid hormone secretion and transport in early pregnancy would help to ensure that a sufficient amount of thyroid hormone was available . there is new evidence in human subjects that substantial maternal t4 can cross the placenta during pregnancy , and this may be particularly important when fetal thyroid function is compromised as a result of congenital hypothyroidism . maternal and fetal/neonatal outcomes in pregnancy are adversely affected if severe hypothyroidism is undiagnosed or inadequately treated . thyroid function tests should be obtained during gestation in women taking t4 and appropriate dose adjustments should be made for tsh levels outside a normal range . the tsh-receptor blocking antibodies from the mother are a recognized cause of congenital hypothyroidism in the fetus and neonate that can be permanent or transient . if neonatal hypothyroidism is detected through neonatal screening programs , and prompt and adequate t4 replacement therapy is instituted as soon as possible following delivery , subsequent growth and development are usually normal . paradoxically , pregnancy often has a favorable effect on the course of maternal hashimoto 's disease , although there is the risk of relapse postpartum . pathophysiologic conditions of hcg secretion such as gestational trophoblastic disease and hyperemesis gravidarum may present as thyrotoxicosis in pregnancy , but the main cause of this syndrome is graves ' disease . the mainstay of treatment is antithyroid drugs and either propylthiouracil or methimazole may be used safely . subtotal thyroidectomy , after medical control , is the alternative treatment , but radioiodine ablation is contraindicated . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
premature rupture of the membranes and sepsis in preterm neonates . this investigation was designed as a historical cohort study using data abstracted from medical records . five hundred seven preterm neonates ( 26-35 weeks gestation ) born alive from singleton pregnancies complicated by premature rupture of the membranes ( prom ) were selected . each neonate was matched on gestational age , gender , ethnicity , and date of delivery to a neonate without prom . a matched pairs analysis was done using risk ratios ( rr ) to measure strength of the association and risk differences ( rd ) to measure absolute effect . analysis revealed that preterm births complicated by prom were at significantly higher risk of neonatal sepsis ( rr = 3.5 ) and infection ( rr = 2.4 ) . the rds indicated that prom exposure contributed an excess of 5 cases of sepsis per 100 infants ( rd = 0.05 ) . prom was not significantly associated with neonatal mortality , but when prom had existed over 48 hours there was a higher risk of sepsis and infection . birth of a neonate over 1500 grams or 33 weeks gestation was the most important factor in reducing risk of infection in prom deliveries . 
infection in utero : us findings in 19 cases . the results of antenatal sonographic studies of 19 fetuses with congenital infections were retrospectively reviewed by the authors . recognizing the significance of these antenatal sonographic findings is important because in utero infections can have devastating effects on the developing fetus . an infectious viral agent was isolated in laboratory tests at birth in 11 patients , and the effects of a viral agent were proved clinically in eight . antenatal sonography demonstrated abnormalities in 18 fetuses : multiple organ systems were affected in 47 % ; intracranial abnormalities , cardiac abnormalities , and parenchymal calcifications occurred in 42 % , 37 % , and 32 % , respectively ; large placentas were seen in 32 % ; and the volume of amniotic fluid was decreased in 37 % and increased in 37 % . sixty-three percent of fetuses were either aborted or died at birth ; the 37 % that lived were all developmentally impaired . on the basis of these sonographic , laboratory , and clinical findings , the authors conclude that when multiple organ system abnormalities are found at antenatal ultrasound , the presence of an in utero infection should be considered . the parents should be informed that there is a poor prognosis for any fetus demonstrating such abnormalities . 
occurrence of multiple types of human papillomavirus in genital tract lesions . analysis by in situ hybridization and the polymerase chain reaction . more than 22 types of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) have been detected in genital tract squamous cell intraepithelial lesions . seven of two hundred eighty-six ( 2.4 % ) genital tract tissues in which hpv dna was detected by in situ hybridization contained two or more different hpv types . when analyzed by site , 5 of 204 ( 2.4 % ) of cervical intraepithelial lesions were infected by more than one type , compared with 2 of 82 ( 2.4 % ) of vulvar lesions . the rate for low-grade lesions was similar ( 5/218 ; 2.3 % ) to that for high-grade lesions ( 2/68 ; 2.9 % ) . in contrast , two different hpv types were detected in 6/33 ( 18 % ) of tissues by the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) using type-specific primers for eight hpv types . it is concluded that infection by one hpv type is rarely associated with concurrent ' active ' infection by a second hpv type , even though dna of a different viral type can be detected by pcr in about one fifth of such cases . further study is required to determine if an existing hpv infection can inhibit replication by a different hpv type . 
low-level lead exposure in the prenatal and early preschool periods : language development . inconsistent results continue to be reported from studies linking low-level lead exposure and child development . this inconsistency is seen for both prenatal exposure and exposure in the preschool years . the primary outcome measures in most reports are indices of cognitive development , including iq . verbal skills may be particularly vulnerable to toxic insult . the fact that 2 y of age is both a time of peak exposure and also a time of rapid language development suggests that this may be a critical period for such an effect . the later prenatal and early infancy period , at which time the nervous system is developing rapidly , may also be critical exposure period . we examined the relationship of maternal and cord blood lead ( pbb ) at birth and venous pbb at 6 mo , 2 y , and 3 y with language measures at 1 , 2 , and 3 y of age . the sample consisted of disadvantaged urban children . multivariate analyses revealed no statistically significant relationship of either prenatal pbb or early preschool pbb with language measures after control of cofactors . supplementary partial correlations revealed a marginal relationship of cord pbb and mean length of utterance ( mlu ) , which describes a child 's ability to form meaningful word combinations . because this analysis was one of a large number of analyses with both positive and negative regression coefficients , the possibility that this was a chance effect was considered . if there is an effect of low-level lead exposure on language development , that effect is not robust . 
prenatal exposure to methyl mercury among greenlandic polar inuits . during the period 1982 to 1988 , 37 paired samples of blood from inuit women and their newborn children were collected in north greenland . the samples were analyzed for whole blood content of total mercury ( tot-hg ) and for content of methyl mercury ( me-hg ) . in maternal blood , 80 % of the tot-hg was found to be methylated in contrast to 98 % in cord blood . concentrations of me-hg in maternal and cord blood were significantly correlated , and the mean ratio between fetal and maternal blood me-hg was 1.9 . concentrations of me-hg in cord blood were closely related to the marine food intake of the mothers . eighty-four percent of the mothers had blood concentrations of me-hg above 0.11 mumol/l ( 23 micrograms/l ) , which corresponds to the provisional limit of tolerable intake set by the world health organization . this indicates that the majority of the pregnant woman have an unacceptable high intake of methyl mercury . 
increased epidermal growth factor receptors in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons of patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome . seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons may change in biologic behavior with pregnancy or during treatment with sex steroids . because epidermal growth factor receptor localization may change in hyperproliferative skin diseases , we compared epidermal growth factor receptor immunolocalization in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women who were or were not pregnant or taking oral sex steroid hormones . epidermal growth factor receptor was further investigated in growing and quiescent seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women with and without the dysplastic nevus syndrome . the epidermal growth factor receptor concentration was strikingly elevated in suprabasilar keratinocytes of growing seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome who were pregnant or taking sex steroid hormones and less elevated in growing seborrheic keratoses from other patients . in contrast , the epidermal growth factor receptor distribution pattern in acrochordons did not correlate as well with the history of growth of these lesions in normal patients . these data suggest sex steroids may affect epidermal growth factor receptor metabolism in benign epidermal hyperproliferative lesions , particularly in patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome . 
gb3 monoclonal antibody for the diagnosis of junctional epidermolysis bullosa : results of a multicenter study . gb3 monoclonal antibody detects a normal basement membrane component ( gb3 antigen ) that is variably expressed in junctional epidermolysis bullosa . to assess the accuracy of gb3 in the diagnosis of junctional epidermolysis bullosa , we have reviewed its use in 250 cases of the major types of epidermolysis bullosa . in the majority of cases of the simplex and dystrophic forms of epidermolysis bullosa , gb3 antigen is normally expressed . in the herlitz variant of junctional epidermolysis bullosa , gb3 antigen expression is consistently abnormal , but in the non-herlitz and indeterminate forms of junctional epidermolysis bullosa , 40 % of cases express gb3 antigen normally . we propose that gb3 monoclonal antibody is useful in the accurate identification of patients with herlitz junctional epidermolysis bullosa and may prove equal to electron microscopy for the diagnosis of this disease . for the non-herlitz variants , it should not be used as an alternative to electron microscopy but may be of special value in the determination of prognosis . 
pharmacokinetic disposition of zidovudine during pregnancy . zidovudine pharmacokinetics was determined in three human immunodeficiency virus type 1-seropositive women receiving zidovudine ( 200 mg orally every 4 h ) from 19 to 39 weeks of pregnancy and postpartum . zidovudine concentrations were measured using high-pressure liquid chromatography , and pharmacokinetic analyses were done using model-independent methods . for the pregnant versus postpartum periods , peak zidovudine levels ( mean + / - 1 sd ) were 3.9 + / - 1.7 mumol/l versus 4.3 + / - 0.04 mumol/l ( p = .56 ) ; elimination half-lives were 1.3 + / - 0.6 versus 1.0 + / - 0.3 h ( p = .41 ) ; areas under the concentration curve were 4.5 + / - 1.0 mumol/l x h and 6.8 + / - 0.5 mumol/l x h ( p = .02 ) ; apparent total body clearances were 2.5 + / - 0.6 l/h/kg and 1.7 + / - 0.4 l/h/kg ( p = .05 ) ; and apparent steady state volumes of distribution were 3.9 + / - 1.0 l/kg and 2.6 + / - 0.8 l/kg ( p = .07 ) , respectively . umbilical cord serum levels ranged from 113 % -127 % of maternal levels . no persistent adverse effects of zidovudine therapy were seen in the three women or their babies . 
cofactors in male-female sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . in a study of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) - uninfected african prostitutes , 83 ( 67 % ) of 124 seroconverted to hiv-1 . oral contraceptive use ( odds ratio [ or ] , 3.1 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 1.1-8 .6 ; p less than .03 ) , genital ulcers ( mean annual episodes , 1.32 + / - 0.55 in seroconverting women vs. 0.48 + / - 0.21 in seronegative women ; p less than .02 ) and chlamydia trachomatis infections ( or , 3.6 ; ci , 1.3-11 .0 ; p less than .02 ) were associated with increased risk of hiv-1 infection . condom use reduced the risk of hiv-1 infection ( or , 0.11 ; ci , 0.05-0 .27 ; p less than .0001 ) . stepwise logistic regression analysis confirmed independent associations between hiv-1 infection and oral contraceptive use , condom use , genital ulcers , and c. trachomatis . the presence of other sexually transmitted diseases may in part explain the heterosexual hiv-1 epidemic in africa and may represent important targets for intervention to control hiv-1 infection . 
host genetic influences on fetal susceptibility to murine cytomegalovirus after maternal or fetal infection . genetically determined resistance to murine cytomegalovirus is observed in adult mice and is mediated in part by genes of the h-2 complex , with the h-2k haplotype conferring resistance . this model was used to examine the effect of primary maternal infection on fetal outcome . the severity of fetal growth retardation and death after primary maternal infection on day 8 of pregnancy was found to be genetically determined . fetal viability and weight were significantly lower in infected balb/c mothers ( h-2d ) than in cba ( h-2k ) and balb.k ( h-2k ) mothers . however , fetal infection was not detected , suggesting that the resistance mechanisms operate at the level of the mother or placenta . by directly inoculating fetuses in utero , it was shown that genetic factors in the fetus can influence the level of fetal infection and viability . these results point to the possibility that host genetic factors may modulate maternal and fetal cytomegalovirus infections in humans . 
occupational risk factors for infection with parvovirus b19 among pregnant women . to identify exposures associated with parvovirus b19 infection during pregnancy , two groups of pregnant women were studied during an outbreak of erythema infectiosum ( ei ) . of 796 pregnant women from connecticut who were tested serologically because of perceived exposure to b19 , 53 % ( 419/796 ) had serologic evidence of previous b19 infection , and 6 % ( 23/376 ) of the rest had evidence of recent infection . of 121 pregnant women who had not requested testing but who lived in a community where a large outbreak of ei had occurred among schoolchildren , 36 % ( 43/121 ) had serologic evidence of previous infection , and only 3 % ( 2/78 ) of the rest had had a recent infection . in the exposed group , 479 women returned a supplemental exposure questionnaire . the highest infection rates among susceptible women were for schoolteachers ( 16 % , 10/64 ) , followed by day care workers ( 9 % , 2/22 ) and homemakers ( 9 % , 4/46 ) . women working outside the home but not in school or day care settings had the lowest risk ( 4 % , 3/80 ) . this study suggests that there is risk for b19 infection in selected occupational settings and in households . 
relapsing polychondritis in pregnancy . a 25-year-old patient presented at 14 weeks of her 3rd pregnancy with chondritis affecting the cartilaginous portion of her right ear . the clinical syndrome of recurrent chondritis , scleritis , iritis and arthritis supported a diagnosis of relapsing polychondritis . fetal and maternal outcomes were favorable despite steroid dependent active disease during the period of fetal organogenesis . chondritis was limited to the 3rd pregnancy , ocular inflammation occurring in the 2nd and 3rd pregnancies . a 4th pregnancy was uneventful . this may represent the first case of relapsing polychondritis in pregnancy . 
long-term followup of asymptomatic microhematuria . we present a 10 to 20-year followup assessment of 191 patients with unexplained microhematuria ( including persons with insignificant lesions ) . genitourinary malignancies did not develop in any of the patients ( 128 alive and 27 dead ) evaluated after the first diagnostic investigation . patient and physician compliance with followup protocols was poor . we currently recommend renal ultrasound and cystoscopy for the first diagnostic survey , have abandoned routine periodic studies and advise diagnostic studies only for patients in whom symptoms develop . 
continence in bladder exstrophy : determinants of success . we evaluated 19 female and 18 male patients with bladder exstrophy , who had completed staged reconstruction , had required no further surgery and underwent urodynamic studies . of the male population 61 % were continent based on a significantly higher urethral continence length ( 25.8 + / - 6.4 mm. , mean plus or minus standard error ) and a higher urethral closing pressure ( 69.4 + / - 5.8 cm . water ) compared to the incontinent male population ( 11.4 + / - 3.1 mm . and 43.4 + / - 4.6 cm . water ) . no significant difference was noted in the bladder capacity of these 2 groups . of the female population 57.9 % were continent . they also demonstrated a higher urethral continence length ( 21.1 + / - 4.4 mm . ) and a higher urethral closing pressure ( 62.7 + / - 10.2 cm . water ) compared to the incontinent female subjects ( 8.4 + / - 2.5 mm . and 32.7 + / - 6.9 cm . water ) . moreover , those who were continent had a significantly higher bladder capacity ( 201.2 + / - 39.5 ml . ) compared to those who were incontinent ( 84.3 + / - 23.6 ml . ) . these findings support a multifactorial mechanism in achieving continence but they suggest that of all the factors urethral length may be the most important . 
multifocal , synchronous inverted papillomas involving the ureter . inverted papillomas involving the upper urinary tract remain a rarely diagnosed phenomenon . a case of bilateral ureteral inverted papillomas is presented . the treatment and diagnosis of this lesion remain a challenge . 
acute urinary retention secondary to herpes simplex meningitis . we report a case of acute urinary retention in a 24-year-old man with herpes simplex meningitis without genital lesions . since the differential diagnosis in young patients who present with acute urinary retention also includes multiple sclerosis , lumbosacral disk herniation , rheumatological disorders and drug intoxication , a thorough history and careful neurological examination are of paramount importance in distinguishing these syndromes . as part of a directed neurological evaluation prompt performance of lumbar puncture is indicated ; a lymphocytic pleocytosis is suggestive of herpetic meningitis . culture of herpes simplex virus from the cerebrospinal fluid should be attempted . we recommend conservative management only , typically with intermittent catheterization , since bladder function usually normalizes within 10 to 14 days . 
endometriosis of bladder after menopause . we report a rare case of endometriosis of the bladder in a 68-year-old postmenopausal woman . the patient had not received any exogenous estrogen therapy and the hormone levels were normal for a castrated female subject . endometriosis of the bladder should be considered as a cause of an abnormal mass of the bladder even after menopause . this case documents that urinary involvement by endometriosis may persist even after years of a hormonally castrated state . 
locally recurrent endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the prostate after radical prostatectomy . endometrioid carcinoma of the prostate is considered a variant of classical prostatic ductal carcinoma . endometrioid carcinoma variant often has the unique clinical presentation of gross hematuria . the propensity of this tumor to spread within the urothelium makes local failure of curative therapy commonplace . we present 2 representative cases with a review of followup surveillance procedures and treatment options for the local recurrence once identified . 
intracranial hemorrhage from aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations during pregnancy and the puerperium . intracranial hemorrhage ( ich ) from an intracranial aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation is a grave complication of pregnancy and is responsible for 5 to 12 % of all maternal deaths . we critically analyzed 154 cases of verified ich during pregnancy from an identified intracranial lesion , including 2 patients treated at our institution and 152 cases previously reported in the literature in english . aneurysms were responsible for ich in 77 % of patients , and arteriovenous malformations in 23 % . hemorrhage occurred antepartum in 92 % of patients and postpartum in 8 % . women with angiomatous hemorrhage were younger than those with aneurysmal hemorrhage ; however , in contrast to previous reports , we found no differences between angiomatous and aneurysmal hemorrhage with respect to parity or gestational age at the time of the initial hemorrhage . hypertension and/or albuminuria were present at some time during the pregnancy in 34 % of patients with documentation , which sometimes made it difficult to differentiate angiomatous or aneurysmal ich from that associated with eclampsia . in a logistic regression analysis , surgical management of aneurysms , but not arteriovenous malformations , was associated with significantly lower maternal and fetal mortality , independent of other covariants . for those patients with a lesion not operated on , cesarean delivery afforded no better maternal or fetal outcome than did vaginal delivery . we conclude that the decision to operate after ich during pregnancy should be based upon neurosurgical principles , whereas the method of delivery should be based upon obstetrical considerations . the perioperative and anesthetic management of the pregnant patient with a neurosurgical complication is discussed . 
pregnancy and the risk of hemorrhage from cerebral arteriovenous malformations . we conducted a retrospective analysis of 451 women with an arteriovenous malformation ( avm ) of the brain to determine whether pregnancy is a risk factor for cerebral hemorrhages . a total of 540 pregnancies occurred among our patient population , resulting in 438 live births and 102 abortions . there were 17 pregnancies complicated by a cerebral hemorrhage . the hemorrhage rate during pregnancy for women with an unruptured avm was 0.035 + / - 0.005 per person-year . the hemorrhage rate for nonpregnant women of childbearing age with an unruptured avm was 0.031 + / - 0.002 per person-year . pregnancy did not increase significantly the rate of first cerebral hemorrhage from an avm ( p = 0.35 ) . we found that women with an avm face a 3.5 % risk of hemorrhage during pregnancy . pregnancy is not a risk factor for hemorrhage in women without a previous hemorrhage . this conclusion assumes no selection bias exists in our study population ; a bias would be introduced if the risk of fatal outcome after a hemorrhage were greater in pregnant women than in nonpregnant women . 
ventriculoperitoneal shunt malfunction during pregnancy . many women with cerebrospinal fluid shunts are now reaching reproductive age . shunt malfunction may occur during pregnancy , and management requires a well-planned , combined neurosurgical and obstetrical approach . we present a case of ventriculoperitoneal shunt obstruction manifesting during the third trimester managed successfully in a conservative fashion . the literature on ventriculoperitoneal shunt malfunction during pregnancy is reviewed . 
spontaneous rupture of liver during pregnancy : current therapy . spontaneous hepatic rupture secondary to severe pregnancy-induced hypertension is associated with a high rate of maternal and fetal mortality . numerous types of surgical management have been described , but a uniform surgical approach has not been accepted . the purpose of this review was to examine modes of surgical therapy reported in the literature since 1976 , as well as the 11-year experience at our institution . twenty-eight cases were extracted from the literature and seven more were identified at our institution . the incidence in our population was one per 45,145 live births . among 27 cases managed by packing and drainage , an 82 % overall survival was achieved , whereas only 25 % of eight patients undergoing hepatic lobectomy survived ( p = .006 ) . hepatic hemorrhage with persistent hypotension unresponsive to blood products should be managed by evacuating the hematoma , packing the damaged liver , and draining the operative site . more aggressive surgical techniques , such as hepatic artery ligation or hepatic lobectomy , should be reserved for refractory cases . 
urinary sediment changes in severe preeclampsia . we analyzed the urinary sediment of 30 patients with severe preeclampsia every 4 hours during early labor , delivery , and the postpartum period . fifteen normal control patients were also followed in a similar fashion . no casts were noticed in the urine samples of the control group . however , the urinary sediment of preeclamptic patients revealed the same uniform pattern regardless of the state of coagulation , or the presence or absence of oliguria or eclamptic seizures . numerous granular and hyaline casts , red-cell , and tubular cell casts were identified during microscopic evaluation . these data reflect both glomerular and tubular damage in preeclampsia . we conclude that urinary sediment analysis in severe preeclampsia uniformly reflects renal parenchymal damage and does not correlate with or predict the clinical course of the disease . 
the relationship between maternal hematocrit and pregnancy outcome the relationship between maternal hematocrit and pregnancy outcome at various times in pregnancy was studied in 17,149 iron - and folate-supplemented pregnant women . on univariate analysis , early-pregnancy hematocrits below 37 % were associated with preterm delivery . however , this relationship was not confirmed by multivariate analysis controlling for other risk factors . on both univariate and multivariate analyses , both early and later in pregnancy , hematocrits above 40 % were associated with preterm delivery . in every gestational time period , at least part of the excess of preterm births was explained by an increase in indicated preterm deliveries . in both early and late pregnancy , and in both the univariate and multivariate analyses , only high hematocrits were associated with fetal growth retardation . the strongest association ( odds ratio above 2 ) between high hematocrit and both fetal growth retardation and preterm delivery occurred with hematocrits at or above 43 % at 31-34 weeks ' gestation . 
a comparison of doppler flow velocity waveforms , amniotic fluid columns , and the nonstress test as a means of monitoring post-dates pregnancies . five hundred thirty-four pregnancies exceeding 294 days were monitored by weekly sonographic estimations of amniotic fluid columns , daily maternal recordings of fetal movements , and thrice-weekly nonstress tests . in addition , each woman received twice-weekly studies of the uteroplacental and umbilical circulations by means of doppler ultrasound . there were no fetal deaths in the study . of the individual methods of fetal surveillance , absence of end-diastolic frequencies in the umbilical artery was the most sensitive , predicting 91 % of fetuses who developed fetal distress in the first stage . combining the test with sonographic estimation of amniotic fluid columns improved the prediction to 100 % , with only a minimal fall in the specificity . these results strongly suggest that a combination of umbilical artery doppler waveforms and amniotic fluid determinations is an adequate method of monitoring the post-dates pregnancy . 
doppler systolic-diastolic ratios in pregnancies complicated by syphilis . maternal infection with syphilis can result in focal areas of vasculitis and , similarly , placental villitis and obliterative arteritis . we hypothesized that doppler systolic-diastolic ratios ( s/ds ) in pregnancies complicated by maternal syphilis infection might reflect an increased resistance to placental perfusion . doppler velocity waveform analysis was used to study the uterine and umbilical arteries in third-trimester pregnancies complicated by maternal syphilis infection . a control group of similarly studied normal pregnancies was used for comparison . statistically significant increases were found in the mean s/ds of both the uterine and umbilical arteries in the syphilis group compared with the normal group , indicating an increased resistance to perfusion of the placenta in pregnancies complicated by syphilis . this difference was even greater in association with the identification of spirochetes in the amniotic fluid by dark-field microscopy , indicating that the s/d results are related to the presence of intrauterine infection . serial s/ds in a small subgroup of patients correlated with the clinical courses , including an apparent acute vascular-resistance change associated with treatment , probably due to the jarisch-herxheimer reaction . because of these post-treatment vascular events , the pre-treatment s/d alone may have a limited clinical predictive value for treatment efficacy in congenital syphilis . 
low incidence of positive amnionic fluid cultures in preterm labor at 27-32 weeks in the absence of clinical evidence of chorioamnionitis . in order to determine the utility of amniocentesis for detecting subclinical chorioamnionitis in asymptomatic afebrile women in preterm labor with intact membranes , we enrolled 47 women between 27-32 weeks ' gestation in a prospective study . after enrollment , 38 women fulfilled all clinical and laboratory criteria for the study ; nine women were excluded because they had a leukocyte count exceeding 15,000 / microl . none of the 38 asymptomatic afebrile women had a positive culture from the amnionic fluid for bacteria , fungi , mycoplasma hominis , ureaplasma urealyticum , chlamydia trachomatis , or any viruses . sepsis was not proved in any of the 38 infants delivered to these patients . there was a clear relationship between histologic evidence of chorioamnionitis and failure of tocolytic therapy . fetal lung profiles were mature in 29 % of the amnionic fluid samples from 30-32 weeks ' gestation , but in none of the amnionic fluid samples before 30 weeks . amniocentesis does not seem useful to detect chorioamnionitis in asymptomatic afebrile women with preterm labor and intact membranes at 27-32 weeks ' gestation , and should be reserved for those cases in which information about fetal lung maturity would be helpful . 
comparison of continuous versus sequential estrogen and progestin therapy in postmenopausal women . a pilot study was performed comparing the efficacy and safety of continuous versus sequential schedules of the two most commonly prescribed medications for ovarian hormone replacement , conjugated equine estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate . bleeding patterns , endometrial histology , and metabolic parameters were studied in 48 postmenopausal women prospectively randomized to a continuous schedule ( daily estrogen and progestin ) or a sequential schedule ( conjugated estrogen on days 1-25 , medroxyprogesterone acetate on days 16-25 ) . doses studied were 0.625 and 1.25 mg of conjugated estrogens and 10 mg of medroxyprogesterone acetate . significantly greater bleeding was observed with the 1.25-mg dosage of conjugated estrogens . bleeding patterns were similar between schedules , with the exception that amenorrhea was more prevalent in the women using the 1.25-mg dosage of estrogen and the continuous progestin schedule . more frequent endometrial atrophy was observed with the continuous schedule , supporting the concept that prolonged use of this schedule may promote amenorrhea in most patients . both doses and schedules were associated with modest and insignificant increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . sequential therapy did not prevent the estrogen-induced decrease of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , whereas the continuous schedule did , particularly with 0.625-mg dosage of conjugated estrogens . significant increases of triglycerides were also seen with the continuous but not with the sequential schedule . because of reports that the continuous schedule using the 2.5-mg dosage of medroxyprogesterone acetate does not elicit these actions on circulating lipids , attention should be directed toward examining the long-term effects of this lower dosage given continuously . 
endotoxin in vaginal fluid of women with bacterial vaginosis . the concentration of endotoxin in vaginal fluid was measured in 19 women with bacterial vaginosis and in nine controls with normal vaginal flora . the vaginal fluid of the women with bacterial vaginosis contained significantly greater amounts of endotoxin : 0.308 + / - 0.396 versus 0.008 + / - 0.002 endotoxin units/mg vaginal fluid . endotoxin in vaginal fluid may contribute to the activation of the prostaglandin system , which could provoke premature labor . 
persistent tubal pregnancy . persistent tubal pregnancy may be manifest by either acute symptoms or a persistent or rising beta-hcg titer following conservative surgery . this condition is a relatively new complication , related to the recent practice of conservative surgical management of tubal pregnancy . much has been written on the identification and possible therapy for this condition but little is known about its pathophysiology . eight cases of persistence were studied , as well as three cases of failed conservative procedures . in nine instances , the surgeon had concentrated appropriately on the maximally dilated portion of the tube , which contained the blood clot and aborted products of conception . unfortunately , the implantation site was located medially , toward the uterus . ways of avoiding this complication include medial exploration or possibly the use of mesosalpingeal injection of vasopressin . an understanding of the natural history of the pathologic process might also be valuable in the management of cases of " persistence " identified solely by a continuing beta-hcg titer . 
serial ca 125 levels during chemotherapy for metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of serial ca 125 in monitoring disease status during chemotherapy in women with metastatic or recurrent endometrial cancer . ca 125 was measured in 21 women receiving cisplatin , etoposide , and adriamycin for a total of 275 courses of chemotherapy ( median eight ) . eight of ten patients had elevated pre-therapy ca 125 levels ( median 233 u/ml ) . ca 125 became and/or remained negative in all 20 women with responding or stable disease and was elevated in all nine patients who relapsed . the median level at the time of relapse was 56 u/ml . levels were elevated before clinical relapse in five of nine patients ( 56 % ) . serial ca 125 may aid in the management of women receiving chemotherapy for advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer . 
upper genital tract isolates at delivery as predictors of post-cesarean infections among women receiving antibiotic prophylaxis . the introduction of antibiotic prophylaxis for cesarean delivery has decreased the risk of postpartum endometritis and wound infection , but factors that contribute to prophylaxis failure are not understood . to determine factors that might contribute to postpartum infections following antibiotic prophylaxis , we cultured amniotic fluid , decidua , and chorioamniotic membrane specimens for anaerobic and facultative bacteria and for genital mycoplasmas at cesarean delivery . women were assessed daily for the development of infections , and if endometritis developed , a protected endometrial culture was obtained . postpartum endometritis developed in 16 and wound infection in four of 102 women . infection rates were similar for women receiving cefotetan ( n = 50 ) or cefoxitin ( n = 52 ) for prophylaxis . the isolation of group b streptococcus ( p less than .001 ) or enterococcus faecalis ( p = .03 ) from the upper genital tract at delivery was significantly associated with postpartum endometritis . antibiotic-resistant organisms ( other than enterococci ) were recovered uncommonly at delivery or with postpartum infections . group b streptococcus was susceptible to the prophylactic agents used , suggesting that virulence factors other than antibiotic resistance are important for the development of postpartum endometritis . group b streptococcus , e faecalis , and bacteria associated with bacterial vaginosis were recovered from the endometrium at the time of postpartum endometritis . 
estrogen replacement therapy : is previously treated cancer a contraindication ? the benefits of estrogen replacement therapy in preventing vasomotor symptoms , osteoporosis , and cardiovascular disease are well documented . although estrogen is said to be contraindicated in patients successfully treated for endometrial and breast cancer , there are no data to substantiate this admonition . experience suggests that it can be used safely in patients treated previously for endometrial cancer . although there is little or no experience with estrogen use in the woman treated previously for breast cancer , circumstantial evidence suggests that it is not contraindicated in all such cases . informed consent , patient desires , and risk-benefit considerations must enter into the decision to use estrogen in these patients . 
aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic factors and recovery of beta-lactamase producing bacteria from obstetric and gynecologic infection . specimens obtained from 736 patients with obstetric and gynecologic infections were studied for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria . bacterial growth was present in 714 specimens . these included 53 specimens of infected fallopian tubes , 470 of infected endometrium , 94 of infected amniotic fluid , 57 of aspirates of cul-de-sacs in instances of pelvic inflammatory disease , 14 labial and vaginal abscesses and 26 of bartholyn 's cyst abscess . a total of 2,052 isolates ( 2.9 per specimen ) , 1,139 anaerobes ( 1.6 per specimen ) and 913 aerobic or facultative ( 1.3 per specimen ) were recovered . the most commonly isolated anaerobic bacteria was bacteroides species ( 566 isolates ) , which included bacteroides bivius ( 151 ) , bacteroides fragilis group ( 130 ) , bacteroides melaninogenicus group ( 110 ) and bacteroides ureolyticus ( 47 ) . others included an anaerobic gram-positive cocci ( 391 ) , clostridium species ( 48 ) and fusobacterium species ( 36 ) . the most frequently recovered aerobic and facultative bacteria were lactobacillus species ( 169 ) , escherichia coli ( 85 ) , neisseria gonorrhoeae ( 62 ) , staphylococcus aureus ( 59 ) and group b streptococcus ( 55 ) . three hundred and sixty-five ( 18 per cent ) of the isolates recovered from 276 ( 39 per cent ) patients were beta-lactamase producing organisms ( blpo ) ; 222 ( 61 per cent ) anaerobes and 143 ( 39 per cent ) aerobes or facultatives . the most common blpo were b. fragilis group , b. bivius , b. melaninogenicus , b. disiens , enterobacteriaceae and s. aureus . these data illustrate the polymicrobial nature and important role of blpo in obstetric and gynecologic infection . 
drugs for treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis : comparative efficacy of agents and regimens . various agents are available for the treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis . imidazole agents ( clotrimazole , miconazole , butoconazole , and terconazole ) are preferred because of their greater efficacy , shorter treatment regimens , and ease of administration . although the various imidazole compounds are equally efficacious , different treatment schedules are recommended depending on clinical situations . additionally , different formulations are available that provide clinicians and patients with the opportunity to select the most appropriate agent . 
effect of vaginal delivery on the pelvic floor : a 5-year follow-up . we have studied the pelvic floor musculature and its innervation in 14 of 24 ( 58 per cent ) multiparous women who had been recruited into a study of the effect of childbirth on the pelvic floor as part of a prospective investigation that began in 1983 . these 24 women had all delivered by the vaginal route without forceps assistance . five of the 14 had developed clinical symptoms of stress incontinence 5 years later ; two of them had had a further uncomplicated vaginal delivery during this time . there was manometric and neurophysiological evidence of weakness because of partial denervation of the pelvic floor striated sphincter musculature , with pudendal neuropathy , which was more marked in those women with incontinence . these findings provide direct evidence for the hypothesis that pudendal neuropathy due to vaginal delivery persists and may worsen with time . 
regulation of gene expression in choriocarcinoma by methotrexate and hydroxyurea . choriocarcinoma , a highly malignant neoplasm of trophoblastic origin , is remarkable for its marked degree of sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents . we treated two cell lines derived from choriocarcinoma patients with two antineoplastic agents , methotrexate and hydroxyurea ( hu ) , both of which cause nucleotide depletion and have been previously shown to be effective against choriocarcinoma , and found pleiotropic regulation of several genes . three genes , hcg alpha-subunit , beta-subunit , and placental alkaline phosphatase , were all strongly induced by methotrexate and hu . expression of c-myc , an oncogene associated with proliferation , was reduced to nearly undetectable levels by the drug treatment , while expression of beta 2-microglobulin , a component of the class 1 major histocompatibility locus , was unchanged . in addition , the mechanism of induction by hu of one of these genes , the hcg alpha-subunit gene , was found to occur at the level of transcription . the similar effects of methotrexate and hu , two mechanistically unrelated antimetabolites , on the induction of specific gene expression in choriocarcinoma cells suggest that these effects are due to nucleotide pool alteration , rather than specific ligand effects . furthermore , the hcg alpha-subunit promoter contains a transcriptionally regulated hu-responsive element . 
changes in women 's mental and physical health from pregnancy through six months postpartum . a longitudinal study was conducted to investigate changes in women 's mental and physical health around the time of childbirth , and to determine whether health was related to length of maternity leave . thirty-seven married , employed first-time mothers completed questionnaires during pregnancy , and again at 6 weeks , 3 months , and 6 months postpartum . results showed that , from pregnancy to the 6th postpartum month , the number of days that mothers were ill because of infections steadily increased . in addition , depressive symptoms for new mothers rose from pregnancy to the 6th week postpartum , and declined thereafter . for women who did not return to work during the period of the study , a significant decline in depressive symptoms was observed from the prenatal period through the 6th postpartum month . these findings demonstrate significant changes in mental and physical health for this group of first-time mothers . 
vulvar paget 's disease . is immunocytochemistry helpful in assessing the surgical margins ? from january 1977 to december 1988 , 19 patients with biopsy-proven paget 's disease of the vulva underwent simple or radical vulvectomy at the university of miami/jackson memorial medical center . all vulvectomy specimens were evaluated immunocytochemically for the expression of carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) , epithelial membrane antigen ( ema ) and low-molecular-weight keratins 8 and 18 ( lmk ) , both in areas containing neoplastic cells and in histologically negative surgical margins . neoplastic paget 's cells stained positively for cea in all cases ; they were positive for ema and lmk in 18 and 17 cases , respectively . in all eight cases with underlying in situ or invasive carcinomas , cea , ema and lmk were localized in the underlying tumors as well . none of the histologically proven negative margins reacted for cea , ema or lmk on immunocytochemistry . cea appears to be a valuable immunocytochemical marker for extramammary paget 's disease ; ema and lmk are also expressed by the majority of such cases . none of these markers , however , is of added value in identifying paget 's cells in surgical margins if those margins appear negative on routine hematoxylin-and-eosin staining . 
immunohistochemical investigations of estrogen receptors in normal and neoplastic squamous epithelium of the vulva . atrophic disease of the vulvar epithelium can be treated with steroids , but carcinoma of the vulva can not be influenced with any hormone therapy . seventy-one vulvar specimens were tested for estrogen receptor ( er ) content by means of immunohistochemistry . slight er staining was found in nonkeratinizing squamous epithelium in 17 of 22 cases . a weak er reaction in the basal and parabasal layers was found in only 2 of 17 specimens of keratinizing squamous epithelium . however , no er was found in any neoplastic tissue of the vulva or the adjacent stroma . the loss of er in neoplastic cells could explain the clinical experience that antihormonal treatment of vulvar carcinomas produces no appreciable improvement . 
granular cell tumors of the vulva . granular cell tumor ( gct ) , although nearly ubiquitous , is seen infrequently in the vulva . a review of the surgical pathology files from grady memorial hospital , atlanta , georgia , from 1983 through 1987 identified eight cases of vulvar gct . five of the eight patients had more than one skin and soft tissue lesion . two of the five had biopsy-proven multicentric gct with a unique clinical course . one of the patients was a 32-year-old woman with multiple vulvar , lingual , laryngeal , bronchial and pulmonary gct , necessitating multiple excisions and ultimately pneumonectomy . the second patient had multiple gcts in the vulva and inguinal area and finally in both lungs , resulting in her death at age 39 . no dependable microscopic features could be identified to distinguish benign gct from its more aggressive variant . however , feulgen dna histomorphometry demonstrated aneuploidy in the patient with apparent lung metastases , whereas the tumors from patients with a benign course as well as from the patient with multiorgan involvement were diploid . in three of five patients who could be interviewed there was a history of soft tissue tumors in members of the family . the multifocal nature and possible familial component of gct need to be explored further . 
periurethral colonic-type polyp simulating urethral caruncle . a case report . a 50-year-old , black woman presented with a 1-cm , polypoid lesion on the posterior edge of the urethral meatus that had the gross appearance of a urethral caruncle . the histologic features , however , revealed a superficially ulcerated lesion composed of colonic-type mucosal glands with focal regenerative atypia in response to inflammation . a similar histologic pattern is also found in so-called solitary rectal ulcer syndrome and inflammatory cloacogenic polyps arising in the anorectal area . based upon an english-language literature review , this case appears to be the second reported one of an intestinal-type polyp in this location . the patient had no further problems after excisional biopsy . 
vulvar condylomas and squamous vestibular micropapilloma . differences in appearance and response to treatment . a study of 37 women with typical condylomas and so-called squamous micropapilloma was undertaken to determine their response to systemic interferon and/or podophyllin treatment . thirty lesions were classified as condylomas and 9 as squamous micropapillomas ; two women had both lesions . twenty-six ( 87 % ) of 30 condylomas responded , whereas only 1 ( 11 % ) of the 9 cases of micropapillomatosis showed a partial response ( p less than .001 ) to podophyllin and/or interferon . twenty-six biopsies from condylomas in which sufficient dna was available for analysis contained human papillomavirus ( hpv ) dna sequences that hybridized to an hpv 6 + 16 probe mix under nonstringent conditions . in contrast , hpv dna sequences could not be detected in any of the nine cases of micropapillomatosis . immunoperoxidase studies performed on these lesions failed to demonstrate viral capsid antigen . thus , despite certain similarities in the clinical presentation and microscopic features of condylomas and squamous micropapillomas , it is not clear at present whether micropapillomas are hpv-related lesions . 
vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia . a clinicopathologic study of 60 cases . sixty cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) were analyzed clinicopathologically ( 24 vin i , 9 vin ii , 27 vin iii ) . the ages of the patients ranged from 21 to 83 years ( mean , 53.7 ) . colposcopic examinations showed the presence of white areas in 29 cases , red areas in 9 , acetowhite areas in 6 and other alterations in 13 . one-third of the lesions were multifocal . pruritus and burning were present in 65 % of the cases . fifty-one percent of the cases showed histologic changes suggestive of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) infection ; the mean age of those patients was significantly lower than that of patients without hpv infection . in 15 cases of vin , hpv dna testing was performed with southern blot hybridization ; in three ( 20 % ) of those specimens hpv 16 episomal dna was identified . epithelial alterations surrounding the areas of vin were found in 24 cases ( 40 % ) -23 squamous cellular hyperplasias and 1 lichen sclerosus . different types of treatment were performed according to the different grades of vin : medical therapy , diathermocoagulation , local excision , hemivulvectomy and total vulvectomy . follow-up was possible in 52 cases , with a mean of 33 months ( range , 3-98 ) . two cases of vin i showed progression of disease over 12-24 months . 
multimodality therapy for advanced and recurrent vulvar squamous cell carcinoma . a pilot project . from 1985 to 1989 eight women with advanced or recurrent vulvar carcinoma were treated at the women 's cancer center of the university of minnesota hospital and clinic . each received a combination of 5-fluorouracil , mitomycin c and cisplatin during radiotherapy . five of the eight women who underwent posttreatment radical vulvectomy had acceptable operative morbidity . six patients experienced a complete clinical response . of them , one had microscopic residual disease in the surgical specimen . one patient with recurrent vulvar carcinoma experienced progression of disease on therapy . one death was attributable to chemotherapy toxicity , and two patients died of intercurrent disease . the overall survival rate at 27 months was 33 % . this multimodality approach to the treatment of advanced vulvar carcinoma should be considered when designing a therapeutic approach to treating extensive or resistant vulvar carcinoma . 
irritant effect of a model surfactant on the human vulva and forearm . age-related differences . the reactivity of forearm and vulvar skin to sodium lauryl sulfate ( sls ) was studied in two groups of 20 healthy women each , 10 before and 10 after menopause . vulvar skin was less reactive to sls in both low and high concentrations than was forearm skin . transepidermal water loss measurement did not seem to be an indicator of irritant dermatitis in vulvar skin . capacitance measurements , reflecting changes in skin hydration , seemed to be more suitable for monitoring vulvar irritant dermatitis . age-related differences in irritant reaction were more apparent in low-grade irritant dermatitis induced by low concentrations of sls than in intense reactions to higher sls concentrations . 
value of four models for selecting patients for local excision of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva . for 75 women with squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva who underwent radical vulvectomy and inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy , the authors assessed the efficacy of four models for selecting patients who could have been treated adequately with local excision of the tumor . each of the three models proposed by andreasson and nyboe covered 25 % of the patients , none of whom had groin metastases or died of cancer . local recurrence in the vulva occurred in 10 % . a model suggested by the international society for the study of vulvar disease covered almost 10 % of the patients . one of seven patients had groin metastases , none died of cancer , and one of seven developed local recurrence in the vulva . the criteria of the clinically best suited model are tumor not situated on the clitoris and less than 4 cm in diameter , with only slight hyperchromasia . this model ought to be tested in a randomized study . 
endometrial ablation with the roller ball electrode . endometrial ablation for control of menorrhagia is a safe , effective alternative to hysterectomy in selected patients . endometrial ablation with a resectoscope equipped with a roller ball electrode was used on 12 patients . the technique appears to be as effective as nd : yag laser endometrial ablation and offers gynecologists the advantages of speed , low cost and safety when compared to the laser approach . 
severe preeclampsia presenting as dysphonia secondary to uvular edema . a case report . in addition to hypertension and proteinuria , generalized edema is seen commonly in women with severe preeclampsia . a patient presented to us at term with the complaint of dysphonia . upon examination she appeared to be clearly preeclamptic and had a grossly edemetous uvula , which we think occurred secondary to generalized edema . this case might be the first reported one of preeclampsia presenting as dysphonia and of uvular edema in association with preeclampsia . 
the 1989 presidential address . international society for the study of vulvar disease . major changes in the terminology for vulvar disease have taken place in the past 20 years under the influence of the members of the international society for the study of vulvar disease . major terminology changes have been made for vulvar nonneoplastic disorders , vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia and superficially invasive squamous cell carcinoma . 
role of cephamycins in obstetrics and gynecology . infections of the female upper genital tract are usually polymicrobic , often involving mixed aerobic ( facultative ) and anaerobic bacteria . optimal therapy provides coverage against aerobes ( both gram positive and gram negative and especially the enterobacteriaceae ) and anaerobes ( especially the beta-lactamase-producing gram-negative species , such as bacteroides ) . a variety of antibiotics provide the broad spectrum of activity needed for these infections , including clindamycin plus an aminoglycoside , cephalosporins and cephamycins , imipenem , extended-spectrum penicillins and the beta-lactam agents combined with a beta-lactamase inhibitor . the cephamycins -- cefoxitin , cefotetan and cefmetazole -- have been shown to have a high rate of clinical efficacy and bacteriologic response . the cephalosporins are usually used for prophylaxis at the time of obstetric and gynecologic surgery . the cephamycins have recently undergone extensive evaluation for prophylaxis and have demonstrated comparable microbiologic and clinical efficacy . a pharmacokinetic comparison of cefoxitin , cefotetan and cefmetazole points to cefmetazole as a cost-effective alternative to cefoxitin and cefotetan for both prophylaxis and treatment of pelvic infections . 
role of new cephamycins in the management of obstetric and gynecologic infections . the results of in vitro and in vivo studies of cefmetazole , a second-generation cephamycin , were reviewed . cefmetazole 's spectrum of activity includes clinical coverage of many enterobacteriaceae , staphylococci , streptococci , haemophilus species , pathogenic neisseria organisms , moraxella ( branhamella ) catarrhalis and anaerobic bacteria . cefmetazole is generally two to eight times more potent than cefoxitin against organisms within their spectra and is most active against staphylococci ( minimal inhibitory concentration90 = 2.0 micrograms/ml ) . methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus strains are more susceptible to cefmetazole , alone or in combination with fosfomycin , than to any other cephamycins , and cefmetazole is remarkably resistant to the beta-lactamases produced by aerobic and anaerobic bacteria . the incidence of adverse drug reactions is low ( 8.8 % in the united states , 2.2 % in japan ) , and the drug has been demonstrated to have cost-containment potential . 
therapeutic dilemmas in the treatment of pelvic infections . the identification of pathogens and the early recognition of pelvic infections in patients after hysterectomy , cesarean delivery and vaginal delivery were analyzed . criteria for administering cephamycin therapy were established , as were guidelines for evaluating the progress of the infection . in a comparative study of the safety and efficacy of cefmetazole and cefoxitin in 145 hospitalized patients with pelvic infections there were no significant differences between either the bacteriologic or clinical cure rates of the two antibiotics . both were efficacious and safe for the treatment of obstetric-gynecologic soft tissue infections . 
maternal outcome after open fetal surgery . a review of the first 17 human cases . a few fetal diseases may benefit from surgical treatment before birth , but hysterotomy and subsequent delivery by cesarean section pose a risk to the otherwise unaffected mother . to assess maternal risk of mortality , morbidity , and reproductive potential after fetal surgery , we reviewed our experience with 17 highly selected women who underwent fetal surgery . fifteen of these procedures were performed for one of two congenital anomalies : severe bilateral hydronephrosis and congenital diaphragmatic hernia . there were no deaths or serious maternal injuries . in the 14 women who continued pregnancy after hysterotomy , uterine irritability and preterm labor were frequent complications , requiring early confinement in most cases . there has been no detectable effect on future fertility , as indicated by eight subsequent normal pregnancies . we conclude that hysterotomy for fetal surgery can be accomplished without unduly endangering the mother 's life or her future reproductive potential . however , morbidity related to premature labor remains a serious problem , and our ability to control uterine contractions after hysterotomy remains the limiting factor in human fetal surgery . 
prolonged continuous acyclovir treatment of normal adults with frequently recurring genital herpes simplex virus infection . the acyclovir study group . in this 3-year study of suppressive acyclovir for recurrent genital herpes , patients with more than six recurrences per year were randomized initially to 400 mg of acyclovir or placebo orally two times per day , with recurrences treated with 200 mg of acyclovir five times per day for 5 days . in the second year of the study , all patients received acyclovir as a daily suppressive or intermittent acute therapy ; in the third year , all received daily acyclovir . among 525 patients completing 3 study years , 289 received 3 years of suppressive therapy and 236 received 1 year of acute therapy followed by 2 years of suppressive therapy . of those who completed the third year , 61 % were recurrence free that year ; 25 % of the suppressive therapy-only group were recurrence free for all 3 years . the annual recurrence rate dropped from more than 12 recurrences per year at baseline to 1.0 ( suppressive therapy ) and 1.4 ( acute and suppressive therapy ) recurrences during the third year . no significant toxic effects were detected . daily suppressive acyclovir therapy was effective and well tolerated . 
toxoplasma gondii infection during pregnancy : t lymphocyte subpopulations in mothers and fetuses . prenatal diagnosis of fetal toxoplasmosis is possible with the use of fetal blood sampling , amniocentesis and ultrasound examination . the purpose of this study was to describe t lymphocyte subsets ( cd3 , cd4 and cd8 ) in mothers and their fetuses when toxoplasma gondii infection occurred during pregnancy . maternal and fetal blood samples were obtained in 86 cases and 9 fetuses showed t. gondii infection . control groups consisted of 30 healthy nonpregnant women and 30 pregnant women . pregnant women with t. gondii infection showed an increase in the suppressor ( cd8 ) t subpopulation and a significant depression in the total helper ( cd4 ) t cells . these alterations were more important in mothers whose fetus was infected . we showed the progressive maturation of the fetal immune system with a regular increase of all t lymphocyte subsets . marked alterations were observed in the 9 infected fetuses ( depression of cd4 population and lower cd4/cd8 ratio ) . in the future these differences might be used as a new marker of the severity of fetal lesions and become a useful diagnostic tool . 
successful pregnancy in a patient receiving hemodialysis . pregnancy is an unusual occurrence in women with esrd . we report a successful pregnancy in a patient with esrd who was receiving hemodialysis ; she gave birth to a healthy female infant at 34 weeks ' gestational age . we discuss possible physiologic causes of gonadal dysfunction in patients with esrd . 
preventing group b streptococcal infection in newborns . group b streptococci , commonly found in the maternal gastrointestinal and genitourinary tracts , can be transmitted to the neonate at the time of rupture of membranes and during delivery . current management strategies include early detection of group b streptococcal carriers and the administration of intrapartum prophylactic antibiotics to prevent maternal fetal transmission . several tests are now available to rapidly identify group b streptococcal carriers . physicians should be able to recognize patients at high risk for colonization and the situations in which prophylactic antibiotics should be employed . proper use of antibiotics during labor can eliminate group b streptococcal sepsis in neonates . early group b streptococcal meningitis carries a mortality rate of almost 50 percent , despite medical support from neonatal intensive care units . 
increased risk of ectopic pregnancy with maternal cigarette smoking . as part of a case-control study of ectopic pregnancy , we evaluated the potential etiologic role of cigarette smoking . maternal cigarette smoking at the time of conception was associated with an increased risk of ectopic pregnancy with a dose-response relationship ( adjusted odds ratios : 1.30 to 2.49 ) . on the other hand , partner 's smoking was not associated with ectopic pregnancy . the study provides a supplementary argument towards a causal effect of smoking in the development of ectopic pregnancy . 
maternal and fetal effects of labetalol in pregnant ewes . labetalol has been advocated to rapidly decrease blood pressure in preeclamptic women and to blunt the hemodynamic response to tracheal intubation . to assess labetalol 's actions in a setting of uterine vasoconstriction , saline or labetalol ( 1 mg/kg ) was infused into maternal venous catheters in 12 pregnant ewes receiving continuous maternal intravenous infusions of norepinephrine . norepinephrine increased maternal mean arterial pressure ( map ) to 120 + / - 4 % of control and decreased uterine blood flow to 45 + / - 6 % of control . labetalol , but not saline , altered these parameters : it decreased map to 101 + / - 3 % and increased uterine blood flow to 70 + / - 7 % of prenorepinephrine values . in the second protocol , to assess the degree of labetalol-induced fetal adrenergic blockade , 7 pregnant ewes received , on separate days , saline or labetalol ( 0.3 , 1.0 , 3.0 mg/kg ) via a maternal venous catheter . maternally administered labetalol produced minor ( less than 12 % ) decreases in maternal and fetal map , without significantly altering heart rate ( hr ) . at each labetalol dose , the degree of alpha - and beta-adrenergic blockade , determined by phenylephrine and isoproterenol challenge , was greater in the ewe than in the fetus . in the near-term pregnant ewe , intravenous ( iv ) bolus administration of labetalol ameliorated the effects of increased circulating norepinephrine on maternal map , uterine blood flow , and fetal ph and arterial o2 tension ( pao2 ) , and produced less adrenergic blockade in the fetus than in the mother . 
dilated and contracted forms of primary endocardial fibroelastosis : a single fetal disease with two stages of development . left ventricular endocardial fibroelastosis was diagnosed by echocardiographic scanning in a fetus at 20 weeks ' gestation . repeated prenatal examination over the next 20 weeks ' gestation showed the development of the left ventricle from a chamber with a dilated cavity to a small cavity with a very thick wall . these findings were confirmed at necropsy and by the absence of other morphological anomalies . the contracted form of primary fibroelastosis in the fetus must have followed an insult that prevented any further increase in the size of the left ventricular cavity . 
polyhydramnios and associated maternal and fetal complications in singleton pregnancies . during the 10-year period 1 january 1979 to 31 december 1988 , polyhydramnios occurred in 537 patients with singleton pregnancies delivered at the mercy maternity hospital . associated maternal and fetal complications and the perinatal outcome of these pregnancies with polyhydramnios were analysed . in 248 of the 537 pregnancies ( 46 % ) in this group there were no maternal complications or fetal malformations and the perinatal mortality ( pnm ) rate was 2.4 % . the pnm rate increased significantly to 13.1 % when there was associated pre-eclampsia , 10 % with gestational diabetes , and to 7.6 % with miscellaneous complications . when polyhydramnios was associated with a fetal or placental malformation the pnm rate was 61.4 % . the commonest malformations were central nervous system ( 31 % ) , musculoskeletal ( 12 % ) and gastrointestinal system anomalies ( 10 % ) . placental chorioangioma occurred in two patients ( 0.4 % ) and both babies died . in women with low oestriol excretion ( 18 % of the 455 tested ) the pnm rate increased five times to 22.7 % . 
the epithelial changes associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva : a review of the clinical , histological and viral findings in 78 women . seventy-eight excised specimens of squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva were reviewed retrospectively for the presence of lichen sclerosus or vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) at sites proximal to the tumour or more distant . lichen sclerosus was evident in 61 % and vin alone in 31 % . vin iii ( differentiated ) was associated with over 50 % of the specimens with lichen sclerosus . hpv 16 was found in six of the 11 vin lesions , investigated but in none of the six with lichen sclerosus . 
the long-term effects of radiation therapy on patients with ovarian dysgerminoma . a retrospective chart review and questionnaire study was undertaken to look at the long-term effects of radiation therapy in ovarian dysgerminoma patients . forty-three patients and 55 controls responded to a questionnaire that detailed bowel , bladder , thyroid , menstrual , reproductive , sexual , and growth function . statistically significant differences in the number of bowel movements were noticed when comparing patients with controls . the authors noticed no significant differences between cases and controls in bladder function . no thyroid disorders were attributable to mediastinal radiation therapy . most patients with intact uteri bleed monthly on hormonal replacement . three patients with a remaining ovary and uterus resumed menstrual function after substantial doses of abdominopelvic radiation therapy . no patients have conceived . the authors noticed a slight increase in dyspareunia in the treated group , but most patients were satisfied with their sexual function . one premenarchal patient exhibited a growth disorder . 
surgical treatment of extramammary paget 's disease . a report of six cases and a reexamination of mohs micrographic surgery compared with conventional surgical excision . extramammary paget 's disease ( empd ) is a rare cutaneous malignancy , usually on the genitalia , that almost always extends beyond clinically apparent margins . recurrences after standard methods of surgical excision are notoriously frequent ; effective treatment with mohs micrographic surgery was first reported in 1979 . it has since been suggested this malignancy may be multifocal , and reports of recurrences after resection with micrographic surgery have appeared . the authors report six cases treated with mohs surgery , two of which recurred . they also present data on 42 additional cases obtained from a written survey of members of the american college of mohs micrographic surgery and comparison cases selected from the literature . the recurrence rate after micrographic surgery appears to be at least as low as that after conventional surgical excision with vertical frozen section or paraffin section margin control . mohs micrographic surgery allows for maximal tissue sparing of critical anatomic structures and is performed under local anesthesia as an outpatient ; because of this , it may be superior to conventional surgical excision . a scheme for management of this malignancy is presented . surgeons should be aware radical excision is not needed for most cases of extramammary paget 's disease and very long-term patient follow-up is required . 
expression of the macrophage colony-stimulating factor and its receptor in gynecologic malignancies . recently , hematopoietic growth factors have been implicated in protean nonhematopoietic processes . in the current study , expression of macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) and its receptor ( the c-fms proto-oncogene ) was investigated in 42 samples of gynecologic tissues . there were 15 samples of normal ovarian and uterine tissue or benign conditions of these organs ; 11 samples of primary ovarian cancer tissue ; seven samples of metastatic ovarian cancer tissue ; and nine samples of primary endometrial cancer tissue . steady state transcript levels were assessed by northern blot analysis . macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) expression was not observed in any of the specimens of benign abnormalities or of normal organs ; c-fms expression was detected in two of 15 ( 13 % ) of these specimens , albeit at very low levels . in contrast , 14 ( 78 % ) of 18 ovarian tumor specimens , and five ( 55 % ) of nine endometrial tumor specimens expressed m-csf . similarly , 16 ( 89 % ) of 18 ovarian tumor specimens and six ( 67 % ) of nine endometrial tumor specimens expressed c-fms . most positive malignant tissues ( 19 [ 86 % ] of 22 ) showed coexpression of m-csf and c-fms . of interest , m-csf and c-fms mrna were detected in tumor , but not in adjacent normal tissue . furthermore , m-csf and c-fms transcripts were produced by all metastatic tumors , including two cases in which the corresponding primary tumor from the same patient was negative . because m-csf mediates its effects by binding to its receptor , the increased levels of both these gene products in gynecologic malignancies suggest that an interaction between m-csf and c-fms may participate in the development of ovarian and endometrial carcinomas and especially in progression to the metastatic state . 
carcinoma of the female reproductive organs . value of cross-sectional imaging . cross-sectional imaging techniques i.e. , computed tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , play an integral role in the evaluation of patients with carcinoma of the female reproductive system . neither ct nor mri , however , are tissue-specific , and benign and malignant disease can not be differentiated using these techniques alone . therefore , the diagnosis is clinical and is based on history , physical examination , and histology . after the diagnosis has been made , ct and mri are recommended for noninvasive evaluation of tumor extent , often helping in designing optimal therapy , thus facilitating more effective treatment and ultimately influencing patient prognosis . in evaluating tumors of the uterus , including endometrial and cervical carcinomas , ct is limited to the evaluation of more extensive disease . it is believed that the value of ct rises proportionately to the size and extent of disease . its major limitation is suboptimal tissue contrast resolution , making differentiation between a small tumor and the surrounding normal tissue difficult . mri renders excellent soft tissue contrast , allowing direct tumor visualization and assessment of tumor volume , depth of penetration , and extension to adjacent tissues . assessment of these parameters is crucial in deciding on the choice of therapy , whether surgery , radiation , chemotherapy , or their combination . the initial management of ovarian cancer usually includes surgical staging with tumor debulking . ct remains the primary staging technique ; its value resides primarily in identification of tumor metastases and in patient follow-up . despite progress in the use of ct and mri , second-look laparotomy for ovarian cancer has not been superseded . technical advances in radiologic cross-sectional imaging have significantly improved the accuracy of noninvasive tumor staging . although there are still limitations to these techniques , additional technical improvement and better tissue characterization are imminent . 
laparoscopic cautery in the treatment of endometriosis-related infertility . life table analysis and the two-parameter exponential method have been applied to pregnancy rates in 72 patients undergoing laparoscopic cautery exclusively . patients with male factor infertility were excluded . estimated cure rates for patients with stage i and ii disease were 98.2 % and 76.6 % , respectively ( not significantly different ) . no significant difference was seen when anovulation complicated the endometriosis ( 68.6 % ) . when greater than one infertility factor was present , a significant difference was observed ( 50.6 % ) . patients with stage i disease had an average fecundity of 10.30 % with decreasing values observed in stage ii ( 7.59 % ) , anovulation ( 6.67 % ) , and more than one infertility factor ( 3.33 % ) . we conclude that laparoscopic cauterization is an effective mode of therapy for the treatment of stage i and ii endometriosis associated with infertility . 
endometrial epithelial cells in peritoneal fluid during the early follicular phase . peritoneal fluid ( pf ) was obtained during the early follicular phase in 24 women at laparoscopy as part of infertility investigation . the cells present in pf were pelleted and cultured . developing endometrial epithelial cell colonies were identified in 19 women ( 79 % ) . identification of these cell colonies was facilitated using the monoclonal antibody bw 495/36 as specific marker . the number of endometrial epithelial cell colonies showed a large variation ( 1 to 200 or more pf sample ) . no significant distinction in incidence and number of cell colonies was found between women with minimal ( n = 11 ) and without endometriosis ( n = 12 ) . a significant correlation with number of cell colonies was found in women with infertility and no mechanical and male infertility factors . these data indicate that retrograde transport of viable endometrial cells during menstruation occurs in most women with patent tubes . implications of the results for the relation between retrograde menstruation , endometriosis , and infertility are discussed . 
diagnosis and prevalence of persistent chlamydia infection in infertile women : tissue culture , direct antigen detection , and serology . specimens for chlamydial culture , direct fluorescent antibody ( dfa ) test , two enzyme immunoassays ( eia ) for antigen detection , and serum for chlamydial antibodies were collected from 256 infertile women . specimens were taken from the tubes during tuboplasty and from the cervix and endometrium during laparoscopy or tuboplasty . antibodies to chlamydia trachomatis were found four times more often in patients with signs of prior pelvic inflammatory disease ( pid ) than in infertile women with normal pelvic findings . only 48 ( 37 % ) of 131 patients with signs of prior pid had a history of pid . ten or more c. trachomatis elementary bodies ( ebs ) per smear were found in 21 ( 8.2 % ) of 256 patients . six patients had a positive culture or a positive antigen eia test . all six had high numbers of ebs in the dfa test . we conclude that routine culture and eia antigen tests detect only a minority of persistent chlamydia infections in this population , but subjective factors in the interpretation of dfa methods must be considered . 
effect of baseline ovarian cysts on in vitro fertilization and gamete intrafallopian transfer cycles . the presence of ovarian cysts may compromise the success of in vitro fertilization ( ivf ) and gamete intrafallopian transfer ( gift ) . we prospectively studied 212 consecutive ovulation induction cycles in 120 patients for ivf and/or gift . a baseline cyst was defined as any intraovarian cystic structure greater than or equal to 12 mm noted on ultrasonography before superovulation . cycle outcomes were compared between patients with cysts ( n = 62 ) versus those with no cysts ( n = 150 ) . there were no differences in follicular or luteal phase lengths or amount of human menopausal gonadotropins used . peak estradiol ( e2 ) levels were significantly lower and cancellation rates significantly higher in the cyst group . for noncanceled cycles , there were no significant differences in peak e2 levels , the mean number of follicles greater than or equal to 12 mm , mature oocytes retrieved , or ova transferred for gift or embryos for ivf . the pregnancy rates overall and for noncanceled cycles were not significantly different . 
intraperitoneal insemination in the treatment of male and unexplained infertility . for couples with unexplained or male infertility , intraperitoneal ( ip ) insemination in induced cycles is a method that increases the chance of fertilization . seventy-seven couples with male subfertility were subjected to 120 ip insemination cycles and 31 with unexplained sterility to 44 cycles . as a consequence of the treatment , 23 pregnancies were obtained , with pregnancy rates of 23 % per cycle and 32 % per patient for unexplained infertility and 11 % and 17 % for male subfertility . pregnancy loss rate was quite elevated : 9 clinical abortions and 1 ectopic . intraperitoneal insemination appears to be a relatively noninvasive way to deal with unexplained or male factor infertility , well worth trying before moving on to more invasive and costly approaches , such as gamete intrafallopian transfer or in vitro fertilization . 
synergistic effects of interceed ( tc7 ) and heparin in reducing adhesion formation in the rabbit uterine horn model . surgical adjuvants are commonly employed to reduce the frequency of postoperative adhesion development after reproductive pelvic surgery . the ability of indomethacin , promethazine dexamethasone , intralipid , progesterone , and heparin to reduce adhesion formation in combination with interceed ( tc7 ) ( johnson and johnson medical , inc. , new brunswick , nj ) , an absorbable barrier that alone reduces adhesion formation , was examined in a rabbit uterine horn model . a significant reduction in adhesion formation was only observed with the combination of interceed ( tc7 ) plus heparin . in addition studies , heparin delivery by intraperitoneal ( ip ) lavage , intravenous injection , or intra-abdominal instillation failed to demonstrate efficacy . similarly , heparin delivery with other barriers or ip instillates ( carboxymethylcellulose or 32 % dextran 70 ) failed to reduce adhesion formation . we conclude that interceed ( tc7 ) can be efficaciously utilized as a carrier to deliver heparin to traumatized surfaces , thereby reducing adhesion formation . 
the effect of estradiol on the production and secretion of complement component 3 by the rat uterus and surgically induced endometriotic tissue . we have recently demonstrated that glandular epithelial cells isolated from human endometriotic tissue synthesize and secrete complement component 3 ( c3 ) . furthermore , because c3 is capable of producing many of the immunological activities known to be associated with human endometriosis , we studied the production , secretion , and regulation of c3 using the rat model for endometriosis . endometriosis was surgically induced in 20 adult female rats . the animals were then ovariectomized and one half were treated with estradiol ( e2 ) for 3 days . uterine luminal epithelial cells synthesized and secreted c3 only after e2 administration , whereas the uteri from control animals did not produce c3 . in contrast , the ectopic endometrium from control animals produced and secreted c3 , and this expression was strongly upregulated by in vivo e2 administration . we conclude that surgically induced endometriosis in the rat has properties biochemically independent from the intact uterus and may serve as a useful model to further investigate the regulation of c3 synthesis from human endometriosis . 
detection of a progesterone-induced secretory protein synthesized by the uteri but not the endometriotic implants of rats with induced endometriosis . steroids modulate the secretory activity of the uterus , but little is known of their effect on ectopic endometrium protein synthesis and secretion . we utilized two-dimensional electrophoresis to visualize proteins produced by the uteri and endometriotic implants of both steroid-treated and reproductively cyclic rats with and without surgically induced endometriosis . of the greater than 300 proteins visualized , only the uterine cultures from progesterone ( p ) - stimulated , estrogen-suppressed rats contained a distinctive glycoprotein ( p-induced uterine protein-1 ; molecular weight [ mr ] 70,000 ; isoelectric point [ pi ] 5.7 ) . this protein was not detected in any of the endometriotic implant cultures . progesterone-induced uterine protein-1 could play a role in luteal or endometrial physiology and may be valuable in assessing endometrial function . the aberrant secretory behavior of the ectopic endometrium suggests a possible involvement in the reproductive dysfunction associated with endometriosis . 
time-related effects of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog treatment in experimentally induced endometriosis in the rat . the purpose of our study was to characterize the time-dependent effect of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog ( gnrh-a ) therapy on endometriosis explant using the rat model . endometriosis was induced in 60 mature female rats . one group of treated animals as well as controls were killed at 2 , 4 , 6 and 8 weeks of treatment at which time the explant was evaluated . explant volume was significantly reduced in all treatment groups , an effect that was more significant in animals treated for greater than or equal to 4 weeks compared with those treated for only 2 weeks . we conclude that gnrh-a treatment caused gradual regression of endometrial explant that was effectively complete by 4 weeks of treatment . we further conclude that this experimental model may be useful in the evaluation of other modes of endometriosis therapy . 
intraoperative management of ureteral injury during operative laparoscopy . injury to the ureter from operative laparoscopy is rare . the diagnosis is usually made radiologically , in the postoperative period , when the patient presents with symptoms and signs suggestive of ureteral injury . we report herein a case of ureteral injury resulting from operative laparoscopy for endometriosis . the injury was diagnosed and treated via laparoscopy during the same procedure . the increased utilization of operative laparoscopy to perform more complex procedures increases the potential for operative injury to the ureter . prior visualization or retroperitoneal dissection of the ureter , in appropriate cases , will help reduce this complication and/or permit a prompt diagnosis in the event of such injury . 
predictive value of the active renin assay for the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy . the increasing frequency of ep and the need for its early diagnosis have focused our interest on the research of biochemical markers . we have established hormonal values in the plasma of 99 spontaneous ongoing pregnancies between the 4th and 10th weeks of amenorrhea , in 21 eps , and 20 cases of early abortion . we have examined the predictive values of trophoblastic and cl production in pathological pregnancies . the association of low hcg and low active renin appears to be able to discriminate between ectopic and abortive spontaneous gestations . 
bone mineral density of the lumbar spine in endometriosis subjects compared to an age-similar control population . the purpose of this study was to compare the lumbar bone mineral density ( bmd ) between women with endometriosis and age-similar controls . eighty-five women from nine north american centers ( mean age , 30.7 yr ) with laparoscopically proven endometriosis ( study patients ) were enrolled in a study of the efficacy of nafarelin , a gnrh agonist . fifty-two women ( mean age , 32 yr ) from the palo alto area , with regular menstrual cycles and no major medical problems , served as age-similar controls . both groups were predominantly ( greater than 92 % ) white . the mean bmd of the lumbar spine was 1.1 g/cm2 in both the study subjects and the controls . study patients were 104.8 % and controls were 104.8 % of normal values for age . bmd was not significantly different in the two groups . bmd was not correlated with severity or time from diagnosis of endometriosis . bmd was positively correlated with weight ( r = 0.28 ; p less than 0.05 ) in both groups , with height ( r = 0.30 ; p less than 0.01 ) in study patients , and marginally with height ( r = 0.26 ; p less than 0.07 ) in controls . this study showed no difference in bmd between endometriosis patients and age-similar controls ; both groups had normal bmd . 
biotin deficiency per se is teratogenic in mice . we examined whether maternal biotin deficiency would potentiate the latent teratogenicity of relatively low doses of vitamin a in mice . the incidence and the type of gross congenital malformations ( cleft palate , micrognathia , and micromelia ) induced by biotin deficiency were similar among the groups given three different concentrations of vitamin a ( 4000 , 12,000 and 60,000 iu ) in the diet . also , the type of these malformations was different from those ( exencephaly , cleft palate and macroglossia ) induced by a known teratogenic dose of vitamin a ( 1,200,000 iu ) . we conclude that in mice concentrations of vitamin a in the range of 4-10 times the level recommended by the national research council and biotin deficiency do not interfere with one another ; also , biotin deficiency per se is teratogenic in mice . 
aggravation of subclinical diabetes insipidus during pregnancy background . transient polyuria and polydipsia during pregnancy are rare , and their cause is not entirely clear . possible explanations include the exacerbation of preexisting abnormalities in the secretion or action of vasopressin and abnormally large increases in plasma vasopressinase activity . methods . we studied two women in whom overt polyuria and polydipsia developed during the third trimester of pregnancy and disappeared after delivery . the secretion and action of vasopressin were studied both when the women had polyuria and polydipsia and later , when their water intake and urine volume were normal . results . one patient had partial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus . she had little increase in urine osmolality in response to water deprivation , hypertonic-saline infusion , and vasopressin injection and no response to desmopressin acetate ( 1-deamino-8-d-arginine vasopressin ) during the immediate postpartum period . her basal and stimulated plasma vasopressin concentrations were high ( 16.5 to 203.4 pmol per liter ) before and during hypertonic-saline infusion 30 months post partum . the other patient had partial neurogenic diabetes insipidus . she had subnormal basal plasma vasopressin concentrations , a subnormal increase in the plasma vasopressin level and a subnormal decrease in urine flow in response to the administration of vasopressin , and a normal response to desmopressin . after pregnancy , when her urine volume was normal , she had no increase in plasma vasopressin in response to hypertonic-saline infusion , but she had a normal rise in the plasma vasopressin level and a normal renal response to vasopressin administration . conclusions . pregnancy may unmask subclinical forms of both nephrogenic and neurogenic diabetes insipidus . this exacerbation may result from both increased vasopressinase activity and diminished renal responsiveness to vasopressin . 
nifedipine in the treatment of severe preeclampsia . we conducted a randomized clinical trial in which patients with severe preeclampsia between 26-36 weeks of gestation received either nifedipine ( 10-30 mg sublingually , then 40-120 mg/day orally ; n = 24 ) or hydralazine ( 6.25-12 .5 mg intravenously , then 80-120 mg/day orally ; n = 25 ) . effective control of blood pressure was achieved with nifedipine in 95.8 % of subjects and with hydralazine in 68 % , a statistically significant difference ( p less than .05 ) . maternal side effects were minor in both groups . acute fetal distress developed in one nifedipine subject and in 11 treated with hydralazine . mean prolongation of gestation was 15.5 + / - 10 days with nifedipine and 9.5 + / - 11 days with hydralazine , a difference that did not reach statistical significance ( p less than .07 ) . infants born to women treated with nifedipine were delivered at more advanced gestational ages ( 34.6 + / - 2.3 versus 33.6 + / - 2.4 weeks ; statistically not significant ) , weighed more ( 1826 + / - 456 versus 1580 + / - 499 g ; statistically not significant ) , and tended to have fewer , mainly minor , complications . the average number of days spent in the neonatal intensive care unit was significantly lower in the nifedipine group ( 15.1 versus 32.7 days ; p less than .005 ) , leading to an average 31 % reduction in total ( maternal and neonatal ) hospitalization-related charges for each nifedipine-treated pregnancy . we conclude that nifedipine is an effective , convenient , and low-cost treatment for patients with severe preeclampsia , and is not associated with undesirable side effects . 
etiologies of preterm birth in an indigent population : is prevention a logical expectation ? to assess the expectations of preterm birth prevention , we determined the causes of preterm birth in a population of indigent women . we studied 13,119 singleton births in a predominantly black , indigent population occurring between november 1982 and april 1986 to identify the proportion of preterm births that may have been prevented using current treatment modalities . forty-four percent of the preterm births occurred at 35 to 36 weeks ' gestational age , a time when most practitioners do not attempt tocolysis . of the remainder , 17 % occurred before 35 weeks but were indicated for maternal medical or obstetric complications , and another 17 % occurred before 35 weeks but followed spontaneous premature rupture of the membranes . therefore , of the 1445 preterm births , we calculated that only 336 ( 23.2 % ) were theoretically preventable . a fourth of these presented at less than 3 cm cervical dilatation and were treated appropriately with tocolytics , but delivered anyway . therefore , most of the potentially preventable births occurred in the group that presented with cervical dilatation of more than 3 cm . we conclude that improving the preterm birth rate significantly below current levels may be difficult to achieve . 
risk factors for shoulder dystocia : an engineering study of clinician-applied forces . we report on engineering risk factors associated with clinician-applied forces during vaginal delivery of newborns . specifically , we present and interpret data from a series of experiments using force-sensing devices on 29 randomly selected vaginal births , including two shoulder dystocia deliveries and one birth injury . the results indicate that clinician-applied peak forces are typically about 47 n for routine deliveries , 69 n for difficult deliveries , and 100 n for a shoulder dystocia delivery ( p less than .01 ) . the time required to deliver fetal shoulders doubles for nonroutine deliveries ( p less than .01 ) . in addition , impulse and rate of application of force distinguish between routine and nonroutine deliveries ( p less than .03 ) . we conclude that , if properly perceived , force , force rate , and the duration of force are objective parameters that can be used in recognizing and managing shoulder dystocia and in predicting thresholds for birth injury . 
fetal renal artery velocity waveforms and amniotic fluid volume in growth-retarded and post-term fetuses . renal blood flow velocity waveforms were recorded by doppler ultrasonography in 114 growth-retarded fetuses and in 97 post-term fetuses . the pulsatility index ( pi ) values were compared with our reference limits for gestational age and related to the amount of amniotic fluid . growth-retarded fetuses showed significantly increased pi values compared with normally grown fetuses , and this difference was particularly evident in cases of oligohydramnios . furthermore , there was a significant negative correlation between the increase in pi and the amniotic fluid volume . post-term fetuses showed no significant differences in pi values compared with term fetuses and no significant correlation between the amount of amniotic fluid and pi values . 
diverse maternal and fetal pathology associated with absent diastolic flow in the umbilical artery of high-risk fetuses . twenty-two of approximately 450 high-risk pregnancies referred to a regional center for a level ii sonographic examination after 20 weeks ' gestation were characterized by absent or reversed diastolic flow in the umbilical artery . ten fetuses had congenital malformations or were aneuploid . ten were growth-retarded in association with other problems : maternal hypertension , preeclampsia , cyanotic heart disease , elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels , or twin gestation . in two cases , no etiology could be identified . knowledge of the fetal karyotype , fetal anatomy , gestational age , maternal disease , and fetal status as determined by other tests of fetal well-being was required to optimize outcome in each case . in view of the heterogeneous etiologies of absent or reversed diastolic flow , management of such cases must be individualized . 
salpingoscopy : light microscopic and electron microscopic correlations [ published erratum appears in obstet gynecol 1991 may ; 77 ( 5 ) :809 -10 ] in order to examine the ability of salpingoscopy to diagnose intratubal pathology , 32 fallopian tubes were evaluated salpingoscopically and histologically . both flexible and rigid salpingoscopes were used , and observations were documented by intratubal photography . salpingoscopic criteria were established and each criterion assigned a numerical value . each tube was evaluated for patency , mucosal fold architecture , erythema , adhesions , and dilatation . based on these criteria , tubes were graded as normal or as abnormal with mild , moderate , or severe changes . histologically , each tube was evaluated for patency , epithelial changes , vascularity , dilatation , adhesions , and active inflammation . six tubes with significant histologic findings and two histologically normal fallopian tubes were also examined by transmission electron microscopy . in five discordant cases , histology revealed epithelial and stromal changes not detected by salpingoscopy . fallopian tubes with severe disease were diagnosed by both methods . transmission electron microscopy of histologically abnormal tubes showed flattening of the epithelium with markedly reduced ciliary distribution , degenerating secretory epithelial cells with large intracellular vacuoles , and swollen nuclei containing sparse chromatin . our results indicate that salpingoscopic observations are consistent with histologic findings when endotubal disease is severe . however , moderate pathologic changes as documented by light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy were frequently not diagnosed salpingoscopically , even with magnification . 
serial endovaginal sonography of ectopic pregnancies treated with methotrexate . methotrexate therapy is a newly established treatment modality for ectopic pregnancy . we performed this study to determine the time frame for resolution of the sonographically identifiable mass during such therapy and to determine the role of sonography in the management of these patients . eighteen patients treated with methotrexate for laparoscopically proven ectopic pregnancy consented to long-term follow-up with endovaginal sonography . these 18 patients constitute the study group . the time required for sonographic resolution of the mass was variable , although poor patient compliance with sonographic follow-up affected the conclusions regarding resolution time . one hundred eight days was the longest period accurately known for resolution of a mass . in seven patients , the mass persisted after a negative hcg titer . enlargement of the adnexal mass during therapy did not necessarily predict treatment failure , as only two of ten such patients required surgery for rupture . serial sonography did not alter the management of most patients and appears not to be warranted on a routine basis . follow-up sonography was most useful when complications were suspected . all patients considered for methotrexate therapy should first have an endovaginal sonogram , as cardiac activity remains a relative contraindication to this treatment . we have determined that the mass of an ectopic pregnancy may remain after the hcg is negative . therefore , a persistent mass should not be interpreted as treatment failure . 
repetitive conservative surgery for recurrence of endometriosis . we evaluated the recovery of fertility and the relief of pain symptoms in a long-term follow-up of 42 women undergoing repetitive conservative surgery for recurrent endometriosis . the mean age of the patients was 31.1 + / - 4.3 years . at the time of their second operation the disease was stage iv in 14 women , stage iii in 25 , and stage i in three . after reoperation , the patients were followed for a mean period of 41.8 + / - 30.3 months . pain symptoms returned in eight women , dysmenorrhea and deep dyspareunia in eight , and pelvic pain in seven . eight of the 28 women ( 28.6 % ) who attempted to conceive achieved a total of 13 pregnancies . the corrected pregnancy rate was 35 % , and the cumulative rate at 27 months was 30.7 % . a third operation was necessary in six women after a mean period of 35 months . conservative surgery is an effective therapeutic option for infertile patients with recurrent endometriosis . 
measures of sexual behavior and the risk of pelvic inflammatory disease . a women 's sexual behavior affects her risk of acquiring pelvic inflammatory disease , but the risks have not been well characterized . to study the association between pelvic inflammatory disease and sexual behavior , we analyzed data from a multicenter , case-control study involving 712 women hospitalized with an initial episode of pelvic inflammatory disease and 2719 hospitalized control women without a history of pelvic inflammatory disease . study participants provided information on their frequency of intercourse , number of recent sexual partners , and previous history of gonorrhea . logistic regression methods were used to adjust for confounding factors . women who reported having four or more sexual partners were over three times more likely to be hospitalized for pelvic inflammatory disease ( relative risk 3.4 ; 95 % confidence interval 2.2-5 .3 ) than were women who reported only one recent sexual partner . to a lesser extent , frequent sexual intercourse and history of gonorrhea also increased a woman 's risk of pelvic inflammatory disease . frequent intercourse was a strong risk factor for pelvic inflammatory disease among a subgroup of women who were at low risk for acquiring a sexually transmitted disease : married women with one recent sexual partner with intercourse six or more times per week had a risk of pelvic inflammatory disease of 3.2 ( 1.4-7 .2 ) compared with similar women having intercourse less than once per week . frequent intercourse , which does not by itself increase the risk of acquiring a sexually transmitted disease , may increase a woman 's risk of pelvic inflammatory disease . 
amoxicillin treatment of bacterial vaginosis during pregnancy . the purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the efficacy of amoxicillin for treatment of bacterial vaginosis during pregnancy . the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis was established by clinical examination and microscopic examination of a gram stain and saline preparation of vaginal secretions . in a double-blind , randomized manner , 108 patients at 15-25 weeks ' gestation were assigned to treatment with oral amoxicillin , 500 mg three times daily for 14 days , or placebo . patients were evaluated 2 weeks after treatment , at 34-36 weeks ' gestation , and at delivery . there were no significant differences between the two groups with respect to any clinical or microbiologic measure of treatment outcome . there were also no significant differences in the frequency of obstetric complications . we conclude that amoxicillin is not effective therapy for bacterial vaginosis in pregnant women . 
enlarged cisterna magna and the dandy-walker malformation : factors associated with chromosome abnormalities . thirty-three fetuses with an enlarged cisterna magna ( 10 mm or more ) were evaluated to determine factors that might be associated with an underlying chromosome abnormality . eighteen fetuses ( 55 % ) proved to have a chromosome abnormality , including trisomy 18 or trisomy 18 variant ( 12 ) , trisomy 13 ( three ) , turner syndrome ( one ) , or other rearrangements ( two ) . among various risk factors analyzed , the absence of ventricular dilatation correlated most strongly with a chromosome abnormality . chromosome abnormalities were found in 17 of 22 fetuses ( 77 % ) lacking ventricular dilatation , compared with only one of 11 fetuses ( 9 % ) with ventricular dilatation ( p less than .001 ) . other factors statistically associated ( p less than .01 ) with an underlying chromosome abnormality included mild enlargement of the cisterna magna ( 10-14 mm ) , concurrent anomalies detected sonographically , and fetal growth retardation . however , stepwise logistic regression showed that only the absence of ventricular dilatation and the presence of concurrent anomalies were significant when multiple factors were evaluated . these observations support the utility of evaluating the cisterna magna as part of a routine anatomical survey . 
endometrial carcinoma : the relevance of cervical cytology . in patients with endometrial carcinoma , preoperative identification of poor prognostic factors is helpful in planning therapy . extended surgical staging , including pelvic and periaortic node dissection , is indicated in patients with deep myometrial invasion or high-grade tumor , or when other risk factors for extrauterine spread are present . in this study , cervical cytology was reviewed in 86 patients with endometrial carcinoma , all of whom underwent surgical staging , to correlate the cytologic results with surgical and pathologic findings . cervical cytology was normal in 20 patients ( 23 % ) , whereas suspicious or malignant endometrial cells were present in 23 and 43 cases ( 27 and 50 % ) , respectively . suspicious or malignant cervical cytology was associated with deeper myometrial invasion ( p = .011 ) , higher postoperative tumor grade ( p = .006 ) , positive peritoneal washings ( p = .012 ) , and more advanced stage by international federation of gynecology and obstetrics criteria ( p = .024 ) . when compared with patients with normal cervical cytology , those who had malignant endometrial cells had over twice the risk of deep myometrial invasion ( 67 versus 30 % ) , twice the risk of grade 2 or 3 tumor ( 60 versus 30 % ) , and three times the risk of positive peritoneal washings ( 33 versus 10 % ) . seventy-four percent of patients with malignant cervical cytology were stage ic or more . in contrast , 70 % of patients with normal cervical cytology were stage ia or ib . patients with endometrial carcinoma who have malignant endometrial cells detected by cervical cytology are at increased risk of having a deeply invasive , high-grade , advanced-stage tumor , and therefore are more likely to require extended surgical staging . 
imaging of patients with stage d prostatic carcinoma . in conclusion , it would appear from present evidence that several statements can be made . first , mri is the most accurate method of staging the periprostatic spread of carcinoma . both the prostate and the regional nodes can be evaluated . the role of ultrasound is , at present , unclear . second , the utility of ct has diminished with the emergence of high-quality mri , but in situations in which mri scans are inconclusive ( e.g. , in the assessment of paraaortic node disease , in which images are degraded by peristaltic movement ) , ct may be useful . third , the choice of method for the assessment of nodal disease is a more difficult question . although mri and ct have replaced lymphography in most centers , the latter study , especially when combined with fine-needle aspiration biopsy , still is useful . fourth , bone metastases are best assessed with scintigraphy , which can point to areas requiring supplemental plain radiography . an mri study of the spine , although highly sensitive , is not practical . fifth , mri is superior to ct myelography in assessing spinal disease . finally , the chest radiograph is the mainstay of assessing chest involvement . 
initial results with slightly modified kock pouch . my initial experience with 20 patients undergoing kock pouch continent urinary diversion is reviewed . the procedure has been slightly modified from that described by kock and skinner . all patients have been followed for at least four months ( median , 33 months ) . there have been no early complications related to the pouch . the most significant problem , incontinence , has occurred in 2 patients ( 10 % ) at three and four months , respectively , after surgery . only 1 of these patients required temporary use of an external appliance . leakage was due , in both cases , to a patulous efferent nipple valve . both were repaired by plication of the nipple , and no new efferent limbs were constructed . in 1 patient ( 5 % ) prolapse of the afferent limb associated with reflux and pyelonephritis developed one year post-surgery . stones have developed in 3 patients ( 15 % ) . all patients are currently continent and stone-free , and all are pleased with the result . 
carcinoma of female urethra . manitoba experience : 1958-1987 . fourteen female patients with primary urethral carcinoma were treated at the manitoba cancer foundation in the last twenty-nine years . the relationship of natural history to the stage , location , and therapeutic modality has been reviewed . a higher stage and length of urethral involvement affected prognosis negatively , whereas lower stage had a positive prognostic effect and location of tumor had no prognostic influence . two patients with stage c , who failed to received inguinal node radiotherapy , died of disease recurring in the inguinal area . patients who received inguinal radiation ( 3 patients stages b , c , and d1 ) had no regional recurrence . it is suggested that , for all female urethral carcinoma , bilateral ilioinguinal nodes be included in the radiation field . for radical treatment , iridium 192 insertion in combination with external beam treatment is recommended . 
a " pap " test for men ? male urethral smears as screening tool for detecting subclinical human papillomavirus infection . we have explored the potential of using immunoperoxidase staining and in situ dna hybridization techniques to detect the hpv common antigen and hpv dna ( subtypes 6/11 and 16/18 ) in urethral smears obtained from men with no grossly visible urethral lesions , with or without hpv-related clinical history . a total of 91 such smears were studied of which 25 ( 27.5 % ) were positive for hpv antigen . of the latter , 20 ( 80 % ) were positive for hpv 6/11 dna , 3 ( 12 % ) were positive for hpv 16/18 dna , one smear ( 4 % ) was positive for both , and one was negative for both . the technique of obtaining male urethral smears and immunostaining them for hpv antigen is simple , rapid , specific , and far more sensitive than conventional morphologic observations . since antigen-positive cells are the source for spreading hpv infection , identifying individuals with such cells can help limit the spread of infection by alerting sexual partners , and also can be used to monitor the infectious status of the patient after therapy . dna subtyping of hpv-positive patients may be useful in predicting the potential for malignant transformation which varies among the different hpv subtypes . 
flow cytometric detection of tumor metastases during urologic surgery . flow cytometric studies were performed on peripheral blood obtained before , during , and subsequent to urologic surgery . the results suggest that 7 of 11 patients had a brief period during surgical manipulation when they had cells from the primary surgical site in the peripheral blood . concentration of such cells was generally less than 10 ( 2 ) / ml even during the intraoperative period . these findings suggest that perioperative tumor seeding is a real concern , and that flow cytometry can be used to study maneuvers to reduce its incidence . 
an overview of pregnancy in women with underlying renal disease . this is a report of a retrospective study of the effects of preexisting glomerular disease and pregnancy on each other . two hundred forty pregnancies in 166 japanese women who delivered between 1970 and 1988 were analyzed . there were 206 ( 86 % ) live births , 14 ( 6 % ) perinatal deaths , and 20 ( 8 % ) spontaneous abortions . perinatal loss was greatest in women with hypertension and/or glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) less than 70 ml/min before conception . pregnancy did not appear to adversely affect the underlying glomerular disease if gfr was greater than 70 ml/min and blood pressure was below 140/90 mm hg . however , with moderately impaired renal function ( creatinine greater than 124 mumol/l [ 1.4 mg/dl ] or gfr less than 50 ml/min ) , the long-term prognosis was poorer , despite generally favorable obstetrical outcomes . gravidas with membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis had the highest rates of hypertension ( 29 % ) and decreased renal function ( 33 % ) at final follow-up , ie , the type and severity of glomerulonephritis had a major impact on clinical course . 
specific controversies concerning the natural history of renal disease in pregnancy . whether or not pregnancy adversely affects the natural course of underlying primary renal disease , and whether fetal outcome is influenced by the type of renal disease per se are controversial issues . we retrospectively analyzed the fetal and maternal outcome in 148 women with various , biopsy-proven histological types of primary chronic glomerulonephritis ( gn ) , including iga gn ( 52 patients ) , membranous gn ( [ mgn ] 20 patients ) , membranoproliferative type 1 gn ( [ mpgn ] 58 patients ) , focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis ( [ fsgs ] 13 patients ) , and minimal change nephrotic syndrome ( [ mcns ] 22 patients ) , who were pregnant ( with a total of 290 pregnancies ) after the clinical onset of gn , and in 104 women with reflux nephropathy ( with a total of 254 pregnancies ) . fetal outcome was poor in the presence of uncontrolled hypertension , nephrotic range proteinuria , and/or impaired renal function at conception or early in gestation , whatever the type of renal disease . an accelerated , more rapid than expected , worsening of maternal renal function was observed in five gn patients of whom four ( two iga , two mpgn ) had serum creatinine ( scr ) levels greater than 160 mumol/l ( 1.8 mg/dl ) early in gestation , and in five patients with reflux nephropathy whose scr at conception ranged from 180 to 490 mumol/l ( 2.0 to 5.5 mg/dl ) . 
maternal and fetal complications in pregnant women with systemic lupus erythematosus . recent studies provide important insights into maternal complications in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) established before onset of pregnancy . exacerbations or relapse occur during the course of pregnancy and immediately postpartum in 25 % to 60 % of pregnancies . however , the likelihood of increased clinical activity of sle during pregnancy is influenced by signs of activity present at onset of pregnancy . in the absence of signs of clinical activity for at least 6 months before conception , relapses occur in about one third , whereas in patients with clinical activity at onset of pregnancy , persistent activity or exacerbations occur in approximately two thirds . fetal survival in these patients parallels the incidence of sle activity : 85 % to 95 % in the group with inactive disease at conception and 50 % to 80 % in subjects with active disease at onset of pregnancy . the introduction of an assay for anticardiolipids has led to a new concept for the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease , namely immune-related thrombosis . recent studies suggest that this mechanism may play an important role in clinical episodes in sle , involving late fetal death and maternal arterial and venous thrombosis . 
dialysis , transplantation , and pregnancy . women on regular dialysis are usually infertile , but contraception should not be neglected . pregnancy is invariably complicated and poses excessive risks , with an uncertain and low chance of success . even when therapeutic abortion is excluded , the live birth outcome at best is 19 % . renal transplantation usually reverses abnormal reproductive function and comprehensive pre-pregnancy counseling is essential , with discussion of all implications , including the harsh realities of long-term maternal survival . in this survey of 2,309 pregnancies in 1,594 women , therapeutic abortion was undertaken in 27 % of conceptions and the spontaneous abortion rate was 13 % . of the conceptions that continued beyond the first trimester , 92 % ended successfully . in most , renal function was augmented in pregnancy , with transient deterioration in late pregnancy ( with or without proteinuria ) . permanent renal impairment occurred in 15 % of pregnancies . there was a 30 % chance of developing hypertension , preeclampsia or both . preterm delivery occurred in 50 % , and intrauterine growth retardation in 25 % of pregnancies . despite its pelvic location , the transplanted kidney rarely produced dystocia and was not injured during vaginal delivery . cesarean section should be reserved for obstetric reasons only . neonatal complications include respiratory distress syndrome , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , adrenocortical insufficiency , and infection . no predominant or frequent developmental abnormalities have been described and data on infancy and childhood are encouraging . for the future more work is needed to improve pre-pregnancy assessment criteria , to understand the mechanisms of gestational renal dysfunction and proteinuria , to assess the side effects and implications of immunosuppression in pregnancy , and to elucidate the remote effects of pregnancy on both renal prognosis and the offspring . 
the renal lesion of preeclampsia revisited . controversy has existed about the relative contributions of subendothelial " fibrinoid " deposits and endothelial cell swelling to the thickened glomerular capillary wall and reduced lumen in preeclampsia . a morphometric analysis of the ultrastructural changes in the glomerulus in preeclampsia showed that subendothelial fibrinoid deposits were a significant feature of biopsies during pregnancy , but were absent in many biopsies in the postpartum period . these deposits disappear progressively in the first week after delivery . capillary wall changes with reduplication of glomerular capillary walls and mesangial interposition are another prominent feature of preeclampsia . these changes resolve gradually and may present for as long as 18 months . foam cells in glomeruli are rarely found in biopsies during pregnancy , but appear during resorption of the subendothelial deposits in the postpartum period . electron-dense droplets in glomerular epithelial cells are a characteristic feature of preeclampsia . immunogold labeling demonstrates that they contain albumen , immunoglobulins , fibrinogen , and complement . fibrinogen is usually present in an inner electron-dense core in a droplet . igm is usually in a relatively translucent outer part of the droplet . other proteins are diffusely distributed . segmental hyalinosis is a change that closely resembles the changes of preeclampsia , and segmental lesions may appear during preeclampsia and disappear after pregnancy . 
controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs in pregnancy . it is taken for granted that severe hypertension in pregnancy should be treated , although the principle has not been formally tested by properly controlled trials . there is less certainty about treating mild to moderate hypertension ( 140/90 to 169/109 mm hg ) . the risk of chronic hypertension in pregnancy depends on that of superimposed preeclampsia , which must be prevented by control of the blood pressure if antihypertensive treatment is to be beneficial . there is not a priori reason why lowering the blood pressure should have this effect . most of the trials of treatment have been too small to provide conclusive answers . usually treatment has been started too late to give a realistic expectation of influencing the evolution of superimposed preeclampsia . however , the largest trial of the early use of methyldopa in women with mild chronic hypertension , showed clearly that treatment does not prevent the superimposition of preeclampsia . beta-adrenergic blocking agents , if used from the second start of the trimester , are associated with a major risk of severe growth retardation and are therefore contraindicated . methyldopa has the best safety record , which includes long-term follow-up to assess the development of children exposed to methyldopa in utero . the ineffectiveness of antihypertensive drugs in preventing or ameliorating preeclampsia needs to be contrasted with the consistent evidence for the effectiveness of antiplatelet therapy . this is consistent with the increasing evidence that preeclampsia is not primarily , or even necessarily , a hypertensive disease . 
renal hemodynamics in normal and hypertensive pregnancy : lessons from micropuncture . rats are an excellent animal model in which to study the changes in renal hemodynamics associated with normal pregnancy . midterm pregnant rats exhibit a maximal renal vasodilation leading to increases in glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) and renal plasma flow ( rpf ) . micropuncture studies in midterm pregnant munich-wistar rats have shown that single-nephron gfr ( sngfr ) increases , due entirely to increases in plasma flow and , importantly , glomerular capillary blood pressure ( pgc ) remains unchanged in normotensive pregnancy , due to parallel and proportionally similar reductions in preglomerular ( ra ) and efferent ( re ) arteriolar resistance . despite the chronic gestational renal vasodilation , pregnancy in normotensive rats with either normal kidneys or a variety of underlying diseases , causes no adverse changes in renal function , perhaps because the glomeruli are protected from damaging high pgc . in the presence of systemic hypertension , the renal vasodilation of pregnancy could put the maternal kidney at risk of injury due to increases in pgc . there are few renal functional studies in preexisting , essential hypertension , but micropuncture studies in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrs ) have shown that repetitive pregnancies in shrs cause no functional impairment . surprisingly , shrs demonstrated no gestational renal vasodilation , although gestational decreases in peripheral resistance certainly occur in the shr . this absence of gestational renal vasodilation may be a protective mechanism ; it remains to be determined whether hypertensive states in which renal vasodilation does occur are associated with increased risk to the maternal kidney . 
epidemiologic characteristics of preterm delivery : etiologic heterogeneity . preterm delivery ( less than 37 weeks completed gestation ) is known to result from diverse etiologic pathways , which can be grouped into idiopathic preterm labor , preterm premature rupture of the membranes , and medical complications . data from publications providing sufficient detail to subdivide preterm delivery cases into these groups were tabulated . in spite of inconsistent terminology and incomplete reporting , patterns were identified . black women have a markedly higher risk of preterm delivery , which is especially pronounced for preterm premature rupture of the membranes . idiopathic preterm labor is predominant in lower-risk , white populations . these observations encourage consideration of subcategories of preterm delivery in studies of etiology and prevention . 
the effects of iodoprophylaxis on thyroid size during pregnancy . thyroid gland size was ultrasonographically determined in 35 pregnant women who live in an area with moderate iodine deficiency . iodide salt was administered to group a ( n = 17 ) , whereas group b ( n = 18 ) was used as a control . each group was tested for thyroid-stimulating hormone serum levels , iodine excretion , and thyroid volume . in both groups thyroid-stimulating hormone levels were similar and did not change throughout pregnancy . the iodine excretion at the third trimester in the treated group was significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) higher than that of group b ( 100.0 + / - 39.0 versus 50.0 + / - 37.0 micrograms iodine per 24 hours , respectively ) . initially , thyroid volume did not differ between the two groups . at the end of pregnancy , no difference was found in thyroid size in group a , whereas in the untreated women it increased significantly ( p less than 0.0001 ) with a mean increase of 1.6 + / - 0.6 ml ( 16.2 % + / - 6.0 % ) . these results show that the increased thyroid size in the control group was mainly a result of relative iodine deficiency and that iodoprophylaxis should be warranted even in areas with moderate iodine deficiency to prevent the increase in thyroid size and , probably , to avoid the risk of maternal and fetal hypothyroidism . 
investigation of placental circulations by color doppler ultrasonography . the placental circulations of 25 normal and five complicated pregnancies were studied by color doppler ultrasonography . flow velocity waveforms were obtained in all 30 pregnancies and could discriminate between fetal and maternal intraplacental blood flow . we believe that color doppler ultrasonography will improve our understanding of the pathophysiology of various pregnancy disorders that alter the placental circulations and that color ultrasonography is useful for the prenatal differential diagnosis of intrauterine masses . 
endosalpingosis as a cause of chronic pelvic pain . endosalpingosis , a condition characterized by ectopic oviduct epithelium , is diagnosed histologically by the appearance of benign ciliated and nonciliated columnar cells in an abnormal location . endosalpingosis is typically without symptoms . our unusual case report shows symptomatic endosalpingosis first seen with chronic pelvic pain . various aspects of this disease will also be discussed . 
endothelial-derived relaxing factor released by endothelial cells of human umbilical vessels and its impairment in pregnancy-induced hypertension . the principal objective of this study was to determine and compare the capability of human umbilical vessels of normal and pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients to produce and to release the endothelial-derived relaxing factor . a bolus of bradykinin injected in the perfusion system of human umbilical vessels induces a release of a relaxant factor , detectable by bioassay , that is pharmacologically similar to the endothelial-derived relaxing factor . human umbilical cords were collected from normal and pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients . in the latter group the release of endothelial-derived relaxing factor is extremely reduced . in fact , in umbilical vessels collected from normal parturients , bradykinin at a dose of 20 pmol produces a release of endothelial-derived relaxing factor equivalent to a relaxation induced by 59.9 + / - 11.0 and 30.8 + / - 11.4 pmol of glyceryl trinitrate for the artery and vein , respectively . the same dose of bradykinin in umbilical vessels , collected from pregnancy-induced hypertensive parturients , produces a release equivalent to 6.6 + / - 2.2 and 5.7 + / - 3.5 pmol of glyceryl trinitrate equivalent for the artery and vein , respectively . neither an increasing bolus of exogenous bradykinin or an infusion of superoxide dismutase or l-arginine was able to restore the production of endothelial-derived relaxing factor to normal levels . our results indicate a probable alteration of endothelial cell numbers or an alteration of the enzymatic pathway , probably due to cytotoxic endogenous factors produced in pregnancy . 
reproductive factors and risk of endometrial cancer . the role of reproductive factors in endometrial cancer risk has been analyzed in a case-control study conducted since 1983 in the greater milan area on 568 women ( cases ) with histologically confirmed endometrial cancer and 1925 women ( controls ) who were admitted for acute , nonmalignant , hormonal , gynecologic conditions to hospitals that cover a comparable catchment area . compared with nulliparous women , parous women had a 30 % lower risk of endometrial cancer , but there was no evidence of a decline in risk with increasing number of births . the risk of the disease decreased with number of spontaneous or induced abortions ; the multivariate relative risk estimates were , compared respectively with no spontaneous or induced abortions , 0.5 for women with two or more spontaneous abortions and 0.3 for women with two or more induced abortions ; both trends in risk were statistically significant . when parous women only were considered , no association emerged between endometrial cancer and age at first birth , but the risk decreased with increasing age at last birth : compared with women whose last birth occurred before age 25 , the relative risk was 0.5 for women who were greater than or equal to 35 years old at last birth , and the multivariate trend in risk was statistically significant . for most of the reproductive factors that were considered , the risk estimates tended to be greater at younger age or among premenopausal women and to flatten off in subsequent strata of age . an association between endometrial cancer and age at first birth was observed in women who were less than or equal to 49 years old , but not in older groups . the observation that later age at last birth as well as later first birth in younger women decreases the risk of endometrial cancer suggests a short-term protective effect of pregnancy . this finding is consistent with a late-stage ( promotional ) effect of reproductive factors on endometrial carcinogenesis . 
continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in hypertensive crises in pregnancy . twenty-four patients first seen with hypertensive crises during pregnancy were studied by continuous electrocardiographic monitoring for a period of 24 hours to detect the presence of serious ventricular arrhythmias . three patients were excluded from analysis because of low serum potassium levels . thirteen of the remaining 21 patients had ventricular tachycardia on subsequent analysis of the electrocardiogram . these arrhythmias subsided after induction of anesthesia when blood pressure control was optimal . this finding may be implicated in the pathogenesis of pulmonary edema and sudden death in these patients . 
a case report of giant cell arteritis of the uterus and adnexa . giant cell arteritis of the uterus and adnexa is a rare disorder , which is generally asymptomatic and occasionally associated with temporal arteritis . the true clinical significance of this dramatic microscopic finding remains obscure , but arteritis of the uterus and adnexa may be associated with later development of giant cell arteritis elsewhere in the body . 
pharmacokinetics of acyclovir in the term human pregnancy and neonate . concern about neonatal herpes often leads to cesarean delivery of infants in women with a history of genital herpes . the antiviral drug acyclovir has been used effectively to suppress genital herpes simplex virus recurrences in nonpregnant adults . its administration to pregnant women with recurrent genital herpes may reduce herpes simplex virus recurrences and thus may decrease the cesarean section rate among this population . to study the pharmacokinetics , safety , and patient tolerance of suppressive oral acyclovir , either 200 mg ( n = 7 ) or 400 mg ( n = 8 ) was administered orally every 8 hours to pregnant women with a history of recurrent herpes simplex virus , from 38 weeks ' gestation until delivery . the mean + / - sd plasma levels for the 200 and 400 mg groups , respectively , were : first dose peak , 1.7 + / - 0.6 and 2.3 + / - 1.0 mumol/l ; steady-state trough , 0.7 + / - 0.3 and 0.8 + / - 0.6 mumol/l ; steady-state peak , 1.9 + / - 1.0 and 3.3 + / - 1.0 mumol/l . in late gestation maternal acyclovir pharmacokinetics were similar to those of nonpregnant adults from other studies . acyclovir was concentrated in the amniotic fluid ; however , there was no accumulation in the fetus ( mean maternal/infant plasma ratio at delivery was 1.3 ) . acyclovir was well tolerated , and no toxicity was seen in the mothers or infants . the administration of acyclovir , 400 mg every 8 hours , appears appropriate for use in an efficacy and safety study regarding suppression of herpes simplex virus recurrences during the last weeks of pregnancy . 
ovarian neoplasms and the risk of adnexal torsion . previous reports examining adnexal torsion suggested that benign ovarian neoplasms are more likely to undergo torsion than malignant ovarian neoplasms . to our knowledge , this clinical observation has not been quantified . to examine this hypothesis , we reviewed our experience with ovarian neoplasms found at the time of surgery over a 10-year period . benign ovarian neoplasms had a 12.9-fold increased risk of undergoing adnexal torsion when compared with malignant ovarian neoplasms ( 95 % confidence interval , 10.2 to 15.9 ) . the histologic type of ovarian neoplasm does not appear to affect the rate of adnexal torsion . adnexal torsion rarely involves cancer . 
umbilical cord ulceration and intestinal atresia : a new association ? in three fetuses , congenital intestinal atresia was associated with linear ulcerations of the umbilical cord . in two cases , hemorrhage was seen from the cord ulcer . both fetuses required emergency cesarean section for fetal distress and were born anemic . the third fetus was mildly hydropic , attributed to hemorrhage , and was stillborn . the mechanism of the association could not be determined . these cases suggest a risk of prenatal umbilical cord hemorrhage in infants with intestinal atresia . 
mechanisms of hemolysis and anemia associated with acute antepartum pyelonephritis . anemia develops in about a fourth of women whose pregnancy is complicated by pyelonephritis , although its exact mechanism has not been defined clearly . in this study of 18 women with antepartum pyelonephritis , although only a third had anemia ( hematocrit less than 30 vol/dl ) , there was evidence for hemolysis in all 18 . specifically there was a mean decrease in hematocrit of 5 vol/dl from admission to discharge . with scanning electron microscopy , we compared erythrocyte morphologic aberrations that were found in women with renal infection with those of normally pregnant women , and the former had significantly increased proportions of echinocytes in particular , but schistocytes and spherocytes were increased also ( total 10.3 % vs 1.4 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . these changes , especially echinocytosis , have been induced in vitro by lipopolysaccharide , and they are known to lead to premature red blood cell destruction in vivo . we conclude that hemolysis with subsequent anemia in pregnant women with pyelonephritis is caused by lipopolysaccharide-induced red blood cell membrane damage . 
the increased frequency of cervical dysplasia-neoplasia in women infected with the human immunodeficiency virus is related to the degree of immunosuppression . cytologic and histologic investigations of the uterine cervix and studies of the lymphocyte functions were performed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected and human immunodeficiency virus antibody-negative women to study possible linkages between human papillomavirus-induced dysplasia and degree of human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression . cytologic smears of the uterine cervix of 111 human immunodeficiency virus-infected women were compared with findings in 76 female intravenous drug users negative for human immunodeficiency virus antibodies and in a group of 526 women of the outpatient population of the hospital . cervical dysplasia-neoplasia ( including five cases of invasive carcinoma ) was seen in 41 % of the human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . in human immunodeficiency virus-negative intravenous drug users dysplasia-neoplasia was seen in 9 % , and in the sample from outpatients in 4 % , including two cases of invasive carcinoma ( p less than 0.01 ) . cytologic features that were attributable to infection with human papillomavirus were observed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected women four times more often than in the sample from the outpatient population ( p less than 0.01 ) . frequency and severity of dysplasia appear to increase with diminishing numbers of cd4 + helper/inducer t lymphocytes and correlated significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) with a loss of blastogenic response to phytohemagglutinin , pokeweed mitogen , and tetanus toxoid . these results suggest an increased risk for the development of dysplasia of the uterine cervix in women with human immunodeficiency virus infection , which is related to the degree of immunosuppression . 
pregnancy-related mortality in new york city , 1980 to 1984 : causes of death and associated risk factors . to identify causes and risk factors for pregnancy-related mortality in new york city , we analyzed 224 pregnancy-related deaths that occurred from 1980 to 1984 . the leading causes of death were ectopic pregnancy complications , embolism , intrapartum cardiac arrest , and hypertension . mortality ratios were determined by comparing the characteristics of the women whose death was pregnancy-related with those of women who had survived delivery of a live infant in new york city during the same period . black and hispanic women had mortality ratios that were respectively 4.2 and 2.0 times higher than those for white , non-hispanic women . in comparison with women aged 20 to 24 , those older than 30 were more than twice as likely to die from pregnancy-related causes , and those older than 40 were five times as likely to do so . other factors that were associated with an increased risk of pregnancy-related mortality included 9 to 11 years of education , lack of private medical insurance , more than five previous pregnancies , and fewer than five prenatal visits . this study suggests that changes in current maternal-health and family-planning services will be required to achieve further reductions in preventable pregnancy-related mortality . 
prognostic factors in gestational trophoblastic tumors : a proposed new scoring system based on multivariate analysis . all 1391 patients treated for gestational trophoblastic tumors ( invasive mole and choriocarcinoma ) at the john i. brewer trophoblastic disease center of northwestern university between 1969 ( when use of combination chemotherapy for initial treatment of high-risk disease came into general use ) and 1988 were evaluated . univariate and multivariate analyses were used to determine the relative importance of prognostic factors with respect to survival . the overall cure rate was 93 % ( 363/391 ) : 100 % for 223 patients with nonmetastatic disease and 83 % for 168 patients with metastatic disease . the only patients who died had a clinicopathologic diagnosis of metastatic choriocarcinoma . in addition to presence of metastasis ( 83 % vs 100 % , p less than 0.0001 ) and diagnosis of choriocarcinoma ( 67 % vs 100 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , number of metastases ( 47 % if greater than 8 vs 92 % if less than or equal to 8 , p less than 0.0001 ) , metastases to sites other than the lung or vagina ( 52 % vs 91 % , p = 0.0002 ) , and previous failed chemotherapy ( 46 % vs 84 % , p = 0.0014 ) demonstrated independent significant effects on survival in patients with metastatic disease . a brewer score , based on our multivariate analysis of survival in patients with metastatic disease , provided predictability of outcome ( likelihood ratio chi 2 statistic , chi 2 = 49.8 ) comparable to that with the world health organization score ( chi 2 = 45.3 ) , both of which , in turn , were better predictors than either the traditional hammond clinical classification system ( chi 2 = 34.4 ) or the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics stage ( chi 2 = 22.9 ) . 
transient postpartum diabetes insipidus . diabetes insipidus may first present before , during , or immediately after pregnancy . the characteristics of two unusual cases of transient postpartum diabetes insipidus are described and discussed . 
urinary tract dilatation in pregnancy . right-sided ureteral and renal pelvis dilatation was observed during routine uterine ultrasonographic examination at 30 weeks ' gestation . this continued to progress with the renal pelvis measuring 8.9 cm in diameter at 35 weeks , leading to early delivery . renal function remained normal and these changes resolved completely after delivery . 
clinical implications of screening for cervical cancer under medicare . the natural history of cervical cancer in the elderly : what do we know ? what do we need to know ? despite the recent passage of coverage for papanicolaou test screening under medicare , several aspects of the natural history of cervical cancer in the elderly remain uncertain . this article reviews what we know about cervical cancer in elderly women to provide clinicians with the background necessary for assessments of screening recommendations , integration of new data into practice , and development of consensus approaches to screening in the elderly . two central questions that affect a screening program for the elderly are how long the neoplastic process takes from preinvasive disease to the development of invasive cancer , and how likely is it that a given neoplastic state observed in an elderly woman will , in fact , progress to a more severe state . the ultimate success of the new medicare benefit will also be affected by the use of papanicolaou testing , the technique of obtaining the smear , and the adequacy of reporting and follow-up . the expansion of medicare benefits to include early cervical cancer detection has the potential to improve the quality and the duration of older women 's lives . 
human amniotic fluid modulation of collagenase production in cultured fibroblasts . a model of fetal membrane rupture . the participation of a mechanical factor as the only cause of rupture of fetal membranes during normal labor or premature rupture has been criticized , and the involvement of an enzymatic mechanism has been proposed . in this study we analyzed the effect of human amniotic fluids at different gestational ages on the collagenase synthesis of cultured fibroblasts . our results show that term amniotic fluids are capable of inducing the synthesis of collagenase and other proteases in fibroblasts , as revealed by selective increases in collagenase activity and in immunoreactive collagenase . nonterm amniotic fluids failed to do the same . this phenomenon is proposed as a model for studying the collagen degradation of fetal membranes during term gestation . 
phospholipase c activity in microorganisms associated with reproductive tract infection . phospholipase c ( lecithinase or phosphatidylcholine phosphorylase ) catalyzes the hydrolysis of lecithin into phosphorylcholine and 1,2-diglyceride . bacterial production of phospholipase c may damage reproductive tract tissues by both direct and indirect mechanisms . use of the synthetic substrate p-nitrophenylphosphorylcholine phospholipase c activity was determined in 204 isolates representative of those found in female genital tract . multiple aerobic ( 28 % ) and anaerobic ( 28 % ) reproductive tract microorganisms showed phospholipase c activity . phospholipase c-producing isolates included strains of bacteroides fragilis , b. bivius , b. thetaiotaomicron , gardnerella vaginalis , and group b streptococcus . phospholipase c activity was heterogenous ; not all isolates that belong to a particular species showed activity . phospholipase c production may be a possible virulence factor produced by a number of microflora commonly implicated in various reproductive tract infections or conditions , as well as in some instances of preterm birth . 
outcome of pregnancy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . a prospective study . a prospective study was performed to investigate the outcome and complications of pregnancy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . twenty-nine pregnancies occurred in 22 patients . there were 12 abortions , two spontaneous and 10 induced . fifteen women had 17 live-born neonates . neonatal complications included nine premature deliveries , two cases of intrauterine growth retardation , and one of treacher collins syndrome . obstetric complications included threatened abortion ( two ) , placenta previa ( two ) , and preeclampsia ( three ) . cesarean sections were necessary in five patients . there was no maternal or neonatal mortality . thirteen episodes of systemic lupus erythematosus relapses were detected by incidents of increasing proteinuria ( six ) , arthritis ( four ) , and vasculitic rash ( two ) . there were no statistical differences in changes in hemoglobin level , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , albumin level , antinuclear antibody titer , or c3 or c4 level between the patients who relapsed and those who did not . pregnancy could induce a flare of systemic lupus erythematosus in previously normal patients or patients with previously inactive disease . the overall neonatal and maternal survival was good , even in patients who presented during pregnancy . spontaneous fetal loss was low ( 2/29 [ 6.9 % ] ) ; both cases occurred in mothers with inactive lupus . 
infection with hiv as a risk factor for adverse obstetrical outcome . we carried out a case-control study to investigate the role of sexually transmitted diseases ( stds ) , including infection with hiv , as risk factors for adverse outcome of pregnancy . overall , 1507 women were enrolled within 24 h of delivery . cases ( n = 796 ) were mothers of low-birthweight infants ( less than 2500 g ) or of stillborns . low-birthweight infants were divided into preterms ( n = 373 ) and neonates small for gestational age ( n = 234 ) . stillborns were separated into intrauterine fetal deaths ( n = 120 ) , and intrapartum fetal deaths ( n = 69 ) . controls were selected from mothers delivering a live baby of greater than or equal to 2500 g ( n = 711 ) . the maternal hiv seroprevalence in the control group was 3.1 % . prematurity was associated with maternal hiv antibody [ 8.6 % seropositive ; adjusted odds ratio ( or ) 2.1 ; 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) 1.1-4 .0 ] , as was being born small for gestational age ( 7.7 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.3 ; 95 % ci 1.2-4 .2 ) . in mothers who delivered a stillborn baby , both intrauterine fetal death ( 11.7 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.7 ; 95 % ci 1.3-5 .5 ) and intrapartum fetal death ( 11.6 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.9 ; 95 % ci 1.3-6 .5 ) were independently associated with hiv seropositivity in the mother . maternal syphilis was confirmed as an important risk factor for intrauterine fetal death ( 14.3 % positive ; adjusted or 4.8 ; 95 % ci 2.4-9 .5 ) . no significant association was found between other stds , including gonococcal and chlamydial infection , and adverse obstetrical outcome . these results suggest an association between maternal hiv infection and adverse obstetrical outcome , defined as low birthweight and stillbirth . 
prediction of outcome by prenatal doppler analysis in a patient with aortic stenosis . stenosis of the aortic valve ( pressure drop 50 mm hg ) was diagnosed prenatally by doppler echocardiography in a 33 week old fetus . measurement of time-velocity integrals through the tricuspid and mitral valves indicated a significantly higher flow in the right heart . the pressure drop across the aortic valve in the 3 hour old infant was 80 mm hg . the findings in this patient suggest that the usually accepted theory that prenatally the ventricles function in parallel should take into account the chronology of filling and ejection . in this patient the ability of a ventricle to generate a prenatal transvalvar pressure gradient was evidence that the size , compliance , and contractility of the ventricle were sufficient to maintain good function . 
benign persistent papular acantholytic and dyskeratotic eruption : a case report and review of the literature . we report a case of a 35-year-old female with a persistent pruritic acantholytic and dyskeratotic eruption on the chest and vulva . the light and electron microscopic studies showed suprabasal epidermal clefting with acantholysis and dyskeratotic cells . we suggest that the most appropriate term for this case is that of benign persistent papular acantholytic and dyskeratotic eruption . 
upper tract tumours following cystectomy for bladder cancer . is routine intravenous urography worthwhile ? the incidence and presentation of upper tract tumours were studied in 180 patients who had previously undergone cystectomy for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder . intravenous urography was performed routinely 3 months after cystectomy , 1 year later and at 3-yearly intervals thereafter . ten patients developed upper tract tumours ; 1 presented with loin pain and the remainder with haematuria . six patients underwent nephroureterectomy and 5 of them lived for at least 4 years ; 4 were inoperable and only 1 survived longer than 6 months . in this series , all patients with upper tract tumours presented with symptoms and routine intravenous urography failed to detect any asymptomatic lesions . routine radiological assessment of the upper tracts to detect tumours is not justified following cystectomy . 
transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract : prognostic variables and post-operative recurrences . in a retrospective study of 198 patients with transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract , post-operative recurrences developed as contralateral tumours in 2.5 % , in the ureteric stump after conservative resection in 19 % and in the bladder in 36.4 % . upper tract recurrences resembled the primary tumours in terms of grade and stage ; of the bladder tumours , 89 % were similar in grade and 72 % similar in stage to the primary tumours . age , sex , grade and stage had no effect on the number of bladder recurrences , but ureteric tumours had significantly more recurrences than renal pelvicaliceal tumours . sex , bladder recurrences and site of primary tumours did not influence survival . thus grade and stage of the primary tumour were the only predictive variables of the final outcome . 
pattern of urological malignancy in zambia . a hospital-based histopathological study . the pattern of urological malignancy among the indigenous population of zambia ( determined on the basis of histopathological reports from a major national hospital during an 8-year period ) is presented . a total of 6514 malignancies were observed , of which 784 ( 12 % ) were of urological origin . bladder carcinoma , predominantly squamous type , was the commonest urological tumour ( 51 % ) , followed by carcinoma of the prostate ( 26 % ) , carcinoma of the penis ( 18 % ) , renal tumours ( 4.3 % ) and testicular malignancy ( 0.7 % ) . in nearly 32 % of the bladder tumours , bilharzial ova were demonstrated histopathologically . nephroblastoma accounted for 70 % of the renal tumours and from a total of 7 cases of testicular tumours 5 were embryonal carcinoma and 2 seminoma . a brief reference is made to the pattern and aetiology of urological malignancies in some neighbouring countries . 
outcome of antenatally diagnosed pelviureteric junction hydronephrosis . over a 6-year period , in a series of 107 consecutive patients with antenatally detected urological anomalies , 45 had pelviureteric junction ( puj ) hydronephrosis ( 66 units ) . of these , 24 units ( 36 % ) had obstructive ( group i ) and 42 ( 64 % ) non-obstructive hydronephrosis ( group ii ) . significantly compromised renal function was found only in group i. treatment in group i was by an early pyeloplasty ; in group ii the patients were kept under close review . during the 6-year period , 2 units ( 5 % ) in group ii , deteriorated , 13 ( 31 % ) improved and 27 ( 64 % ) were unchanged . these results suggest that early in life , antenatally diagnosed puj hydronephrosis without obstruction may be a relatively benign condition but will require long-term follow-up in order to determine the natural history of the condition . 
search for herpes simplex virus 2 and human papillomavirus genetic expression in vulvar neoplasia . specimens from vulvar carcinomas and vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) of various degrees were analyzed for the presence of herpes simplex virus 2 ( hsv 2 ) and human papillomavirus ( hpv ) genetic information . a search for the hpv 16 e6 protein as well as the hsv 2 antigenic determinant la1 and icsp 11/12 protein was carried out with an immunoperoxidase assay on 12 vulvar carcinomas and 6 vins . seven invasive cancers and four vins were screened for the presence of homology to hpv 16 dna and hsv 2 dna transforming sequences with southern blot hybridization . we used specimens from labial tumors and from normal vulvas and cervixes as controls . the preliminary results showed that one vulvar carcinoma and two vins contained hpv 16 dna . four vulvar carcinomas expressed the e6 protein , while all the vins were negative . homology to hsv 2 dna transforming sequences was detected in one vulvar cancer but not in any vin cases . positivity to hsv 2 icsp 11/12 was observed in 33.3 % of vin cases and 75 % of invasive cancers . hsv 2 la1 antigenic determinant was expressed in 33.3 % of vin and 66.6 % of cancer cases . 
carcinoma of the vulva . clinicopathologic factors involved in inguinal and pelvic lymph node metastasis . eighty-five women with vulvar squamous cell carcinoma were subjected to radical vulvectomy with bilateral inguinal and femoral node dissection or to radical vulvectomy with bilateral inguinofemoral and deep pelvic node dissection . the association between lymph node status ( metastatic or not ) and several parameters was analyzed : tumor location , size and clinical stage ; tumor thickness , histologic grade and mitotic index ; blood vessel , lymphatic and perineural infiltration ; and lymphocytic and plasma cell infiltrates . there were no metastases to the pelvic lymph nodes without previous inguinal lymph node involvement . unilateral vulvar carcinomas did not have contralateral metastatic nodes when there was no ipsilateral nodal involvement . lymphatic vessel infiltration showed a statistically significant correlation with inguinal node metastases ( p less than .05 ) . no correlation was found between lymph node metastasis and tumor size , clitoral invasion , tumor thickness , histologic grade , blood vessel and perineural infiltration , lymphocytic and plasma cell infiltrates , and mitotic index . 
studies on the transmission of viral disease via the co2 laser plume and ejecta . while recent reports have noted the presence of viral dna sequences in the laser plume , no significant effort has been made to study transmission of the virus in vivo via airborne laser debris . studies were undertaken to identify potential hazards to operating room occupants in gynecologic laser surgery . aco2 laser in the continuous wave mode using a power density of 666 w/cm2 was fired through a 5-cm metal cylinder at virus-infected tissues . airborne particulate debris , 100-200 microns , was removed from the cylinder 's inner surfaces . in one instance , deposition of the debris was found on the surgeon 's eyeglasses 1 m from the site of impact despite the use of a smoke evacuator . the first set of studies involved confirmed human papillomavirus ( hpv ) lesions of the human female lower genital tract . specimens were collected for electron microscopy and southern blot viral hybridization . additional cervical electron microscopy specimens were recovered from the speculum during pulsed co2 laser treatment at 13 w average power during conization . electron microscopy of the vulvar debris revealed only anucleate keratinized squamous epithelial cells . cervical specimens demonstrated similar cells with nearly instantaneous vaporization of intracellular water and apparent condensation of cellular carbon . hpv southern blot testing revealed insufficient quantities of dna for that technique . the second set of studies involved bovine papillomavirus lesions from dairy cattle . the debris was transmitted to susceptible animals . the bovine studies failed to demonstrate the transmission of disease in vivo . 
human papillomavirus in women with vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia iii . untreated cases of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia ( vin ) iii may progress to invasive vulvar carcinoma . tissues from 29 new zealand women with vin iii were examined for the presence of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types 6 , 11 , 16 and 18 by in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction . hpv 16 , the only hpv type detected in the lesions , was identified in about half the cases . hpv-positive women were younger than hpv-negative women , and their lesions displayed koilocytosis more often . in four of five cases in which there was a progression to invasive cancer , hpv 16 was detected in both the vin iii and invasive cancer tissue . 
early diagnosis of vulvar neoplasia as a result of vulvar self-examination . vulvar self-examination was used to facilitate early diagnosis and treatment of vulvar neoplasia in eight patients . five of them were found to have invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva , two had carcinoma in situ , and one had a vulva melanoma . all eight patients benefited from early diagnosis , which allowed definitive treatment and vulvar conservation . 
testpack chlamydia for chlamydial detection in physicians ' offices . chlamydia trachomatis is widely recognized as the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease . it is often asymptomatic and can lead to serious sequelae , including infertility and ectopic pregnancy . for this reason , testing of patients at risk is a necessary health care measure . this study compared testpack chlamydia to chlamydiazyme for the direct detection of chlamydial antigen in endocervical specimens . one thousand three hundred seventy-six patients seen in 47 private practice offices of obstetrician-gynecologists and family practitioners were screened . testpack chlamydia , a 25-minute enzyme immunoassay , had a specificity of 98.6 % and sensitivity of 90 % when compared with chlamydiazyme , a four-hour laboratory test . the overall prevalence of chlamydial infection in this population was 3.6 % . the prevalence among patients less than or equal to 24 years of age was 7.6 % higher among subgroups with symptoms and other identified risk factors . the positive predictive value of testpack chlamydia ( 83.7 % ) makes it an accurate assay for testing women at risk for chlamydial infections . 
performing cytogenetic studies on ascitic , amniotic and hygroma fluid . the importance of obtaining cytogenetic studies on antenatally diagnosed structural malformations is well recognized . in two cases , three fetal compartments were sampled , each resulting in successful cytogenetic studies . fluid was obtained under ultrasound guidance from amniotic fluid , fetal ascites and cystic hygroma fluid . fluid from the hygroma itself may be the easiest compartment to analyze . 
prevalence of marijuana use during pregnancy . a pilot study . we examined the prevalence of marijuana use in a group of pregnant women using a qualitative , rapid urine screen to detect marijuana metabolites . between july 1 , 1987 , and aug 15 , 1987 , 322 consecutive patients underwent an anonymous urine toxicology screen at the time of admission to the labor-and-delivery unit . patients were identified only by a consecutive number and by their age , race , marital status , gravidity , parity and obstetric service ( clinic vs. private ) . the prevalence of positive urine toxicologic screens for marijuana was 19.9 % among the study population ( 64 positive tests among 322 women screened ) . the prevalence was greater among the clinic patients than the private patients ( 52 of 161 , or 32.3 % , vs. 12 of 161 , or 7.5 % , respectively ) . the distribution of race and marital status among the marijuana-positive and - negative groups were also significantly different . specifically , the proportions of black and single women were higher among the marijuana-positive group . our findings suggest that marijuana use is common in our obstetric patients . the possible association between marijuana use during pregnancy and perinatal morbidity , as well as the unreliable nature of patient drug histories , may support the use of rapid , inexpensive screening techniques , especially if general screening is considered . 
early recourse to laparoscopy in the management of suspected ectopic pregnancy . accuracy and morbidity . ninety-nine patients with suspected ectopic pregnancy ( ep ) who were subjected to laparoscopy/laparotomy over an 18-month period at greenwich district hospital , london , were audited . a third ( 32/99 ) of the cases had an ep , and 67 potentially avoidable laparoscopies were performed . a potentially avoidable laparoscopy was followed by a laparotomy in 27 % of cases ( 18/67 ) , and at least 13 of those laparotomies were unnecessary . in addition , two false-positive diagnoses of ep were made at laparoscopy , resulting in the avoidable loss of part or all of a single remaining fallopian tube . with the use of sensitive pregnancy testing at least 62 laparoscopies , 13 laparotomies and 1 case of pulmonary embolus might have been avoided in these patients and up to 195 days ' hospitalization saved . 
spontaneous renal rupture during pregnancy . spontaneous rupture of the renal parenchyma or renal pelvis during pregnancy has been previously reported in 16 cases . in the case we describe in this report , the patient initially had right flank pain and nausea for 48 hours , which progressed to severe abdominal symptoms that necessitated exploratory laparotomy . cystoscopic placement of a ureteral stent relieved the obstruction and allowed spontaneous healing of the renal pelvis . dilatation of the urinary collecting system commonly occurs during pregnancy . spontaneous rupture of the renal parenchyma or renal pelvis , however , is unusual and often associated with diseased kidneys . our case is the 8th one of spontaneous rupture of the renal collecting system with no identifiable underlying pathologic condition and the 17th case of spontaneous renal rupture overall . 
cesarean section before the onset of labor and subsequent motor function in infants with meningomyelocele diagnosed antenatally background . meningomyelocele can now be detected before birth . few data are available on its natural history , however , and optimal management at the time of delivery is controversial , although it has been suggested that labor and vaginal delivery may cause pressure on exposed nerve roots , resulting in additional loss of neural function . methods . to assess the effect of labor and the type of delivery on the level of motor function in fetuses with uncomplicated meningomyelocele , we identified 200 cases of this disorder , accounting for 95 percent of the cases that occurred in the state of washington during our 10-year study period . we compared the outcomes of 47 infants delivered by cesarean section before labor began , 35 delivered by cesarean section after a period of labor , and 78 who were delivered vaginally ( another 40 were ineligible for the study ) . in cases of meningomyelocele detected prenatally , cesarean section was performed before the onset of labor if isolated meningomyelocele without severe hydrocephalus was present . the infants delivered in this manner were compared with those who were delivered either vaginally or by cesarean section after labor began . results . at two years of age , the infants who had been exposed to labor were 2.2 times more likely to have severe paralysis than those delivered by cesarean section without labor ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.7 to 2.8 ) . infants delivered by cesarean section before the beginning of labor had a mean ( + / - sd ) level of paralysis 3.3 + / - 3.0 segments below the anatomical level of the spinal lesion at two years of age , as compared with 1.1 + / - 2.3 for infants delivered vaginally and 0.9 + / - 4.1 for infants delivered by cesarean section after the beginning of labor ( p less than 0.001 for both comparisons ) . exposure to labor did not affect the frequency of neonatal complications or later intellectual performance . conclusions . for the fetus with uncomplicated meningomyelocele , delivery by cesarean section before the onset of labor may result in better subsequent motor function than vaginal delivery or delivery by cesarean section after a period of labor . 
nipple discharge in women . is it cause for concern ? nipple discharge is one of the most common breast complaints in women . galactorrhea ( milky discharge ) may occur during pregnancy or breast-feeding or as a result of drug therapy , hypothyroidism , or hyperthyroidism . nonbloody discharge is most common and is usually benign . bloody discharge should be considered a sign of cancer until proved otherwise . persistent galactorrhea and nonbloody discharge can be treated by transecting the mammary ducts . simple mastectomy may be appropriate in patients with persistent bloody discharge who have a strong family history of breast cancer . 
extrauterine findings of ectopic pregnancy of transvaginal us : importance of echogenic fluid . transvaginal ultrasound ( us ) studies of 232 consecutive patients with positive serum pregnancy tests who were considered to be at risk for ectopic pregnancy were prospectively evaluated to determine the significance of various extrauterine findings , including echogenic fluid in the cul-de-sac . all patients were found to have a surgically proved ectopic gestation ( group 1 , 68 patients [ 29.3 % ] ) , reliable evidence of intrauterine pregnancy at initial transvaginal us ( group 2 , 83 patients [ 35.8 % ] ) , or no evidence of pregnancy at initial transvaginal us , but subsequent proof of an intrauterine pregnancy ( group 3 , 81 patients [ 34.9 % ] ) . adnexal findings were demonstrated in 45 ( 66 % ) group 1 patients , including a living extrauterine embryo in 10 ( 15 % ) , an extrauterine gestational sac in 21 ( 31 % ) , and an adnexal mass in 14 ( 21 % ) . intraperitoneal fluid was detected in 43 ( 63 % ) group 1 patients and in 81 ( 31 % ) group 3 patients . echogenic fluid was the only abnormal finding at us in 10 ( 15 % ) group 1 patients and added confidence to the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy in many others . echogenic fluid correlated with hemoperitoneum at the time of surgery . the presence of echogenic fluid indicates a high risk for ectopic pregnancy in women referred with this clinical indication . 
maternal predictors of fetal demise in trauma during pregnancy . trauma complicates 6 to 7 per cent of all pregnancies , but fetal demise secondary to maternal trauma occurs much less frequently . this study was done to analyze the incidence of fetal demise as a function of 21 maternal characteristics determined within the first 24 hours after trauma . nine instances of fetal demise were identified from 73 pregnant patients with trauma admitted to four level i trauma centers from a combined data base of 30,000 patients . maternal factors examined by logistic regression were injury severity score ( iss ) , trauma score ( ts ) , abbreviated injury scale ( ais ) , fluid requirements in the initial 24 hours , systolic blood pressure ( sbp ) , heart rate ( hr ) , hemoglobin , hematocrit and arterial blood gas analysis . fetal demise was found to be associated with increasing iss , increasing face and abdominal ais , increasing fluid requirements , maternal acidosis and maternal hypoxia . standard maternal laboratory and physiologic parameters , such as hemoglobin and hematocrit , oxygen and hemoglobin saturation , partial pressure of carbon dioxide , sbp and hr were not predictive . the ts was also found to be nonpredictive . 
trends in thirty years of vaginal hysterectomy . vaginal hysterectomy , as currently performed at the university of vienna , was first described by halban in 1932 . from 1955 to 1985 , a total of 9,967 hysterectomies were performed . the vaginal route was used for 6,078 ( 60.9 per cent ) of these procedures . sixty-four per cent of the women operated upon were multiparous , 27 per cent were uniparous and 8 per cent were nulliparous . a comparison of the periods 1955 to 1975 and 1976 to 1985 revealed the following trends : the incidence of uterine myomas ( 30.6 to 27.1 per cent ) , in situ carcinoma of the cervix ( 6.5 to 7.9 per cent ) and endometrial carcinoma ( 1.4 to 0.6 per cent ) remained largely constant . in the past decade , indications for positional abnormalities ( uterine descent and prolapse ) were encountered more often ( 27.6 to 41.6 per cent ) than in the first observation period , while the incidence of recurrent metrorrhagia was found to decline ( 33.9 to 22.8 per cent ) . the most common complications included hemorrhage during the operation , lesions of the bladder , hemorrhage until 48 hours after surgical treatment and hemorrhage from days 2 to 14 postoperatively ( around 0.5 per cent , respectively ) . during the second observation period , no postoperative fistulas developed . two instances of tubal prolapse were seen . laparotomy was done in four of 6,078 instances . two patients died of septic complications . whenever possible , we prefer vaginal hysterectomy because of its low complication rate , low mortality rate and low postoperative morbidity . 
ascertainment of maternal deaths in new york city . maternal deaths in new york city are defined as deaths from any cause in a woman while pregnant or within six months of pregnancy termination . pilot studies seeking to improve maternal death ascertainment found that selected medical examiner reports contributed an additional 10.5 percent of the total maternal deaths , vital statistics review contributed 6.3 percent , linkage of death tapes of women of reproductive age to live birth and fetal death tapes contributed 1.0 percent . medical examiner cases should be incorporated into surveillance data for accurate ascertainment of pregnancy associated deaths . 
effects of maternal iodine supplementation during pregnancy . reduced maternal thyroid hormone concentrations during pregnancy can adversely affect fetal neurological development . in the context of national iodine supplementation programmes , concern has been expressed over the theoretical possibility that iodine supplementation during pregnancy might adversely affect fetal development as a result of maternal thyroid inhibition from the wolff-chaikoff effect . in a double blind controlled trial in five villages in papua new guinea , several measures of motor and cognitive function showed no significant differences at either age 11 or 15 years between those children whose mothers had received supplementary iodine during pregnancy and the control children whose mothers had received the placebo . 
suicide during pregnancy and in the first postnatal year objectives -- to calculate age adjusted mortality ratios for suicide by women in the first year after childbirth and during pregnancy , and to identify characteristics of postnatal suicide in childbearing women . design -- retrospective study based on population data for england and wales from 1973 to 1984 . subjects -- women aged 15-44 who committed suicide in the year after childbirth or during pregnancy . main outcome measures -- observed to expected mortality ratios for the total postnatal sample , for five year age groups , for unmarried mothers , and for suicide after stillbirth ; observed to expected mortality ratios for all suicides during pregnancy and for five year age groups ; the timing of suicides in relation to delivery ; and the frequency of the various methods of suicide . results -- the standardised mortality ratio for postnatal suicide was calculated to be 0.17 -- that is , the actual total was only one sixth of that expected . the low ratio was not found after stillbirth , which was associated with a rate six times that in all women after childbirth . the low ratio was less pronounced , but still present , in teenage mothers and in unmarried mothers . women who committed suicide after childbirth most often did so in the first month , and there was a tendency to use violent methods . the standardised mortality ratio for suicide during pregnancy was calculated to be 0.05 of all pregnant women . teenagers were at substantially increased risk . conclusions -- women in the first year after childbirth and during pregnancy have a low risk of suicide despite their high rate of psychiatric morbidity . underreporting of maternal suicides is unlikely to explain the findings , though it may affect their magnitude . motherhood seems to protect against suicide . concern for dependants may be an important focus for suicide prevention in clinical practice . 
prenatal genetic counseling . continued advances in reproductive technology and prenatal diagnosis challenge genetic counselors in their provision of appropriate prenatal genetic counseling . complex information must be communicated to the couple in a nondirective but supportive manner for the couple to make an informed decision . often pertinent information must be gathered and disseminated in a short period of time as a pregnancy continues toward the point of viability , and options become limited . prenatal genetic counseling strives to keep up with the changes in reproductive technology and prenatal diagnosis in an effort to meet the needs of the patient . 
prenatal diagnosis of metabolic disease . early detection of metabolic disease affords the possibility of the best possible outcome for affected infants . prenatal diagnostic capabilities allow for the institution of prenatal therapy , when indicated , and postnatal optimal management . special formulas , supplemental nutritional therapies , and avoidance of dangerous substrates can be begun in the delivery room , if the affected status of the patient is known . such therapies are the current mainstay of treatment of inborn errors of metabolism . earliest possible institution of these therapies allows hope for the best possible outcome for affected infants . 
prenatal diagnosis of cystic fibrosis . since 1983 , prenatal diagnosis for cf has been available . the indirect method of microvillar intestinal enzyme analysis was first used , followed by dna linkage studies by rflps , and then aided by disequilibrium data . the past year has brought new promise with the identification of the cf gene and of a single amino acid deletion that is present in 70 % of the gene mutations . in the next several years , it is hoped that the remaining mutations will be found , thus increasing the accuracy of prenatal diagnosis by direct detection of the mutations and allowing for carrier testing of the general population . 
clinical screening for collagen defects in connective tissue diseases . the defects in type i collagen structure or synthesis that produce all four types of osteogenesis imperfecta ( oi ) and ehlers-danlos syndrome ( eds ) type vii and the defects in type iii collagen structure in eds type iv can be detected by analysis of collagens produced by fibroblastic cells cultured from affected individuals . quantitative defects in synthesis of type i collagen are seen in oi type i and qualitative defects of type i collagen characterize oi type ii , oi type iii , and oi type iv and eds type vii . eds type iv results from qualitative type iii collagen defects . all of the disorders are inherited typically in an autosomal dominant fashion so that recurrence among offspring of normal parents usually results from germline mosaicism for the mutation in one parent . analysis of type i and type iii collagen synthesized by cultured chorionic villus cells is used for prenatal diagnosis of these disorders . 
prenatal diagnosis of hemoglobinopathies . hemoglobinopathies are frequently occurring disorders for which prenatal diagnosis is possible . couples in which one parent has microcytic hypochromic red blood cells ; is of southeast asian , mediterranean , middle eastern , indian , or african origin ; or had one previous child with a known hemoglobinopathy or a previous hydropic stillbirth should be investigated . the hemoglobinopathies have been the paradigm of prenatal diagnosis , and the lessons learned from their study are now being applied to a range of other genetic disorders for which the responsible genes have been identified . 
duchenne and becker muscular dystrophies : genetics , prenatal diagnosis , and future prospects . dmd and bmd are now understood at the genetic , biochemical , and molecular levels . at the genetic level , both disorders result from mutations of the x-linked gene encoding dystrophin . at the biochemical level , dmd results from the deficiency of a large protein called dystrophin , whereas bmd results when dystrophin is present , though abnormal in either amount or molecular structure . to date , thousands of patients have been analyzed for mutations of the dystrophin gene in peripheral blood dna or alterations of the dystrophin protein in muscle tissue . the severity of the clinical phenotype of these patients has been compared with their dystrophin gene mutations and corresponding dystrophin protein alterations , revealing an unexpectedly high degree of correlation . thus , information derived from the molecular analysis ( dna or protein ) of a particular patient provides a " molecular diagnosis , " which is highly predictive of the clinical course that patient can be expected to follow . because molecular diagnoses are independent of the patient 's age , they provide a prognosis for the large majority of muscular dystrophy patients even before clinical symptoms of their disease become apparent . such prognostic molecular diagnoses have proven particularly valuable when the patient is an isolated case , with no family history for the disorder . prenatal genetic diagnosis of dmd or bmd may involve use of southern blot or pcr techniques to search for a deletion in the dna of at-risk fetuses or more complicated family linkage studies using intragenic and flanking rflps . more recently , assay of dystrophin content in fetal skeletal or cardiac muscle from at-risk abortuses has been accomplished , allowing definitive discrimination of affected and normal fetuses in cases in which deletion analyses and family dna studies were equivocal . in utero fetal skeletal muscle biopsy for dystrophin protein assay has actually been accomplished in at least one at-risk pregnancy in which family dna studies were uninformative . dystrophin was present in skeletal muscle from this 20-week-old male fetus , and the pregnancy continued , resulting in the term birth of a healthy male infant . the future holds exciting opportunities for neonatal screening and treatment of these devastating neuromuscular diseases . 
chromosomal mosaicism in chorionic villus sampling . the observation of multiple , chromosomally distinct cell lines in chorionic villus samples is not an unusual finding and occurs in 1 per 100 samples . this frequency is ten times greater than the level of mosaicism observed in newborn surveys and , thus , must reflect phenomenon other than true fetal mosaicism . indeed , only 23 % of mosaicism detected at cvs is confirmed in the fetus ( 2.3 per 1,000 cvs ) , which is much closer to the newborn rate ( 1 per 1,000 ) . this indicates that most mosaicism encountered in cvs is unrelated to the fetal karyotype and as such is an inaccurate prediction of the fetal genotype , the purpose of prenatal diagnosis . most of the mosaicism detected in cvs is due to confined placental mosaicism . either as a result of error-prone cell division generating an excess of abnormal cells in extraembryonic tissues or reduced selection against aneuploid cells in these tissues allowing their persistence , chorionic villi and placenta appear to show much higher levels of mosaicism than seen in fetuses . this explains the more frequent finding of multiple cell lines in cvs than in amniocentesis or liveborn individuals . the discrepancy between levels of mosaicism present in chorionic villi and fetal tissues means that most instances of mosaicism detected in cvs are not associated with a fetal abnormality and should be evaluated by further prenatal testing , i.e. , amniocentesis or fetal blood sampling . because of the frequency of chromosomal mosaicism in cvs and its attendant need for further testing , a discussion of mosaicism should be included in counseling prior to cvs . the higher frequency of discrepant results in direct cvs preparation emphasizes the prudence of delaying decision making until the results of the cvs culture have been obtained . although the observation of mosaicism clearly complicates genetic counseling and decision making , it does not appear to be associated with an adverse fetal outcome . whereas most of the mosaicism observed in cvs is the result of confined placental mosaicism , other types of discrepancies also occur . maternal cell contamination occurs in about 1 % of cases , but is easily evaluated by examining the direct preparation and analyzing chromosome polymorphism . the incidence of pseudomosaicism in cvs cultures is unclear but probably low . interestingly , cvs analysis has suggested that twinning may be a more common phenomenon at conception than reported at birth and that some discrepancies may reflect the nonviability of twins with abnormal karyotypes . chorionic villi sampling remains a viable alternative to amniocentesis for early prenatal diagnosis . an understanding of the origins of mosaicism in cvs is necessary for . 
fetal echocardiography : assessment of cardiovascular anatomy and function . echocardiography is used to assist the prenatal diagnosis group in understanding and identifying normal and abnormal structure , function , and rhythm in the fetal heart , normal variations , and change during development . detailed segmental analysis of the heart 's complex structure can be performed by experienced observers and the information used to aid in management decisions and to better understand the complex relationships of fetal cardiovascular anatomy and function , and fetal outcome . when used prudently , the technology appears to be safe to fetus and mother , but all who undergo examination will want to know of potential benefits and risks . 
endometriosis . an important condition in clinical gastroenterology . endometriosis , a condition defined by the presence of ectopic endometrium , is a disorder of increasing incidence and a significant cause of gastroenterologic distress in young women . although clinical manifestations vary considerably depending upon the anatomic extent of disease , characteristic abdominal complaints and typical physical findings continue to be associated with misdiagnosis and delayed recognition of gastrointestinal involvement . the authors of this paper review the medical literature concerning endometriosis of the digestive tract -- emphasizing modes of presentation , risk factors , diagnostic testing , complications , and therapy . greater familiarity with the disease and heightened awareness of its sequellae are needed and prerequisite to improved medical management . 
the intrauterine device and pelvic inflammatory disease : the women 's health study reanalyzed the women 's health study ( whs ) was a large , widely accepted and influential case-control study of the relationship between the use of intrauterine contraceptive devices ( iuds ) and pelvic inflammatory disease ( pid ) . the data were collected at 16 hospitals in 9 cities across the u.s.a. from october 1976 through august 1978 . the first paper on this research was published in 1981 and concluded that iuds increase the risk of pid . the report cited an estimated rr ( relative risk ) of pid for current iud users vs noniud users of 1.6 with a 95 % confidence interval of ( 1.4 , 1.9 ) . however , careful examination of the report reveals that the data support conclusions antithetical to those at which the author arrived . when the second report on the whs was published in 1983 , it was anticipated that many of the shortcomings of the first report would be corrected , but they were not . in 1983 we undertook a complete reanalysis of the same whs data using more appropriate criteria and the results were compared to the first two published reports . the reanalysis revealed an rr of 1.02 ( 0.86 , 1.21 ) for current iud users compared to noncontraceptors . the conclusion of the whs should have been that iuds do not increase the risk of pid . 
epidemiology , natural history , and management of urinary tract infections in pregnancy . the urinary tract undergoes profound physiologic and anatomic changes during pregnancy that facilitate the development of symptomatic utis in women with bacteriuria . although the adverse effects of asymptomatic bacteriuria on maternal and fetal health continue to be debated , it is clear that asymptomatic bacteriuria is the major risk factor for developing symptomatic uti and that symptomatic infections are associated with significant maternal and fetal risks . because the majority of symptomatic utis develop in women with bacteriuria earlier in pregnancy , treatment of bacteriuria is undertaken to prevent symptomatic infections . all women should be screened at the first antenatal visit , which is reliably and inexpensively done with a dipstick culture . short-course therapy is as effective as prolonged therapy and should be followed with a repeat culture to document clearing of the bacteriuria . failure to eliminate bacteriuria with repeated therapy or recurrence with the same organism is indicative of renal parenchymal infection or a structural abnormality . all women with persistent bacteriuria or recurrent infection should have follow-up cultures and a complete urologic evaluation after delivery . 
coagulation screening before epidural analgesia in pre-eclampsia . a questionnaire survey of current practice at a small cross-section of obstetric units , covering 22 % of all united kingdom deliveries , revealed a marked lack of standard practice regarding requests for coagulation screens on pre-eclamptic patients who require epidural procedures . a retrospective audit was therefore carried out on 434 coagulation screens requested for pre-eclamptic patients in whom epidural analgesia might have been considered . borderline abnormalities of coagulation were found in only 10 patients ( 2 % ) . platelet counts of less than 150 x 10 ( 9 ) / litre were present in 28 % of cases . ' significant ' thrombocytopenia ( less than 100 x 10 ( 9 ) / litre ) and all coagulation abnormalities were only encountered in severe pre-eclampsia ( diastolic blood pressure of greater than 110 mmhg and proteinuria of + + or greater ) . furthermore , coagulation abnormality was always associated with a reduced platelet count ( mean , 97 x 10 ( 9 ) / litre ) . this study would therefore support anaesthetic practice which restricted any requests for coagulation testing to severe pre-eclamptic patients only . for these patients first line testing could be limited to a platelet count . 
tightening the screw : statutory and legal supervision of interhospital patient transfers . a federal statute governing the transfer of indigent patients from medicare-enrolled hospitals was first enacted in 1986 . review of the statutory and other legal controls over interhospital transfers is precipitated by its recent amendment and the fining of a texas physician for transferring a high-risk obstetric patient without following the statutory guidelines . these events are part of a pattern of increasing regulation of the practice of medicine . physicians and hospital administrators responsible for hospital transfer policies should be aware of regulatory developments . hospitals contemplating transfer of patients must develop transfer policies that comply with governing law , including state law . a transfer policy should provide guidelines as to when a patient is " stable for transfer " . patients may not be transferred unless a physician can certify that delay attendant to transfer will not be detrimental . furthermore , the policy should specify the procedures to be followed to effect a transfer and any documentation that the physician will have to complete . 
postpartum amaurosis . blindness is a rare but dramatic complication of pregnancy and delivery . we present the case of a patient who developed toxemia at the time of delivery that with ineffective treatment resulted in cortical blindness without seizure activity . the pathogenesis as well as the diagnostic workup and treatment of this unusual complication are discussed . 
increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in babies of hypertensive mothers . there is controversy over the effect of hypertension in pregnancy on the incidence of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome . we investigated the association between maternal hypertension and the incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in 268 very low birthweight babies of less than 34 weeks ' gestation . a lower incidence of respiratory distress syndrome was associated with growth retardation and membrane rupture greater than 24 hours . maternal hypertension was associated with an increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome . we used the multiple logistic regression model to control for confounding variables , as the maternal and neonatal factors associated with respiratory distress syndrome were not evenly distributed between the two groups . after adjustment for birth weight , gestational age , growth retardation , and membrane rupture greater than 24 hours , the risk of developing respiratory distress syndrome was significantly greater in babies of hypertensive mothers . significance was lost when labour before delivery and mode of delivery were taken into account . the increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in babies of hypertensive mothers may be due to the absence of labour before delivery because of the greater likelihood of caesarean section . 
pruritus in pregnancy . diagnosis of the cause of pruritus in a pregnant patient should be approached systematically , beginning with a detailed history ( especially drug exposure ) and physical examination . systemic diseases must be excluded . liver function tests and hepatitis screen are in order if symptoms suggest liver dysfunction . stool examination for ova and parasites may be included when there is no skin lesion . biopsy of an obvious skin lesion or a specific radioimmunoassay may be helpful . a dermatologic consultation is warranted when the diagnosis is in doubt and skin lesions are present . an accurate diagnosis is imperative since certain dermatologic disorders may increase maternal and fetal morbidity and even mortality . 
melanoma in pregnancy . the clinical course of malignant melanoma in pregnancy has been a subject of controversy , but current evidence indicates that it is similar to the clinical course in non-pregnant patients . early detection and biopsy of localized disease is crucial because early treatment provides an excellent prognosis . surgical excision is the primary therapy for this disease . as the primary care provider for many women in the reproductive age group , obstetrician-gynecologists have an opportunity to detect these lesions at their earliest stages when they are amenable to cure . overall , maternal metastases to the fetus and placenta are very rare events and do not warrant elective termination based on the maternal diagnosis . however , a thorough examination of the infant and placenta should be done in all cases of melanoma complicating pregnancy . after treatment , long-term follow-up is recommended . since most recurrences develop within 3 years after the diagnosis , it remains prudent to recommend that these patients avoid a subsequent pregnancy during this interval . 
herpes simplex and human papillomavirus genital infections : controversy over obstetric management . plasma inhibitory factors , high levels of sex hormones , and depression of cell-mediated immunity may interfere with the natural host resistance to viral infections during pregnancy . it is apparent that hormonal , immunologic , and vascular changes in pregnancy may account for increased replication of herpes and for enhanced growth of condylomatous lesions . the challenge is to develop a rational plan of management for pregnant patients with herpes simplex or human papilloma virus infection . there has been a reevaluation of previous recommendations for the management of herpes in pregnancy . although the consequences of neonatal infection are severe or fatal , the value of routine weekly screening is questionable . this regimen is a poor predictor of neonatal exposure to herpes since only one fourth of women shedding virus at the time of delivery can be identified by routine cultures . the mode of delivery should therefore be based on the presence or absence of lesions at the time of confinement . cesarean section should be reserved for patients with lesions or with prodromal symptoms of recurrent disease at the time of delivery . patients with ruptured membranes and active genital lesions should also be delivered by cesarean section . the spectrum of hpv-related diseases in pregnancy is poorly understood . many questions remain unanswered . it may not be practical to treat very large or extensive genital warts during pregnancy . a cesarean section may be the best choice in these cases . it may be premature to recommend cesarean section for delivery of all pregnant women with symptomatic genital hpv infection . more data are needed . we recommend laser ablation of condylomatous lesions when discovered during pregnancy . laser vaporization is associated with minimal morbidity when used by experienced surgeons . trichloroacetic acid is excellent for minimal disease or for treatment of recurrences in pregnancy . since the immune system seems to play an important role in control of viral disease , we advise pregnant patients to adopt a lifestyle which promotes health . we advise a balanced diet , an appropriate exercise program , and an environment free of unnecessary stress . we suggest avoidance of cigarettes , drugs , and alcohol . 
a comparison of the efficacy and safety of pergolide and bromocriptine in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia . pergolide is a synthetic ergoline derivative with highly potent long-acting prl-lowering activity , allowing therapy of hyperprolactinemia with a once daily administration of the drug . the results of two open-label , randomized controlled multicenter clinical trials are reported . pergolide ( taken once a day ) , was compared with bromocriptine ( taken two to four times daily ) regarding efficacy and safety in the reduction of prl levels , the cessation of galactorrhea and amenorrhea , the improvement in sexual function , and tumor shrinkage in hyperprolactinemia without ( trial i ; 61 patients ) and with radiologically evident pituitary tumors ( trial ii ; 96 patients ) . both drugs were equally effective in lowering prl levels in both trials . a median optimal dose of 50 micrograms pergolide and 5 mg bromocriptine/day suppressed prl levels in the 61 patients of trial i by more than 80 % . during the 24-week investigational period galactorrhea disappeared in 96 % and 87 % of patients , whereas menstruation returned in 90 % and 96 % of patients , respectively . an equally high efficacy ( optimal median dose : 75-100 micrograms pergolide , 7.5-10 mg bromocriptine daily ) was observed in trial ii , although the resumption of menses was less frequent than in the patients of trial i ( 50 % and 58 % of patients , respectively ) . sexual dysfunction improved similarly on both drugs in about half the patients . in addition , tumor shrinkage occurred to a similar extent with both drugs . a high incidence of adverse events was noted especially at the initiation of therapy with both compounds : nausea , dizziness , vomiting , asthenia , headache , and decrease in blood pressure occurred at a similar incidence and extent during the use of pergolide and bromocriptine . patients in trial i treated with pergolide reported a slightly higher incidence of fever , vasodilatation , and flu syndrome . conclusions : in these 24-week studies comprising a total of 157 hyperprolactinemic patients , a once daily administration of pergolide was shown to be as safe and effective as the two to four times daily ingestion of bromocriptine . longer-acting dopamine agonists like pergolide that can be taken once daily , are likely to increase the ease to adherence to the therapeutic regimen . this might result in a higher compliance to medical treatment of hyperprolactinemia . 
comparison of a food frequency questionnaire using reported vs standard portion sizes for classifying individuals according to nutrient intake . individual intakes of retinol , carotene , vitamin c , and folacin calculated from a food frequency questionnaire using reported portion size were compared with intakes calculated using standard portion size information . data from a case-control study to determine the association of nutrient intake and risk of cervical dysplasia were supplemented by standard portion size information from the us department of agriculture and reanalyzed . significant mean differences were found between intake calculated from reported portion size data and that calculated from standard portion size data for all nutrients . correlation of nutrient intakes obtained by the two methods of data collection ranged from .73 to .92 . calculation of the rho statistic , measuring the consistency of classification of participants into groups of high , medium , and low nutrient intake , led to values ranging from .55 to .71 , indicating some misclassification of study participants . to determine the effect misclassification had on the study outcome , odds ratios were calculated using nutrient amounts obtained from both methods of collecting portion size data . results indicate that replacing reported portion size data with standard portion size data may lead to conflicting outcomes for specific nutrients in research concerning the relationship between diet and disease . 
gender roles , social support , and postpartum depressive symptomatology . the benefits of caring . although women are assumed to be particularly vulnerable to depressive symptomatology after childbirth , the extent to which this symptomatology predominates over that found in men at this life cycle stage has not been addressed . this study examined gender differences in postpartum depressive symptomatology and the link between postpartum symptomatology and gender roles and relationships in a sample obtained from childbirth preparation classes . the data show no gender difference in depressive symptomatology at 2 months after childbirth . women manifested a decrease in depressive symptomatology and men showed a slight increase from the preparenthood point . we partially link women 's equivalent rather than higher distress levels to the protective effects of their varied social supports . by contrast , men depended primarily on their spouses , but both genders experienced a decrease in spouse support after childbirth . female lack of support was more strongly associated with symptomatology in homemakers compared with employed women or women on maternity leave . within the context of gender role changes , the data highlight benefits of female bonding in contrast to the " costs of caring " depicted by other researchers . 
endometrial ablation for the treatment of menorrhagia : a comparison of patients with normal , enlarged , and fibroid uteri . one hundred sixty-one patients underwent endometrial ablation with the nd : yag laser for the treatment of refractory menorrhagia . patients were divided into one of three groups : those with a normal-sized uterus ; those with an enlarged uterus ( greater than 10 cm ) ; and those with uterine fibroids , which had been documented clinically , ultrasonographically , or by a combination of hysteroscopy and laparoscopy or by one or the other . all patients were considered candidates for hysterectomy . both preoperatively and postoperatively , patients monitored their menstrual cycles and evaluated their flow according to predetermined categories of amenorrhea , light flow , normal flow , heavy flow , and severe flow . after treatment , 68 % of patients with normal-sized uterus and 91 % of patients with an enlarged uterus ( greater than 10 cm ) and 88 % of patients with uterine fibroids became amenorrheic or had light flow . none of the patients in this last group have had to undergo hysterectomy . this study indicates that the patient with an enlarged or fibroid uterus may not have contraindications for endometrial ablation . endometrial ablation may be effective in at least temporarily controlling bleeding in those patients with enlarged or myomatous uterus . 
sexually transmitted diseases . over the past two decades the incidence of stds has dramatically increased in the united states . most patients with these infections present first to primary care physicians . all physicians must be familiar with the common std syndromes and the indications for specific diagnostic tests in order to provide a comprehensive treatment plan . primary prevention strategies based on patient education and secondary prevention through judicious use of screening tests in appropriate settings can also limit the morbidity associated with stds . 
reflux nephropathy and primary vesicoureteric reflux in adults we have studied the clinical features and course of adults with reflex nephropathy and/or primary vesicoureteric reflux , paying particular attention to the differences between males and females , and the presenting features that influence prognosis . in our series of 293 patients , females outnumbered males in the ratio 5:1 and most presented with urinary infection , whereas males most commonly presented with features of renal damage such as proteinuria , hypertension or renal failure . males more commonly had bilateral scarring and persistent reflux . one hundred and forty-seven patients were followed for two years or more ( range 2-19 years ) ; deterioration in renal function occurred in 55 ( 37 per cent ) . risk factors for a rise in plasma creatinine were , in descending order , the presence of proteinuria , an elevated plasma creatinine concentration , bilateral scarring , male sex and the presence of hypertension . stepwise multiple regression analysis showed that the independent risk factors were proteinuria , elevated plasma creatinine concentration and hypertension ; gender and the presence of persistent reflux had no independent influence on the course of renal failure . 
cerebral venous thrombosis : new causes for an old syndrome ? the range of disorders affecting the cerebral veins and sinuses is increasing and now includes blood disorders , abnormalities in the patterns of blood flow , and infiltrative or inflammatory conditions , all of which may promote thrombosis . we describe 10 patients with cerebral venous thrombosis : two had protein s deficiency , one had protein c deficiency , one was in early pregnancy , and there was a single case of each of the following : dural arteriovenous malformation , intracerebral arteriovenous malformation , bilateral glomus tumours , systemic lupus erythematosus , wegener 's granulomatosis , non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . the recognition of such diverse aetiology may be importance since clinical features are non-specific , and may consist only of raised intracranial pressure , allowing confusion with ' benign intracranial hypertension ' . the existence of effective treatment both for the thrombosis and for many of the underlying disorders makes early diagnosis essential . the prognosis of treated patients may be favourable . 
outcomes of pregnancies among women and partners of men with a history of exposure to methoxsalen photochemotherapy ( puva ) for the treatment of psoriasis . because oral methoxsalen and uv-a radiation ( puva ) therapy is mutagenic , concern exists about the potential for teratogenic effects resulting from the use of this therapy at the time of conception and during pregnancy . after 12.8 years of prospective study , we documented the pregnancy outcomes among 1380 patients ( 892 men and 488 women ) who received puva treatments . ninety-four men reported 167 pregnancies in their partners , and 93 women reported 159 pregnancies . for 34 % of pregnancies among partners of male patients , the man received puva therapy near the time of conception . nineteen percent of female patients reported exposure to puva at the time of conception or during pregnancy . induced and spontaneous abortions were reported as the outcome of pregnancy more often by female than by male patients ( 12 % vs 30 % ) . two congenital malformations and two stillbirths occurred , an incidence not significantly different from that expected for the general population . although the power of our study to detect an increase in the risk of specific defects is limited , our data show no evidence to suggest that puva is a potent teratogen . still , because puva is mutagenic , we believe it prudent for patients to avoid puva treatment during pregnancy whenever practical . 
treatment of anovulation due to polycystic ovarian syndrome by laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery . our experience of ovarian electrocautery for the treatment of polycystic ovarian syndrome ( pcos ) in ten women is described . we found that nine responded favourably , either ovulating spontaneously or becoming more responsive to ovulation induction . there was a significant and persistent fall in serum testosterone levels , and a transient fall with subsequent rise in inhibin . we recommend that laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery is considered as an alternative to ovulation induction with gonadotrophins , in women with pcos who fail to respond to clomiphene citrate . 
coagulation studies in the syndrome of haemolysis , elevated liver enzymes and low platelets . the presence of disseminated intravascular coagulation ( dic ) in the syndrome of haemolysis , elevated liver enzymes and low platelets ( hellp ) is debated . we assessed the occurrence of decompensated and compensated dic ( using predefined criteria ) in 15 consecutive nulliparous pregnant patients with gestational hypertension combined with the hellp syndrome and in 12 consecutive nulliparous controls with pregnancy induced hypertension ( pih ) but without the hellp syndrome . a combination of routine coagulation assays revealed the absence of decompensated dic in all studied patients . however , using more specific and sensitive coagulation assays , compensated dic was observed in all hellp patients and in three patients in the control group . the mean values of antithrombin iii , thrombin-antithrombin iii complexes and protein c in the hellp and the control group were 66 vs 87 % ( p = 0.0004 ) , 21 vs 8 ng/ml ( p = 0.0008 ) and 57 vs 90 % ( p = 0.0018 ) respectively . we conclude that hellp patients show evidence of compensated dic which may have pathophysiological significance for the observed organ damage . 
ratio of immunochemically determined amniotic fluid acetylcholinesterase to butyrylcholinesterase in the differential diagnosis of fetal abnormalities . a total of 111 amniotic fluid samples , clear or blood stained , with elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase was analysed by immunoassays specific for acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase and the acetylcholinesterase/butyrylcholinesterase-ratios determined . samples from 40 pregnancies associated with anencephaly , 47 pregnancies associated with open spina bifida or encephalocele and six pregnancies with fetal intrauterine death or miscarriage all had ratios of greater than 0.14 . all 11 pregnancies with fetal ventral wall defects had ratios less than 0.14 as had four pregnancies with normal outcome and elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase . three fetuses with both open spina bifida and ventral wall defects were associated with ratios above 0.14 . these results suggest that immunochemical determination of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase can be used to distinguish pregnancies complicated by anencephaly , open spina bifida , encephalocele and miscarriage from those with ventral wall defects and samples with false positive elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase . the procedure is accurate and simple to carry out and well suited to routine use in a clinical chemistry laboratory . 
smoking during pregnancy : a significant cause of neonatal thyroid enlargement . the influence of maternal smoking during pregnancy on the function and the echographic volume of the neonatal thyroid gland was examined in an area of borderline iodine intake ( median maternal urinary iodine : 315 range 79-1558 nmol/l ) . there was a positive correlation ( p less than 0.001 ) between cord serum thiocyanate ( scn ) concentrations used as an index of maternal smoking and the maternal smoking habits . the thyroid volume/birthweight ratio increased significantly as a function of scn values ( p less than 0.005 ) : this increase was secondary to a decrease in birthweight as well as to an increase in thyroid volume . there was also a positive correlation between cord serum thyroglobulin ( tg ) and scn levels ( p = 0.001 ) . serum thyroid-stimulating hormone ( tsh ) and free thyroxine ( ft4 ) values remained within the normal range for age in all newborn infants and were not significantly correlated with scn values . these results show that smoking during pregnancy in areas with borderline iodine intake may be a significant cause of thyroid enlargement in the newborn . 
the immunoperoxidase localization of tumour markers in ovarian cancer : the value of cea , ema , cytokeratin and dd9 . primary tumours from 40 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer , treated at st thomas 's hospital over a 10-year period , were studied for the immunocytochemical expression of the following tumour markers in formalin-fixed paraffin embedded material : carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) , epithelial membrane antigen ( ema ) , cytokeratin ( cam 5.2 ) , and dd9 . an indirect immunoperoxidase staining technique was used . all of the tumours were positive for ema and cam 5.2 , and 30 % of them were positive for both cea and dd9 . the absence of cea and dd9 may be of value in differentiating between metastatic abdominal adenocarcinomas of ovarian origin and those of gastrointestinal origin , but no indication of prognosis was obtained using these epithelial markers . the strong and widespread staining of all the tumours for ema suggests that this may be a useful marker for detecting metastatic or recurrent disease by immunoscintigraphy . 
external cephalic version at term . a randomized controlled trial using tocolysis objective -- to assess the role of external cephalic version ( ecv ) at term , using tocolysis . design -- a randomized controlled trial over a 12 month period . setting -- harare maternity hospital , harare , zimbabwe . subjects -- 208 women with breech presentation at term were recruited after satisfying eligibility criteria . there were 103 women in the study group and 105 in the control group . at the end of the study a further 104 women were recruited for ecv . intervention -- ecv attempted after intravenous injection of 10 micrograms of hexaprenaline , using either forward or backward somersault over a maximum period of 5 min . main outcome measures -- success rate in terms of presentation during labour , need for caesarean section , and various variables related to fetal outcome . results -- ecv reduced the frequency of breech presentation during labour from 83 % to 17 % and that of caesarean section from 33 % to 13 % . there were no troublesome complications from the procedure . conclusion -- in carefully selected women with breech presentation , ecv at term using tocolysis , safely reduced the rate of breech presentation in labour and also the caesarean section rate . further research is needed to determine the role of ecv in early labour . 
hormone replacement therapy and survival after surgery for ovarian cancer objective -- to evaluate whether hormone replacement therapy affects survival in women who have undergone bilateral salphingo-oophorectomy because of epithelial ovarian cancer . design -- retrospective analysis by review of patients ' notes and questionnaires completed by general practitioners to compare the overall survival and disease free survival in patients with ovarian cancer who did or did not receive hormone replacement therapy after diagnosis . data were analysed by cox regression , with hormone replacement therapy as a time dependent covariate because patients who received hormone replacement did so at different times after diagnosis . setting -- gynaecological oncology unit of royal marsden hospital . patients -- 373 patients aged 50 years or younger who attended the hospital from 1972 to 1988 . all of the women had undergone bilateral salpingoophorectomy for epithelial ovarian cancer . in all , 78 had received hormone replacement therapy , starting at a median of four months after diagnosis . intervention -- a questionnaire was sent to the general practitioners of all patients who were not recorded as having received hormone replacement therapy . main outcome measures -- overall survival and disease free survival . results -- there was no significant difference in survival between women receiving hormone replacement therapy and those not receiving it after accounting for the effects of other known prognostic factors ( stage of cancer , differentiation of tumour , histological results , and time to relapse ) . the relative risk of dying in those who received hormone replacement therapy was 0.73 ( 95 % confidence interval 0.44 to 1.20 ) . in addition , there was no significant difference in disease free survival ( relative risk in those receiving hormone replacement therapy was 0.90 ; 95 % confidence interval 0.52 to 1.54 ) . conclusions -- this study shows that hormone replacement therapy is unlikely to have a detrimental effect on the prognosis of patients with ovarian cancer , but this would be shown conclusively only by a randomised controlled trial . 
ultrasound in the investigation of the right iliac fossa mass . patients presenting with a right iliac fossa ( rif ) mass are a diagnostic problem . the objective of this study was to assess the role of ultrasound ( us ) in their investigation . a prospective series of 50 patients presenting with a clinically suspected rif mass was examined by us and the finding correlated with the final diagnosis . there was a positive finding in 34 patients ( 68 % ) . ultrasound correctly identified the organ of origin in 33 ( 97 % ) and was able to guide the patients ' further management . in 12 cases no abnormality was found in the rif , of which 11 had no positive findings at follow-up and one was shown to have an unrelated abnormality at laparotomy . in four cases the findings were due to normal variants . ultrasound is the imaging modality of first choice in patients presenting with a rif mass . 
selective uptake of toxic nucleoside ( 125iudr ) by resistant cancer . we report uptake of a thymidine analogue 125-iodine-5-iodo-2 ' - deoxyuridine ( 125iudr ) by nude mice bearing human xenografts of choriocarcinoma or colonic cancer . when 125iudr was given alone , uptake by intestinal tissues was 5-10 times greater than by the tumours as measured by tissue gamma counting . this ratio was reversed when hydroxyurea or cytosine arabinoside were used as inhibitors of ribonucleotide reductase and were given in combination with 5-fluorouracil or methotrexate to inhibit thymidine synthesis shortly before injecting 125iudr . counting the radioactivity in tissues removed 24 hours after 125iudr gave tumour to highest normal tissue ratios of up to 15:1 , but the corresponding nuclear grain counts , which is probably a more reliable indicator of selective uptake into dna , were in excess of 100:1 . the addition of unlabelled iudr to the regimen only reduced the uptake of 125iudr when given in relatively large amounts . for this approach to be exploited it is concluded that the tumour must be resistant at the cell level to the inhibitor of dna synthesis either de novo or as a result of prior exposure to it . this inhibitor can then be used to block uptake of the potentially toxic nucleoside analogue by normal renewal tissues while it is taken up by the resistant cancer cells . by inhibiting synthesis of the corresponding normal nucleosides with inhibitors to which the cancer cells are not resistant , incorporation of the toxic analogues into tumour dna was enhanced . although 125iudr is a convenient agent for exploring this approach and is highly cytotoxic when incorporated in dna , the clinical potential of reverse role chemotherapy probably lies with the development of toxic non-radioactive nucleoside analogues . 
tissue dose estimates following the selective uptake of 125iudr and other radiolabelled thymidine precursors in resistant tumours . for the purposes of evaluation of the therapeutic potential of the radiohalogenated thymidine analogue 125iudr , estimation of the radiation dose to the tumour cells and normal tissues is important . to determine the dose to any tissue from the radionuclide 125i is not simple , since the major emissions are very short-range auger electrons . the cytotoxicity of 125i is strongly dependent on the position of the decay relative to the dna , the principal target for cell sterilization . estimates of the cytotoxicity of 125i based on the traditional mird recommended formulation ( icru report 32 , 1979 ) may produce gross underestimates if it is incorporated into the dna via the thymidine precursor 125iudr . in this work , tissue count and autoradiography ( arg ) data from studies by bagshawe et al were used to estimate tissue doses following the administration of 125iudr to ls174/t ( a colorectal carcinoma ) and cc3 ( a choriocarcinoma ) tumour-bearing animals , after a hydroxyurea block of the normal tissue turnover . the tumour cell toxicity is estimated from arg data on the degree of 125i incorporation into the cell nucleus . major drawbacks with 125i for this type of therapy are the long 60-day half-life , leading to radiological and waste disposal problems and the extreme short range of the radiotoxic effects . possible alternative radiohalogens , 13i , 77br , 131i and 211at , are suggested in place of 125i in the thymidine analog iododeoxyuridine . dose calculations are performed and cytotoxicities estimated on the assumption that their biological retention characteristics are the same as for 125iudr . 
changes in anal canal sensation after childbirth . obstetic trauma predisposes to faecal incontinence . anal canal sensation is impaired in incontinent patients . to assess the effect of childbirth on anal canal sensation anal mucosal electrosensitivity was measured in 122 primiparous patients in the immediate postnatal period and in 74 at 6 months postpartum . there were 35 normal vaginal deliveries , 36 forceps deliveries , 20 ventouse extractions , ten vaginal breech deliveries and 21 caesarean sections . sensation was impaired in the lower , mid and upper anal canal immediately after delivery in those patients who had a normal vaginal delivery or a forceps delivery when compared with controls or with those delivered by caesarean section . women who had ventouse deliveries had impaired sensation immediately after delivery in the mid anal canal compared with controls and those undergoing caesarean section . by 6 months there were no differences between any group . patients who sustained a division of the external anal sphincter at delivery had impaired sensation which persisted in the upper anal canal at 6 months . 
hemorrhoidectomy during pregnancy : risk or relief ? acute hemorrhoidal crisis can occur in the pregnant female . when medical therapy fails to relieve pain , operative intervention may be necessary . the surgeon , however , may be reluctant to operate due to potential complications to the mother and fetus . from july 1983 to july 1989 , hemorrhoidectomy was performed in 25 of 12,455 pregnant women ( 0.2 percent ) who delivered in our institution . twenty-two women were in their third trimester , 80 percent were multiparous , and each had a remote history of hemorrhoidal symptoms , including intermittent pain , bleeding , and protrusion . closed hemorrhoidectomy was performed under local anesthesia . the surgery was directed at removing only symptomatic disease , which included three quadrants in 14 patients , two quadrants in seven patients , and one quadrant in four patients . all patients experienced relief of intractable pain the day after surgery , except one patient who required a hemostatic packing during the immediate post-operative period . there were no other maternal or fetal complications . subsequent follow-up for anorectal disease ranged from 6 months to 6 years . six ( 24 percent ) patients required additional hemorrhoid treatment . hemorrhoidectomy in selected pregnant patients is safe in our experience . 
insulin stimulates synthesis and release of human chorionic gonadotropin by choriocarcinoma cell lines . recent studies have shown that insulin regulates placental lactogen , progesterone , and estrogen production from human trophoblast cells . this study was performed to examine whether insulin also regulates the production of hcg by this type of cell . after 24-36 h of preincubation , jeg-3 and jar cells ( 2-3 x 10 ( 5 ) cells/ml . well ) or human term trophoblast cells ( 1 x 10 ( 6 ) cells/ml . well ) were exposed to the test hormone in serum-free dulbecco 's modified eagle 's medium for 24-96 h. secretion of hcg from jeg-3 cells was stimulated by human insulin , human proinsulin , or porcine insulin in a dose-dependent manner , with lowest effective doses of 6.7 , 96 , and 53 mg/l , respectively . time-course studies showed that hcg secretion peaked at 72-96 h with insulin exposure ; in contrast , no decernable peak was seen without insulin in serum-free media . exposure of jeg-3 cells for 24 h to 209 mg/liter insulin stimulated hcg synthesis , with 40 + / - 3 % more immunoreactive intracellular hcg ( p less than 0.05 ) . cells grown in the presence of insulin and [ 35s ] methionine had 47 + / - 21 % more labeled intracellular hcg and 56 + / - 13 % more immunoprecipitable [ 35s ] methionine-hcg secreted into the medium than the control cultures ( p less than 0.05 ) . during this time period , human placental lactogen release and total trichloroacetice acid-precipitable [ 35s ] methionine protein were not increased . the insulin-induced stimulation of hcg synthesis was inhibited by cycloheximide . additionally , insulin did not significantly affect total intracellular protein during 24-96 h of incubation . insulin also increased hcg release from jar cells , but not from human term trophoblast cells . a mouse monoclonal antibody to the igf-i receptor inhibited the stimulation of insulin in jeg-3 cells . we conclude that insulin stimulates the synthesis and secretion of hcg from jeg-3 cells and jar cells , and that hcg regulation in choriocarcinoma cells differs from that in primary human placental trophoblast cells . the effect of insulin on jeg-3 cells may be mediated in part through the insulin-like growth factor-i receptor . 
the effect of beta-carotene on the regression and progression of cervical dysplasia : a clinical experiment . in order to gain insight into the causality of the relation between beta-carotene and cancer , we performed a randomized placebo-controlled trial in which the effect of beta-carotene on the regression and progression rates of cervical dysplasia were examined . the experimental group ( n = 137 ) received a supplemental dose of 10 mg of beta-carotene daily for 3 months . the control group ( n = 141 ) received placebo capsules . as the outcome parameter , two definitions of regression and progression were used , which were based on the degree of dysplasia before and after the medication period . the number of patients who showed progression was too small to allow conclusions . no effect of beta-carotene on the regression percentages was observed : or = 0.68 ( 95 % ci : 0.28-1 .60 ) using the broad definition ; and or = 1.22 ( 95 % ci : 0.43-3 .41 ) with the strict definition . a secondary analysis , in which the effect of the total intake of beta-carotene ( diet + medication ) on the regression percentages of cervical dysplasia was studied , did not show a positive effect either . the paper discusses to what extent issues in the study design may have masked a potential effect and how our results affect the evidence for a causal relation between beta-carotene and cancer . 
endometrial cancer : biochemical and clinical correlates . some endometrial cancers and endometrial adenocarcinoma cell lines show amplified expression of proto-oncogenes ( fos , fms , myc , myb , neu , and erb-b ) and augmented production of growth factors ( colony-stimulating factor 1 , epidermal growth factor , transforming growth factor-alpha , and transforming growth factor beta ) and epidermal growth factor receptor . oncogene expression , the presence of estrogen and progesterone receptors , and the fraction of cells in s phase are useful biochemical prognostic indicators of clinical outcome , and markers recognized by monoclonal antibodies are available for use in following the clinical course of the disease and responses to treatment . in vivo and in vitro studies on normal and neoplastic tissues are providing evidence of paracrine influences on epithelial cell proliferation . long-term administration of tamoxifen as adjuvant therapy for breast cancer has recently been found to increase the risk for development of endometrial cancer . 
paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy : a treatable neuropathy . paraneoplastic vasculitic neuropathy has been recently described . we report the first case of this disorder which responded both clinically and electrophysiologically to cyclophosphamide treatment . a 54-year-old woman with a history of metastatic endometrial carcinoma in remission had asymmetrical polyneuropathy , electrophysiological findings consistent with a diffuse axonal neuropathy , high sedimentation rate and spinal fluid protein , and microvasculitis with axonal degeneration on nerve biopsy . the patient was treated with 150 mg of cyclophosphamide daily with gradual clinical and electrophysiological improvement . 
traumatic vulvar hematomas . assessing and treating nonobstetric patients . management of the vast majority of vulvar hematomas is conservative . most resolve spontaneously when simple measures are taken . serial examinations are necessary to distinguish uncomplicated hematomas from those requiring surgery . the clinician must also be vigilant for the possibility of sexual abuse and respond with appropriate workup and referral if this situation is suspected . 
false-positive results in serologic tests for rocky mountain spotted fever during pregnancy . the data from this study demonstrate that false-positive results from tests for rocky mountain spotted fever increase with the duration of pregnancy . the sera of 4.0 % ( 2/50 ) of women in their first trimester of pregnancy , 10.9 % ( 5/46 ) in their second trimester , and 12.1 % ( 12/99 ) in their third trimester yielded false-positive results from latex agglutination assays for rickettsia rickettsii infections . the cause of these false-positive results was not determined by this study . these false-positive titers were not associated with clinical findings or other laboratory abnormalities . even though these sera did not contain antibodies to r rickettsii detectable by indirect fluorescent antibody testing , such false-positive results from serologic tests for rocky mountain spotted fever can obscure the patient 's correct diagnosis . this may lead to the unnecessary use of potentially toxic antibodies and prevent initiation of appropriate therapy . 
ureteral stump carcinoma incidentally found at cystectomy for bladder cancer . we report on a sixty-five-year-old man with hematuria secondary to superficial bladder cancer . because of previous urethral trauma , a complete transurethral resection of his bladder tumor could not be done . he , therefore , underwent cystectomy , at which time we incidentally found a transitional cell carcinoma of the left ureteral stump that had been left from a previous left nephrectomy for a world war ii-related injury . this case underscores the importance of a thorough investigation of the complete urinary tract in a patient with hematuria or other urinary tract symptoms even if an obvious cause is found for his symptoms . 
selective fallopian tube canalization . infertility is an increasingly common problem . occlusion of the fallopian tubes is one of the principal causes , and until recently surgery was the only available treatment . the success rate of surgery is often low , particularly with occlusion of the proximal tube . selective fallopian tube canalization under fluoroscopic guidance has been successful in alleviating proximal tubal obstruction . this procedure may be performed in the outpatient setting and is a safe , cost-effective alternative to surgery . 
