laser photodynamic therapy for papilloma viral lesions . photodynamic therapy was tested for its therapeutic efficacy in eradicating rabbit papilloma warts . the wild-type viral warts suspension was used to induce treatable papilloma warts in the cutaneous tissue of dutch belted rabbits . the photosensitizing agents used intravenously were photofrin ii at 10 mg/kg of body weight and chlorin e6 monoethylene diamine monohydrochloric acid ( chlorin e6 med hcl ) at 1 mg/kg of body weight . the lasers used were an argon-dye laser at 628 and 655 nm and a gold vapor laser at 628 nm . the irradiances of 25 to 180 mw/cm2 were applied topically with an end-on lens optical fiber with total radiant doses of 7.5 to 54 j/cm2 . photofrin ii and the argon-dye laser at the highest light dosage ( 54 j/cm2 ) and chlorin e6 monoethylene diamine monohydrochloride administered 2 hours before argon-dye laser irradiation at 655 nm at the highest light dosage ( 54 j/cm2 ) produced wart regression . total wart regression without recurrence was achieved with photofrin ii and the gold vapor laser at all light dosages . the difference observed between the argon-dye laser and the gold vapor laser might be explained by the pulsed nature of the gold vapor laser , with its high-peak powers , some 5000 x the average measured light dose . in this model , the smaller , less cornified lesions were more effectively treated with photodynamic therapy . 
osteoma of the middle ear . report of a case . osteomas of the middle ear are rare . we report a case of a 7-year-old boy with osteoma originating from the pyramidal eminence , combined with congenital cholesteatoma . the osteoma and cholesteatoma were successfully removed by tympanomastoidectomy . the long process of the incus and the superstructure of the stapes disappeared . the body of the incus was sculpted and used as a columella . histopathologically , the osteoma was much the same as an external auditory canal osteoma . the possibility of a primary congenital origin of this neoplasm is suggested . 
dna content and ks8 .12 binding of the psoriatic lesion during treatment with the vitamin d3 analogue mc903 and betamethasone . twenty patients with psoriasis were treated with the vitamin d3 analogue mc903 and betamethasone ointment in a double-blind trial with a left-right comparison . in addition to the clinical severity scores , ks8 .12 binding which detects keratin 16 expression and the dna synthesis were quantified using flow cytometry . both markers decreased significantly with treatment , but remained above the normal range even in those who had total clearance of the lesions . treatment with mc903 with regard to ks8 .12 binding was significantly better than with betamethasone . 
elastic fibre damage induced by low-dose d-penicillamine . we have studied 23 patients receiving penicillamine for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis to determine the prevalence of penicillamine-induced elastosis . one female patient had pseudoxanthoma elasticum-like skin changes and bramble-bush elastosis without calcification in the involved skin . penicillamine elastosis was present in the joint capsule in 62 % of eight patients or 64 % of ii joints examined and was detected in joint capsules after as little as i year of treatment . 
neutrophil zinc levels in psoriasis and seborrhoeic dermatitis . the median zinc content of neutrophils was significantly reduced in 16 patients with psoriasis in comparison to both normal controls and six patients with seborrhoeic dermatitis ( p less than 0.05 ) . this reduction was unrelated to the extent of skin involvement . plasma and erythrocyte zinc levels were unchanged . 
autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction is reduced in patients with psoriasis . the autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction ( auto-mlr ) was studied to test the interactions between immunocompetent cells in patients with psoriasis . the auto-mlr in 20 patients with psoriasis was significantly lower than in 16 normal controls . lower values were found in untreated psoriatic patients than in those in remission following treatment . the values in the latter group were significantly lower than in controls and in six patients with atopic dermatitis in remission . the tendency for an increase in the auto-mlr with a decrease in disease activity was further confirmed in five patients studied before and after treatment . in contrast , the allogeneic lymphocyte reaction ( allo-mlr ) in psoriatics was similar to that in normal controls . 
pentoxifylline inhibits the proliferation of human fibroblasts derived from keloid , scleroderma and morphoea skin and their production of collagen , glycosaminoglycans and fibronectin . pentoxifylline , an analogue of the methylxanthine theobromine , inhibits the proliferation and certain biosynthetic activities of fibroblasts derived from normal human skin . fibroblasts from the skin of patients with keloids , scleroderma and morphoea were cultured in vitro in the presence and absence of pentoxifylline ( 100-1000 micrograms/ml ) to determine whether it inhibits fibroblast proliferation and the production of collagen , glycosaminoglycans ( gag ) , fibronectin and collagenase activity . the exposure of subconfluent fibroblast cultures to pentoxifylline resulted in non-lethal , dose-dependent reductions in serum-driven fibroblast proliferation , with 1000 micrograms/ml pentoxifylline virtually negating the proliferative effect of serum on the cells . the fibroblasts assayed as confluent cultures produced reduced amounts , by up to 95 % , of collagen and gag , dependent on the concentration of pentoxifylline , both in the presence and absence of serum . pentoxifylline similarly inhibited the fibronectin production by keloid and scleroderma fibroblasts , but had no effect on collagenase activity . 
analysis of side-effects of medium - and low-dose cyclosporin maintenance therapy in psoriasis . the side-effects of long-term cyclosporin a ( cya ) treatment in 26 patients with severe psoriasis were evaluated . these patients had a mean pasi score of 30.2 and were treated with cya for between 7 and 37 months ( mean 19.5 months ) . there were three groups according to the dose of cya , less than 2 mg/kg per day , 2-3 mg/kg per day and greater than 3 mg/kg per day . in all three groups , cya was found to be equally effective . treatment with cya was discontinued in 12 of the 26 patients because of nephrotoxicity and/or development of hypertension . one was in the less than 2 mg/kg per day group , three were in the 2-3 mg/kg per day group and eight in the greater than 3 mg/kg per day group . there was no hepatotoxicity with cya treatment . one patient developed two squamous cell carcinomas of the skin . 
effects of haem arginate on variegate porphyria . four patients with variegate porphyria ( vp ) were treated with repeated haem arginate infusions daily for 4 days and then weekly for 4 weeks . after the initial four daily doses of haem arginate ( haem 3 mg/kg ) , the excretion of faecal protoporphyrin ( mean 579 nmol/g dry wt ) fell to an almost normal level ( mean 123 nmol/g dry wt ) , and that of coproporphyrin ( mean 162 nmol/g dry wt ) to the normal level ( mean 21 nmol/g dry wt ) in all patients . however , during the period of the four weekly infusions of haem the excretion of porphyrins increased almost to the pretreatment level . phototesting showed no changes in the photoreactivity of the skin , and no improvement in skin lesions was seen during the treatment . except for one case of thrombophlebitis no side-effects occurred . in a child with homozygous vp , four daily infusions of haem arginate ( 2 mg/kg ) normalized the faecal protoporphyrin content , but had no effect on the increased erythrocyte protoporphyrin concentration . 
skin manifestations in congenital deficiency of leucocyte-adherence glycoproteins ( cdlg ) . in congenital deficiency of leucocyte-adherence glycoproteins ( cdlg ) there is an immunodeficiency with impaired leucocyte function and cutaneous and extracutaneous infections occur . in more than 30 % of cases the condition has a fatal course . we report the skin manifestations of three siblings with cdlg in which areas of skin necrosis occurred that resembled pyoderma gangrenosum . 
an unusual case of acquired localized argyria . we report an unusual cause of localized cutaneous argyria , due to the cutaneous implantation of a silver earring back . 
a retrospective analysis of therapy for acute graft-versus-host disease : initial treatment . we have reviewed results of therapy in 740 patients with grades ii-iv acute graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) after allogeneic marrow transplantation . at the beginning of therapy , 597 patients ( 81 % ) had rash , 369 ( 50 % ) had liver dysfunction and 396 ( 54 % ) had gut dysfunction . initial treatment was with glucocorticoids ( n = 531 ) , cyclosporine ( n = 170 ) , antithymocyte globulin ( atg ) ( n = 156 ) or monoclonal antibody ( n = 3 ) either singly ( n = 633 ) or in combination ( n = 107 ) . parameters of gvhd severity in each organ were recorded weekly , and evaluation of response was made using values at the initiation of secondary treatment or , for patients without such treatment , using values on day 29 of primary treatment or the last recorded value before death , whichever occurred first . minimal criteria for improvement or progression were defined for each organ , but no attempt was made to define liver or gut outcome if another complication such as venocclusive disease or infectious enteritis was present . improvement rates were 43 % for skin disease , 35 % for evaluable liver disease and 50 % for evaluable gut disease . overall complete or partial responses were seen in 44 % of patients . multivariate analyses were carried out to identify patient , disease or treatment factors associated with likelihood of overall improvement and likelihood of response in at least one organ . a similar analysis was also carried out to identify covariates associated with time to treatment failure ( defined as initiation of secondary therapy or death not due to relapse of malignancy ) . in all three models , gvhd prophylaxis using cyclosporine combined with methotrexate was associated with favorable gvhd treatment outcome compared to prophylaxis with either agent alone , and treatment with glucocorticoids or cyclosporine was more successful than treatment with atg . other factors associated with unfavorable outcome in the model of time to treatment failure and also entered in one of the response models were recipient hla disparity with the donor , presence of a liver complication other than gvhd , and early onset of gvhd . results of this analysis indicate that glucocorticoids represent the best initial therapy available for treatment of acute gvhd , although much room for improvement remains . 
animal models of chronic inflammatory arthritis . the use of animals has been indispensable to the investigation of the etiology , pathophysiology , and treatment of juvenile arthritis . because of ethical concerns about studying children , the difficulty of obtaining tissue , and the heterogeneous manifestations and protean course of chronic arthritis in childhood , the scope of potential research has been severely limited . this brief review summarizes a few of the animal models most commonly used in chronic inflammatory arthritis research : subcutaneous air pouch , antigen-induced ( including arthritogenic infectious agent ) , and spontaneous models . in the spontaneous and antigen-induced animal models of arthritis , local and systemic immunoregulatory abnormalities clearly play a major role in the pathogenesis of arthritis . by elucidating the immune response to those antigens , as well as the role of genetics and environment , the pathogenesis of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis may be better understood . at the present time , however , the complexity of these models precludes more definitive interpretation and extrapolation to human diseases . 
studies on the contact sensitizing activity of dithranol ( anthralin ) and 10-butyryl dithranol ( butantrone ) . the contact sensitizing activity of dithranol and butantrone ( 10-butyryl dithranol ) was studied in 3 animal models : the guinea pig maximization test ( gpmt ) , the closed patch test ( cpt ) , and the mouse ear swelling test ( mest ) in 2 different mouse strains . in the gpmt , both dithranol and , to a greater extent , butantrone showed sensitizing potential . because butantrone was less irritant , the concentrations used were 10x higher than those of dithranol . in the cpt , only butantrone was slightly positive . in the mest , with both cf-1 and balb/c mice , dithranol caused less swelling of the test ear after challenge than butantrone . according to the evaluation criteria of the mest , only butantrone caused sensitization in 50 % of the cf-1 mice and in 40 % of the balb/c mice . thus , the gpmt was the only test which indicated the minor contact sensitizing potential of dithranol . on the other hand , the 10-butyryl analogue of dithranol showed undoubtedly stronger contact sensitizing potential than the parent compound in all tests . therefore , as compared to dithranol , an increased risk of sensitization should be considered . 
prevalence and sources of sensitization to emulsifiers : a clinical study . 737 patients with suspected cosmetic - or medicament-related contact dermatitis were patch tested with 6 emulsifier agents : triethanolamine , cetyl stearyl alcohol , sorbitan sesquioleate , polyoxyethylene sorbitan monopalmitate , polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate , and amerchol l 101 . 39 patients ( 5.3 % ) gave 1 or more positive patch tests to emulsifiers . a total of 54 positive reactions were found , 23 of which were clinically relevant , triethanolamine being the most frequent sensitizer . patients with emulsifier sensitivity generally give a high prevalence of positive patch tests to other common ingredients of topical preparations , such as preservatives or active ingredients . cosmetics and topical medicaments were detected as the source of sensitization in an equal number of patients . patch tests with patients ' own causative preparations were frequently negative . to avoid overlooking emulsifier sensitivity , it is advisable to test these compounds in patients with contact dermatitis that is possibly due to topical preparations , regardless of whether they have other clinically relevant positive reactions or whether patch tests with their own products are negative . 
olive oil as a cause of contact allergy in patients with venous eczema , and occupationally . from 1985 to 1989 , 13 cases of contact allergy to olive oil have been identified in the departments of dermatology of kristianstad and ostersund hospitals . known components of olive oil could not be proved to be the cause of the allergy . this high number of patients with contact allergy to olive oil and possible explanations are discussed . 
contact sensitization by pesticides in farmers . 30 farmers with contact dermatitis and 20 controls were patch tested with a series of locally used pesticides . allergic reactions to 1 or more pesticides were seen in 11 patients but none of the controls . carbamates ( maneb , carbofuran , carbaryl ) were the most frequent sensitizers ( 7 patients ) , followed by organophosphorus compounds like : malathion and oxydemton methyl ( 4 patients ) ; 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and fenvalerate ( 3 patients each ) ; streptocycline ( 2 patients ) . irritant reactions to captaf were seen in 4 patients , thiobencarb weedicide in 3 , and organophosphorus compounds in 3 . pesticides should be patch tested in all farmers with contact dermatitis . 
low allergenicity of clonidine impedes studies of sensitization mechanisms in guinea pig models . during clinical trials , a clonidine transdermal device has been found to induce clonidine-specific allergic contact dermatitis in up to 25 % of patients during a treatment period of 1 year . using 3 different guinea pig strains , development was attempted of an experimental guinea pig model that would allow for in-depth studies into the mechanism of sensitization , and a possible role of transdermal device components . transient low-level clonidine allergy could be obtained only in a minority of animals , with severe sensitization procedures departing from epicutaneous applications , combined with intradermal ( adjuvant ) fca injections . sensitization was not potentiated by additional booster procedures , including cyclophosphamide pretreatment , nor any of the putative cofactors ( uv-treatments , c. parvum or acetaldehyde involvement ) studied . these results suggest that the persistent skin contacts in man , with transdermal devices for sustained drug delivery , generate unique conditions favouring the development of allergic contact dermatitis , which are difficult to mimic in experimental animal models . thus , clinical allergy may develop even to extremely weak sensitizing drugs that can be safely used orally , and escape most currently available predictive contact allergy animal models . clinical studies remain unavoidable for studying factors that may reduce sensitization rates to more acceptable levels . 
contact allergy due to colophony ( vi ) . the sensitizing capacity of minor resin acids and 7 commercial modified-colophony products . 3 minor resin acids and 7 commercial modified-colophony products of different origins were studied by experimental sensitization by means of a modified fca method . all 3 resin acids were almost negative . the commercial products gave different results . while the maleic-modified product of greek origin showed a strong sensitizing power , the fumaric-modified , terpene-phenol-modified and a disproportioned rosin were only moderate . a remarkable difference was obtained with the swedish and finnish tall oil rosins , which , in contrast to the previously studied french product , exhibited only a weak sensitizing capacity . 
contact dermatitis from acrylate and methacrylate compounds in lowicryl embedding media for electron microscopy . this report is about occupational contact dermatitis found in 3 out of 6 workers of a chemistry laboratory using lowicryl embedding media , which contain ( meth ) acrylate monomer mixtures of known composition . the notation ( meth ) acrylates is used to refer to both acrylates and methacrylates . ( meth ) acrylate monomers will polymerize in the absence of oxygen when induced by metal ions , peroxides , heat or ultraviolet light . the monomers are of low viscosity and remain in the liquid state at temperatures far below 0 degree c. the volatile compounds , some of which exhibit a most pungent odour , have a tendency to penetrate all tissue and to permeate into the finest fissures , a property which makes them suitable as sealants , glues , embedding material , etc . this and their toxicity may represent a danger to the health of individuals who need to work with them , especially if no precautions are taken . we show with patch testing that one patient reacted strongly to the compound 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate at the dilutions tested ( 0.5 and 1 % v/v ) , but not at all to 10 other ( meth ) acrylates . in the same test , 3 volunteer controls were negative to 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate . we demonstrate that at maximum working concentration , 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate penetrates both latex and vinyl gloves and elicits irritant/allergic reactions on the patient and irritant reactions on a control . finally , we discuss the necessary protective measures . 
cyclosporine and chronic sarcoidosis . two patients with progressive sarcoidosis who had poor responses and side effects from corticosteroid therapy were treated with cyclosporine . cyclosporine suppressed conventional markers of inflammation and there was clinical improvement in one patient , but the disease recurred when therapy was discontinued . the second patient who had diabetes mellitus developed unstable glucose metabolism when given cyclosporine . this unstable diabetes mellitus together with side effects of nausea and vomiting resulted in weight loss and inadequate serum therapeutic levels that was associated with a poor therapeutic response to the cyclosporine . the major side effects in both patients were headache and gastrointestinal symptoms , but there was no renal dysfunction . we conclude that while corticosteroids remain the mainstay of sarcoid therapy , when these drugs have not been successful for the skin manifestations of the disease , a trial of cyclosporine may be justified . 
comparison of quantitative sensory-threshold measures for their association with foot ulceration in diabetic patients . we compared the accuracy of cutaneous pressure perception-threshold measurements with that of other sensory-threshold measurements for detecting diabetic foot ulcer patients . three hundred fourteen non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients were studied , of whom 91 had either a current foot ulcer or a history of foot ulceration . foot ulcer patients had much higher pressure perception thresholds at the hallux than those without foot ulcers ( mean + / - se 4.63 + / - 0.05 vs. 3.54 + / - 0.04 u , p less than 0.001 ) . the magnitude of association was higher than that for vibration thresholds and markedly greater than those for cool and warm thresholds . pressure thresholds were highly accurate for identifying foot ulcer patients . at a threshold level of 4.21 u , the sensitivity was 0.84 , with a specificity of 0.96 . at similar sensitivities for vibration and thermal thresholds , specificities were lower . foot ulceration and cutaneous pressure perception threshold are strongly associated . pressure-threshold measurements are extremely accurate and perform at least as well as other quantitative sensory tests in identifying foot ulcer patients . assessment of the foot pressure threshold may have promise as a simple and inexpensive method for detecting diabetic patients at risk for foot ulcers . 
measuring vibration sensations with graduated tuning fork . simple and reliable means to detect diabetic patients at risk of neuropathic foot ulceration . to find a simple and reliable means to measure vibration sensations , 189 diabetic patients and 88 control subjects were tested at different sites with a graduated tuning fork . within-test variation at big toes reached 8.4 % in diabetic patients vs. 2.2 % in control subjects . mean contralateral variation was 7.5 % in diabetic patients vs. 2.5 % in control subjects . tuning-fork sensations were inversely correlated with duration of diabetes , whereas no correlation was found with hba1c levels or the severity of retinopathy . ninety-nine ( 52 % ) patients had vibratory sensation at big toes of less than 99th percentile of normal values for age . in addition , 51 % of the patients with clinical symptoms at extremities ( n = 67 ) , 70 % of the patients without tendon reflexes ( n = 50 ) , and 75 % of the patients with abnormal nerve conduction velocities ( n = 60 ) also had low vibration sensations . all patients with lower-limb injuries ( n = 7 ) had values at big toes of less than 2 . altogether , the graduated tuning fork represents a simple and reliable alternative to quantitate vibration sensations . long-term follow-up of asymptomatic patients will indicate whether these abnormalities reflect underlying neuropathy . patients with abnormal values at screening will necessitate additional investigations and special foot-care education programs . 
resolution of inferior vena cava syndrome after embolization of a hepatic adenoma . a 77-year-old man presented with severe pruritus and massive lower body edema . computerized axial tomography of the abdomen showed a large hepatic mass compressing the inferior vena cava , and a liver biopsy specimen showed hepatic adenoma . embolization of vessels feeding the hepatic tumor resulted in complete resolution of pruritus and ascites , and clinical remission has persisted for 1 year following partial obliteration of tumor vasculature . angiographic ablation of tumor blood supply represents a nonoperative means for inducing clinical remission in patients with symptomatic hepatic adenoma who are at high surgical risk . 
aging and the skin : recognizing and managing common disorders . senescent changes in structure and function of the skin and chronic solar radiation damage predispose the skin of the elderly to certain inflammatory and infectious diseases . in this context , the diagnosis and treatment of senile xerosis and pruritus are discussed , as are the common types of dermatitides , infections , and infestations . 
simultaneous or staged bilateral total knee replacements in rheumatoid arthritis . a prospective study . in a prospective study of 100 knee arthroplasties in patients with rheumatoid arthritis , simultaneous bilateral surgery was compared with staged bilateral replacements . all patients had improved function following their operations but those who had staged surgery only achieved maximum benefit after the second knee had been replaced . the complication rate was no greater for simultaneous surgery and we therefore advocate the method for those patients who require bilateral replacements . 
the oxford knee replacement . a review from an independent centre . we present a study of 67 oxford bicompartmental total knee replacements performed at a district general hospital . in this general orthopaedic unit , 57 of the knees ( 85 % ) had significant relief of pain with a mean flexion range of 95 degrees and a mean flexion deformity of only 9 degrees . there was a noticeable difference between osteoarthritic and rheumatoid knees . poor results could be directly related to an avoidable postoperative complication . the results of this independent assessment may be compared favourably with the previously published series from the specialist centre at which the prosthesis was designed . 
the incidence of deep vein thrombosis after cementless and cemented knee replacement . the incidence of deep vein thrombosis in 244 patients who had total knee replacement has been studied . in 120 the prosthesis was cemented and in 124 it was cementless . in all cases the replacement was primary and a porous-coated prosthesis with a porous-coated central tibial stem was used . deep vein thrombosis was diagnosed by venography , and pulmonary embolism by perfusion scanning . the incidence of deep vein thrombosis in the cementless knees ( 23.8 % ) and in the cemented ( 25 % ) was approximately the same . the only significant predisposing factors for deep vein thrombosis in both groups were obesity , prolonged postoperative immobilisation , previous venous disease and hyperlipidaemia . 
disseminated cutaneous herpes zoster following cardiac surgery . our case report describes disseminated cutaneous herpes zoster in the early post-operative period following cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass . this has not been reported previously in the absence of immunosuppressive therapy . despite associated neurologic and respiratory impairment , our patient was treated successfully with intravenous acyclovir and subsequently discharged . 
isolation of a human epidermal cdna corresponding to the 180-kd autoantigen recognized by bullous pemphigoid and herpes gestationis sera . immunolocalization of this protein to the hemidesmosome . autoantibodies present in the sera of patients with bullous pemphigoid ( bp ) bind to the basement membrane zone of normal human skin and commonly recognize two epidermal proteins , the bp240 and bp180 antigens . two bp antigen cdna clones from a lambda gt11 human keratinocyte library have been identified on the basis of reactivity with a bp serum . the fusion protein ( fp ) produced by one clone immunoadsorbed autoantibodies , which specifically recognized the bp180 by antigen , showing no cross-reactivity with bp240 by immunoblot analysis . the fp produced by the second clone immunoadsorbed autoantibodies which specifically reacted with the bp240 epidermal antigen . northern blot analysis demonstrated that the bp180 and bp240 antigens are encoded by distinct rna transcripts with lengths of 6.0 and 8.5 kb , respectively . immunoblot analysis of the bp180 lysogen extract identified a 135-kd fp which was recognized by 7 of 16 bp sera and 7 of 8 herpes gestationis sera . a rabbit antiserum prepared against the lysogenic bp180 fp specifically recognized the bp180 antigen from human epidermal extracts by immunoblotting , labeled the bmz by indirect immunofluorescence , and bound to human epidermal hemidesmosomes by immuno-electron microscopy . these results indicate that the bp180 antigen recognized by bp and herpes gestationis autoantibodies is a unique hemidesmosomal polypeptide , distinguishable from the bp240 antigen . 
activation pathways of synovial t lymphocytes . expression and function of the um4d4/cdw60 antigen . accumulating evidence implicates a central role for synovial t cells in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis , but the activation pathways that drive proliferation and effector function of these cells are not known . we have recently generated a novel monoclonal antibody against a rheumatoid synovial t cell line that recognizes an antigen termed um4d4 ( cdw60 ) . this antigen is expressed on a minority of peripheral blood t cells , and represents the surface component of a distinct pathway of human t cell activation . the current studies were performed to examine the expression and function of um4d4 on t cells obtained from synovial fluid and synovial membranes of patients with rheumatoid arthritis and other forms of inflammatory joint disease . the um4d4 antigen is expressed at high surface density on about three-fourths of synovial fluid t cells and on a small subset of synovial fluid natural killer cells ; in synovial tissue it is present on more than 90 % of t cells in lymphoid aggregates , and on approximately 50 % of t cells in stromal infiltrates in addition , um4d4 is expressed in synovial tissue on a previously undescribed population of hla-dr/dp-negative non-t cells with a dendritic morphology . anti-um4d4 was co-mitogenic for both ra and non-ra synovial fluid mononuclear cells , and induced il-2 receptor expression . the um4d4/cdw60 antigen may represent a functional activation pathway for synovial compartment t cells , which could play an important role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory arthritis . 
use of monoclonal antibody kp1 for identifying normal and neoplastic human mast cells . the monoclonal antibody kp1 ( cd68 ) was used to stain normal and neoplastic monocytes and macrophages in routinely processed , paraffin wax embedded tissue : mast cells also exhibited strong , consistent cytoplasmic immunoreactivity . light microscopic findings were corroborated by electron microscopical and immunocytochemical findings . the predominant sites of immunoreactivity were the specific intracytoplasmic granules of the mast cells . all mast cell subtypes -- that is , normal and reactive mast cells , such as those in lymph nodes exhibiting chronic non-specific lymphadenitis , and malignant or neoplastic mast cells in various types of mastocytosis -- reacted with this antibody . this finding is of diagnostic importance , because mast cell proliferation could be mistaken for histiocyte proliferation . it also supports the hypothesis that mast cells derive from the bone marrow . 
cultured epidermal autografts and allografts : a study of differentiation and allograft survival . cultured epidermal sheets were examined before and at various times after grafting on skin ulcer beds . before grafting , the sheet consisted of four to five layers of keratinocytes with incomplete differentiation . ten days after grafting , graft recipient sites showed compact hyperkeratosis , a normal-appearing epidermis , and a flat dermoepidermal junction . at 6 months , the stratum corneum had a basket-weave appearance but the dermoepidermal junction remained flat . monoclonal antibodies to keratins 14 and 10 showed normal basal and suprabasal localization , respectively . electron microscopy showed a normal basement membrane with anchoring fibrils . lh7 :2 , a monoclonal antibody that binds to the type vii collagen molecule , stained the dermoepidermal junction in all biopsy specimens . ae-1 , an antibody that stains suprabasal cells in hyperproliferative skin , was expressed suprabasally for up to 12 weeks after healing ( 16 weeks after grafting ) , but expression was confined to the basal layer at 18 weeks after healing ( 6 months after grafting ) . anti-involucrin staining was found in the deeper layers of the epidermis up to 12 weeks after healing ( 16 weeks after grafting ) but had receded to a normal distribution in upper spinous and granular layers at 18 weeks ( 6 months after grafting ) . overall , the histologic patterns observed in recipient sites during the first 4 months after grafting resembled those observed for 10 to 14 days in newly healed epidermis and in hyperproliferative states such as psoriasis . in four sex-mismatched graft sites , specimens were reacted with a biotinylated probe to the y chromosome by in situ hybridization . lack of y chromosome-positive cells suggested that host keratinocytes had replaced the allografts . multilocus dna analysis in one patient confirmed this observation . our data suggest that an altered state of epithelial maturation persists for several months after culture grafting , with restoration of the normal pattern by 6 months . no differences were detected between autografted and allografted sites . 
clinical manifestations in anticardiolipin antibody-positive patients with progressive systemic sclerosis . anticardiolipin antibody-positive patients with progressive systemic sclerosis were analyzed . elevated anticardiolipin antibody titers were observed in 13 of 40 cases ( 33 % ) . anticardiolipin antibody titer was significantly higher in patients with progressive systemic sclerosis type 1 than in those with type 2 or type 3 . occurrence of anticardiolipin antibody was significantly more frequent in patients positive for anti-nrnp antibodies , rheumatoid factor , or thrombocytopenia . in contrast , patients with proximal scleroderma , scarring , or esophageal hypomotility were positive for anticardiolipin antibody less frequently . these results suggest that anticardiolipin antibody might be closely associated with lupuslike clinical manifestations in a subset of progressive systemic sclerosis or definite progressive systemic sclerosis with thrombocytopenia , rheumatoid factor , or anti-nrnp antibodies . 
hypereosinophilic syndrome with unusual cutaneous manifestations in two men with hiv infection . we report two men with human immunodeficiency virus infection who had unusual cutaneous manifestations of hypereosinophilic syndrome , exfoliative erythroderma , and linear flagellate plaques . in the first patient the cutaneous disease was the initial manifestation , and in the second the skin was the only organ affected . we also describe a favorable response to systemic corticosteroids and to psoralen with uva phototherapy in one patient . 
condylomata acuminata in children : frequent association with human papillomaviruses responsible for cutaneous warts . to identify the papillomavirus types associated with condylomata acuminata in children and to evaluate their mode of transmission , we studied 32 children with anogenital warts . external condylomata were found in 12 of their mothers and in 10 of their fathers . ten mothers , including two without external lesions , had cervical condylomata . blot hybridization studies disclosed a genital human papillomavirus ( hpv ) in 14 of 27 children ( hpv-6 in 12 and hpv-11 in two ) and in 8 of 14 patients ( hpv-6 in all ) . hpv-6 was found in another child by the polymerase chain reaction technique . infection occurred most likely at birth or from nonsexual contact , but sexual abuse could not be excluded in one 11-year-old girl . cutaneous hpv-2 was found in seven children and as yet uncharacterized papillomaviruses were found in two children . three mothers of hpv-2-infected children had common hand warts , and two children had subungual warts . this study shows the frequent nonsexual transmission of genital papillomaviruses in children and the unexpectedly high association of children 's condylomata with papillomaviruses responsible for skin warts , possibly transmitted by heteroinoculation or autoinoculation . 
photochemotherapy improves chronic cutaneous graft-versus-host disease . we have used oral psoralen photochemotherapy ( puva ) to treat four patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease of the skin , oral mucosa , and liver , who had responded only partially to long-term immunosuppressive therapy ( prednisolone , cyclosporine , azathioprine ) . puva therapy was delivered to the entire skin but not to the oral mucosa , and immunosuppressive therapy was continued in all patients . two patients ' skin lesions improved considerably ; the oral lesions healed and did not recur in one . immunosuppressive therapy could be reduced in these two patients . one patient with sicca signs did not improve . one patient had to interrupt puva therapy because of side effects attributed to 8-methoxypsoralen ( nausea and vomiting ) . no flare of acute cutaneous graft-versus-host disease was noted during puva therapy . chronic graft-versus-host disease of the liver did not improve in any patient . 
skin pigmentation from clofazimine therapy in leprosy patients : a reappraisal . skin biopsy specimens from two lepromatous leprosy patients with dark brown pigmentation who were receiving long-term clofazimine therapy were studied . ceroid-lipofuscin pigment was demonstrated inside macrophages that contained numerous phagolysosomes . these contained lipids and clofazimine that appeared as electron-lucent vacuoles and a lipofuscin pigment that was electron dense , granular , and lamellated . although the presence of the drug in tissues contributed to the skin pigmentation , the main cause was a drug-induced , reversible ceroid lipofuscinosis . 
neutrophilic dermatosis with myelodysplastic syndrome : nuclear segmentation anomalies of neutrophils in the skin lesion and in peripheral blood . neutrophilic dermatosis developed in two patients with myelodysplastic syndrome . biopsy specimens of their skin lesions showed marked infiltration by neutrophils with nuclear anomalies , that is , hyposegmentation ( pseudo-pelger-huet anomaly ) or hypersegmentation . peripheral blood and bone marrow neutrophils had similar anomalies . to our knowledge , this is the first report of nuclear segmentation anomalies of neutrophils in neutrophilic dermatosis skin lesions of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome . 
localized hyperhidrosis in pretibial myxedema . two cases of spontaneous hyperhidrosis limited to pretibial myxedema lesions were studied . quantitative measurements of stimulated eccrine sweat were made after the intradermal injection of methacholine . the sweat rate was two to four times greater in the lesional skin than in perilesional skin . eccrine secretory glands in excisional biopsy specimens from the pretibial lesions were significantly larger than those in perilesional skin . to our knowledge , hyperhidrosis localized to areas of pretibial myxedema has not been reported . 
incidence of cutaneous t cell lymphoma and other rare skin cancers in a defined population . between 1970 and 1984 in rochester , minnesota , rare skin cancers developed in 15 local residents : cutaneous t cell lymphoma ( six subjects ) , dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans ( four ) , adenocarcinoma of sweat glands ( two ) , merkel cell carcinoma ( one ) , liposarcoma ( one ) , and extramammary paget 's disease ( one ) . these cases were identified through a unique computerized retrieval system that is maintained at the mayo clinic for the population of rochester , minnesota . the annual incidences of these cancers in the rochester population were 0.9 , 0.5 , 0.3 , 0.2 , 0.2 , and 0.2 per 100,000 residents , respectively ( standardized to 1980 u.s. population ) . to our knowledge , this is the first report of the incidences of these rare skin cancers in a well-defined population . 
the prognosis of contact dermatitis . this article reviews the prognosis of contact dermatitis , particularly of occupational contact dermatitis . most studies document a poor prognosis for occupational and nonoccupational contact dermatitis . the prognoses of occupational and nonoccupational contact dermatitis , irritant contact dermatitis , and allergic contact dermatitis are similar . only a minority of studies on the prognosis of occupational contact dermatitis have found that a job change by the affected worker leads to clearing of the dermatitis . dermatologic and nondermatologic factors associated with a poor prognosis are discussed . 
cutaneous lesions of disseminated histoplasmosis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . disseminated histoplasmosis is being diagnosed more frequently in persons infected with the human immunodeficiency virus and is often the initial manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . disease-related cutaneous features of hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis are defined as mucocutaneous lesions from which fungal organisms were either cultured or demonstrated histopathologically . we report four hiv-seropositive patients with disseminated histoplasmosis who had culture-positive skin or oral lesions of histoplasmosis and review the specific cutaneous manifestations of hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis . including our patients , disease-related skin and/or mucosal lesions were present in 11 % of patients ( 26 % of 239 ) with hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis . the possibility of disseminated histoplasmosis should be considered in all hiv-infected persons and in persons with aids risk factors who have fever , weight loss , hepatosplenomegaly , and new cutaneous lesions . an early skin or mucosal biopsy specimen for crushed tissue preparation , histologic evaluation , and fungal culture is a simple , rapid diagnostic procedure . 
a method for the determination of uva protection for normal skin . although the uvb portion of the electromagnetic spectrum ( 290 to 320 nm ) is responsible for most of the harmful effects of sunlight on the skin , wavelengths in the uva region also contribute to photodamage . a simple and rapid clinical test , the sun protection factor determination , is available to assess the sunburn protective effect of a sunscreen , primarily a uvb effect . however , no practical test has been proposed to measure a sunscreen 's uva protection . we described a method for the calculation of uva protection in normal subjects . the determination of uva protection involves three steps : ( 1 ) the uv absorbance spectrum of the sunscreen on skin is determined spectrophotometrically ; ( 2 ) a convolution spectrum is calculated by multiplying the solar spectrum with the commission internationale de l'eclairage uv hazard spectrum ; and ( 3 ) the sunscreen transmission spectrum is then incorporated into the convolution spectrum to obtain the uva effectiveness ratio , which can be expressed as the uva protection percentage . because the uva protection percentage value is based both on normal erythemic risk and on standard sunlight , the protection for any product can be easily measured . the procedure is simple , and values generated can be reproduced in other laboratories . 
pigmented bowen 's disease arising from pigmented seborrheic keratoses . we report three cases of pigmented bowen 's disease that clinically and histologically had features of seborrheic keratoses . we speculate about the mechanism of pigmentation in these lesions and suggest that they arise from pigmented seborrheic keratoses . 
scleroderma and l-tryptophan : a possible explanation of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . scleroderma developed in six women who were taking l-tryptophan . fasciitis and morphea were most common , but one patient had pleural effusion , hypertension , and signs of cardiac and kidney failure . in five patients the biopsy findings were characteristic of scleroderma ; the sixth patient had crohn 's disease and developed fasciitis ; her biopsy specimen showed inflammatory arteritis . all patients ' conditions improved after cessation of their l-tryptophan intake , initiation of corticosteroid therapy , or both . these findings confirm previous data that show altered tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism in some patients with scleroderma and fasciitis , particularly with tryptophan loading . 
treatment of hirsutism with the pure antiandrogen flutamide . the effectiveness of the antiandrogen flutamide in combination with an oral contraceptive was studied in 20 patients with moderate to severe hirsutism . eight patients had no previous therapy , whereas 12 had failed to respond to oral contraceptives , spironolactone , or dexamethasone therapy . treatment with the antiandrogen flutamide ( 250 mg twice daily ) and an oral contraceptive ( ortho 1/35 ) resulted in a particularly rapid and marked decrease in the total hirsutism score , which reached the normal range at 7 months . seborrhea , acne , and hair loss score were also rapidly corrected . treatment was associated with a decrease in plasma luteinizing hormone , progesterone , and estradiol levels . plasma sex hormone-binding globulin levels were initially low in 18 to 20 patients but increased significantly during therapy . no clinically significant side effects were observed . 
transdermal viprostol in the treatment of male pattern baldness . fifty-seven men were randomly assigned for treatment of androgenetic alopecia with viprostol , vehicle , or placebo twice daily for 24 weeks . nonvellus hair growth was assessed subjectively by both patient and investigator and objectively through hair counts from macrophotographs of the target area . nonvellus target area hair counts declined in all three treatment groups at the end of the 6-month study . viprostol is not an effective hair growth promoter in androgenetic alopecia . 
pityriasis lichenoides in children : a long-term follow-up of eighty-nine cases . pityriasis lichenoides is usually classified into an acute and a chronic form . from a review of 89 cases of the disease seen since 1974 it seems that a more realistic classification into three main groups , according to the distribution of pityriasis lichenoides lesions , could be made , namely , a diffuse , a central , and a peripheral form , each characterized by a different clinical course . conversely , no correlations were detected in our series between the severity of skin lesions and their distribution or the overall course of the disease . none of our cases suggests the possible evolution of pityriasis lichenoides into lymphomatoid papulosis . although no infectious causative agent has been identified , a viral origin seems likely in some cases . most patients responded favorably to uvb irradiation . our conclusions are ( 1 ) that pityriasis lichenoides is probably a clinical disorder with a diverse etiology and ( 2 ) that its classification by distribution seems more useful than its subdivision into an acute and a chronic form . 
piroxicam-induced photosensitivity and contact sensitivity to thiosalicylic acid . a photocontact dermatitis developed in three patients after the application of gel containing 0.5 % piroxicam . patch tests were positive to thiomersal and thiosalicylic acid . photopatch tests with piroxicam at several concentrations were positive in the three patients but negative in 62 normal volunteer subjects . patch tests performed on 14 patients with proved systemic photosensitivity to piroxicam were positive for thiomersal and thiosalicylic acid . nine of 12 patients previously sensitized to thiosalicylic acid and with no history of exposure to piroxicam showed positive photopatch test reactions to this chemical . these results support a relation between piroxicam-induced photosensitivity and contact sensitivity to thiosalicylic acid . contact allergic sensitivity to the latter is a marker for patients with a high risk of developing photosensitivity reactions to piroxicam . these reactions may be due to photoproducts of the drug rather than metabolites . 
hydroxychloroquine is effective therapy for control of cutaneous sarcoidal granulomas . cutaneous sarcoidosis often responds poorly to topical and intralesional corticosteroids but may respond to moderate to high doses of oral corticosteroids . to avoid the use of systemic corticosteroids , we treated 17 patients with cutaneous sarcoidal granulomas with hydroxychloroquine ( 2 to 3 mg/kg/day ) in an open clinical trial . if response occurred , other medications were first tapered and then the hydroxychloroquine dosage was reduced or stopped . the cutaneous lesions of 12 patients regressed within 4 to 12 weeks , and they were able to stop other therapies ; three patients had a partial response , and two patients had no regression . two of eight patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis improved . no ocular toxicity was noted . 
treatment of aggressive keratoacanthomas by radiotherapy . keratoacanthomas infrequently are treated by radiotherapy . however , keratoacanthomas that are recurrent after surgical excision or whose resection would result in cosmetic deformity may benefit from radiotherapy . between january 1970 and june 1988 , 29 such keratoacanthomas in 18 patients were irradiated . doses ranged from 3500 cgy in 15 fractions to 5600 cgy in 28 fractions . measured end points of therapy were ( 1 ) initial response , ( 2 ) freedom from recurrence , and ( 3 ) quality of the subsequent cosmetic appearance ( scored as good , fair , or poor ) . no lesion progressed and all eventually regressed completely . cosmetic results generally were considered good by both the patient and the referring dermatologist ; none of the results was considered poor . our results demonstrate that radiation is an effective means of treating keratoacanthomas . 
dermatoses associated with sterile lytic bone lesions . in recent years several dermatoses , palmoplantar pustulosis , acne fulminans , and sweet 's syndrome , have been associated with sterile lytic bone lesions . this article discusses the clinical , laboratory , and histologic findings of these disorders and postulates a common mechanism underlying the bone lesions . 
the relationship of pemphigus to neoplasia . a statistically increased incidence of malignancy has been observed in patients with pemphigus . a review of the literature reveals 42 cases of nonthymic malignancies and 18 cases of thymic malignancies . a significant predominance of men , with mean age at onset of 50 years , was observed . pemphigus vulgaris is more common in patients with nonthymic neoplasms , whereas pemphigus foliaceus or pemphigus erythematosus and pemphigus vulgaris are equally common in patients with thymic neoplasms . lymphoreticular malignancies , especially kaposi 's sarcoma , are most frequently observed . the majority of patients with nonthymic neoplasms have pemphigus before the detection of the malignancy and have a favorable 5-year survival rate after tumor resection . the majority of the patients with thymic neoplasms have a thymoma before the development of pemphigus . in some patients pemphigus develops after thymectomy and myasthenia gravis is often associated . overall , 37 of the 60 patients , or 61 % , had a neoplasm of the immune system . 
sweet 's syndrome : a clinicopathologic review of twenty-nine cases . twenty-nine patients with sweet 's syndrome were studied . not all of sweet 's original criteria were necessarily present and diagnosis was dependent on the recognition of the typical , acute , tender , erythematous plaques and the characteristic histologic features of a neutrophilic infiltrate with leukocytoclasis . women are affected much more frequently than men . the origin of sweet 's syndrome is still unclear , but an underlying disease was found in more than 50 % of our cases . a streptococcal infection was evident in six cases , inflammatory bowel disease in three cases , malignancy in four cases , and pregnancy in two others . treatment with oral prednisolone for an average of 6 weeks was the usual treatment , although in four patients the disease cleared spontaneously . resolution of the eruption is occasionally followed by milia and scarring . recurrences are common and affect up to one third of patients . 
itraconazole in the treatment of tinea capitis . fifty patients with tinea capitis were treated with itraconazole , 25 to 100 mg/day , for 20 to 73 days in six countries . forty-seven patients ( 94 % ) responded clinically ( healed or markedly improved ) to therapy , of which 38 patients ( 76 % ) completely healed and 9 patients ( 18 % ) markedly improved . three patients ( 6 % ) failed therapy . forty-two patients were assessable for mycologic examination ; 38 patients ( 93 % ) converted mycologically to negative and 4 patients ( 7 % ) remained positive for organisms . in one group of 20 patients treated for 30 days , 6 patients were clinically and mycologically healed . by the 2-week follow-up visit 9 additional patients were healed , and 4 weeks after treatment all 20 patients were both clinically and mycologically healed . the primary organisms reported were microsporum canis and trichophyton tonsurans . only one patient reported a possible side effect ( tired legs ) . laboratory values were all within normal limits , except for one patient who had a transient and slight increase in serum transaminase level . low-dose itraconazole appears to be safe and effective in the treatment of tinea capitis . 
itraconazole in the management of chronic dermatophytosis . fifty-five patients with griseofulvin-unresponsive dermatophytosis caused by trichophyton rubrum were treated with itraconazole . they had either tinea corporis or " dry type " infections of the palms , soles , or nails . the following sites were affected : trunk ( 12 infections ) , soles ( 47 ) , toe webs ( 52 ) , palms ( 26 ) , fingernails ( 29 ) , and toenails ( 42 ) . patients were treated with oral itraconazole until clinical and mycologic remission were achieved . response rates and mean times to recovery were as follows : trunk , 100 % , 1.5 months ; soles , 83 % , 6.7 months ; toe webs , 90 % , 7.2 months ; palms , 96 % , 4.6 months ; fingernails , 90 % , 5.4 months ; and toenails , 76 % , 10.3 months ) . in a 6-month follow-up period 7 of 30 patients with toenail infections who had responded to treatment had a clinical and mycologic relapse , usually of one nail . side effects were minimal but included abdominal discomfort ( three patients ) , headache ( one ) , and weight gain ( two ) . no persistent abnormalities in blood biochemistry were seen , even in patients who received itraconazole for more than 9 months . 
multiple oral and skin lesions occurring after treatment with penicillin . a case of erythema multiforme has been presented . erythema multiforme may be a self-limiting or chronic disease , of varying severity . the disease is of significance to dental practitioners who may be called on to establish a diagnosis and provide appropriate referral or treatment , especially when lesions are limited to the mouth . the prognosis is generally good , although recurrence is common . 
protection from chemotherapy-induced alopecia in a rat model . alopecia ( hair loss ) is among the most distressing side effects of cancer chemotherapy . little progress has been made , however , in its prevention or treatment , partly because of the lack of suitable experimental model . in recent work on the treatment of myelogenous leukemia in the rat , the following observations were made : ( i ) treatment of 8-day-old rats with cytosine arabinoside consistently produced alopecia , and ( ii ) imuvert , a biologic response modifier derived from the bacterium serratia marcescens , uniformly produced complete protection against the alopecia . in subsequent experiments , both cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin also produced alopecia in this model , and the doxorubicin-induced alopecia was prevented by treatment with imuvert . the potential relevance of these observations to chemotherapy-induced alopecia in the clinical setting should be examined . 
surgical management of palmar hyperhidrosis . hyperhidrosis is an idiopathic pathologic condition characterized by excessive sweating beyond that required to cool the body . disturbance of the central nervous system , endocrine system , or obesity has been associated with this condition . patients have a history of several years of occupational or social embarrassment . individuals of japanese ancestry and jews of northern african , yemeni , or balkan descent are predisposed to the condition . nonoperative therapy is merely temporizing and unacceptable because of lack of efficacy or side effects . surgical intervention provides effective and permanent control . the key to surgical correction appears to be the division of the sympathetic chain above the t-2 ganglion and below the t-3 ganglion of the involved side with removal of the entire t2-3 segment with its corresponding spinal nerves . this paper presents our experience with the dorsal thoracic approach for interruption of sympathetic innervation for severe palmar hyperhidrosis . we also review surgical efficacy of various approaches to the sympathetic chain , as well as possible side effects of operative intervention . 
tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome eight patients who became ill while taking tryptophan had myalgia , fatigue , rash , fever , edema , alopecia , arthralgias , diminished joint motion , skin tightening , muscle cramping , and distal paresthesias . three had shortness of breath , and one had pulmonary hypertension . laboratory abnormalities included peripheral eosinophilia , leukocytosis , thrombocytosis , raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and elevated serum levels of aldolase , lactate dehydrogenase , and liver enzymes . of 4 chest radiographs , 3 were abnormal . of 5 skin and muscle biopsies , 4 showed sclerosis or mixed inflammatory cell infiltration of the dermis , subcutis , and fascia . eosinophils were often present , but vasculitis was absent . muscle inflammation was minimal . we conclude that the " eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome " is related to the ingestion of tryptophan and that abnormalities in the secretion of lymphokines may be important in its pathogenesis . 
marfan syndrome in china : a collective review of 564 cases among 98 families . this is a collective review of 564 patients with marfan syndrome among 98 pedigrees reported from 18 provinces and cities in china over a 37-year period from 1951 to 1987 . a positive family history of marfan syndrome was found in 74.3 % of the patients : the mode of inheritance was dominant in 73.8 % and recessive in 0.5 % . sporadic cases occurred in 25.7 % . a screening of 29,067 children found five children with marfan syndrome , giving a prevalence of 17.2 per 100,000 of the population , a gene frequency of 8.61 per 100,000 genes , and a penetrance of 71.69 % . pleiotropy was clear in these cases : arachnodactyly in 77 % , ectopia lentis in 86.8 % , and dilated aortic root in 80.1 % . chromosome examination showed no regular aberrations except in a family of five in whom a giant-satellited chromosome 14 was found in three afflicted members but not in the two unaffected relatives . the high prevalence of aortic root dilation in marfan syndrome makes echocardiography the most useful and practical means of diagnosis . close follow-up and regular echocardiographic evaluation are indicated not only in patients with marfan syndrome but also in their families , for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes . 
a forme fruste of marfan 's syndrome : case history . a thirty nine year old woman presented with multiple aneurysms and dissections of the arterial system secondary to cystic medial necrosis is presented . after assessment of the family history a diagnosis of a forme fruste of marfan 's syndrome was made . preoperative consideration of this rare diagnosis is important for treatment and surgical management . 
the effect of local temperature versus sympathetic tone on digital perfusion in raynaud 's phenomenon . matched groups of 7 to 8 patients with primary raynaud 's phenomenon , systemic sclerosis , and undifferentiated connective tissue disease and cold-tolerant normal control subjects were studied by simultaneous digital strain gauge plethysmography and laser doppler capillary velocimetry during two controlled cycles of hand warming and cooling with and without addition of central cooling and during clinical maneuvers to evoke sympathetic tone . transient vasoconstrictor responses of comparable degree could be evoked in all patient groups and in both the arterial and microvascular beds . while the addition of central cooling had little influence on arterial flow , patients with systemic sclerosis manifested a failure to maintain nutritive perfusion at finger temperatures associated with raynaud 's phenomenon . linear regression and multivariate analysis suggested that finger temperature was the principal determinant of arterial flow in systemic sclerosis and that arterial flow was the principal determinant of microvascular perfusion . the inability of patients with systemic sclerosis to maintain nutritive flow in the face of either reflex or cold-induced proximal arterial constriction is consistent with their clinical propensity to ischemic tissue injury and separates these patients physiologically from other forms of raynaud 's phenomenon . 
chronic arterial occlusion with pge1-resistant skin lesions treated by glycosaminoglycan compound -- case reports . the authors report on 2 patients with chronic arterial occlusion in whom the intravenous administration of the glycosaminoglycan compound fpfd 101 was markedly effective . one patient suffered from thromboembolic episodes of the left hand , and the other had peripheral circulatory impairment related to collagen disease . in these patients , the oral administration of anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents in combination with intravenous infusion of prostaglandin e1 was not adequately effective . however , the addition of intravenous injection of fpfd 101 resulted in a marked improvement in their symptoms . fpfd 101 , which has an anticoagulant effect and also inhibits platelet aggregation , seems to be useful for the treatment and prevention of chronic arterial occlusion when combined with drugs such as anticoagulants , antiplatelet agents , and vasodilators . 
adverse reactions to heparin [ clinical conference ] heparin is a medication that has gained widespread use in clinical medicine as the therapy of choice for acute anticoagulation in the prevention and treatment of thromboembolic disease . therapy with heparin is associated with many potential adverse side effects . heparin-induced skin necrosis is an uncommon complication of heparin therapy that is now believed to be a thrombotic complication of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia . the pathogenesis of this disorder is unknown , but it is presumed to be immunologically mediated . the diagnosis is frequently one of exclusion . significant morbidity and mortality may arise from failure to recognize this adverse reaction . 
basophil histamine release and airway response to mite allergen in atopic dermatitis . twelve patients with atopic dermatitis ( ad ) were subjected to in vitro histamine release from peripheral blood leukocytes ( basophils ) and in vivo bronchial inhalation challenge using house dust mite ( dermatophagoides farinae ) allergen . not only seven patients with asthmatic history but also five patients without asthma responded to both the in vitro and the in vivo challenges . a significant correlation was observed between hr30 ( a mite concentration producing a 30 % release of total cellular histamine ) and pc20 allergen ( a mite concentration producing a 20 % fall in fev1 ) . there was also a significant correlation between mhr ( maximal histamine release ) and the maximal fall in fev1 . the relationship held for both ad patients with asthma and without asthma . these results suggest that histamine release induced by the house dust mite allergen is a good in vitro test for predicting the bronchial response to this allergen . they also suggest that these tests are not disease specific , but are valuable in evaluating the degree of atopic state in a subject . 
a clinical triad to diagnose paraneoplastic retinopathy . two elderly men developed photosensitivity and light-induced glare , transient visual symptoms , and progressive visual loss several months before small cell carcinoma of the lung was discovered . both patients had impaired visual acuity and color vision , ring scotomas , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber . electroretinography demonstrated abnormal cone and rod-mediated responses . antiretinal antibodies were identified in their serum . their visual sensory function improved following therapy with immunosuppressive agents . the triad of photosensitivity , ring scotomatous visual field loss , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber should alert one to a paraneoplastic disorder affecting the retina . 
abnormal essential fatty acid metabolism in darier 's disease . fatty acid levels in plasma and erythrocyte cell membranes were determined in 13 danish patients with darier 's disease and 21 danish controls . concentrations of the main dietary essential fatty acids , linoleic acid ( 18:2 n-6 ) and alpha-linolenic acid ( 18:3 n-3 ) , were consistently modestly above normal ; concentrations of the delta 6-desaturase metabolites of both linoleic and alpha-linolenic acids , however , were consistently and often significantly below normal . these results suggest that the capacity of the enzyme delta 6-desaturase activity is inadequate in patients with darier 's disease . 
ionizing radiation-induced pemphigus . case presentations and literature review . reports of pemphigus following ionizing radiation exposure are rare . we report two cases and review the literature regarding this association . characteristics common to these cases include a prodromal persistent nonspecific dermatitic eruption that is often interpreted as radiation dermatitis , and latency of variable duration before the onset of a vesiculobullous eruption that begins at the portal of irradiation . direct immunofluorescence is positive for intercellular igg , while indirect immunofluorescence is commonly positive only at low titers ; hla correlations have not been studied . documentation of clinical course and laboratory confirmation of the diagnosis , including hematoxylin-eosin , direct and indirect immunofluorescence , and hla determinations ( if available ) , should be recorded to enable further clarification of this entity . 
transfusion-associated graft-vs-host disease in patients with malignancies . report of two cases and review of the literature graft-vs-host disease can develop in immunosuppressed individuals who receive blood-product transfusions that contain immunocompetent lymphocytes . we report two cases of fatal transfusion-associated graft-vs-host disease that developed in patients with hodgkin 's disease who were undergoing therapy . we review all cases of this entity in patients with malignancies , represented predominantly by patients with hematologic malignancies . the groups at risk for development of transfusion-associated graft-vs-host disease , the clinical presentation and course , and methods of diagnosis are summarized . prevention of this highly fatal condition is possible by irradiation of blood products given to patients at risk , but problems remain in determining the groups that warrant such measures . dermatologists need to have heightened awareness of this entity to facilitate more complete diagnosis and allow establishment of effective standards of care . 
severe phototoxic burn following celery ingestion . a 65-year-old woman developed a severe , generalized phototoxic reaction following a visit to a suntan parlor . history taking revealed that she had consumed a large quantity of celery root ( apium graveolens ) 1 hour earlier . with the use of thin-layer chromatography , methoxsalen ( 8-methoxypsoralen ) and 5-methoxypsoralen were identified in the extract from a similar celery root . the biologic activity of this extract , as evaluated with the semiquantitative candida albicans inhibition technique , indicated a total psoralen dose of approximately 45 mg . substantial amounts of psoralen may be absorbed from vegetables , such as celery , and under unusual circumstances , this may constitute a health hazard . 
autoantibodies from patients with localized and generalized bullous pemphigoid immunoprecipitate the same 230-kd keratinocyte antigen . two patients demonstrating the typical clinical , histologic , and immunopathologic features of nonscarring localized bullous pemphigoid are described . these patients possess circulating igg autoantibodies that bind the epidermal side of 1.0-mol / l sodium chloride-split human skin in indirect immunofluorescence microscopy . immunnoprecipitation studies demonstrate that these patients have circulating autoantibodies that immunoprecipitate the same 230-kd bullous pemphigoid antigen that is precipitated by autoantibodies from patients with generalized bullous pemphigoid . these findings indicate that localized bullous pemphigoid is a true clinical variant of generalized pemphigoid rather than a separate nosologic entity . 
acute renal failure due to ciprofloxacin . acute renal failure developed in three patients within a few days of starting ciprofloxacin hydrochloride therapy . an allergic interstitial nephritis was suggested by fever and eosinophiluria in one patient and by erythema multiforme in another . a kidney biopsy specimen confirmed this diagnosis in one patient . renal function improved shortly after withdrawal of the drug in all three patients . literature survey revealed an additional three patients with a similar complication . allergic manifestations , such as fever or rash , were a feature in most reported cases . in view of this potential complication , renal function should be closely monitored in patients receiving ciprofloxacin therapy , especially if other potentially nephrotoxic drugs are prescribed concomitantly . 
desensitization in the management of vancomycin hypersensitivity . vancomycin is the preferred antimicrobial agent in the treatment of methicillin-resistant staphylococcal infections . one of the well-known hypersensitivity reactions to this agent is the " red-man syndrome , " which is believed to involve drug-induced histamine release in certain individuals . although rate and/or dose reductions may be effective in some cases , some hypersensitivity reactions necessitate the discontinuation of vancomycin . in this article one patient is described who developed vancomycin-associated reactions consistent with the red-man syndrome despite having tolerated vancomycin administration previously . this case was managed by sequential increments in vancomycin administration over several days that allowed for therapeutic doses of the drug to be administered . prior to desensitization , vancomycin administration at a lowered rate and dose was unsuccessfully attempted , despite the presence of combination antihistamine therapy . a loss of skin prick test reactivity to vancomycin was demonstrated after successful desensitization . this desensitization method may be useful in managing certain refractory cases of vancomycin hypersensitivity . 
sensitivity and specificity of various morphological features of cervical condylomas . an in situ hybridization study . fifty-seven cervical biopsy specimens or endocervical curettings showing condyloma , changes suggestive of condyloma , or no changes of condyloma were analyzed for presence of nuclear atypia ( nuclear enlargement and irregularity in superficial epithelium ) , presence of multinucleated cells , and presence of perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing in superficial squamous epithelium . the findings were correlated with results of in situ hybridization with biotin-labeled human papillomavirus dna probes . moderate nuclear atypia was significantly more specific than perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing and 100 % sensitive for predicting cases positive for human papillomavirus . of the various morphological features analyzed , perinuclear cytoplasmic clearing had the lowest specificity for predicting positive results on in situ hybridization . 
immediate breast reconstruction following mastectomy is as safe as mastectomy alone . we evaluated wound complications and potential risk factors after mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction and compared them with similar data after modified radical mastectomy . the incidences of infection , seroma , hematoma , and epidermolysis were compared among 395 patients ( 305 with modified radical mastectomies and 90 with mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction ) from virginia mason medical center , seattle , wash , between 1983 and 1989 . obesity , age ( 60 years or older ) , smoking , antibiotics , and wound drainage were examined as possible risk factors . there were more wound complications in the modified radical mastectomy group ( 48 % vs 31 % ) , and specifically , more seromas ( 30 % vs 13 % ) . in the modified radical mastectomy group , age of 60 years or older was associated with seroma and infection , drainage greater than 30 ml per day ( at time of drain removal ) with seroma , and smoking with epidermolysis . in the mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction group , obesity was associated with seroma and epidermolysis . we conclude that mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction appears to be as safe as modified radical mastectomy alone with respect to wound complications . 
the comparative efficacy and toxicity of second-line drugs in rheumatoid arthritis . results of two metaanalyses . we performed 2 metaanalyses of placebo-controlled and comparative clinical trials to examine the relative efficacy and toxicity of methotrexate ( mtx ) , injectable gold , d-penicillamine ( dp ) , sulfasalazine ( ssz ) , auranofin ( aur ) , and antimalarial drugs , the second-line drugs most commonly used to treat rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . for the efficacy study , we applied a set of inclusion criteria and focused on trials which provided information on tender joint count , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , or grip strength . we found 66 clinical trials that contained 117 treatment groups of interest , and for each drug , we combined the treatment groups . for each outcome , results showed that aur tended to be weaker than other second-line drugs . the results of the 3 outcome measures were synthesized into a composite measure of outcomes , and aur was significantly weaker than mtx ( p = 0.006 ) , injectable gold ( p less than 0.0001 ) , dp ( p less than 0.0001 ) , and ssz ( p = 0.009 ) and was slightly , but not significantly , weaker than antimalarial agents ( p = 0.11 ) . we also found heterogeneity among antimalarial agents , in that patients treated with chloroquine did better than those treated with hydroxychloroquine . we found little difference in efficacy between mtx , injectable gold , dp , and ssz . a power analysis showed that a trial should contain at least 170 patients per treatment group to successfully differentiate between more effective and less effective ( e.g. , aur ) second-line drugs . none of the reported interdrug comparative trials we reviewed were this large . for the toxicity study , our inclusion criteria captured ra trials which reported the proportion of patients who discontinued therapy because of drug toxicity and the total proportion who dropped out . we found 71 clinical trials that contained 129 treatment groups . the average proportion who dropped out and the average proportion who dropped out because of drug toxicity were computed for each drug . overall , 30.2 % of the patients in these trials dropped out ; 50 % of them did so because of drug toxicity . injectable gold had higher toxicity rates ( p less than 0.05 ) and higher total dropout rates ( p less than 0.01 ) than any other drug ; 30 % of gold-treated patients dropped out because of side effects versus 15 % of all trial patients . antimalarial drugs and aur had relatively low rates of toxicity ; the rate for mtx was imprecise because of discrepancies between trials . thus , of the commonly used second-line drugs , aur is the weakest , and injectable gold is the most toxic . agents introduced in the future will be compared with these drugs . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
diminished incidence of severe rheumatoid arthritis associated with oral contraceptive use . it has been suggested that the negative association between rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and oral contraceptive ( oc ) use might be limited to the more severe forms of ra . to investigate this further , we studied 121 consecutive female patients with definite ra , 52 female patients with probable ra , and 378 female controls . all patients had ra symptoms of recent onset . after a mean followup period of 6 years , patients with definite ra were classified as having either a severe disease course ( n = 76 ) or a mild disease course ( n = 45 ) . the negative association between oc use prior to the onset of ra symptoms and the development of ra was limited to those patients with definite ra who had a severe disease course . we therefore conclude that oc use prior to the onset of ra symptoms is only associated with a reduction in the incidence of severe ra . this may explain the divergent results of previous studies . 
cellular immune response toward human articular chondrocytes . t cell reactivities against chondrocyte and fibroblast membranes in destructive joint diseases . articular cartilage is one of the major targets in destructive joint diseases in humans . we studied cellular immune reactions against cartilage cell-surface membranes , because it has recently been suggested that these represent possible antigenic structures , based upon the observation of autoantibodies with this specificity in certain joint diseases . a striking t cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes was found both in blood and synovial tissue from patients with rheumatoid arthritis . this reactivity was strongly dependent on the presence of monocytes and had all the characteristics of an antigen-driven process . clonal analysis demonstrated high precursor frequencies in peripheral blood t cells that were reactive against chondrocyte membranes . this response to chondrocyte membranes greatly exceeded the t cell stimulation induced by membranes from other sources such as fibroblasts or epithelial cells . in contrast to patients with rheumatoid arthritis , individuals with osteoarthritis showed a strong peripheral blood and synovial fluid t cell response not only to chondrocyte membranes , but also to fibroblast membrane material . however , there was no reactivity to epithelial cell membranes . normal donors generally did not show significant responses to any membrane preparation . these data indicate that there is a strong t cell reactivity toward chondrocyte membranes in destructive joint disorders , and this may significantly contribute to the pathogenetic processes that occur in these diseases . 
specificity of antibodies to type ii collagen in rheumatoid arthritis . to reassess the role of autoantibodies to type ii collagen in the pathogenesis of diseases , we studied antibodies from patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and from patients with relapsing polychondritis for species specificity and collagen type specificity , using an improved enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . antibodies were found in the sera of 15 % of the ra patients and 50 % of the relapsing polychondritis patients , as well as in the cartilage of 69 % of the ra patients examined . reaction with both homologous and heterologous type ii collagens was common . analysis of 19 selected ra sera revealed that autoantibodies were generally associated with specific antibodies to some species of heterologous type ii collagen . in contrast , antibodies found in 4 % of the non-ra controls were specific for either bovine or chick type ii collagen . these findings indicate that autoantibody formation in ra and relapsing polychondritis may occur as a result of an immune response to heterologous type ii collagen . however , since ra and relapsing polychondritis patient sera differed in their reactivity with the cyanogen bromide-digested peptides , it is possible that the clinical manifestation of collagen autoimmunity might be influenced by the epitope specificity of the antibodies . 
use of molecular cloning methods to map the distribution of epitopes on topoisomerase i ( scl-70 ) recognized by sera of scleroderma patients . we report the initial molecular characterization of the autoimmune response against dna topoisomerase i ( topo i ; scl-70 ) . sera from 36 patients with scleroderma and 4 healthy control subjects were studied using 6 subcloned portions of topo i. twenty-three sera recognized at least 2 independent epitopes on the molecule . therefore , anti-topo i , like other non-organ-specific autoantibodies characterized to date , is polyclonal and multifocal . the cloned protein should prove suitable for sensitive early detection of anti-topo i in the clinical setting . 
alteration of the cellular fatty acid profile and the production of eicosanoids in human monocytes by gamma-linolenic acid . we administered borage seed oil ( 9 capsules/day ) for 12 weeks to 7 normal controls and to 7 patients with active rheumatoid arthritis . the therapy provided 1.1 gm/day of gamma-linolenic acid ( gla ) . gla administration resulted in increased proportions of its first metabolite , dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid ( dgla ) , in circulating mononuclear cells . the ratios of dgla to arachidonic acid and dgla to stearic acid increased significantly in these cells . significant reductions in prostaglandin e2 , leukotriene b4 , and leukotriene c4 produced by stimulated monocytes were seen after 12 weeks of gla supplementation . the antiinflammatory effects of gla administration observed in animal models , and the apparent clinical improvement experienced by 6 or 7 rheumatoid arthritis patients given borage seed oil in this open , uncontrolled study may be due in part to reduced generation of arachidonic acid oxygenation products . 
increased expression of platelet-derived growth factor type b receptors in the skin of patients with systemic sclerosis . the expression of b-type receptors for platelet-derived growth factor ( pdgf ) was investigated in skin biopsy samples from patients with systemic sclerosis ( ssc ) , by immunohistochemical staining using monoclonal antibodies specific for the receptor . whereas skin from healthy individuals lacked expression of pdgf-b receptors , receptor expression was seen in sclerodermatous skin lesions from 13 of 14 patients . increased receptor expression was observed in dermal vessels , as well as on many stromal fibroblast-like cells close to these vessels . pdgf-b receptor expression was most pronounced within and around dermal vessels in which perivascular infiltrates of leu-4-positive t lymphocytes and hla-dr-positive , rfd7-positive activated macrophages were present . both perivascular inflammatory cell infiltrates and pdgf-b receptor expression were generally also seen in macroscopically normal areas of the skin of the ssc patients , indicating that the observed phenotypic alterations may precede the macroscopically observable features of scleroderma in the skin . the observed induction of pdgf-b receptors , together with indirect indications of increased synthesis and release of pdgf , would be compatible with altered pdgf-mediated control of connective tissue cell growth as part of the molecular basis for development of the skin lesions in ssc . 
human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis , psoriatic arthritis , and reiter 's syndrome : a disease continuum ? the presence of peripheral arthritis and hla-a , b , c , dr , and dq antigens was evaluated prospectively in 18 caucasian men with human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis . an asymmetric polyarthritis occurred in 32 % of the patients and correlated with the presence of hla-b27 . extensive clinical overlap between psoriatic arthritis , psoriasis , and reiter 's syndrome was noted . no significant excess of the hla antigens previously found to be associated with psoriasis was seen , which suggests that human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis per se may instead constitute another form of spondylarthropathy that is more closely related to reiter 's syndrome . 
amyloidosis in behcet 's syndrome . we investigated the frequency of amyloidosis in 99 consecutive patients ( 65 men and 34 women ) with behcet 's syndrome . rectal biopsies performed on all patients showed no amyloidosis by polarizing microscopy . the results of urinalyses were normal in all patients . among 1,130 patients registered in our behcet 's syndrome outpatient clinic , 5 were found to have systemic amyloidosis , all of the aa type . 
anaesthetic management of systemic mastocytosis . systemic mastocytosis is an uncommon disorder of mast cell proliferation in connective tissues . mast cell degranulation may occur on exposure to various stimuli and drugs . the release of histamine , heparin and vasoactive substances such as prostaglandin d2 may cause severe hypotension and other anaphylactoid manifestations . anaesthetic management should include perioperative stabilization of mast cells and avoidance of the use of histamine-releasing drugs . intradermal skin testing is useful in predicting the sensitivity to drugs that may be used during anaesthesia . we present a patient with systemic mastocytosis who underwent uneventful cholecystectomy . 
linear scleroderma associated with ptosis and motility disorders . a case is reported in which an 11-year-old girl developed progressive ptosis and a subsequent motility disorder of the right eye . the diagnosis linear scleroderma en coup de sabre was established . atrophy of the upper levator palpebral and superior rectus muscle could be shown on ct scan . 
impaired iron uptake and transferrin binding by erythroblasts in the anaemia of rheumatoid arthritis . serum and bone marrow from 18 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and five healthy controls were studied in order to establish a possible role of impaired iron uptake and transferrin binding by erythroblasts in the pathophysiology of anaemia of chronic disease ( acd ) in ra . iron incorporation into erythroblasts was reduced in patients with acd using a method based on incubation of erythroblasts with radiolabelled 59fe-125i-transferrin . it correlated negatively with c-reactive protein ( crp ) . in iron deficient ra patients it tended to be reduced as well . these patients had the same level of ra disease activity as in acd . transferrin binding by erythroblasts was significantly impaired in acd compared to controls , although it tended to be reduced in all ra groups . these findings suggest that impaired iron uptake by erythroblasts , probably due to decreased transferrin binding to erythroblasts , might be a pathophysiological factor in acd in ra . 
patients with arthritis and anti-u1-rnp antibodies : a 10-year follow-up . five hundred and forty patients attending a rheumatology ward were screened for antinuclear antibodies ( ana ) by indirect immunofluorescence ( ifl ) . seventy had a significant titre of ana . twenty-three had u1-ribonucleoprotein antibodies ( u1-rnp-ab ) . the clinical findings in u1-rnp-ab-positive patients were consistent with mixed connective tissue disease ( mctd ) . disease was more serious in the u1-rnp-ab-positive patients in terms of polyarthritis severity as well as mortality due to rheumatic disease . thus , in this arthritis patient population , u1-rnp-ab positivity predicted an aggressive disease characterized by an erosive arthritis . 
the inhibition of nk cell function by azathioprine during the treatment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis . treatment with azathioprine of patients with rheumatoid arthritis leads to a dramatic reduction in the 4 h nk cytotoxicity against k562 cells . the 24 h cytotoxicity against k562 and u937 cells , however , remains intact . the generation of cell-free supernatant cytotoxic factor ( s ) after incubating non-adherent mononuclear cells with u937 cells for 24 h is similar in the azathioprine patients and the controls . a large part of this supernatant cytotoxicity is due to tumour necrosis factor alpha which can be inhibited by a specific monoclonal antibody . the mechanism of the reduced 4 h nk cytotoxicity remains unknown but is probably not related to the anti-inflammatory properties of azathioprine . 
urinary tissue factor activity in colorectal disease . procoagulant activity ( pca ) in normal urine has been recognized for over 50 years . although tissue factor ( tf ) is produced by certain tumours , and is increased in both tumour-associated macrophages and blood monocytes , the possibility that it might also be increased in urine has not been studied in patients with cancer . we have measured urinary pca in hospital controls without inflammatory or neoplastic disease ( n = 79 ) , in patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( n = 8 ) , inflammatory bowel disease ( n = 19 ) , colorectal cancer ( n = 70 ) and in patients undergoing colonoscopy ( n = 50 ) . urinary pca was higher ( p less than 0.001 ) in patients with colorectal cancer and inflammatory bowel disease than controls or patients with rheumatoid arthritis . fourteen ( 88 per cent ) out of 16 colonoscopy patients subsequently found to have carcinoma or inflammatory bowel disease had levels above the control upper quartile , compared with 8 ( 24 per cent ) out of 34 with normal colonoscopy ( p less than 0.001 ) . tf inhibitors confirmed the nature of the pca and western blotting studies indicated a urinary tf molecular weight of approximately 38,000 . these studies provide further evidence of abnormal haemostasis in malignancy and suggest that determination of urinary tf may provide a useful screening test in patients undergoing colonoscopy . 
erythema infectiosum and pregnancy-related complications erythema infectiosum , an acute , communicable viral disease with a highly distinctive exanthem , follows the usual course of a self-limiting benign disease . in pregnant women , however , it may be associated with fetal death and nonimmune hydrops fetalis . because of the association of human parvovirus ( hpv ) b19 infection with fetal damage we reviewed the current knowledge of the clinical aspects of erythema infectiosum , focusing on pregnancy and fetal outcome , to determine the magnitude of fetal risk and offer recommendations for management . among 180 infected pregnant women 44 fetal deaths ( 24 % ) occurred , 1 to 12 weeks after the infection was noted . pregnant women should be advised that ( a ) because of the high prevalence ( up to 65 % ) of anti-hpv b19 igg antibody among adults most of them are not at risk and ( b ) if maternal infection does occur therapeutic abortion is not indicated since intrauterine infection causes fetal death more often than abnormal development . infection should be suspected in pregnant women who exhibit the symptoms of erythema infectiosum with or without arthropathy . they should be monitored for an elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein level ( indicating fetal aplastic crisis ) and undergo serial ultrasonography for the detection of hydrops fetalis . although the incidence of congenital malformation is no higher than the expected rate in the general population ( 3 % to 5 % ) , the precise incidence of fetal adverse outcomes remains unknown and requires investigation in larger , prospective studies . 
toxic dermatitis induced by 10-ethyl-10-deaza-aminopterin ( 10-edam ) , a novel antifolate . a new methotrexate analog , 10-ethyl-10-deaza-aminopterin ( 10-edam ) , was found to induce a particular form of skin toxicity different than the skin rash reported to result from methotrexate . at histologic examination , it was found to be a toxic dermatitis that clinically most often first appears on the lower legs but can occur anywhere in the body , especially if treatment is continued . nine cases are reported . a specific risk factor could not yet be identified . discontinuation of 10-edam administration leads to complete healing ; concomitant corticosteroid treatment also induces healing . 
iga nephritis in behcet 's disease : case report and review of the literature . we describe a 13-year-old girl with the incomplete type of behcet 's disease who had recurrent oral and genital ulcers , folliculitis , proteinuria and hematuria . renal biopsy specimens revealed diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis with strongly positive iga deposits in the glomerular mesangial area , which is histologically indistinguishable from primary iga nephritis . further studies of the iga subclasses showed that iga1 deposits were predominant in the glomerular mesangium . primary iga nephritis is thought to be associated with polymeric iga1 . so it appears that there may be a common underlying disease or mechanism involved in both primary iga nephritis and the iga nephritis in behcet 's disease . 
uremic pruritus in patients on hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) . the role of plasma histamine and skin mast cells . fifty-four uremic patients ( 26 patients were maintained on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ capd ] and 28 on hemodialysis [ hd ] ) were screened for pruritus and plasma histamine . 50 % of the patients on capd and 64.3 % of patients on hd complained of current itching . the extent of itch , assessed by a score , was not significantly different between hd and capd patients . plasma histamine levels showed no significant difference between capd and hd patients and no correlation between plasma histamine level and the extent of pruritus could be demonstrated . in six patients on capd and 9 patients on hd plasma histamine levels were determined before and three months after initiation of dialysis treatment ; no substantial change could be observed . in some patients skin biopsies were obtained from the gluteal region in order to determine the number of skin mast cells . the number of mast cells did not show a significant difference between controls ( n = 12 ) , uremic patients before initiation of dialysis treatment ( n = 8 ) , patients on capd ( n = 11 ) and patients on hd ( n = 13 ) . there was no relationship between the level of plasma histamine , the number of skin mast cells and the extent of pruritus in uremic patients . 
comparison of patellar resurfacing versus nonresurfacing in bilateral total knee arthroplasty . twenty-five patients who received bilateral total knee prostheses were studied to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of patellar resurfacing . only patients with advanced patellofemoral disease were included in the study . in all patients , patellar resurfacing had been done in the right knee but not in the left knee . the depuy porous-coated implant was used in all cases . subjective criteria were compared with objective criteria , which included range of motion , knee flexion and extension , and roentgenographic evaluation . the findings in this study suggest that patellar resurfacing can offer the patient a superior knee with regard to pain relief and strength . 
two - to four-year results of posterior cruciate-sparing condylar total knee arthroplasty with an uncemented femoral component . one hundred fourteen hybrid press-fit condylar total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) were reviewed an average of 2.8 years after surgery to determine if this method of implantation provided satisfactory results compared with conventional cemented tkas . ninety-three percent of the knees had good or excellent results , and 94 % of the knees had at most only mild or occasional pain . one knee with a metal-backed patella was revised for mechanical failure of the patellar button . roentgenographic analysis of the femoral component interface showed that 30 % of knees had a radiolucent line in at least one zone . however , none of the lines was wider than 1 mm , and none was about the central stem . there were no signs of loosening about any of the components . it was concluded that hybrid tka provides a good and predictable result that is comparable to cemented tka . 
labetalol and mri as initial medical and diagnostic modalities in a marfanoid patient with expanding ascending aortic aneurysm . marfan syndrome is a hereditable disorder of connective tissue that causes several distinct cardiovascular abnormalities , including aortic regurgitation , dissection , and aneurysm . these cardiac manifestations can be identified with echocardiography , computer tomography , and angiography . standard treatment of an acute hypertensive crisis in marfan syndrome uses propranolol and sodium nitroprusside . this patient with marfan syndrome whose case is reported herein presented with chest pain , hypertensive crisis , and aortic insufficiency ; labetalol was used successfully to treat the acute hypertensive crisis and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) was used to differentiate between aortic dissection and an expanding aortic aneurysm . this report is unique in that labetalol was used to control the hypertensive crisis in marfan syndrome and mri was used as the initial diagnostic modality in an emergency setting . 
retroperitoneal air after routine hemorrhoidectomy . report of a case . retroperitoneal air as a complication after routine hemorrhoidectomy has not been reported in the literature . this occurred recently after hemorrhoidectomy in a 34-year-old patient receiving glucocorticoid therapy for rheumatoid arthritis . adverse steroidal effects of wound healing have been well documented . it is believed that steroid-induced tissue changes contributed to the development of this unique complication . 
a laser-induced scar at the cardia increases the yield pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter low yield pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter is associated with esophageal reflux , and fundoplication must increase yield pressure if it is to prevent reflux . we attempted to increase yield pressure endoscopically in the dog by using the nd : yag laser to produce a fibrous scar at the cardia in the approximate line of the gastric sling fibers . ten beagle dogs were studied . in a pilot study with two dogs , 15 watts for 4.2 sec were found to produce a scar deep into the muscle coat of the stomach . three configurations of scar were used . one produced significant rises in yield pressure in all four of the dogs treated , the second produced a significant rise in one of the two dogs treated , and the third caused a significant drop in yield pressure in the one dog treated . one dog died of gastric perforation 10 days after lasering , but no other animal experienced any ill effects . these findings may have therapeutic implications for the management of esophageal reflux . 
submammary median sternotomy . a vertical skin incision is used as routine approach for sternotomy . the resulting scar is often disappointing and the top is visible and unpleasant , especially for young women . in 35 women ranging from 10 to 48 years ( mean 29.2 years ) , median sternotomy was performed via a submammary skin incision . in all cases an open heart surgical procedure was performed . adequate exposure of the heart was achieved in every case and there were no technical problems related to this approach , no hospital mortality or major complications . the cosmetic result is excellent and this approach is certainly justified in open heart surgery for young women . 
effect of chronic treatment with the glucocorticoid antagonist ru 486 in man : toxicity , immunological , and hormonal aspects . suppression of immune function was traditionally thought to occur only with pharmacological levels of glucocorticoids . however , recent studies in rodents have suggested that glucocorticoids exert tonic antiinflammatory/immunosuppressive effects even at basal nonstress concentrations . to examine whether basal glucocorticoid secretion modulates immune function in man we employed the specific glucocorticoid receptor antagonist ru 486 . if a tonic level of inhibition of the immune system by basal glucocorticoid levels was present , then a potentiation or enhancement of immune function might evolve in the absence of glucocorticoid action . to examine this hypothesis , we studied 11 healthy male normal volunteers who received ru 486 ( 10 mg/kg . day ) or placebo vehicle , divided into 2 daily oral doses , for 7-14 days . blood samples were collected every 2 days for measurement of plasma acth and cortisol concentrations along with 24-h urine samples for measurement of 17-hydroxysteroid and free cortisol excretion . complete and differential blood counts , erythrocyte sedimentation rates , c-reactive protein , antinuclear antibodies , rheumatoid factor , and quantitative immunoglobulins were also determined at 2-day intervals . leukocytes were obtained by leukopheresis for phenotypic characterization and functional analysis before and 7 days after the initiation of ru 486 or placebo therapy . blockade of cortisol receptors with ru 486 was associated with marked compensatory elevations of plasma acth and cortisol and increases in 24-h urinary excretion of 17-hydroxysteroids and free cortisol . unexpectedly , 8 of the 11 subjects developed generalized exanthem after 9 days of ru 486 treatment . one subject developed symptoms and signs consistent with the diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency . total white blood cell counts , absolute lymphocyte , neutrophil and eosinophil counts , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and quantitative immunoglobulins did not change with ru 486 therapy . similarly , t - , b - , and natural killer cell subsets did not change during ru 486 treatment . furthermore , functional evaluation of lymphocyte cytotoxicity and proliferation revealed no changes . we conclude that administration of high doses of ru 486 to normal volunteers does not result in measurable enhancement of immune function . this suggests that in man , glucocorticoids may not exert a tonic inhibitory effect on the immune system as they appear to do in rodents . alternatively , the compensatory increase in endogenous cortisol may obviate any effect of the glucocorticoid antagonist on the immune system . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
treatment of idiopathic guttate hypomelanosis with liquid nitrogen : light and electron microscopic studies . idiopathic guttate hypomelanosis is a common skin disorder of unknown cause . our studies have shown that significantly fewer dopa-positive melanocytes are in the white macules of idiopathic guttate hypomelanosis than in normal skin . by electron microscopy we observed that the melanocytes in the lesional skin were round and less dendritic with fewer melanosomes than in normal pigment cells . lesions gently frozen with liquid nitrogen repigmented in 6 to 8 weeks . the number of dopa-positive melanocytes was significantly greater in the repigmented areas than in untreated lesions but less than in normal skin . 
treatment of molluscum contagiosum using a lidocaine/prilocaine cream ( emla ) for analgesia . eighty-three 4 - to 12-year-old children , scheduled for curettage of at least five molluscum contagiosum lesions , participated in a double-blind study . the children were randomly allocated to receive lidocaine/prilocaine ( emla ) cream ( n = 58 ) or placebo cream ( n = 25 ) , applied 15 , 30 , or 60 minutes before treatment . the pain was assessed by the children and the physician as none , slight , moderate , or severe . in addition , the children rated the pain on a visual analog scale . emla cream effectively prevented the pain after all three application times ( p less than 0.01 ) . no significant difference in pain was observed among the 15 - , 30 - , and 60-minute emla-treated groups , but the proportion of children reporting no pain on the verbal scale increased from 36 % in the 15-minute group to 61 % in the 60-minute group . in the placebo group , only one of 24 children ( 4 % ) reported no pain . transient local redness was the only skin reaction noted . in conclusion , an application time of emla cream of less than 60 minutes is satisfactory for the curettage of molluscum contagiosum in children . 
a comparative histopathologic study of photodistributed and nonphotodistributed lichenoid drug eruptions . this study compares the histopathologic characteristics of photodistributed and nonphotodistributed lichenoid drug eruptions in 13 patients . both types have been said to be , in an unknown proportion , different from idiopathic lichen planus in that they can involve the deep as well as the superficial plexus , can contain eosinophils , and have parakeratotic scale . we found that these features were most often present in nonphotodistributed lichenoid drug eruptions and were seldom present in photodistributed eruptions . thus a biopsy specimen that shows the classic features of lichen planus should not be used as evidence against a drug eruption , especially if the lesions are photodistributed . 
intralesional interferon therapy for basal cell carcinoma . in a clinical trial of 172 patients at four medical centers , interferon alfa-2b ( 1.5 x 10 ( 6 ) iu ) or a placebo was injected directly into biopsy-proved noduloulcerative or superficial basal cell carcinomas three times weekly for 3 weeks , for a cumulative dose of 13.5 million iu . efficacy of treatment was determined at 16 to 20 weeks by examination of biopsy specimens that demonstrated cure of lesions in 86 % of interferon-treated patients and in only 29 % of placebo-treated patients . during the treatment course and follow-up , an initial inflammatory response was observed at the treatment sites , followed by diminished erythema , improvement in overall appearance , and a decrease in size of lesions . side effects of treatment , mainly flu-like symptoms , were usually mild and transient and occurred more commonly in the interferon-treated group . only three patients , all in the interferon-treated group , discontinued therapy because of side effects . one year after initiation of therapy , 81 % of interferon recipients and 20 % of those given the placebo remained tumor free . noduloulcerative and superficial lesions were equally responsive to treatment with interferon . for some patients with noduloulcerative or superficial basal cell carcinomas , intralesional interferon alfa-2b may be an alternative , effective treatment . 
prolonged remission after cyclosporine therapy in pemphigus vulgaris : report of two young siblings . we report the clinical evolution of two young siblings with severe pemphigus vulgaris treated with cyclosporine for 30 and 12 months , respectively . one was resistant to treatment with high-dose corticosteroids and azathioprine . a good clinical response was achieved in both cases . no major side effects were observed . the patients have remained disease free for more than 20 months after stopping cyclosporine therapy . 
extracorporeal photopheresis in psoriasis vulgaris : clinical and immunologic observations . four patients with chronic refractory plaque-type psoriasis without arthropathy were treated with extracorporeal photopheresis every other week for 6 to 13 months . in patients 1 and 2 , methotrexate was administered concomitantly during the initial part of the trial ; the dose was gradually tapered and the drug was discontinued by 6 months . both patients improved to 23 % and 62 % of baseline values for percentage of body surface involvement , but their disease then flared when maintenance extracorporeal photopheresis was used alone . substantial improvement again occurred when lower doses of methotrexate were administered with extracorporeal photopheresis . patients 3 and 4 were treated initially with extracorporeal photopheresis alone and both improved to 50 % and 52 % of baseline body surface involvement , respectively , after 4 months of treatment . however , their disease flared because of factors unrelated to treatment . extracorporeal photopheresis was well tolerated by all patients without evidence of overt toxicity . however , prolonged treatment with extracorporeal photopheresis/methotrexate was accompanied by a decrease in skin reactivity to recall antigens and by decreased capacity of lymphocytes to produce interleukin 2 in response to polyclonal stimuli in vitro . these findings indicate that alternate-week extracorporeal photopheresis has a definite but incomplete suppressive effect on psoriasis vulgaris that may be mediated through an effect on lymphokine production by photomodified cells and that the therapeutic effect of extracorporeal photopheresis may be enhanced by concomitant administration of low doses of methotrexate . 
treatment of chromoblastomycosis . treatment of chromoblastomycosis is frequently difficult and unsatisfactory . a representative case is presented of this chronic subcutaneous fungal infection , characterized by warty , cauliflower-like lesions usually on the extremities . chromoblastomycosis and its treatment are reviewed , with attention to itraconazole , a new triazole compound , as the possible drug of choice . 
contact dermatoses from disposable glove use : a review . contact dermatoses from disposable gloves are being reported with greater frequency . a variety of eruptions can occur . these have become increasingly relevant for dermatologists , who for most procedures now use disposable gloves . this article represents a review of the relevant issues about the use of disposable gloves by dermatologists . methods of management and prevention of morbidity associated with disposable glove use will also be discussed . 
prevention of occupational contact dermatitis . contact dermatitis is the most frequent type of occupational skin disease . although prevention of contact dermatitis in the workplace should ideally be accomplished through total elimination of cutaneous exposure to hazardous substances , this is often not feasible . therefore eight basic elements of a multidimensional approach to prevention have been identified . these elements include recognition of potential cutaneous irritants and allergens , engineering controls or chemical substitution to prevent skin exposure , personal protection with appropriate clothing or barrier creams , personal and environmental hygiene , regulation of potential allergens and irritants within the workplace , educational efforts to promote awareness of potential allergens and irritants , motivational techniques to promote safe work conditions and practices , and preemployment and periodic health screening . a comprehensive prevention program based on this multidimensional approach requires the cooperative efforts of employees , employers , engineers , chemists , industrial hygienists , safety and supervisory personnel , union representatives , governmental agencies , and occupational health practitioners . 
management of onychomycosis with oral terbinafine . the safety and efficacy of oral terbinafine in the treatment of finger onychomycosis caused by trichophyton rubrum were evaluated in an open study including 11 patients . treatment consisted of 125 mg of terbinafine given twice daily for 6 months or until the infection cleared . at the end of the treatment period , all patients were clinically and mycologically normal , with the drug acting as a fungal barrier to prevent further distal fungal invasion into the nailplate . mild gastric discomfort in one patient was the only side effect reported during this study . no laboratory abnormalities were detected . 
multicentric cloacogenic carcinoma : report of a case with anogenital pruritus at presentation . a case of multicentric cloacogenic carcinoma of the perianal skin and vulva in a 79-year-old woman is presented , and the embryologic basis for the multicentricity is discussed . histologically , cloacogenic carcinoma can be differentiated from other small cell neoplasms that affect the area . cloacogenic carcinoma should be considered a rare cause of anogenital pruritus . it is important to perform an early biopsy of anogenital lesions that do not respond to conventional therapy . 
eosinophilic pustular folliculitis : fungal folliculitis ? eosinophilic pustular folliculitis is a rare condition with no known cause . however , a fungal cause is suggested by ( 1 ) tinea-like annular lesions , ( 2 ) initial clinical consideration of fungal folliculitis in many reported cases , ( 3 ) an association with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , and ( 4 ) an association with scaly and vesiculopustular lesions of palms and soles . we report a case histologically identical to eosinophilic pustular folliculitis but in which hyphal fungal organisms were demonstrated in one of the involved hair follicles . 
subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus lesions progressing to morphea . a women had annular lesions of subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus that slowly resolved and were replaced by plaques of morphea . the immunologic implications of this unique transitional case of subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus to morphea are discussed . 
persistent melanocytic lesions associated with cosmetic tanning bed use : " sunbed lentigines " . a patient with persistent melanocytic lesions after tanning bed use is described . a review of the literature provides two additional examples of similar clinical and histologic presentations after uva exposure without psoralen . to our knowledge , this is the first reported case of " sunbed lentigines " in the united states . 
linear porokeratosis : successful treatment with diamond fraise dermabrasion . a patient with linear porokeratosis was successfully treated with diamond fraise dermabrasion . follow-up evaluation revealed an excellent cosmetic result with adequate repigmentation , no scarring , and no recurrence of lesions . long-term follow-up will be necessary to determine whether dermabrasion treatment of linear porokeratosis provides adequate prophylaxis against the subsequent development of malignancy . 
widespread flat warts associated with human papillomavirus type 5 : a cutaneous manifestation of human immunodeficiency virus infection . numerous flat and tinea versicolor-like warts developed on the face , trunk , and upper extremities of a 10-year-old boy with human immunodeficiency virus infection . nucleic acid analysis of involved skin revealed human papillomavirus type 5 , which has sometimes been associated with epidermodysplasia verruciformis . this human papillomavirus type has also been described in patients with common variable immunodeficiency and dyskeratosis congenita and in renal allograft recipients . human immunodeficiency virus infection should be added to the list of immune-related disorders that predispose to widespread flat warts . 
vulvar melanosis . vulvar melanosis is a condition in which intensely pigmented irregular macules , clinically mimicking malignant melanoma , appear on the vulva . a biopsy specimen shows only marked lower epidermal pigmentation without any melanocytic atypia or nesting . the process is benign , and reassurance is the only treatment . 
eruptive seborrheic keratoses in a young woman with acromegaly . the sign of leser-trelat , or eruptive seborrheic keratoses , is purported to be a cutaneous marker for many underlying malignancies . elevation in levels of growth factors has been postulated to be the stimulus for the sudden eruption of multiple new seborrheic keratoses . in support of this hypothesis we present a case of eruptive seborrheic keratoses in a young woman with acromegaly and elevated levels of growth hormone . 
acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy ( ahei ) -- a variant of henoch-schonlein purpura or a distinct clinical entity ? acute hemorrhagic edema of infancy ( ahei ) is an acute cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis ( lcv ) of infants . the clinical picture has a violent onset with a short benign course followed by spontaneous complete recovery . we report 12 infants with ahei who were studied clinically , serologically , and immunohistologically . edema and palpable purpuric skin lesions were present in all infants who were in good general condition . serologic studies were unremarkable . light microscopic examination of the skin biopsy specimens revealed lcv as in henoch-schonlein purpura ( hsp ) . direct immunofluorescent study revealed depositions of various immunoreactants , including fibrinogen , c3 , igg , igm , iga , and ige ( 100 % , 100 % , 22 % , 78 % , 33 % , and 33 % , respectively ) in the wall and around the small vessels . similar deposition of clq was also present in three infants in whom clq could be studied ( 100 % ) . the clinical similarities and differences between ahei and hsp have been discussed in the literature . ahei is observed before 2 years of age and is confined to the skin . the skin lesions of hsp are more polymorphic . although histopathologic findings are similar , the immunohistologic pattern found in our series of ahei is rather different from the pattern of hsp . taking all of these findings into account , we suggest that ahei should be considered as a separate , clinicopathologic entity or a possible variant of hsp . the more descriptive term " acute benign cutaneous lcv of infancy " is offered for this clinicopathologic entity . 
role of nasal allergy in chronic maxillary sinusitis -- diagnostic value of nasal challenge with allergen . the role of nasal allergy in chronic maxillary sinusitis without an air-fluid level was studied in 37 patients . seventy-three nasal provocation tests with various inhalant allergens were performed in 37 patients by means of rhinomanometry , and maxillary sinus radiographs were performed before and repeatedly after the allergen challenge . forty-one positive nasal responses ( nrs ) occurred in 29 patients ; 13 were immediate only , 18 were late only , and 10 nrs were dual responses . of these responses , 32 demonstrated radiographic changes , primarily an increase in mucosal edema and/or opacification . these responses were accompanied by increased pressure in the maxillary sinuses , acute headache , and sometimes otalgia . eight patients did not develop any nrs ; however , increased thickening of the mucosal membrane of the maxillary sinuses , accompanied by subjective symptoms , was recorded in three of these nonresponders . these results demonstrate the role of nasal allergy in some patients with chronic maxillary sinusitis , which may affect the diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to this disorder . 
chronic urticaria exacerbated by the antioxidant food preservatives , butylated hydroxyanisole ( bha ) and butylated hydroxytoluene ( bht ) . two patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria in whom remissions were achieved with dye - and preservative-elimination diet had exacerbations of their urticaria when they were challenged under double-blind , placebo-controlled conditions with butylated hydroxyanisole and butylated hydroxytoluene . after elimination of butylated hydroxyanisole and butylated hydroxytoluene from their diets , there was marked abatement of the frequency , severity , and duration of their urticaria . these antioxidants appear capable of aggravating symptoms in certain patients with chronic urticaria . 
tryptase , a mediator of human mast cells . tryptase , a mediator secreted by human mast cells during immediate reactions , has demonstrated effects on several pathways in vitro . this enzyme can rapidly inactivate fibrinogen and , as a complex with heparin , may prevent coagulation that may otherwise occur when plasma enters tissues at sites of immediate reactions . tryptase may also activate prostromelysin , which in turn activates latent collagenase . when canine pulmonary smooth muscle is incubated with canine tryptase , the contractile response to histamine is increased . tryptase , quantifiable in complex biologic fluids by immunoassay , can serve as a specific indicator of mast cell involvement in certain clinical settings . for example , after bee sting -- induced anaphylaxis , tryptase levels in the blood peak at approximately 1 hour , then decline with a half-life of approximately 2 hours . additionally , elevated tryptase levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of asymptomatic , atopic persons with asthma suggest ongoing mast cell activation , which may relate to adenosine hyperresponsiveness and a persistence of bronchial hyperreactivity . tryptase levels in bronchial lavage fluid of atopic patients with asthma rise markedly after endobronchial allergen challenge but not after an exercise challenge , suggesting a lack of mast cell involvement in the latter condition . 
the role of histamine in allergic diseases . histamine , which is stored mainly in mast cells and basophils , is a prominent contributor to allergic disease . elevations in plasma or tissue histamine levels have been noted during anaphylaxis and experimental allergic responses of the skin , nose , and airways . of the four cardinal signs of asthma ( bronchospasm , edema , inflammation , and mucus secretion ) , histamine is capable of mediating the first two through its h1 receptor and mucus secretion through its h2 receptor . of the five cardinal signs of allergic rhinitis ( pruritus , mucosal edema , sneezing , mucus secretion , and late-phase inflammatory reactions ) , histamine is capable of mediating the first three through its h1 receptor . in the nose , mucus secretion can be reflexively mediated by h1 and possibly also by h2 receptors . in the skin the cardinal features of urticaria ( vasodilation , vascular permeability , and pruritus ) can be mediated by stimulation of the h1 receptor . in anaphylaxis histamine h1-receptor stimulation can mediate vascular permeability , smooth muscle contraction , and tachycardia , whereas h2-receptor stimulation can mediate mucus secretion . stimulation of both receptors can mediate vasodilation and reduce peripheral vascular resistance . thus although histamine is only one of many mediators of allergic disease , it plays a primary role in allergic rhinitis , urticaria , anaphylaxis , and to a lesser degree , asthma . 
the role of antihistamines in the treatment of chronic urticaria . for many years , h1 antihistamines have been the primary management option for urticaria . however , undesirable side effects , particularly daytime sedation , have limited the usefulness of these classic antihistamines . a new class of peripherally acting , nonsedating antihistamines ( e.g. , terfenadine , astemizole , loratadine , and cetirizine ) has proved to have clinical efficacy comparable with the classic antihistamines . in comparative trials between the various nonsedating agents , no significant difference in efficacy has been noted . all these agents have good safety profiles , although astemizole use has been correlated with increased appetite and weight gain in some patients , and cetirizine has caused slightly increased sedative effects compared with placebo . although h1/h2 antihistamine combinations have been proposed as possible treatments for urticaria , studies have produced mixed results . 
the role of antihistamines in atopic dermatitis . although several lines of evidence support a role for histamine in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis , antihistamines have generally offered only marginal therapeutic benefit . the efficacy of the classic antihistamines has been severely limited by sedative effects , demonstrating the need for improved , nonsedating agents . multifunctional antihistamines , or third-generation " antiallergic " drugs , appear to offer a variety of advantages beyond their ability to inhibit histamine release , such as inhibition of mediator release and interference with eosinophil migration . double-blind studies of high-dose regimens are needed to help clarify the therapeutic efficacy of these antiallergic drugs . 
mechanisms involved in allergic contact dermatitis . allergic contact dermatitis is a common inflammatory skin disease caused by agents such as plants , chemical compounds , and topical medications . histologic features typically include edema within the epidermis and dermis and a lymphohistiocytic infiltrate with an admixture of basophils . langerhans cells and keratinocytes play pivotal roles in allergic contact dermatitis reactions . langerhans cells synthesize and express class ii molecules that allow the presentation of exogenous antigens to t lymphocytes . additionally , keratinocytes and langerhans cells produce interleukin-1 , which is thought to be a second signal that activates t cells . mast cells and basophils also may play a proinflammatory role . treatment primarily consists of removal of the offending agent . at times , systemic corticosteroids may be required , especially in the acute phase . in more chronic cases , topical corticosteroids may be beneficial . antihistamines may be useful because of their soporific effects , but their usefulness is limited . 
arthritis and mast cell activation . the significance of the mast cell in the pathogenesis of rheumatic diseases continues to receive attention . increased numbers of mast cells are found in the synovial tissue and fluid of patients with inflammatory arthritides , and these mast cells can be activated by many of the substances found in inflammatory synovial fluid . this activation results in the release of mediators that are capable of amplifying the inflammatory process within the joint space . recent research has shown that mast cells also produce a variety of cytokines and hematopoietic growth factors that may have paracrine and autocrine functions that are important to the development of the inflammatory cell infiltrate . increased numbers of mast cells are also found in many fibrotic conditions , including scleroderma . these mast cells , directly or through mediator generation , affect the function of endothelial cells , fibroblasts , and growth factors important to the proliferation and function of these cells . a clearer understanding of mast cell involvement in the inflammatory arthritides and fibrotic processes should lead to new therapeutic strategies . 
it is children with atopic dermatitis who develop asthma more frequently if the mother smokes . we elicited symptoms of atopic dermatitis ( ad ) and of asthma from 620 children who were themselves nonsmokers , were aged 1 to 17 years , and had been consecutively referred to an allergy clinic . a histamine bronchial-challenge test revealed bronchial hyperresponsiveness in 95 % of the children who had a history of wheezing or asthma and who could perform the test reliably , indicating that most of them did indeed have asthma . children with a history of ad were much more likely to have asthma if the mother was a smoker than if she was a nonsmoker ( 79 % versus 52 % ; p = 0.001 ) . similarly , if ad was found on examination , the percentages with asthma were 74 % and 44 % , respectively . by contrast , the children with no history of ad had asthma as frequently if the mother was a nonsmoker ( 42 % ) as when she was a smoker ( 40 % ) . in children with ad , the prevalence of asthma was greater in both boys and girls when the mother was a smoker , but only in boys when the father was a smoker . multiple logistic regression confirmed that the risk of asthma was greatly increased when the child had both ad and a mother who smoked . 
skin responses to intradermal histamine and leukotrienes c4 , d4 , and e4 in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria and in normal subjects . mast cell inflammatory mediators , such as histamine , and newly formed compounds , such as the leukotrienes , cause wheal and flare when they are injected intradermally into normal subjects and may therefore play a role in the formation of urticaria . the effects of intradermal injections ( 50 microliters ) of six different concentrations of histamine ( range , 3.3 x 10 ( -4 ) to 3.3 x 10 ( -9 ) mol/l ) and the leukotrienes c4 , d4 , and e4 ( range , 2 x 10 ( -4 ) to 2 x 10 ( -9 ) mol/l ) have been compared in 10 normal subjects and in 10 patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria . wheal-and-flare sizes were measured at timed intervals up to 4 hours , and area under the curve for each response over time was calculated . there were no significant differences in leukotriene-induced responses between groups . maximum sizes of histamine-induced wheal and flare were similar in each group of subjects . there were , however , significant increases in mean areas under the response curve of histamine wheal and flare in the patients with urticaria ( wheal , p less than 0.001 ; flare , p less than 0.001 ; analysis of variance ) . these findings demonstrate a prolongation of skin responses to histamine in patients with urticaria and suggest an impaired clearance of histamine ( or other vasoactive agents released by histamine ) from the skin of these patients . 
epidermal growth factor/transforming growth factor alpha receptors and psoriasis . the abnormal growth and differentiation in psoriasis is reflected in the abnormal regulation of epidermal growth factor/transforming growth factor alpha ( egf/tgf alpha ) receptor metabolism . in psoriasis and other hyperproliferative skin conditions these receptors are persistently expressed throughout the interfollicular epidermis as long as the growth stimulatory signal persists . one of the first biochemical signs of effective therapy of psoriasis is the return of the egf/tgf alpha receptor pattern toward the primarily basilar distribution seen in normal human adult skin . whether the abnormal expression of tgf alpha in the involved skin induces the persistent expression of egf receptors is not known nor is the signal that causes the increased production of tgf alpha . studies to determine what factors regulate egf receptor expression and tgf alpha induction may yield important new insights into the pathogenesis and therapy of psoriasis . 
immunologic mechanisms in psoriasis . the demonstration of activated t lymphocytes , hla-dr + , i-cam1 + , gamma ip-10 + keratinocytes , and increased levels of lymphokines in active plaques suggests that immunologic mechanisms may play a role in the pathogenesis of psoriasis . epidermal hyperplasia and inflammation in psoriasis may be linked by those cytokines many of which are produced by both keratinocytes and leukocytes . epidermal acanthosis and keratinocyte mitoses have been observed in delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions and after the intradermal injection of gamma interferon . gamma interferon and its induced proteins have been demonstrated in active psoriatic plaques . increased levels of the keratinocyte autocrine cytokines , transforming growth factor ( tgf ) - alpha and interleukin ( il ) -6 , have been detected in active plaques . the apparent overexpression of il-6 in hyperplastic psoriatic tissue may explain features of psoriasis that link keratinocyte proliferation with immune activation and tissue inflammation . both il-6 and gamma interferon increased tgf-alpha expression in normal cultured keratinocytes . cytokines produced during immune activation and other inflammatory processes may lead to epidermal hyperplasia . 
psoriasis vulgaris : a genetic approach . evidence for a genetic contribution in psoriasis comes from direct examination of a large segment of the population in an isolated island environment , epidemiologic and questionnaire studies presented to psoriatic patients , twin studies collected from the literature and from twin registries , and splitsibship analysis . the concordance of psoriasis in monozygotic twins was 65-72 % , whereas psoriasis in dizygotic twins was 15-30 % . determination of concordance in older twin pairs from a national twin registry in denmark revealed nearly 90-100 % heritability . in order to link psoriasis with known markers within the human genome , serologic studies have been carried out with a variety of blood group and polymorphic protein antigens . a weak association with the mns and lewis blood groups systems ( relative risk , 3.5 ) has been identified . stronger associations with class i b locus and class ii d locus genes ( relative risk , 8-12 ) have also been determined by studies of the human lymphocyte-antigen system . finally , a strong association with hla cw6 has been determined ; this marker is thought to be in linkage disequilibrium with b and d locus genes previously associated with psoriasis . the relative risk of developing psoriasis in hla cw6 positive individuals is about 24 . a few large kindred have been reported in the dermatology literature . these support the hypothesis of autosomal dominant inheritance with penetrance of approximately 60 % . in cooperation with the national psoriasis foundation , we have now identified over 90 families with psoriasis in three generations . we have begun the process of ascertainment , the construction of family trees , and the collection of leukocyte dna for linkage analysis with established restriction fragment polymorphisms ( rflp ) . our initial assessment is being directed to four rflp that span approximately 30 centimorgans of the short arm of human chromosome 6 . although karyotyping is uncommonly done in patients because of psoriasis , we now seek evidence of translocations of chromosome 6 in association with psoriasis . 
speculations on the immunopathogenesis of psoriasis : t-cell violation of a keratinocyte sphere of influence . the thesis is advanced that the differences in antigen processing and presentation described for " fresh " and " cultured " langerhans cells in vitro reflect similar differences between intraepidermal and intranodal langerhans cells in vivo . the functional properties of langerhans cells are dependent upon the microenvironment in which they reside ; thus , intraepidermal langerhans cells are under the influence of cytokines secreted by keratinocytes , whereas intranodal langerhans cells come under the influence of lymphokines from t lymphocytes . it is speculated that a genetic lesion in psoriasis robs keratinocytes of their capacity to create an " appropriate " epidermal microenvironment . as a consequence , intraepidermal langerhans cells adopt the functional program of intranodal cells . when " uninvolved " psoriatic skin receives a cutaneous challenge with antigen , langerhans cells , by activating naive t cells in situ , unwittingly engender a microenvironment that is more appropriate to a lymph node . this skin becomes " involved " as it gradually acquires features associated with lymph nodes ( such as high endothelial venules ) . and the derangement is further complicated by abnormalities of proliferation and differentiation among keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts as they respond to the inappropriate t-cell-derived lymphokines , giving rising to the typical , active psoriatic lesion . 
lymphocyte chemoattractants in psoriasis and normal skin . the local production of lymphocyte attractants may influence both physiologic lymphocyte trafficking in the skin as well as the infiltration of these cells in pathologic states . recent evidence for the production of acidic lipid lymphocyte chemoattractants , particularly 12 [ r ] - hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid , in psoriatic lesions is reviewed . water extractable lymphocyte attractant activity may also be recovered from both normal skin samples and psoriatic lesional stratum corneum , and may be important in the pathophysiology of lymphocyte trafficking . less than 10 kd activity from normal skin has undergone the most detailed characterization . this has led to the isolation of a novel , as yet unidentified compound from normal skin , which we have termed " plasma-associated lymphocyte chemoattractant " ( palc ) . 
interleukin-1 in human skin : dysregulation in psoriasis . cytokine dysregulation is an attractive concept to explain many of the observed abnormalities in psoriasis . il-1 , in particular , can potentiate immune cellular activation , activate fibroblasts , and increase endothelial cell adhesiveness to leukocytes . here , we review il-1 regulation in normal and psoriatic skin in vivo in relation to normal skin and cultured keratinocytes . contrary to expectations , il-1 functional activity in psoriatic lesions is reduced , not increased , relative to normal skin . the reduction is attributable to the presence of il-1 inhibitors , reduced il-1 alpha levels , and an il-1 beta that lacked function in t-cell assays . il-1 beta protein is actually significantly increased in psoriatic lesions , but the mechanism of its non-functionality remains unclear . unlike cultured keratinocytes , which accumulate large , inactive il-1 beta precursors , both normal and psoriatic skin process il-1 beta to a mature form . novel mechanisms of post-translational processing by epidermis in vivo may generate a novel form of il-1 beta with unknown functions . the marked abnormalities of il-1 regulation in psoriatic skin suggest that this molecule may be important in normal skin homeostasis . 
the role of epidermal cytokines in inflammatory skin diseases . cytokines ( hormone-like polypeptide mediators ) play a major role in inflammatory and immunoregulatory responses . skin , and particularly keratinocytes in the skin , represent a potent source for many cytokines , including interleukins 1 , 6 , 8 , and the hemopoietic colony stimulating factors . cytokines initiate their biologic action by interacting with target cells bearing cytokine receptors and then initiating a cascade of cellular interactions . certain inflammatory skin diseases have been associated with overproduction of cytokines , alteration in cytokine receptors , or dysregulation of cytokines . while data is still quite preliminary , it is likely that cytokines contribute to the pathogenesis of many inflammatory skin diseases . 
lymphocyte adhesion to psoriatic dermal endothelium : mechanism and modulation . psoriasis is characterized by the hyperproliferation of keratinocytes in the epidermis and the accumulation of activated cd4 + t lymphocytes in the upper dermis . we have recently tested the hypothesis that the abnormal endothelial proliferation in the dermal papillae of psoriatic lesions may be mechanistically linked to the expression of endothelial ligands capable of promoting lymphocytes binding and extravasation . the results indicated that specialized endothelial cells lining the post-capillary venules of psoriatic lesions are capable of promoting the selective adherence of human cd4 + t cells and its memory subset . in contrast , b cells , cd8 + t cells , and cd45ra + t cells are deficient in their capacities to bind . the adhesion process is energy and calcium dependent and involves tissue-specific lymphocyte receptors , with lfa-1 molecules playing an accessory role . we concluded that transformation of the dermal endothelium into a lymphocyte-receptive phenotype by defined growth factors or cytokines may represent a positive feedback mechanism promoting lymphocyte migration into the diseased sites . 
the role of the immune system in the pathogenesis of psoriasis . psoriatic involved skin contains an increased number of activated t cells . the mechanism through which these t cells achieve and maintain their activated state is unknown , and both antigen-dependent and - independent mechanisms may contribute . recently a novel pathway of antigen-independent t-cell activation has been described . this pathway is identified by a monoclonal antibody that binds to a t-cell membrane surface molecule termed " um4d4 . " . this molecule is expressed on a minority ( 20 % ) of psoriatic peripheral blood t cells but on a majority ( 75 % ) of the t cells in lesional skin . thus , um4d4 could play a role in antigen-independent t-cell activation in psoriasis . indeed the monoclonal antibody anti-um4d4 consistently induces proliferation of psoriatic um4d4 + t-cell clones . the activity of antigen-dependent pathways are also enhanced in psoriatic epidermis in as much as involved skin relative to uninvolved skin contains an increased number and function of antigen-presenting cells . upon activation , the lesional t cells release lymphokines . central to the immune hypothesis of psoriasis is that some of these t-cell lymphokines act on keratinocytes to induce changes characteristic of psoriasis . indeed lymphokines from lesional psoriatic t-cell clones directly alter in vitro keratinocyte phenotype through induction of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) and hla-dr cell-surface expression . furthermore , the lymphokines also enhance keratinocyte growth . these data suggest a critical role for the immune system in the pathogenesis of psoriasis . 
lymphocyte trafficking in psoriasis : a new perspective emphasizing the dermal dendrocyte with active dermal recruitment mediated via endothelial cells followed by intra-epidermal t-cell activation . prominent within the inflammatory infiltrate of psoriasis are hla-dr positive t lymphocytes and factor xiiia positive dermal dendrocytes . many investigators studying psoriasis have assumed that the hla-dr positive t cells are activated , and thereby capable of producing lymphokines such as gamma interferon . however , by immunohistochemical analysis , greater than 95 % of the dermal t cells in psoriatic lesions are ki-67 negative , which suggests that they are in a resting or non-cycling ( go ) state . in contrast to the dermal t-cell population , the epidermal t-cell population contains a greater population of ki-67 positive lymphocytes . the entry of the t cells into the epidermis is , therefore , apparently associated with an important activation event , which in all likelihood involves interaction with the keratinocyte . the presence of activated intraepidermal t cells has been substantiated by the ability to detect gamma interferon mrna by polymerase chain reaction in epidermal sheets of psoriatic lesions . the pathophysiologic implication in psoriasis for these distinctions and compartmentalization involving dermal and epidermal t cells are placed into the context of a cascade of cellular trafficking events , which are further dissected into a specific network of molecular mediators of inflammation . this report suggests that more attention should be placed on the microenvironment of the skin , with specific emphasis on the mechanism by which t cells accumulate in the dermis and epidermis , and elucidation of the selective inductive and recruitment capabilities of endothelial cells , perivascular dermal dendrocytes , and keratinocytes . 
immunology of aids related to psoriasis . the association of severe psoriasis with hiv infection , which dysregulates and destroys the human immune system , supports the hypothesis that psoriasis is an immunologically mediated disease . psoriasis and kaposi 's sarcoma share angiogenesis as basic early findings and could both be caused by differential cytokine expression or responsiveness . aids and research models including transgenic mice offer new models in which to study the role of the immune system and specific gene products in the pathogenesis of psoriasis and other skin diseases . 
the expression of retrovirus-like particles in psoriasis . retrovirus-like particles have been isolated from patients with psoriasis . antigens crossreacting with the major internal protein , pso p27 , of these particles have been demonstrated in the wall of dermal vessels and in a subfraction of cells in psoriatic lesions . the antigen has also been observed in blood lymphocytes from psoriatic patients . pso p27 antigen and anti-pso p27 antibodies are present as complement-activating immune complexes in psoriatic scale and in the blood of patients with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis . the potential contribution of the circulating immune complexes to the inflammatory process in psoriasis is discussed . 
cytotoxic and immunologic effects of methotrexate in psoriasis . based on recent experience that cyclosporin a , an immunosuppressive drug , produces marked improvement in psoriasis , possible immunomodulatory activities of methotrexate ( mtx ) have been reviewed to look for alternate mechanisms of mtx action in psoriasis . it is generally considered that the therapeutic results of mtx in psoriasis are related to a direct effect on epidermal cell hyperplasia through inhibition of dna synthesis . several studies in the literature now suggest possible effects of mtx on the immune system of psoriatics as well as in animal models that may have some pathogenic similarities to psoriasis . in psoriatics receiving mtx , neutrophil chemotaxis is suppressed , resulting in a possible alteration in the potential pathologic activity of neutrophils commonly found in lesional skin . mtx does improve both psoriatic and rheumatoid arthritis . animal studies of the latter using adjuvant arthritis and graft vs host disease ( gvhd ) have indicated several possible mechanisms for mtx that affect these processes . in gvhd , mtx selectively destroys cycling cd8 + cells , and in adjuvant arthritis the activation of macrophages is prevented by inhibition of t-cell function . while mtx generally has not been clinically utilized as an immunomodulatory drug for immunologically related diseases , it may , nonetheless , have selective actions that could be specific for some diseases . mtx and cyclosporin a could work mechanistically in similar ways but at different steps in the activation of t cells and macrophages . it may be that the major direct effect of mtx on epidermal cell proliferation is complemented or even mediated by subtle immunoregulatory effects on the melange of cells in the affected skin and the systemic immune response . 
psoriasis : the application of genetic technology and mapping . recent progress in molecular genetics has led to the creation of a map of the human genome utilizing rflp . given a sufficient family structure , genetic diseases can now be placed on this map . genetic studies of psoriasis can both help resolve and be confounded by problems of disease heterogeneity , environmental effects on disease expression , and lack of a clear model of inheritance . 
cyclosporine a in the treatment of psoriasis : a clinical and mechanistic perspective . cyclosporine a , a unique immunomodulatory agent , has been used increasingly over the last 5 years in the management of severe psoriasis . the remarkable efficacy of this drug coupled with its known immunosuppressive properties have enabled a further appreciation of the role of the immune system in the induction and maintenance of psoriatic plaques . although acting primarily on t lymphocytes , there is also evidence for an effect of cyclosporine a on other constitutive cell types within the skin . the future use of systemically administered cyclosporine a in the treatment of psoriasis and other cutaneous diseases is dependent on the successful balance of efficacy and side-effect profile ; namely , the dose-related problems of hypertension and nephrotoxicity . as a result of the toxicity encountered with systemically administered cyclosporine a , attempts to formulate a successful topical preparation for use in cutaneous disease are being made . the advent of cyclosporine a provides the dermatologist with a new therapeutic strategem in the management of psoriasis , although the long-term safety of such interventional therapy remains to be discerned . 
susceptibility to effects of uvb radiation on induction of contact hypersensitivity as a risk factor for skin cancer in humans . normal , healthy human volunteers and patients with proved history of non-melanoma skin cancer have been tested for their capacity to develop contact hypersensitivity to dinitrochlorobenzene ( dncb ) following exposure of buttock skin to acute , low-dose ultraviolet b ( uvb ) radiation . using a radiation protocol that achieves virtually complete depletion of normal-appearing langerhans cells from irradiated skin , it was learned that approximately 60 % of healthy volunteers developed vigorous contact hypersensitivity ( ch ) when 2000 micrograms dncb was painted on the irradiated site . these individuals were designated uvb-resistant , and were distinguished from other individuals , designated uvb-susceptible , who failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following an identical treatment protocol . it was then discovered that virtually all ( 92 % ) skin cancer patients exposed to uvb and dncb failed to develop ch , i.e. , were uvb-susceptible . in subsequent experiments , epicutaneous application of 2000 micrograms dncb to unirradiated skin of uvb-susceptible individuals revealed a further distinction between normal persons and skin cancer patients . approximately 45 % of the latter ( and none of the former ) remained unresponsive ( failed to develop contact hypersensitivity following this second attempt at sensitization ) , implying that they had been rendered immunologically tolerant . these tolerant individuals responded normally to the unrelated hapten , diphencyprone . we conclude that human beings resemble inbred strains of laboratory mice in that some individuals are uvb-susceptible , whereas others are uvb-resistant . because the incidence of uvb-susceptibility was significantly higher in skin cancer patients , and as specific unresponsiveness could be demonstrated only in these patients , we propose that uvb-susceptibility , as we define it in this hapten system , may be a risk factor for the development of skin cancer . 
sodium lauryl sulphate for irritant patch testing -- a dose-response study using bioengineering methods for determination of skin irritation . the dose-response relationship in patch testing with sodium lauryl sulphate ( sls ) was studied . the irritant skin response was quantified by visual scoring as well as by the following noninvasive methods : measurement of transepidermal water loss ( tewl ) by an evaporimeter , measurement of skin color by a colorimeter , measurement of superficial blood flow by laser doppler flowmetry , and measurement of edema in the skin by ultrasound a-scan . twelve volunteers were patch tested with 0.12 , 0.25 , 0.50 , and 1.00 % sls , and the skin response was evaluated after 24 and 48 h , respectively . we found a statistically significant linear dose-response relationship between dose of sls and skin response evaluated by measurement of tewl , skin color , superficial blood flow , and edema . statistical evaluation by regression analysis proved measurement of tewl to be the method best suited overall for quantification in relation to patch testing with sls , whereas colorimetry was found to be the least sensitive of the applied methods . ultrasound a-scan was found to be a promising method for quantification of the inflammatory response , being consistently more sensitive than measurement of skin color . 
experimental models for psoriasis . evidence suggests that inherent in skin of psoriatic subjects are cells , architectural structures , and/or mediators , which are , at a minimum , responsible for its hyperproliferative epidermis . an objective of our laboratory has been to establish an in vitro definition of this inherent aberration . fibroblasts are important to epidermal proliferation/differentiation . this , and an unconfirmed report that fibroblasts from psoriatic subjects might drive the abnormal epidermal proliferation in psoriasis , have caused further focus on the fibroblast . data show that fibroblasts from patients with psoriasis , both involved and uninvolved , in the presence of human serum , either normal or psoriatic , have an increased rate of proliferation . fibroblasts from uninvolved psoriatic sites are most responsive . to determine if fibroblasts from psoriatics could induce the psoriasiform phenotype on normal keratinocytes , an interactive skin equivalent system has been developed . with this system , fibroblasts from uninvolved and involved sites cause normal keratinocytes to have an enhanced outgrowth . uninvolved fibroblasts cause the greatest changes . the nature of the skin equivalent system calls for this to occur via message over distance . we conclude that fibroblasts from psoriatic subjects can induce a psoriasiform phenotype via a soluble message . 
immunosuppressive effects of clonidine on the induction of contact sensitization in the balb/c mouse . the clonidine transdermal therapeutic system ( clonidine-tts ) has been associated with a significant incidence of allergic contact sensitization . this incidence was not predicted by premarket skin sensitization testing in animals or humans . one possible explanation lies in recent findings in guinea pigs that clonidine exposure could inhibit the elicitation of skin reactions to unrelated strong contact sensitizers . however , these studies also showed that clonidine pretreatment did not appear to affect the induction of contact sensitization . on this basis , we sought to specifically evaluate the induction phase of sensitization to clonidine as an alternative means of assessing its sensitization properties . the method selected was the assay of in situ lymphocyte proliferation in lymph nodes draining the sites of clonidine exposure , a method recently promoted as an alternative means to assess contact allergenic potential . utilizing various induction application techniques and regimens , we were consistently unable to demonstrate clonidine 's allergenic potential through such an assessment of lymphocyte proliferation . we were also unable to demonstrate sensitization by in vivo ear swelling or in vitro lymphocyte blastogenesis assay techniques . however , a subsequent assessment of the effect of clonidine exposure on the induction of sensitization to unrelated strong contact allergens demonstrated a consistent 40-70 % inhibition of the proliferative response to the contact allergens oxazolone and trinitrochlorobenzene . this was similar to the degree of suppression produced by the corticosteroids fluocinonide and hydrocortisone when they were tested at 80 and 10 times lower concentrations . in addition , we observed a comparable inhibition of the ear swelling response to oxazolone . these data extend our knowledge of the immunomodulatory effects of clonidine and offer additional mechanistic insights into the failure of short-term predictive patch-test methods to detect this chemical 's potential to induce allergic contact sensitization . 
targeting gene expression to the epidermis of transgenic mice : potential applications to genetic skin disorders . the ability to specifically target gene expression to the epidermis of transgenic mice offers the exciting possibility of creating animal models of certain skin disorders that are inherited in man . it may be possible to produce mouse models of dominantly inherited keratinization disorders by targeting the expression of mutant genes encoding the major differentiation products of the epidermis , such as the differentiation specific keratins , filaggrin and cell envelope proteins . mouse models for other skin disorders associated with abnormal regulation of growth , such as psoriasis , may be generated by targeting the overexpression of cytokines and growth factors , which are thought to play important roles in the pathogenesis of this disease . the development of currently unavailable animal models for certain inherited human skin diseases would not only contribute to our understanding of the pathogenesis of these diseases at the molecular level , but also provide interesting models for therapeutic intervention . 
inherited mouse mutations as models of human adnexal , cornification , and papulosquamous dermatoses . nearly 100 mouse mutations have been described as causing some type of abnormality of the skin or hair . as only a few of these mutations have been studied in detail , they remain an untapped resource for furthering knowledge of basic cutaneous physiology and understanding the pathophysiology of analogous diseases in humans . several diverse murine mutations are discussed . these include " asebia , " a mildly hyperkeratotoic disorder with sebaceous gland hypoplasia ; " ichthyosis , " an example of abnormal hair growth associated with hyperkeratosis ; " rhino " and " hairless , " two related examples of congenital follicular malformations ; and " flaky skin " , a potential animal model of eruptive psoriasis . 
growth factor and proto-oncogene expression in psoriasis . the expression of several proto-oncogenes and growth factors was analyzed in normal skin and psoriatic lesions by rna blot hybridization . isolation of intact rna from frozen biopsy samples required immediate exposure to denaturants during tissue homogenization . lipocortin ii and cyclophilin transcripts were used as internal controls . these transcripts were abundant and slightly but significantly elevated in psoriatic lesions . when results were normalized according to these reference transcripts , there was no increase in the expression of c-myc , c-ha-ras , c-erbb ( egf receptor ) , c-jun , or transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) transcripts in psoriatic lesions , and lesional c-fos transcripts were decreased relative to normal skin . in contrast , expression of tgf-alpha mrna transcripts were markedly increased in psoriatic lesions even after normalization . placement of normal or psoriatic tissue in organ culture for 2 to 4 h resulted in strong induction of c-fos , c-jun , and c-myc transcripts , but not of the other genes studied . thus , overexpression of proto-oncogenes may be more characteristic of the epidermal response to acute injury than of the steady-state hyperplasia characteristic of psoriasis . interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) increased tgf-alpha mrna levels in cultured human kc at long time intervals ( 24-48 h ) . however , of various cytokines tested , only egf and tgf-alpha induced tgf-alpha mrna after short time intervals ( 2-4 h ) . these results as well as the selective overabundance of tgf-alpha mrna in psoriatic lesions among various cytokines tested suggest that activation of the egf receptor tyrosine kinase by tgf-alpha is important in the pathogenesis of psoriatic epidermal hyperplasia . 
treatment of condyloma acuminatum with three different interferon-alpha preparations administered parenterally : a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . one hundred seventy-eight patients were enrolled in a placebo-controlled trial to evaluate three interferon-alpha preparations administered parenterally for the treatment of condyloma acuminatum . when all interferon groups were combined and compared with placebo , interferon recipients had greater rates of complete , 75 % , 50 % , and 25 % lesion resolution than did placebo recipients ( p = .21 , p = .14 , p = .02 , and p = .02 , respectively ) . rates of lesion resolution were higher among women than among men , and women were more likely than men to respond to interferon . virologic measurements in paired lesion biopsies did not correlate with interferon treatment or disease outcome . although interferon toxicity was observed frequently , no participant withdrew from the study because of side effects , and dosage alterations were not required . parenterally administered interferon-alpha is more effective than placebo in treating condyloma acuminatum , although rates of complete response are low . different regimens , including combination therapy , should be evaluated for treatment of this common sexually transmitted disease . 
skin blisters as a manifestation of oxazepam toxicity . a 75 year-old comatous patient was admitted after ingestion of 200 mg oxazepam . skin blisters , attributed to oxazepam toxicity , appeared on the left forearm the following day and regressed spontaneously nine days later . 
de novo carcinoma of the lower urinary tract in renal allograft recipients . immunocompetence has been postulated as an important defense against the progression of urothelial carcinoma . three cases of de novo lower urinary tract carcinoma in renal transplant recipients demonstrated the potential for unusually rapid urothelial extension and invasion in chronically immunosuppressed patients . two patients had a history of perineal condyloma acuminata ; tumors from 1 of these harbored the genetic sequences of human papillomavirus type 6 . one patient had multiple manifestations of cyclophosphamide-related urothelial injury , including bladder carcinoma . treatment of 2 patients culminated in a radical operation during which the remaining native urinary system was resected completely , with sacrifice of the allograft kidney in 1 and diversion into an ileal conduit in 1 . the remaining patient underwent urethrectomy and partial cystectomy with a sigmoid conduit . 
the natural history of peyronie 's disease . the natural history of peyronie 's disease was evaluated in 97 men by means of a questionnaire . disease duration ranged from 3 months to 8 years . questions addressed pain , bending , ability for intercourse , over-all effect of the disease , psychological effects , treatments received and degree of disease progression . approximately 40 % of the patients found pain , bending , ability for intercourse and over-all effects to be unchanged during the course of the disease . bending and ability for relations worsened in 40 % of the patients during the same interval , while only 6 % had worsening of pain . of the patients 77 % reported psychological effects due to peyronie 's disease , which improved in 28 % , did not change in 36 % and worsened in 36 % . over-all , 13 % of the patients believed the disease to be one of gradual resolution , 47 % believed there had been little or no change and 40 % believed that the disease pattern was one of gradual progression . we found no statistically significant association between disease duration and spontaneous improvement in penile bending . a similar lack of statistical significance was found when improvement in a variety of categories was compared in patients who received no therapy versus those who received a variety of conventional medical therapies . 
indirect revascularization of the lower extremity by means of microvascular free-muscle flap -- a preliminary report . we describe the treatment of a patient with end-stage peripheral vascular disease and ischemic ulceration of the lower extremity in whom an obliteration of the distal arterial bed precluded conventional arterial reconstruction . a nonhealing dorsal foot ulcer was debrided , and soft tissue reconstruction was accomplished by the free microsurgical transfer of a muscle flap to the distal lower extremity . arterial inflow to this free flap was provided by a contralateral reversed saphenous vein graft from the proximal arterial tree of the leg . this procedure resulted in a healed wound , stable coverage , and limb salvage . the patient also noted complete relief of rest pain and improvement in his claudication symptoms . a follow-up arteriogram was done 2 months after surgery . contrast injection directly into the artery of this flap showed new blood vessel growth from the muscle flap into the foot with anastomoses of these " new vessels " to the patient 's native circulation . this experience suggests that limb salvage may be possible by the free microvascular transplantation of a muscle flap onto the limb in selected patients whose limbs are deemed " nonreconstructible . " . 
deep vein obstruction and leg swelling caused by femoral ganglion . we present a case of a rare ganglion cyst originating from the hip joint and compressing the common femoral vein producing signs and symptoms that mimicked a deep vein thrombosis . excision of the mass promptly restored normal venous return . this condition has not been previously reported in the english-language medical literature . 
diclofenac-associated hepatotoxicity diclofenac sodium , a phenylacetic acid-derived nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) recently released in the united states , was associated with the development of significant hepatitis in seven patients , with one associated death . signs and symptoms developed within several weeks of initiation of drug use and generally resolved 4 to 6 weeks following discontinuation of use of the drug . the only patient rechallenged with the drug developed a recurrence of her hepatic abnormalities . in one patient , fatal , fulminant hepatitis developed despite early withdrawal of the drug . review of the european literature disclosed three additional fatalities associated with diclofenac therapy . it is unclear whether the incidence of hepatotoxicity is higher with this drug compared with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . careful patient monitoring is advised , and prompt discontinuation of the drug is suggested when signs or symptoms of liver disease develop . 
the epidemiology and natural history of pressure ulcers in elderly nursing home residents we analyzed prospective data from 19,889 elderly residents of 51 nursing homes from 1984 to 1985 to determine the prevalence , incidence , and natural history of pressure ulcers . among all residents admitted to nursing homes , 11.3 % possessed a stage ii through stage iv pressure ulcer . for those residents admitted to the nursing home without pressure ulcers during the study period , the 1-year incidence was 13.2 % . this increased to 21.6 % by 2 years of nursing home stay . people already residing in a nursing home at the start of the study had a 1-year incidence of 9.5 % , which increased to 20.4 % by 2 years . pressure ulcers were associated with an increased rate of mortality , but not hospitalization . longitudinal follow-up of residents with pressure ulcers demonstrated that a majority of their lesions were healed by 1 year . most of the improvement occurred early in a person 's nursing home stay . although nursing home residents with pressure ulcers have a higher mortality , with good medical care pressure ulcers can be expected to heal . 
buruli ulcer in benin in a study of 28 patients with mycobacterium ulcerans infection ( buruli ulcer ) in oinhi , benin , it became clear that the disease can regress as well as progress , and that patients can have lesions of different stages simultaneously . a system of disease staging was introduced ( i = subcutaneous nodule ; ii = cellulitis ; iii = ulceration ; iv = scar formation ) . research to find an effective treatment for this crippling disease is urgently needed . 
infective dermatitis of jamaican children : a marker for htlv-i infection in jamaican children infective dermatitis is a chronic eczema associated with refractory nonvirulent staphylococcus aureus or beta-haemolytic streptococcus infection of the skin and nasal vestibule . 14 children between the ages of 2 and 17 years with typical infective dermatitis , attending the dermatology clinic at the university hospital of the west indies in jamaica , were tested for antibody to human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) . all were seropositive , whereas 11 children of similar age with atopic eczema were all negative . in 2 of 2 cases of infective dermatitis , the biological mother was htlv-1 seropositive . none of the 14 patients showed signs of adult t-cell leukaemia/lymphoma , though experience with previous cases of infective dermatitis indicates the possibility of such progression . 
cutaneous phototoxic occurrences in patients receiving photofrin . incidence of cutaneous phototoxic reactions induced by intravenous injection of photofrin polyporphyrin was assessed in a series of 180 patients ( 266 injections ) undergoing photodynamic therapy ( pdt ) at roswell park cancer institute during the period 1986-1989 . in addition to the usual verbal questions regarding phototoxic reactions solicited at follow-up , forty-two patients in this group also responded to a written questionnaire designed to solicit answers to specific questions . photofrin doses ranged from 0.5 to 2.0 mg/kg . overall , 20-40 % of patients reported some type of phototoxic response . 
a chronic granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin . a small clinically distinct group of patients with widespread tissue granulomata are described . the principal presenting symptoms are malaise , fever , and weight loss , although a wide variety of complaints are documented . pulmonary involvement is uncommon . the granulomata are noncaseating with a few multinucleate giant cells and some surrounding chronic inflammatory infiltrate . there is no evidence of an associated arteritis . the disease has a relapsing and remitting course and although it may require treatment with immunosuppressive drugs , particularly if the kidneys are involved , the prognosis is relatively good . we propose that this entity be called granulomatous syndrome of unknown origin . the characteristics that set this syndrome apart from the other granulomatous vasculitides are discussed . the current limited understanding of granuloma formation does not allow us to propose a definite etiology for this condition . it is emphasized that it is not helpful to encompass it within a label of sarcoidosis . first , it may only serve to confuse the doctor in assessing and treating this very particular group of patients . secondly , it may hinder future attempts to understand the different pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the various conditions in which granulomata may arise . 
posterior interosseous nerve palsies . one hundred seventy patients with radial nerve disorders were reviewed at the louisiana state university medical center over a 15-year period . of these , 32 had involvement of the posterior interosseous nerve exclusively . findings included weak wrist extension with a radial drift , inability to extend the fingers , paralysis of thumb extension , and weak thumb abduction . causes included entrapment at the arcade of froshe ( 14 patients ) , laceration ( 6 patients ) , fracture ( 6 patients ) , compression or contusion ( 3 patients ) , and loss associated with tumor ( 3 patients ) . the ratio of men to women was 2:1 , and the right arm was involved twice as often as the left . preoperative evaluation included physical examination , electrophysiological testing ( electromyogram/nerve conduction velocity ) , and roentgenograms of the elbow and forearm . of the 30 patients ( 2 patients had bilateral lesions ) , 26 underwent operation . in the operative series , all 28 nerves had a function of grade 3 or more of a possible 5 after 4 years of follow-up . seventeen had achieved grade 4/5 , and 7 had obtained grade 5/5 . at operation , 23 nerves were found to be in continuity . fourteen lesions of nerves in continuity were associated with entrapment and , not unexpectedly , transmitted a nerve action potential with slowed conduction and low amplitude across the lesion . four nerves in continuity that had lesions caused by injury had nerve action potentials and were treated by neurolysis , and another 4 had no nerve action potentials and were treated by graft or suture repair . five injured nerves were not in continuity . two could be repaired by end-to-end suture , and 3 required graft repair . a large ganglion cyst involving the posterior interosseous nerve was also resected . 
myelopathy presenting decades after surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions . we report on two patients in whom cervical myelopathy developed decades after they had undergone surgery for congenital cervical cutaneous lesions . preoperative magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated dorsal tethering and cavitation of the cervical cord in the area of the previous surgery and was helpful in decision making regarding surgical exploration and in planning for it . we stress the importance of long-term follow-up by both clinical examination and magnetic resonance imaging in children who have been operated on for cervical cutaneous masses that may have central connections . 
the significance of moderate and severe inflammation on class i papanicolaou smear the significance of a cytologic diagnosis of moderate and severe inflammation with a normal ( class i ) papanicolaou smear has not been addressed . a retrospective review of 596 consecutive cervical smears performed over 13 months revealed 85 women who had a class i cytologic smear with moderate to severe inflammation . seventy-eight patients had colposcopic examinations and were considered for this study . fifty-nine ( 75.6 % ) had cervical punch biopsies and/or endocervical biopsies . of the 78 , 19 ( 24.4 % ) had cervical condylomata and nine ( 11.5 % ) had cervical intraepithelial neoplasia . we conclude that class i cytologic smears with moderate to severe inflammation may be associated with findings of condylomata and cervical dysplasia . 
experience with photocoagulation in behcet 's disease . between 1973 and 1987 we examined both eyes of 300 patients with the uveoretinitis-type lesions characteristic of behcet 's disease . of the 556 eyes whose fundus could be examined , 38 eyes ( 6.8 % ) in 33 patients ( 11 % ) had developed retinal capillary nonperfusion , branch retinal vein occlusion , or retinal or disc neovascularization . these eyes were treated by photocoagulation , primarily to forestall vitreous hemorrhage and the development of neovascular glaucoma , as well as to decrease the macular edema resulting from vein occlusion . the treatment , which was well tolerated , was successful in closing retinal capillary nonperfusion areas and eliminating retinal neovascularization . disc neovascularization was resolved completely in some cases , and partially in others . 
serum and aqueous humor sialic acid levels in behcet 's disease . serum and aqueous humor sialic acid ( sa ) levels were determined in 27 patients with behcet 's disease ( bd ) . serum sa levels were elevated significantly during the active episode ( mean , 113.4 + / - 4.12 mg/dl ) and in the remission stages ( mean , 85.4 + / - 4.79 mg/dl ; p less than 0.001 ) . a significant increase was also detected in active episodes when compared to chronic stages ( p less than 0.02 ) . aqueous humor levels were also evaluated but could only be determined in the six eyes at the end-stage of the disease ( mean , 2.65 + / - 0.60 mg/dl ; p less than 0.05 ) . 
crystalline cataract and uncombable hair . ultrastructural and biochemical findings . a 7-year-old girl was found to have a progressive axial crystalline cataract located in the embryonal , fetal , and infantile nucleus . she also had the unknown association of crystalline cataract with uncombable hair . samples of the aspirate after extracapsular cataract extraction ( ecce ) showed elongated , trigonal crystals on scanning electron microscopy . on transmission electron microscopy , the crystals were surrounded by a membrane sometimes consisting of up to 30 concentric layers . the crystals were found to contain carbon , oxygen , nitrogen , sulfur , and disulfide bonds . the findings suggest that a major constituent of the crystals was a sulfur-containing aminoacid , probably cystine . protein analysis of the remaining lens material showed elevated alpha - , beta 2 - , and gamma 2 - crystallin levels . analysis of the hair root status showed hair loss in the resting phase of the hair cycle with abnormal sheathing in most hairs that were in the growth phase . 
bilateral keloid-like myofibroblastic proliferations of the cornea in children . two 6-month-old white boys developed localized multifocal white nodules of the anterior corneal stroma without evidence of antecedent trauma , inflammatory disease , or familial occurrence . the first patient had bilateral lesions initially ; the second patient initially had unilateral involvement followed by a corneal nodule in the second eye at 11 years of age . light and electron microscopic studies of the lesions in both patients were similar and disclosed stromal nodules composed of proliferating myofibroblasts , activated fibroblasts , and haphazardly arranged fascicles of collagen . immunohistochemical studies revealed that the spindle cells within the nodules expressed immunoreactivity for vimentin and alpha-smooth muscle actin . management options for these slowly progressive corneal lesions include lamellar versus penetrating keratoplasty and topical corticosteroids . 
comprehensive dental care and general anesthetic management of hereditary epidermolysis bullosa . a review of fourteen cases . dental management of persons with epidermolysis bullosa remains challenging because of the severe hard and soft tissue manifestations of these diseases . this study reviews the dental treatment of 14 cases requiring 24 general anesthetics . twenty-three of the cases were managed with oral tracheal intubation to accomplish full-mouth dental rehabilitation . dental therapy consisted of preventive , restorative , and surgical procedures , with extractions and stainless steel crowns being the most common treatment modalities . there were no serious postoperative complications , and no airway problems were experienced . although extensive intraoral mucosal blistering did occur in several cases , postoperative healing progressed normally . soft tissue trauma may be lessened through the use of small suction tips , flat tissue retractors , and extensive lubrication of all tissues requiring manipulation . this study provides further evidence that even the most severely affected patients with epidermolysis bullosa can receive comprehensive dental treatment directed at maintaining a functional dentition . 
propolis allergy : a cause of oral mucositis with ulceration . propolis has been used since ancient times in folk medicine for its alleged beneficial effects . it is a potent sensitizer and is well recognized as a cause of occupational allergic eczematous contact dermatitis in apiarists . recently , there has been an increase in allergic eczematous contact dermatitis because of nonoccupational exposure to propolis in " natural products " and biocosmetics . this report describes a patient who had acute oral mucositis with ulceration as a result of using propolis-containing lozenges . 
multiple myeloma and bullous lichenoid lesions : an unusual association . many associations of lichenoid reactions have been described but this case appears to be a previously unreported association -- with multiple myeloma . this case also demonstrates the necessity of a mucosal biopsy with adequate hematologic and serologic investigations to obtain a definitive diagnosis . 
young adults with special health care needs : prevalence , severity , and access to health services . health care needs of disabled young adults and access to care are analyzed using the 1984 national health interview survey , a nationally representative sample of 10,394 randomly selected noninstitutionalized young adults aged 19 to 24 . in 1984 , 1.4 million young adults ( almost 6 % ) suffered from disabilities . the leading cause of disability was diseases of the musculoskeletal system and connective tissue . young adults living in poverty , in households where the family reference person had less than a high school education , and who were male were at elevated risk of disability . disabled young adults made almost three times as many physician contacts and were hospitalized for close to six times as many days as nondisabled young adults . one of every 5 disabled young adults was uninsured in 1984 . forty-one percent of disabled hispanic 19 - to 24-year-olds and 51 % of disabled young adults of other races were uninsured compared with 19 % of whites and blacks . research and financing policy implications are discussed . 
what to do about pruritus scroti . pruritus scroti is a common clinical disorder that is caused by various inflammatory disorders , infections , infestations , and neoplasms . laboratory evaluation , including bacterial and fungal cultures , microscopic examination , skin biopsies , and measurement of blood glucose levels , is useful in establishing the diagnosis . management of pruritus scroti includes avoidance of irritants , allergens , and restrictive clothing and use of topical and systemic agents that provide both symptomatic relief and specific treatment of the underlying cause . 
correcting a stairstep deformity secondary to lower abdominal scars by the use of a decorticated hypogastric flap . the author describes a decorticated hypogastric flap used in the correction and prevention of retracted scars and suprapubic stairsteps . these deformities are common after cesarean sections and in patients who undergo liposuction followed by the retrieval of excess skin . the surgical technique is described . the author also analyzes the advantages and results that occur without an increase in either the time of surgery or complications . 
experience with the functional cleft lip repair . the first 12 functional cleft lip repairs performed on unselected consecutive patients immediately following the completion of training by the author are presented . previous reports on this cleft lip repair have shown excellent results but have always been based on patients operated on by the originator of the procedure . this report gives credence to the ease with which a cleft lip repair that gives reproducible good results can be taught and learned even by plastic surgeons with limited experience . it reviews the technical steps of the procedure , which emphasizes wide undermining and release of the orbicularis oris muscle on the lateral side of the cleft to allow redraping and lengthening of the lip skin , step-by-step layered closure of the mucosa , muscle , and skin , and further vertical lengthening of the lip with a z-plasty skin closure . three elements that are difficult to achieve or restore with cleft lip revision are evaluated : ( 1 ) achievement of a good skin scar , ( 2 ) maintenance of the alar-facial groove , and ( 3 ) achievement of adequate lip height without sacrificing horizontal lip length . ten of the 12 patients had a satisfactory scar , 9 patients had a good alar-facial groove , and all patients had a normal-appearing horizontal lip length . nine patients required secondary surgery ; however , in six patients , this included correction of the nasal deformity that was not corrected at the time of cleft lip repair . 
normeperidine-induced seizures in hereditary coproporphyria . seizures are common in acute exacerbations of hepatic porphyria , even though the etiology is not identified in most cases . we have reported a case of normeperidine-induced seizures in a patient with hereditary coproporphyria . although meperidine is commonly used for pain control during acute attacks in these patients , this report suggests that meperidine is not a good analgesic choice in porphyria . normeperidine-induced seizures in patients with porphyria may be treated by withdrawal of meperidine therapy and selective use of anticonvulsants . 
cytophagic histiocytic panniculitis evolving into total lipodystrophy . a 15-year-old boy had persistent fever with severe neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , coagulation disorder , and marked elevation of lactate dehydrogenase values . a diagnosis of cytophagic histiocytic panniculitis was made after repeated skin biopsies . three years after onset , he gradually lost 20 kg in body weight , and both skin and bone marrow specimens revealed degenerative changes of fatty tissue without any inflammatory cells . these findings suggest that total lipodystrophy syndrome results from the inflammatory destructive process of adipose tissue . to our knowledge , our report is the first to show , in a series of histologic studies , that an inflammatory destructive process may be involved in some cases of total lipodystrophy syndrome . 
management of peyronie disease by implantation of inflatable penile prosthesis . sixty-seven patients with advanced peyronie disease were treated by implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis ( ipp ) . twenty-eight of the 67 patients had documented total erectile failure . the remaining 39 patients had significant penile curvature causing " mechanical impotence " due to inability to achieve adequate vaginal penetration and chose implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis ( in some cases , combined with a straightening procedure ) rather than one of the standard penile straightening procedures . currently , 63 of the 67 patients have functioning prosthetic devices ; in 3 other patients the device was removed because of infection , and 1 patient was dissatisfied and had the device removed . for impotent patients with severe peyronie disease for whom other medical or surgical treatment is neither desirable nor suitable , we recommend implantation of an inflatable penile prosthesis combined with a possible straightening procedure . 
intravesical condyloma acuminatum with progression to verrucous carcinoma . condyloma acuminatum is a common form of venereal disease . most patients with condylomata acuminata suffer from only the local cosmetic and irritative effects of the lesions . few patients have progression to aggressive , regionally distributed lesions that can be life-threatening . we describe a forty-three-year-old white woman who had a seventeen-year history of scleroderma with extravesical and intravesical condylomata acuminata . during two years of conservative management with transurethral excision , electrocoagulation , and intravesical chemotherapy , the disease progressed to involve the entire bladder and resulted in obstructive renal insufficiency that required anterior exenteration and urinary diversion . the natural history of the disease is described , and the relevant literature is reviewed . 
catabolic effects of high-dose corticosteroids persist despite therapeutic benefit in rheumatoid arthritis . although corticosteroids ( cs ) cause nitrogen wasting in healthy humans , it is not known whether the salutary antiinflammatory and appetite-stimulating effects of cs in inflammatory diseases mitigate this effect . we measured nitrogen balance before , during , and after 3 d of high-dose methylprednisolone therapy in nine patients with flare-ups of rheumatoid arthritis . there was evidence of preexisting somatic protein and fat depletion in seven of nine subjects . patients were allowed to eat freely on a metabolic ward . nitrogen balances were -0.89 + / - 1.38 g/d ( means + / - sem ) before cs therapy , -5.77 + / - 1.30 g/d during therapy ( p less than 0.001 ) , and -3.54 + / - 1.38 g/d after therapy ( p less than 0.01 ) despite increased energy and nitrogen intake and clinical resolution of inflammation during and after the pulse therapy . we conclude that patients with rheumatoid arthritis are often cachectic and high-dose cs cause nitrogen wasting in these patients despite an antiinflammatory and appetite-stimulatory benefit . 
antinuclear matrix antibody . hidden antinuclear antibody in patients with connective tissue diseases . a total of 435 serum samples from patients with different rheumatic diseases were screened for the presence of autoantibody to nuclear matrix components by indirect immunofluorescence on 0.1 mol/l hcl extracted hep-2 cell and wil2 cell substrates . a total of 28 specimens were positive in this assay . eighteen of them were from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( 18 of 250 ) , 2 from patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( 2 of 115 ) , and 8 from patients with mixed connective tissue disease ( 8 of 10 ) . antigenic material for this antibody is resistant to dnase , partially sensitive to rnase , and sensitive to trypsin . this indicates that the antigen is composed of protein and possibly rna . in immunoblot analysis , sera positive for this antibody in indirect immunofluorescence assay recognized different peptides . this suggests that protein peptides are the major antigenic material . 
temporary loss of limb function secondary to soft tissue calcification in a patient with rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure . a case of unusually severe soft tissue calcification with temporary loss of limb function in a patient with rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure ( arf ) is described . a large dose of intravenous ( iv ) calcium was administered early in the hospital course to treat hypocalcemia , and hemodialysis , when initiated , was with a 1.75-mmol / l calcium dialysate . this case illustrates the danger of administering calcium supplementation and raises questions about the use of normal to high dialysate calcium concentration in the early stages of rhabdomyolysis-induced oliguric arf . calcium supplementation should be reserved for patients with clear clinical signs of hypocalcemia and dialysate calcium should be adjusted to prevent excessive positive calcium balance . 
pseudoexfoliative fibrillopathy in the skin of patients with ocular pseudoexfoliation . in addition to its occurrence within the eye , pseudoexfoliative fibrillopathy has been reported in the conjunctiva and around a posterior ciliary artery . to determine whether it has a more diffuse extraocular distribution , we studied skin biopsy specimens ultrastructurally from one to three areas in 13 patients with classic pseudoexfoliation . a fibrillopathy closely resembling that in the eye was found in 11 of the 13 patients . only one of the 13 control subjects , a 78-year-old man with advanced low-tension glaucoma , had a similar fibrillopathy . in the patients with pseudoexfoliation who were more than 70 years of age , the accompanying dermal elastosis made evaluation difficult , because the pseudoexfoliative nodules in the skin occur primarily along elastic fibers , and their morphologic characteristics appeared to be influenced by the elastotic process . these results suggest that pseudoexfoliation is a systemic process related closely to elastosis , and that further search for pseudoexfoliative fibers should be made in the elastic system of the deep tissues and internal organs . 
a clinicopathologic study of the eyes in familial adenomatous polyposis with extracolonic manifestations ( gardner 's syndrome ) . the eyes of a 51-year-old woman with familial adenomatous polyposis and extracolonic manifestations ( gardner 's syndrome ) were obtained postmortem and studied by light microscopy and by transmission and scanning electron microscopy . we found a generalized abnormality in melanogenesis of the retinal pigment epithelium and at least three types of pigmented lesions . the histologic findings in one type of lesion were consistent with congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium or benign pigmented nevus of the retinal pigment epithelium . the other two types of lesion were most consistent with hamartomatous malformations of the retinal pigment epithelium featuring cellular hypertrophy , hyperplasia , and rarely retinal invasion and formation of a minute mushroom-shaped tumor . these histopathologic findings indicate a generalized effect of the familial adenomatous polyposis gene on the retinal pigment epithelium . this oncogene , which is responsible for tumor formation in the gastrointestinal tract , soft tissues , bone , and other locations in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis , also leads to a generalized defect in melanogenesis and focal lesions of the retinal pigment epithelium . 
south american blastomycosis : ophthalmic and oculomotor nerve lesions . a case of south american blastomycosis began with an oropharyngeal lesion which was followed by a granulomatous uveitis . the patient was treated with amphotericin b and showed a clinical regression . four months later , he developed a right 3rd cranial nerve palsy , aggravating the clinical aspect with a severe generalized involvement of the central nervous system and death . necropsy showed blastomycotic meningoencephalitis . 
amputation prevention in an independently reviewed at-risk diabetic population using a comprehensive wound care protocol . an independent review panel composed of an orthopedic surgeon , a vascular surgeon , and an endocrinologist was convened to conduct a case history review . the 71 patients reviewed had 124 wounds on 81 limbs and participated in the comprehensive wound management program of the university of minnesota . based on their expertise , the review panel classified the wounds by severity and identified the limb 's risk for amputation . the resulting scores were then compared with the patient 's actual outcome . the review panel predicted 65 ( 80 % ) of the limbs would be salvaged and 16 ( 20 % ) would be amputated . the actual outcome was that 75 ( 93 % ) of the limbs were salvaged and 6 ( 7 % ) were amputated ( p less than 0.005 ) . the university 's wound management program was highly successful , compared with the predictions of the reviewers . 
spinal cord compression with paraplegia in xanthomatosis due to normocholesterolemic sitosterolemia . a 48-year-old woman with a 30-year history of tendinous xanthomatosis developed paraplegia . the magnetic resonance image revealed extramedullary tumors . the analysis of her sera and tumors revealed increased amount of plant sterols , especially sitosterol , and the diagnosis of sitosterolemia was made . this is the first reported case of a patient with sitosterolemia who had the neurological complication of spinal cord compression due to extramedullary sitosterolemic xanthomas . 
cutaneous t-cell lymphoma ( parapsoriasis en plaque ) . an association with pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta in young children . pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta ( pleva ) and pityriasis lichenoides chronica ( plc ) are related benign disorders without recognized association with cutaneous t-cell lymphoma ( ctcl ) . we report the cases of two children with documented pleva evolving into ctcl over several years . one child had the clinical lesions of plc but the dermatopathologic findings of pleva at age 2 years . at age 12 years , he had skin changes of poikiloderma atrophicans vasculare and dermatopathologic findings consistent with parapsoriasis en plaque . the second child presented at age 7 years with scaling dermatitis and dermatopathologic findings of pleva . at age 12 years , the histologic diagnosis was parapsoriasis . monoclonal antibody studies performed on biopsy specimens from both patients revealed 70 % to 100 % cells staining with cd5 , 80 % to 90 % staining with cd4 , 30 % to 50 % staining with cd8 , and an increase in cd1-staining cells in the papillary dermis , indicating a predominantly helper t-cell infiltrate . we believe that plc and pleva may be part of the spectrum of ctcl . furthermore , ctcl may be more common in young children than once thought . 
my7 monoclonal antibody for diagnosis of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma . infiltrate in cutaneous t-cell lymphomas ( ctcls ) is composed mainly of cd4 helper cells with a phenotype very similar to that of benign cutaneous lymphoid infiltrate . my7 ( cd13 ) is a monoclonal antibody that is normally expressed on peripheral granulocytes and monocytes but also cross-reacts with an antigen expressed on epidermal basal cells . we studied my7 expression on basal cells of the epidermis and cd4 cell infiltrate in 34 ctcls , 11 pseudolymphomas , and 29 other benign cutaneous lesions . an indirect immunofluorescence technique with double labeling and an immunoperoxidase technique were used . we found that in benign inflammatory infiltrate , less than 10 % of cd4 cells expressed my7 antigen associated with normal my7 monoclonal antibody labeling of basal cells , whereas in ctcls more than 50 % of cd4 tumoral cells in dermis expressed my7 antigens ; however , basal cells were my7 negative . thus , it is demonstrated that my7 monoclonal antibody with its double modulation on epidermis ( basal cells ) and dermis ( cd4 cells ) has diagnostic value for differentiating ctcls with cd4 + my7 + tumor cells in dermis and my7-negative basal cells from benign inflammatory lesions with cd4 + my7 - cells in dermis and my7-positive basal cells . this modulation of my7 labeling could be related to the secretion of epidermal cytokines . 
characterization of the dermal infiltrate in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with psoriasis . we investigated the dermal inflammatory cell infiltrates of psoriatic lesions from nine human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients and nine age - , sex - , and site-matched control specimens . the study was retrospective and observer blinded . t lymphocytes were quantitated using uchl-1 , a pan-t-cell monoclonal antibody , and plasma cell number was estimated in hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections . differences in both variables reached statistical significance . there were fewer t cells and the number of plasma cells was significantly higher in specimens from the human immunodeficiency virus-positive individuals in comparison with control specimens . as plasma cells are readily identified on hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections , their presence in skin biopsy specimens from psoriatic leisons should arouse suspicion of human immunodeficiency virus infection . the depletion of helper/inducer t lymphocytes by the human immunodeficiency virus may promote the presence of plasma cells in cutaneous inflammatory infiltrates . 
cicatricial pemphigoid . identification of two distinct sets of epidermal antigens by iga and igg class circulating autoantibodies . a patient with severe cicatricial pemphigoid demonstrated both in vivo bound and circulating anti-basement membrane zone antibodies of the iga and igg classes . complement component 3 ( c3 ) was also deposited in the basement membrane zone of lesional skin as well as in normal-appearing buccal mucosa of the patient . however , c1q was absent , while granular deposits of two factors of the alternative complement activating pathway , properdin and properdin factor b , were present only in the basement membrane zone of lesional skin , but not in normal buccal mucosa . deposition of alternative complement pathway reactants in the lesion suggests that complement activation by iga was associated with lesion development . western blot analysis of the patient 's serum on electrophoresed cultured keratinocyte antigens identified two distinct sets of epidermal antigens . while igg bound antigens of 230 , 205 , 140 , and 90 kd , the patient 's iga antibodies bound a distinct set of antigens , 180 and 130 kd . the potential pathogenic role of iga in cicatricial pemphigoid is discussed . 
dermatitis herpetiformis bodies . ultrastructural study on the skin of patients using direct preembedding immunogold labeling . skin samples from three adult patients with dermatitis herpetiformis ( dh ) and granular iga deposits in the papillary tips were studied using ultrastructural immunogold technique . iga positive , so-called dh bodies were identified as amorphous clumps -- most probably immunocomplex aggregates -- scattered throughout the upper papillary dermis . dermatitis herpetiformis bodies were seen underneath the basement membrane , sometimes along microfibrillar bundles , as well as adjacent to the papillary collagen fibers and within the surface ( microfibrillar ) region of elastic tissue . some dh bodies , however , were not related to any fibrillar components . the collagen and elastic fibers , microfibrillar bundles , anchoring fibrils , and elastic microfibrils themselves were unlabeled . dermatitis herpetiformis bodies were not found in normal human skin . the results of our ultrastructural study indicate that dh bodies either are bound to a nonfibrillar component of dermal connective tissue or represent deposits of immune complexes trapped in dh skin . 
the familial occurrence of bullous mastocytosis ( diffuse cutaneous mastocytosis ) . we studied four patients ( a mother , her two daughters , and her son ) with bullous mastocytosis , or diffuse cutaneous mastocytosis , whose genetic inheritance suggested an autosomal dominant pattern . the clinical characteristics included extensive bullae , numerous urticaria , pruritus , flushing , and pseudolichenified skin over all body surfaces without systemic organ involvement . the histopathologic findings disclosed a pronounced accumulation of mast cells in the dermis . electron microscopic studies of lesional skin obtained in infancy showed round or spindle-shaped mast cells with numerous fingerlike villous protrusions . the cytoplasmic granules varied in size and shape , and the appearance of degranulation was markedly noted . in the adult , most mast cells had markedly decreased numbers of granules and cytoplasmic villi . some cells displayed degenerative or necrotic appearances . these findings correlated well with the clinical course of these cases , which improved spontaneously over time . 
ichthyosis , mental retardation , and asymptomatic spasticity . a new neurocutaneous syndrome with normal fatty alcohol : nad + oxidoreductase activity . a number of inherited disorders of cornification have been related to abnormal lipid metabolism . in the recessively inherited sjogren-larsson syndrome , defined by the triad of ichthyosis , mental retardation , and spasticity , fatty alcohol : nad + oxidoreductase deficiency has recently been reported . these patients accumulate fatty alcohol in the plasma and cultured fibroblasts . a 19-year-old woman with ichthyosis , mental retardation , and mild spasticity is described in whom fatty alcohol metabolism was normal , as determined by plasma octadecanol level and fibroblast fatty alcohol : nad + oxidoreductase activity . ultrastructural studies on skin from the patient revealed morphologically abnormal epidermal lamellar bodies , not unlike those seen in neutral lipid storage disease with ichthyosis . we postulate that this patient has a novel neurocutaneous syndrome that may be secondary to abnormal lipid metabolism . 
morphological and histopathological aspects of aneurysms after patch aortoplasty for coarctation . repair of coarctation of the aorta by synthetic patch grafting has been complicated by late aneurysm formation . these aneurysms differ macroscopically from atherosclerotic thoracic aortic dilatations . specimens for microscopic examination were taken from 14 of 20 patients undergoing aneurysm resection . histological analysis of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients ( 93 % ) , foreign body reaction in 11 patients ( 78 % ) , and intimal thickening in 3 patients ( 21 % ) . the three layers of the aortic wall could be identified in the aneurysms . on the basis of these results , we discuss the etiologic factors and pathogenetic mechanisms involved in the development of these aneurysms . 
thyrotoxicosis induced by topical iodine application . we describe an elderly man who was admitted with congestive cardiac failure and found to have thyrotoxicosis . he did not have goiter , and he had normal radioiodine uptake in his neck . serum iodine levels were elevated , explaining the lack of increase in radioiodine uptake in the thyroid gland . he had multiple pressure sores , which were treated with povidone-iodine ( betadine ) soaks . biochemical data were consistent with graves ' disease unmasked by topical iodine application . povidone-iodine soaks are commonly used in decubitus ulcer care and warrant special attention in patients with preexisting thyroid disorders . we have reviewed the literature on this unusual complication . 
aerobic and anaerobic bacteriology of wounds and cutaneous abscesses . the aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic characteristics of 584 wounds and 676 skin or soft-tissue abscesses were studied and correlated with the infection site . in wounds , aerobic or facultative bacteria only were present in 223 specimens ( 38 % ) , anaerobes only in 177 specimens ( 30 % ) , and mixed flora in 184 specimens ( 32 % ) . in total there were 1470 isolates , 558 aerobic and 912 anaerobic , an average of 2.5 isolates per wound ( 1.6 anaerobic and 0.9 aerobic isolates ) . in abscesses , aerobic or facultative bacteria were recovered in 177 specimens ( 26 % ) , anaerobes only in 243 specimens ( 36 % ) , and mixed flora in 256 specimens ( 38 % ) . in total there were 1702 isolates , 602 aerobic and 1100 anaerobic , an average of 2.5 isolates per abscess . the highest rates of anaerobes in wounds were in the inguinal , buttocks , and trunk areas and in abscesses in the perirectal , external genitalia , neck , and inguinal areas . the predominant aerobic organisms were staphylococcus aureus ( 363 isolates ) , group a streptococci ( 98 isolates ) , and escherichia coli ( 97 isolates ) . the predominant anaerobic organisms were bacteroides species ( 986 isolates ) , peptostreptococcus species ( 559 isolates ) , clostridium species ( 153 isolates ) , and fusobacterium species ( 109 isolates ) . the predominance of certain isolates in certain anatomical sites was correlated with their distribution in the normal flora adjacent to the infected site . these data highlight the polymicrobial nature of wounds and cutaneous abscesses . 
asthma and eczema in children born to women with migraine . migraine and asthma have been reported to occur in the same person more commonly than would be expected if they are independent . the large collaborative perinatal project provided an opportunity to see if children born to women with migraine or with the group of disorders characterized by asthma and/or allergies were more likely to manifest asthma or eczema in the first 7 years of life . among children whose mothers had neither migraine nor asthma/allergies , 3.2 % had asthma . of children whose mothers had migraine , but not asthma/allergies , more than 6 % had asthma . the risk of asthma among children born to women who had both migraine and asthma/allergies was greater than the risk associated with each maternal disease . the risk of eczema in children was not appreciably influenced by the mother 's propensity to migraine or asthma/allergies . the results of this first study of migraine in one generation and asthma in the next lead to the conclusion that the two disorders are probably related . 
aspirin , hydroxychloroquine , and hepatic enzyme abnormalities with methotrexate in rheumatoid arthritis . levels of serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase ( sgot ) and serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase ( sgpt ) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis from 5 centers involved in the arthritis , rheumatism , and aging medical information system were correlated with the use of specific antirheumatic medications . elevated levels of sgot and sgpt were most frequent in patients taking salicylates and methotrexate ( mtx ) and least frequent in patients taking hydroxychloroquine . the combination of mtx and salicylates greatly increased the frequency of abnormal liver enzyme values . in contrast , the addition of hydroxychloroquine to a regimen of either mtx or aspirin essentially eliminated the sgot and sgpt abnormalities . results from all 5 centers were consistent and remained so after adjustment for age , sex , and disease duration . knowledge of these important drug interactions may permit continuation of mtx therapy in patients in whom the drug might otherwise be discontinued . 
the post-occlusive hyperemic response in patients with systemic sclerosis . we investigated post-ischemic hyperreactive cutaneous blood flow in patients with primary raynaud 's phenomenon and raynaud 's phenomenon secondary to systemic sclerosis ( ssc ) . reactive hyperemia was measured over a locally warmed area of skin , using a laser doppler flowmeter , following 5 minutes of suprasystolic occlusion of blood flow . we found that patients with primary raynaud 's phenomenon had normal post-ischemic blood flow compared with normal controls . in contrast , patients with ssc had reduced levels of baseline and peak blood flow compared with either the primary raynaud 's phenomenon patients or the normal subjects . infusion of carbaprostacyclin , a potent prostacyclin analog vasodilator , did not increase blood flow in the ssc patients , nor did it restore the reactive hyperemic response . these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that patients with the nonvasoconstricted condition of ssc have fixed structural defects that limit cutaneous microvascular blood flow . 
diffusing capacity of the lung and nifedipine in systemic sclerosis . lung involvement in systemic sclerosis may be due in part to a functional abnormality of the pulmonary vasculature . to investigate the possible role of a pulmonary vasospastic process in this disorder , 21 non-smoking patients who had no evidence of cardiac disease or pulmonary hypertension were evaluated with pulmonary function tests prior to administration of nifedipine , 30 minutes after a single oral dose of nifedipine ( 20 mg ) , and after 4 weeks of treatment with nifedipine ( 10 mg 3 times daily ) . treatment with nifedipine did not significantly change any of the pulmonary function values , except for the carbon monoxide diffusing capacity ( dlco ) . the linear trend between the individual dlco values at baseline and their changes immediately following the initial 20-mg dose of nifedipine ( r = -0.603 , p = 0.02 ) and after 4 weeks of treatment ( r = -0.636 , p = 0.01 ) showed that the lower the dlco value at baseline , the greater the improvement caused by nifedipine . these findings support the hypothesis of a potentially reversible pulmonary vasospasm in systemic sclerosis and suggest that nifedipine may be useful in the treatment of lung disease in these patients ; however , further studies are needed . 
igg and iga antibodies to the collagen-like region of c1q in rheumatoid vasculitis . we investigated the presence of igg and iga antibodies to c1q in serum samples from 80 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , 31 patients with rheumatoid vasculitis , and 80 healthy controls . igg and iga antibodies to c1q , as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay , were found in less than 5 % of the sera from ra patients and from healthy controls . in contrast , igg and iga antibodies to c1q were found in 29 % and 61 % , respectively , of the sera from patients with rheumatoid vasculitis . the occurrence of iga antibodies to c1q has not been previously demonstrated . these results also demonstrate that igg antibodies to c1q do not occur exclusively in systemic lupus erythematosus patients : sera of patients with rheumatoid vasculitis frequently contain igg or iga antibodies to c1q , which contribute to immune complex formation . 
evidence for impaired t cell dna methylation in systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis . procainamide and hydralazine inhibit t cell dna methylation and induce autoreactivity in cloned cd4 + t cells . these drugs also induce an autoimmune syndrome , suggesting a possible relationship between dna hypomethylation , t cell autoreactivity , and certain autoimmune diseases . to test this relationship , dna methylation was studied in t cells from patients with rheumatoid arthritis and patients with systemic lupus erythematosus , and was found to be impaired . these results support a relationship between dna hypomethylation and some forms of autoimmune disease . 
association of labial salivary gland histopathology with clinical and serologic features of connective tissue diseases . focal sialadenitis is now widely accepted as an objective criterion for the oral component of sjogren 's syndrome ( xerostomia ) . we investigated the association between labial salivary gland histopathologic changes and the clinical and serologic features of 192 patients with suspected connective tissue disorders . a retrospective review of the medical records of all patients was performed , and historical , physical , laboratory , histologic , and roentgenographic data were abstracted . each patient had undergone labial salivary gland biopsy as part of a rheumatologic evaluation . there were significant associations between positive findings on lip biopsy and the presence of keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( p = 0.013 ) , positive antinuclear antibodies ( titer greater than or equal to 1:80 ) ( p = 2 x 10 ( -8 ) ) , and positive ro antibodies ( p = 1 x 10 ( -8 ) ) . however , sicca symptoms and glandular enlargement were not statistically associated with positive findings on lip biopsy . features predictive of a positive lip biopsy included ro antibodies ( p = 0.914 ) , keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( p = 0.700 ) , and positive antinuclear antibodies ( p = 0.590 ) . 
functional studies of soluble low-affinity interleukin-2 receptors in rheumatoid synovial fluid . since abnormal regulation of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) has been demonstrated in rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , the functional role of low-affinity soluble il-2 receptors ( sil-2r ) purified from ra synovial fluids ( sf ) was studied . picomolar levels of sil-2r were detected in ra sf using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . levels were higher in serum and sf from ra patients than in controls ( p less than 0.001 ) and higher in ra sf than in paired ra serum ( p less than 0.01 ) . soluble il-2r from ra sf had estimated molecular weights of 40-50 kd and 80-100 kd by gel filtration analysis . the 80-100-kd peak is likely to be a dimer of the 40-50-kd peak , since a single 45-kd peak was found after elution from sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels . since inhibitory activity for lymphocyte proliferation was found in the 80-100-kd range , the sil-2r were purified with an anti-cd25 affinity column and further analyzed . the purified fractions did not interfere with the proliferation of mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes or with the binding of radiolabeled il-2 to ctll-2 cells , although direct binding of il-2 was demonstrated . the affinity of sil-2r from ra sf for binding il-2 was in the range of 25 nm , which is similar to the affinity of sil-2r purified from a human t cell clone , indicating that both sil-2r are low-affinity receptors for il-2 . we conclude that the concentration and binding affinity of low-affinity sil-2r purified from ra sf render them unable to interfere with il-2-related activities . 
interleukin-1-induced interleukin-6 is required for the inhibition of proteoglycan synthesis by interleukin-1 in human articular cartilage . cartilage from normal controls , patients with osteoarthritis , and patients with rheumatoid arthritis produced no interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) in culture . however , il-1 induced massive production of il-6 ( up to 135 ng/ml ) in cartilage from all 3 sources , in a dose-dependent manner ( in some cases , a peak value was reached ) . the levels of induced il-6 were similar to those found in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fluid . at il-1 concentrations that induced almost complete inhibition of proteoglycan ( pg ) synthesis , il-6 production could still be increased considerably . exogenous il-6 inhibited pg synthesis by up to 25 % . il-1-induced inhibition of pg synthesis was reversed by antibodies against recombinant human il-6 . these results suggest that il-6 is required for the il-1-induced inhibition of pg synthesis . 
dermal mast cell degranulation in systemic sclerosis . paired biopsy samples from involved and uninvolved skin were obtained from 19 patients with generalized scleroderma ( 11 with early , progressive disease and 8 with late , improving disease ) . skin biopsy samples were double stained for mast cell granules and for mast cell membrane . the number of mast cells was increased in patients with systemic sclerosis ( ssc ) , in both involved and uninvolved skin and in both early and late disease . there was an increase in the number of degranulated mast cells in the involved skin of patients with both early and late disease and in the not-yet-involved skin of patients with early disease ; however , there was no increase in the number of degranulated mast cells in areas of previously involved but now normal skin of patients with late disease . increases in mast cell number and degranulation precede clinically apparent dermal fibrosis in ssc . these observations and the absence of mast cell degranulation in regressing skin suggest a participatory role of the mast cell in the clinical progression of skin changes in ssc . 
spontaneous rheumatoid-like arthritis in a line of mice sensitive to collagen-induced arthritis . twenty-eight percent of 13-month-old male mice of the high antibody responder line of biozzi 's selection i ( hi ) spontaneously developed a long-lasting inflammatory arthritis . this disease was clinically and histologically similar to human rheumatoid arthritis . the synovium of joints and some tendons was hypertrophied , with thickening of the synovial cell layer and infiltration by polymorphonuclear and mononuclear leukocytes . in some cases , synovial pannus formation led to destructive damage of articular cartilage and bone . rheumatoid factor and antinuclear , anti-dna , and anti-type ii collagen ( cii ) antibodies were often found in the sera of both arthritic mice and clinically normal littermates . the presence of cii autoantibodies in this line of mice suggests that a potentially harmful anti-cii t cell autoimmunity can also develop spontaneously and lead to joint damage . moreover , hi mice are also susceptible to collagen-induced arthritis , while a closely related mouse line ( hii ) is resistant to both diseases . these data support the hypothesis that collagen-induced arthritis is pathogenetically related both to this spontaneous arthritis and to rheumatoid arthritis . 
uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase : a splice site mutation causes the deletion of exon 6 in multiple families with porphyria cutanea tarda . uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase ( uro-d ) is a cytosolic heme-biosynthetic enzyme that converts uroporphyrinogen to coproporphyrinogen . defects at the uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase locus cause the human genetic disease familial porphyria cutanea tarda . a splice site mutation has been found in a pedigree with familial porphyria cutanea tarda that causes exon 6 to be deleted from the mrna . the intron/exon junctions on either side of exon 6 fall between codons , so the resulting protein is shorter than the normal protein , missing only the amino acids coded by exon 6 . the shortened protein lacks catalytic activity , is rapidly degraded when exposed to human lymphocyte lysates , and is not detectable by western blot analysis in lymphocyte lysates derived from affected individuals . the mutation was detected in five of 22 unrelated familial porphyria cutanea tarda pedigrees tested , so it appears to be common . this is the first splice site mutation to be found at the uro-d locus , and the first mutation that causes familial porphyria cutanea tarda to be found in more than one pedigree . 
two different point g to a mutations in exon 10 of the porphobilinogen deaminase gene are responsible for acute intermittent porphyria . two mutations of the porphobilinogen ( pbg ) deaminase gene resulting in cross-reacting immunological material ( crim ) positive forms of acute intermittent porphyria ( aip ) have been identified by in vitro amplification of cdna and cloning of the amplified products in a bacterial expression vector . both mutations resulted from g to a transitions in exon 10 of the gene and produced arginine to glutamine substitutions in the abnormal protein . expression of mutant cdna in escherichia coli reveals that one but not the other of these amino acid changes results in a striking decrease of the optimal ph of the mutated enzyme . one or the other of these two mutations accounted for the defect causing aip in six unrelated patients among the eight patients evaluated with the crim positive subtype of this disorder . 
a substitution at a non-glycine position in the triple-helical domain of pro alpha 2 ( i ) collagen chains present in an individual with a variant of the marfan syndrome . a substitution for a highly conserved non-glycine residue in the triple-helical domain of the pro alpha 2 ( i ) collagen molecule was found in an individual with a variant of the marfan syndrome . a single base change resulted in substitution of arginine618 by glutamine at the y position of a gly-x-y repeat , and is responsible for the decreased migration in sds-polyacrylamide gels of some pro alpha 2 ( i ) chains of type i collagen synthesized by dermal fibroblasts from this individual . family studies suggest that this substitution was inherited from the individual 's father who also produces abnormally migrating pro alpha 2 ( i ) collagen chains and shares some of the abnormal skeletal features . this single base change creates a new bsu36 i ( sau i , mst ii ) restriction site detectable in genomic dna by southern blot analysis when probed with a col1a2 fragment . the analysis of 52 control individuals ( 103 chromosomes ) was negative for the new bsu36 i site , suggesting that the substitution is not a common polymorphism . 
the protective effect of the oral contraceptive pill on rheumatoid arthritis : an overview of the analytic epidemiological studies using meta-analysis . the oral contraceptive pill ( ocp ) has been implicated as having a protective effect on the development of rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . the results of 12 studies have now been reported and produced differing results and conclusions . because of the discrepancy in results and the importance of the issue we undertook a review of the studies and performed a meta-analysis . in all , 9 independent studies satisfied the criteria for selection , 6 case-control design and 3 longitudinal . using standard meta-analysis techniques , the overall pooled odds ratio for all the studies was 0.68 for the crude results ( 95 % ci 0.58-0 .78 ) and 0.73 for the adjusted results ( 95 % ci 0.61-0 .85 ) . the graphical odd-man-out method produced a 94 % interval of 0.70-0 .72 . the pooled odds ratio of the case-control studies was lower than for the longitudinal studies . however , subdividing studies by the type of case source produced a pooled odds ratio for studies using hospital-based cases of 0.49 ( 95 % ci 0.39-0 .63 ) which was considerably less than that of studies using population-based cases : 0.95 ( 0.78-1 .16 ) . this difference was unlikely to have explained by bias due to selection of controls . we suggest that ocp use may not have a " protective effect " on the development of ra but may prevent the progression to severe disease by modifying the disease process . 
health status reports in the care of patients with rheumatoid arthritis . we examined the use of formal health status reports every 3 months over 1 year in the clinical care of patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) . the reports consisted of single-page , computer-generated summaries of scores derived from either the aims ( arthritis impact measurement scales ) or the mhaq ( modified health assessment questionnaire ) health status questionnaires . a total of 1920 subjects from 27 community practice sites were randomly assigned to three study groups in each practice : intervention , attention placebo and control . results showed that 55 % of the physicians found the reports to be at least moderately useful as an aid to patient management , primarily for improving the doctor-patient relationship . however , no detectable differences among the three groups were seen in terms of medication compliance , number of physician visits , number of referrals , frequency of major medication changes , attitudes towards the physician , patient satisfaction or change in health status over 1 year . the failure to demonstrate objective benefits of health status reports in this study may be due to physician unfamiliarity with health status scores , failure to link the report with an office visit , the relative stability of clinical status in the subjects over 1 year and the relatively short time-frame of the study . 
is baldness a risk factor for coronary artery disease ? a review of the literature . a literature search identified eight articles containing data on both baldness and coronary artery disease ( cad ) . three of these articles described case-control studies that showed a positive relationship between baldness and cad when controlling for cad risk factors . three other case-control studies showed no such relationship , but these did not control for cad risk factors . the results of two cohort studies were inconclusive . insufficient data were available from these studies to analyze possible relationships between baldness and cad risk factors themselves . overall , the data reviewed suggest that a small risk of cad due to baldness may exist , but this risk is smaller than that of well-known cad risk factors such as smoking and hypertension . future research should emphasize proper control for age and cad risk factors . 
end-stage renal disease -- is infrainguinal limb revascularization justified ? reports of reconstructive surgery for peripheral vascular disease have been relatively uncommon in patients with end-stage renal disease . between 1980 and 1989 , 39 patients with end-stage renal disease underwent revascularization of 56 limbs . fifty-two primary infrainguinal and four secondary infrainguinal bypass grafts were performed . in addition , nine thrombectomies were performed . at the time of surgery 37 patients were on dialysis ; three had functioning kidney transplants . the indications for revascularization were gangrene , rest pain , or ulceration in all except three limbs with disabling claudication . reversed , nonreversed , or in situ vein was used in 25 of the 52 primary infrainguinal revascularizations performed . polytetrafluoroethylene was used in 25 . two procedures used a combination of polytetrafluoroethylene and vein . the primary patencies for all infrainguinal procedures at 1 and 2 years were 77 % and 68 % , respectively . four perioperative deaths occurred in the infrainguinal group ( 7.7 % ) . an additional death occurred after thrombectomy for late graft closure . three deaths were a result of myocardial infarction . one patient on peritoneal dialysis developed uncontrolled sepsis . at 3 years 39 % of patients were alive , and 84 % of the limbs were salvaged . among the cases studied no group was identified that represented unacceptable operative risk . results compared well with reported patencies for patients subjected to infrainguinal revascularization procedures . limb revascularization in patients with end-stage renal disease may be performed by use of similar criteria to those used for other patients with peripheral vascular disease . 
a palmar dermatosis linked to occult carcinoma of the upper thorax , head and neck : bazex 's syndrome and tripe palm . an unusual , persistent , corregated-to-honeycombed thickening of the palms accompanied by tenderness around the fingernails was found to be a cutaneous marker for internal malignancy . this combination of signs and symptoms has been reported under two clinical entities : bazex 's syndrome and tripe palm . this paraneoplastic syndrome is of interest to head and neck surgeons due to the location of the primary tumor , the site of metastatic disease , and the ability to cure the cutaneous disease by surgical removal of the primary tumor . in our patient , a squamous cell carcinoma of the lung not detectable on chest x-ray presented as a cervical mass accompanied by cutaneous changes on the palms and fingernails . recognition of the relationship of the dermatologic changes to malignancy of a specific body region eventually led to the detection of the primary tumor . the characteristics of these paraneoplastic syndromes were reviewed in this report . 
the inferiorly based superior tympanomeatal flap for removal of congenital cholesteatoma . we believe that the ib-stmf is preferable to the p-tmf for removal of a congenital cholesteatoma from the anterior superior portion of the mesotympanum . though developing an ib-stmf may require extra time and special care to avoid tearing the flap , the exposure that is achieved affords the best chance for complete removal of the mass , thus decreasing the chance for persistence or recurrence of the lesion . 
split nails . photographic documentation of successful surgical correction of two major vertical-type and one horizontal-type split nail is presented . the developmental mechanism of the horizontal-type split nail is discussed . treatment of the vertical-type split nail with bipedicled subperiosteal nailbed-matrix flaps is described in detail . 
cystic rheumatoid arthritis : description of a nonerosive form . in a study of patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , 9 % ( n = 70 ) were found to have a cystic form . at radiologic examination of these patients with cystic ra , the first abnormality seen consisted of periarticular intraosseous cysts without erosions . the cysts were distributed symmetrically , most often located at the proximal side of the joints and predominantly around the proximal interphalangeal , metacarpophalangeal , and wrist joints of the hands and the first interphalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints of the feet . computed tomographic scans showed the peripheral intraosseous location of the cysts . magnetic resonance images showed that the cysts may contain fluid , inflamed synovia , or both . cysts can be an important feature in the diagnosis of ra and a supplement to the criteria of the american rheumatism association . osteoporosis , joint-space narrowing , and joint destruction occurred less frequently in patients with cystic ra than in patients with classic ra . of the patients with cystic ra , 54 % were male , and 50 % were seronegative . this study is a supplement to and an enlargement on earlier descriptions of cyst predominance in ra . 
spinal synovial cyst : case report using magnetic resonance imaging . the case of a 65-year-old woman who developed a spinal synovial cyst at the l4-5 disk space is reported . her clinical signs and symptoms are presented . a comparison among her preoperative myelogram , computed tomography scan , and magnetic resonance imaging showed magnetic resonance imaging to be more accurate in detailing both the intraoperative and pathological findings . 
genital and anal conditions confused with child sexual abuse trauma . examination of a child with genital or anal disease may give rise to suspicion of sexual abuse . dermatologic , traumatic , infectious , and congenital disorders may be confused with sexual abuse . seven children referred to us are representative of such confusion . 
large arteries involvement in scleroderma -- a case report . the authors describe a thirty-nine-year-old woman patient presenting with progressive systemic sclerosis and an unusual angiographic picture of an impairment of large arteries , which in their opinion is due to the primary disease . the review literature reports about similar arterial involvement in scleroderma . 
mast cell heterogeneity in chronic idiopathic urticaria . patients with chronic urticaria are more sensitive to codeine skin testing than other allergic individuals . nonlesional skin in most patients with chronic urticaria was found to contain increased numbers of both total and atypical mast cells . the presence of increased mast cell density was found to correlate with the degree of clinical ( dermatographism ) and functional ( codeine skin test ) skin sensitivity . 
muscle involvement in the scleroderma syndromes . muscle involvement was identified in 14 patients with scleroderma or a connective tissue disease overlap syndrome with predominant features of scleroderma . patients presented with symmetrical proximal weakness indistinguishable from other inflammatory myopathies . creatine kinase and electromyography were useful to demonstrate muscle involvement . muscle histopathology demonstrated primarily the vasculopathy of scleroderma or polymyositis in similar numbers of patients . scleroderma vasculopathy and polymyositis generally occur without specificity to diffuse scleroderma , the calcinosis , raynaud 's phenomenon , esophageal dysmotility , sclerodactyly , telangiectasia syndrome , or an overlap syndrome with arthritis . polymyositis also occurs when the vasculopathy of scleroderma involves other organ systems . 
the influence of renal function on diabetic foot ulceration . we examined the effect of renal function on the formation , severity , and outcome of diabetic foot lesions . information was collected from a retrospective hospital chart survey and analyzed by univariate and multivariate linear regression analysis . creatinine clearance , peripheral neuropathy , and peripheral vascular disease were all found to be independently associated with formation of foot lesions , indicating that each of these acts by distinct biologic mechanisms . renal function had no bearing on the severity of lesions or on their eventual healing . we conclude that foot ulcers are more likely to develop in diabetic patients who also suffer from renal impairment , but they are no less likely to heal than are those in patients with normal renal function . we further conclude that attempts to preserve functional limbs in these patients are justified . 
ear involvement in the yellow nail syndrome . recognized features of the yellow nail syndrome include yellow nails , lymphedema , and pleural effusions . we report a patient with the additional feature of keratosis obturans , which may be a manifestation of this syndrome in the external ear . 
11 beta-hydroxyandrostenedione : a marker of adrenal function in hirsutism . to assess the role of the adrenal glands in the development of hirsutism , levels of 11 beta-hydroxyandrostenedione ( 11 beta-oha ) , 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone ( 17-ohp ) , dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate ( dheas ) , androstenedione ( delta 4a ) , and free and total testosterone ( t ) were measured in 63 hirsute females and 30 control patients . six of the hirsute patients had basal levels of 11 beta-oha and 17-ohp and responses to adrenocorticotropic hormone that were significantly greater than these values in controls and the other hirsute women . these women were designated as having an adrenal source for their hirsutism . women with polycystic ovarian syndrome and idiopathic hirsutism had normal values of 11 beta-oha and 17-ohp . levels of total and free t , dheas and delta 4a were significantly higher than control values in all of the hirsute women . this study demonstrates that 11 beta-oha can be used as a marker to assess the adrenal contribution to hirsutism . 
melanosis of the esophagus . an endoscopic , histochemical , and ultrastructural study . endoscopic , histological , and ultrastructural features of 21 cases of esophageal melanosis are described . these cases were detected during 1000 consecutive routine upper gastrointestinal endoscopies . staining characteristics and ultrastructure of the pigment contained in the endoscopically visible lesions were found to be similar to those of true melanin . 
perichondral grafting for cartilage lesions of the knee . twenty-five patients with 30 chondral lesions of the knee were treated with an autogenous strip of costal perichondrium . the graft was fixed to the subchondral bone with tissucol ( immuno , vienna ) , a human fibrin glue . the leg was then immobilised for two weeks followed by two weeks of continuous passive motion . weight-bearing was permitted after three months . the mean knee score ( ranawat , insall and shine 1976 ) changed from 73 before operation to 90 one year after ; in 14 patients evaluated after two years there was no decrease . in 28 cases the defect was completely filled with tissue resembling articular cartilage . we conclude that in most cases perichondral arthroplasty of cartilage defects of the knee gives excellent results . 
marjolin 's ulcer : a review and reevaluation of a difficult problem . the formation of an epidermoid carcinoma in nonhealing scar tissue , a marjolin 's ulcer , is a well described neoplasm . these lesions are , however , frequently overlooked and often inadequately treated . this paper reviews six cases of scar-tissue carcinoma . all lesions were secondary to various kinds of burns . four of the marjolin 's ulcers were well-differentiated squamous cell carcinomas . one was a moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma , and one was a malignant melanoma . the average age at presentation was 59 years , and the mean interval from time of burn injury to appearance of neoplasm was 36.8 years . the lesions varied in anatomic location and involved the upper extremities , lower extremities , and scalp . in addition to the case studies , this paper reviews the literature and provides a logical treatment plan for a patient with a marjolin 's ulcer . because these lesions can be very aggressive , a well thought-out treatment plan is necessary to optimize care and assure patient survival . 
[ 125i ] fibrin deposition occurs at both early and late intervals of ige-dependent or contact sensitivity reactions elicited in mouse skin . mast cell-dependent augmentation of fibrin deposition at early intervals in combined ige-dependent and contact sensitivity reactions . when elicited in the skin of mice , either ige-dependent immediate hypersensitivity reactions or t cell-dependent contact sensitivity ( cs ) reactions result in local extravasation of [ 125i ] fibrinogen and deposition of [ 125i ] fibrin . however , these two types of reaction differ in kinetics and in requirement for ige , mast cells , or t cells . in the present study , we investigated the kinetics and magnitude of [ 125i ] fibrin deposition in combined ige-dependent and cs reactions elicited simultaneously at the same site and compared the results with those obtained when the two reactions were elicited at separate sites . we found that [ 125i ] fibrin deposition in pure ige-dependent reactions was greater at 2 or 6 h after challenge than at 24 h , but that significant fibrin deposition persisted at those sites 24 h after challenge . in cs reactions , [ 125i ] fibrin deposition was detected as early as 2 h after challenge , indicating that fibrin deposition accompanies the " early component " of cs detected by van loveren et al . with the use of measurements of tissue swelling . but much more [ 125i ] fibrin deposition was present in cs reactions at 24 h than at 2 or 6 h after ag challenge . when ige-dependent and cs reactions were elicited at the same site , [ 125i ] fibrin deposition at early intervals ( 2 to 6 h ) after challenge was increased three - to 25-fold compared with that seen in isolated cs reactions , but at 24 h the results in the combined reactions were virtually identical to those in cs responses . studies in genetically mast cell-deficient and congenic normal mice indicated that mast cells were required for expression of the ige-dependent augmentation of [ 125i ] fibrin deposition observed at early intervals in combined ige-dependent and cs reactions , but not for the [ 125i ] fibrin deposition associated with " pure " cs reactions . these findings indicate that the net effect of ige-dependent mast cell activation on cs responses is to increase the fibrin deposition associated with these responses , but this effect is appreciated only at early intervals after elicitation of the reaction . 
igg antibodies from patients with bullous pemphigoid bind to localized epitopes on synthetic peptides encoded by bullous pemphigoid antigen cdna . bullous pemphigoid ( bp ) is an autoimmune blistering disease characterized in part by the presence of tissue-bound and circulating antibodies specific for basement membrane zone proteins , the bp ag . the purpose of the present study was to determine seroreactivity of patients with bp to six nonoverlapping synthetic peptides representing sequences in the carboxyl domain of the recently cloned 230-kda bp ag . sera from 40 patients with bp , 57 normal subjects , and 18 patients with other autoimmune blistering skin diseases were examined in an elisa for binding to six synthetic peptides varying between 17 and 19 amino acids in length . the binding of igg from patients with bp to three synthetic peptides , p1-2 , p1-1 , and p3-1 , was significantly different from that seen in the normal controls ( p less than 0.001 , fisher 's exact test ) . affinity-purified anti-p1-2 antibody from a patient with bp bound in a characteristic linear band to the epidermal side of 1 m nacl split skin and immunoprecipitated the native 230-kda bp ag . serum igg antibodies from a rabbit immunized with a bp fusion protein that contains the sequences for p1-1 and p1-2 , bound on elisa to p1-2 but not to p1-1 . these data suggest that multiple epitopes on the 230-kda bp ag are recognized by circulating autoantibodies in patients with this disease , and that an epitope encoded within the synthetic peptide p1-2 is expressed on the native molecule and may be relevant in the generation of an immune response both in man and in an animal model . 
il-1 regulation of transin/stromelysin transcription in rheumatoid synovial fibroblasts appears to involve two antagonistic transduction pathways , an inhibitory , prostaglandin-dependent pathway mediated by camp , and a stimulatory , protein kinase c-dependent pathway . il-1 , like other agents that have been shown a capacity to induce protein kinase c , is a potent transcriptional activator of the metalloproteinase , stromelysin , in synovial and other fibroblasts . camp has been shown to inhibit stromelysin transcription in fibroblasts of nonsynovial origin , and is regarded as an important second messenger for il-1 . in addition to stimulating metalloproteinase transcription , il-1 also induces pge2 production in synoviocytes . we determined that ril-1 alpha led to the time-dependent accumulation of intracellular camp in serum-starved rheumatoid synovial fibroblasts , and that the effect was blocked by indomethacin . the camp agonists forskolin , 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine , and pge2 suppressed the il-1 induction of stromelysin ; conversely , indomethacin superinduced il-1-elicited stromelysin mrna . these results were recapitulated on the transcriptional level in cells transfected with the rat transin/stromelysin promoter in a reporter ( cat ) construct . 2 ' ,5 ' - dideoxyadenosine , an inhibitor of adenylate cyclase , also augmented the il-1 induction of stromeylsin mrna , as did h-8 , a specific inhibitor of the camp-dependent protein kinase a. staurosporine and h-7 , inhibitors of protein kinase c , blocked the il-1 induction of stromelysin mrna . we conclude that il-1 appears to stimulate at least two transduction pathways in synovial fibroblasts from patients with rheumatoid arthritis , and that these have antagonistic effects on the regulation of stromelysin transcription . 
identification and isolation of a phospholipase a2 activating protein in human rheumatoid arthritis synovial fluid : induction of eicosanoid synthesis and an inflammatory response in joints injected in vivo . eicosanoids are important mediators of the destructive arthropathy observed in rheumatoid arthritis . the rate-limiting step in the eicosanoid synthesis pathway is the availability of free arachidonic acid . the phospholipase enzymes release arachidonic acid from membrane phospholipids and thus play an important role in the regulation of eicosanoid production . we have previously demonstrated enhanced phospholipase a2 and c enzyme activities in cells from patients with rheumatoid arthritis and have also described a phospholipase a2 activating protein ( plap ) in mammalian cell lines . in an attempt to determine the biochemical basis of enhanced phospholipase a2 activity found in patients with inflammatory joint disease , we examined synovial fluid from patients with rheumatoid arthritis for plap . to determine whether plap was specific for rheumatoid disease , we assayed specimens from patients with other arthropathies . histologic examination of rheumatoid joint tissue , with the use of immunohistochemical techniques , demonstrated high concentration of plap in monocytes , macrophages , chondrocytes , vascular smooth muscle , and endothelial cells . human plap could be biochemically isolated from synovial fluid from patients with rheumatoid arthritis and was found to be similar to plap previously isolated from murine and bovine sources . to determine whether plap could directly mediate any aspect of inflammatory disease , purified plap was injected into rabbit knee joints . this resulted in an acute inflammatory arthritis with synovial cell proliferation and synovial fluid leukocytosis . purified plap also induced eicosanoid formation both in vivo and in vitro . with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays , we found more plap in synovial fluid specimens from patients with rheumatoid arthritis compared with samples from patients with other inflammatory arthropathies as well as osteoarthritis , a noninflammatory arthropathy . these data suggest that plap may be responsible , at least in part , for some aspects of the destructive inflammatory arthropathy that is observed in patients with rheumatoid arthritis . 
auro-nasopharyngeal polyp and cholesteatoma . we report the association of an auronasopharyngeal polyp arising in a congenitally abnormal middle ear and eustachian tube . subsequently , ten years after removal of the polyp and insertion of a ventilation tube , there was recurrence of the polyp in association with cholesteatoma of the middle ear . 
chronic sinusitis and the yellow nail syndrome . diagnosing syndromes that include chronic sinusitis can expedite the management of both conditions . yellow nail syndrome is usually described as the combination of yellow nails , lymphoedema and often respiratory manifestations such as chronic sinusitis , bronchiectasis and pleural effusions . the pathology responsible for the syndrome is believed to be lymphatic hypoplasia . diagnosis of yellow nail syndrome is clinical not requiring any specialized tests . in the two cases described , the respiratory tract manifestations required the most active investigation and management . the significance of this syndrome to the otolaryngologist is discussed . 
human papillomavirus infections of the genital tract . infection of the genital tract by hpv is a sexually transmitted disease of increasing prevalence . the association of hpv infection with genital tract malignancies is of great concern , and further studies are needed to clarify this association . few investigators believe at this time that proof of a direct causative role exists for hpv in these cancers , but indirect evidence of such a role is abundant . there are many clinical forms of hpv infection of the genital tract , and few clinicians can easily recognize them all . treatment of condyloma acuminatum is difficult and frustrating . cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen is the safest and most effective therapy for most forms of condyloma acuminatum . recurrence of condyloma acuminatum is common with all presently used forms of therapy , probably owing to latent hpv infection in normal-appearing skin . no form of treatment is ideal for all forms of condyloma acuminatum , but without continued efforts to find better therapeutic modalities and preventative measures , the epidemic of genital hpv infection will continue unchecked . 
the " nuisance " sexually transmitted diseases : molluscum contagiosum , scabies , and crab lice . although molluscum contagiosum , scabies , and infestation by crab lice do not carry the requirements of partner notification or other long-term consequences , they are among the most commonly reported sexually transmitted disease . molluscum contagiosum is a benign viral infection of the skin epidermal layer , most often transmitted by intimate skin-to-skin contact . the lesions often resolve spontaneously over time , but patient discomfort or social reasons may require destructive removal of the lesions . scabies is caused by the sarcoptes scabiei mite . the victims continually itch , especially at night , and often seek over-the-counter topical remedies before seeing a clinician . once a correct diagnosis is made , successful resolution of this disease and its itching can be achieved . head and pubic lice account for most of the more than three million cases of louse infestation treated in the united states each year . symptoms of infestation generally include itching that leads to scratching , erythema , irritation , and inflammation . a careful diagnosis followed by disinfection , symptomatic treatment , and psychologic support should result in a complete cure with no long-term effects . 
common nonvenereal genital lesions . there are a wide variety of local and systemic skin diseases that produce lesions in the genitoanal region . these lesions may resemble those produced by sexually transmitted microorganisms . the purpose of this article is to make physicians aware of the common skin diseases that produce lesions on the genitalia to avoid the inappropriate diagnosis of a sexually transmitted disease . 
paraneoplastic pemphigus . an autoimmune mucocutaneous disease associated with neoplasia . background and methods . we describe five patients with underlying neoplasms in whom painful mucosal ulcerations and polymorphous skin lesions developed , usually with progression to blistering eruptions on the trunk and extremities . histologic examination showed vacuolization of epidermal basal cells , keratinocyte necrosis , and acantholysis . immunofluorescence testing revealed atypical pemphigus-like autoantibodies in perilesional epithelium and serum from all five patients . we studied the antigenic specificities of the autoantibodies by indirect immunofluorescence and immunoprecipitation , using extracts of 14c-labeled human keratinocytes . igg purified from the serum of one patient was passively transferred to four neonatal mice to test for pathogenicity . results . immunofluorescence testing showed that the autoantibodies bound to the surface of tissues containing desmosomes , including complex and simple epithelia , and myocardium . an identical and unique complex of four polypeptides with molecular weights of 250 , 230 , 210 , and 190 was immunoprecipitated by all serum samples . the 250-kd polypeptide comigrated with desmoplakin i ( a protein found in the desmosomes of all epithelia ) , and the 230-kd antigen comigrated with the antigen of bullous pemphigoid . cutaneous blisters , a positive nikolsky 's sign , and epidermal and esophageal acantholysis developed in all mice into which the autoantibody was injected . electron microscopy showed epidermal acantholysis similar to lesions of experimentally induced pemphigus vulgaris . conclusion . these five patients with cancer had a novel acantholytic mucocutaneous disease characterized by autoantibodies that were pathogenic after passive transfer . the autoantibodies from these patients reacted with an antigen complex composed of desmoplakin i and the 230-kd antigen of bullous pemphigoid and two as yet unidentified epithelial antigens . we suggest the term " paraneoplastic pemphigus " for this disease . 
cimetidine suppresses chemically induced experimental hepatic porphyria . the ability of cimetidine to reduce the activity of hepatic aminolevulinic acid synthase ( ala-s ) was examined in allylisopropyl acetamide ( aia ) treated porphyric adult rats . a dose of 20 mg cimetidine/100 gm body weight resulted in a 50 % decrease in the aia-induced hepatic ala-s activity compared to rats treated with aia alone . heme oxygenase activity was decreased 25 % compared to rats treated with aia alone . the effects of aia and cimetidine on cytochrome p-450 were not additive , suggesting competition for a common site of interaction . the results suggest that cimetidine may prove to be useful in treating porphyria in humans . 
anisocoria in the pigmentary dispersion syndrome we studied four patients with anisocoria and the pigmentary dispersion syndrome . in all patients , the larger pupil was on the side of the greater iris transillumination . the amount of anisocoria was between 0.5 and 1.5 mm and was the same in both the light and dark . there was no blepharoptosis , and all pupils dilated normally with cocaine . all of the patients were young men with myopia , and one patient had increased intraocular pressure . 
treatment of chronic liver disease caused by 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase deficiency with chenodeoxycholic acid . deficiency of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase , the second enzyme in the sequence that catalyses the synthesis of bile acids from cholesterol , leads to chronic liver disease in childhood as well as to malabsorption of fat and fat soluble vitamins . a 4 year old boy with this condition has been successfully treated by oral administration of a bile acid -- chenodeoxycholic acid . he had been jaundiced since birth , grew poorly because of rickets , and had severe pruritus . plasma transaminase activities were persistently raised . chenodeoxycholic acid 125 mg twice daily for two months , and then 125 mg daily , cured his jaundice and pruritus , returned his transaminase activities to normal , and eliminated the need for calcitriol for prevention of rickets . on this treatment he has so far remained well for two years . a diagnosis of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase deficiency should be considered in any child with unexplained chronic hepatitis or cirrhosis , especially if the liver disease is accompanied by a clinically obvious malabsorption of fat soluble vitamins . a simple colorimetric test of the urine confirms the diagnosis and effective treatment can be started . 
non-invasive monitoring of finger arterial pressure in patients with raynaud 's phenomenon : effects of exposure to cold . we studied the effects of exposure to cold on finger arterial pressure ( fap ) measured by a finger arterial pressure monitor in 15 patients with raynaud 's phenomenon and in 15 healthy volunteers . the cold exposure induced vasoconstriction of the peripheral vascular bed as judged by the plethysmograph of a pulse oximeter and had marked effects on fap values compared with upper arm arterial pressure . immediately after the cold exposure , fap decreased significantly ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) in both groups . however , during the subsequent 20 min , fap values increased in relation to upper arm pressure . finally , fap values were greater than upper arm pressure in the control individuals , but not in patients with raynaud 's phenomenon . these results have implications for non-invasive monitoring of arterial pressure by the finger pressure device . clinically , significant problems may arise in the monitoring of fap in patients with a systemic connective tissue disease affecting peripheral circulation . 
immunobiological studies on the alopecic ( debr ) rat . the dundee experimental bald rat ( debr ) has been proposed as an animal model of human alopecia areata , which is suspected of being an autoimmune disease . this study was carried out to establish whether the immunological changes observed in the lesional debr rat correlated with studies of human alopecia areata . the immune infiltrate was characterized using immunoperoxidase techniques on cryostat sections of vibrissa follicles . indirect immunofluorescence was used to quantify the peripheral blood leucocytes . some parallels were observed in the infiltration of human and debr rat follicles by t lymphocytes . in contrast , pre-lesional debr rat follicles , which are not available for investigation in human alopecia areata , were not penetrated by leucocytes and mhc class ii antigens were expressed in the precortical region of the epidermal component of these follicles . quantification of peripheral blood leucocytes showed significant increases in both t-lymphocyte subsets during lesional expression . we consider that the pre-lesional form of the rat may provide important information as a model for the pre-lesional and uninvestigated form of alopecia areata in man . 
the presence of autoantibody to recombinant lipocortin-i in patients with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis . corticosteroids may mediate some of their anti-inflammatory effects via induction of a specific 38 kda protein , lipocortin-i . anti-lipocortin-i antibodies ( ala ) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) in 23 patients with plaque-type psoriasis alone ( nap ) , in 21 patients with psoriasis and arthritis ( pa ) , and in 67 healthy controls . only two of 23 nap patients had elevated ala , whereas six of 21 pa patients had raised levels of ala ( p = 0.2 ) . sero-negative polyarthritis was the most common pattern of joint disease in those pa patients with elevated ala ( 4/6 ) . ala levels did not correlate with the extent or severity of cutaneous involvement , and are unlikely to be involved in the pathogenesis of cutaneous psoriasis . 
induction of ornithine decarboxylase following sellotape stripping in normal and psoriatic skin . ornithine decarboxylase ( odc ) was measured in the epidermis of healthy volunteers and the uninvolved skin of psoriatic patients at various times after sellotape stripping . basal levels were less than 1 pmol/min/mg protein . activity peaked to a maximum of 86 pmol/min/mg protein after 8 h ; this was followed by an abrupt decline to a lower level which remained relatively constant for at least 36 h. no difference was seen between the response of controls and psoriatic patients . pretreatment with topical corticosteroids reduced peak odc levels to about one-half , but oral indomethacin had no effect . 
the significance of leu 8 negative t cells in lymphoid skin infiltrates : malignant transformation , selective homing or t-cell activation ? the expression of leu 8 was studied on skin biopsies from a large group of patients with benign and malignant skin disorders and correlated with the expression of t-cell differentiation antigens and activation markers . the effect of in vitro stimulation of peripheral blood t cells and t-cell subsets on the expression of leu 8 antigen was also determined . in all the skin diseases studied an inverse relationship was found between the proportions of cells expressing leu 8 and hla-dr . a deficiency of leu 8 positive cells was not specific for mycosis fungoides , but was also found in several reactive dermatoses . stimulation of peripheral blood cells with phytohaemagglutinin ( pha ) , concanavalin a ( con a ) , and anti-cd3-pma resulted in a considerable decrease of leu 8 antigen expression on day 3 in both cd4 + and cd8 + t cells . these data suggest that the low proportion of leu 8 + t cells in mycosis fungoides and several reactive skin disorders is not related to malignant transformation or selective homing of leu 8 - t cells , but probably results from local t-cell activation . 
immediate contact reactions to chemicals in the fragrance mix and a study of the quenching action of eugenol . in this study , the nature of non-immune immediate contact reactions ( niicr ) produced by cinnamic aldehyde , benzoic acid and sorbic acid were investigated , with particular interest in the ' quenching ' ability of eugenol . three groups of human subjects were studied , and the guinea-pig ear was also used as a model of niicr . cinnamic aldehyde , benzoic acid and sorbic acid were all able to produce niicr in the majority of subjects studied . there was a strong correlation between the susceptibility of each subject to each urticant , but no correlation between the susceptibility to niicr and age , atopic status or tanning ability . eugenol caused a reduction in niicr induced by all three urticants . this ' quenching ' effect was apparent even when the eugenol was applied up to 60 min prior to application of cinnamic aldehyde , and its effect was not eliminated by washing . in the guinea-pig-ear model , ear thickening was induced by all three urticants , and this response was inhibited by eugenol . 
conjunctival involvement in pemphigus vulgaris : a clinical , histopathological and immunofluorescence study . eleven patients with pemphigus vulgaris and with eye complaints had histopathological and direct immunofluorescence ( dif ) studies on biopsies of their conjunctivae . in eight of the patients the ocular symptoms preceded the other manifestations of pemphigus . none of the 11 patients had any detectable conjunctival blisters or erosions . the conjunctivitis in three of the patients proved on histopathology and dif to be a manifestation of pemphigus vulgaris . in the remaining patients , conjunctival hyperaemia with or without a mucoid discharge was observed , but there were no specific histopathological features , although one of them had a positive dif . 
effect of long-term puva treatment of psoriasis on the collagen and elastin gene expression and growth of skin fibroblasts in vitro . the proliferation rate , collagen metabolism and collagen and elastin messenger-rna levels were studied in fibroblasts derived from patients who had received many courses of either systemic 8-methoxypsoralen or topical trioxsalen puva treatment . the proliferation rate of fibroblasts as measured by the incorporation of 3h-thymidine or by cellular division was decreased in those obtained from patients who had puva treatment as compared with controls . collagen synthesis was slightly increased in the cells from puva-treated patients , but the relative collagen synthesis and the ratio between types i and iii collagen were unchanged . the levels of collagen and elastin mrnas were increased in fibroblasts derived from the puva-treated patients . no significant differences in histology or immunochemistry could be found in the biopsies taken from topical and systemic puva-treated patients . 
cyclosporin a in combination with photochemotherapy ( puva ) in the treatment of psoriasis . forty patients with relapsing plaque psoriasis involving more than 20 % body surface were treated either with cyclosporin a ( cya ) plus puva or the retinoid etretinate plus puva ( repuva ) . they initially received either cya ( 2 weeks ) or etretinate ( 1 week ) alone and then puva was given concomitantly until complete remission . the patients were monitored over a period of 6 months and any relapse recorded . with each combined treatment regimen , cya plus puva and repuva , the patients cleared within comparable periods of time ( mean treatment period of 5.3 vs. 4.7 weeks after initiation of therapy and 3.3 vs. 3.7 weeks after initiation of puva ) . however , the cumulative uva dose required for clearance ( 110.9 j/cm2 vs. 62.1 j/cm2 ( p less than 0.05 ) ) and the incidence of severe and early relapses were significantly higher in the cya cohort . within 6 months severe relapses had occurred in 58 % of cya plus puva but only in 15 % of repuva-treated patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . this suggests that the cya plus puva regimen as performed in this study is less effective than repuva . 
pachyonychia congenita complicated by hidradenitis suppurativa : a family study . a family is described in which five of the six members with the jackson-lawler type of pachyonychia congenita also had varying degrees of hidradenitis suppurativa . we suggest an association between this type of pachyonychia congenita and hidradenitis suppurativa . 
development of renal scars in children : missed opportunities in management . south bedfordshire practitioners ' group . objective -- to assess the antecedent medical care of children with renal scars . design -- retrospective study of both general practice and hospital records . setting -- 12 group practices in south bedfordshire and the radiology and paediatric outpatient departments of a district general hospital . subjects -- 23 children with renal scars ( six boys , 17 girls ) from the 12 group practices , identified from outpatient , radiology , and general practice records . main outcome measures -- number of children in whom a diagnosis of urinary tract infection had been made without prior examination of a mid-stream specimen of urine ; number of children who had had a confirmed urinary tract infection that had not been investigated further ; number who had experienced delays in investigation or referral ; and number who had received inadequate follow up . results -- in all , 11 of the children had received suboptimal medical care , but the management of the other 12 could not have been better . the most common error was failure to investigate possible urinary tract infections , but follow up of confirmed infections was also inadequate . these problems occurred in hospital as well as in general practice . conclusion -- opportunities for intervention had been missed in nearly half of this sample of children with renal scars . 
estrogen receptor localization in normal and neoplastic epithelium of the uterine cervix . to investigate the estrogen receptor ( er ) status of cells during carcinogenesis of the uterine cervix , the immunohistochemical reactivity for a monoclonal anti-er antibody ( h 222 ) was studied in 26 normal cervical specimens , 21 cases of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) , and 21 cases of invasive cervical carcinoma . in addition , the presence of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) dna ( types 6/11 , 16/18 , or 31/33/35 ) was analyzed by in situ hybridization . in the normal cervix , basal cells of the squamous epithelium , metaplastic cells , and endocervical glandular cells were er positive . in contrast , neoplastic cells of cin ( 17 of 21 cases ) and invasive carcinoma ( 19 of 21 cases ) were er negative . the remaining four cases of cin and two cases of invasive carcinoma were focally er positive . the hpv dna analysis revealed that hpv dna in er-negative cases was either types 16/18 or undetectable , but all er-positive neoplasms contained hpv dna types 31/33/35 . these results suggest that most neoplastic cells in cin and invasive cervical carcinoma lose their er expression and that this may be related to the hpv dna types which they possess . 
increased plasma histamine levels in uraemic pruritus . 1 . we determined plasma levels of histamine in uraemic patients and examined their correlation with the presence of pruritus . 2 . in 27 patients with chronic renal failure , plasma histamine levels were analysed by radioimmunoassay and were compared with those of 40 healthy adult subjects . the control population showed plasma histamine concentrations of 185 + / - 33 pg/ml , which were significantly lower than those of the patients with renal insufficiency . the highest levels ( 552 + / - 116 pg of histamine/ml ) were found in 16 patients with chronic renal failure ( mean serum creatinine 5.1 + / - 1.0 mg/dl ) and severe itching . 3 . twelve patients with pronounced pruritus who were on maintenance haemodialysis ( serum creatinine 9.2 + / - 1.2 mg/dl ) had a mean plasma histamine concentration of 515 + / - 81 pg/ml . fifteen patients on regular haemodialysis ( serum creatinine 9.0 + / - 1.5 mg/dl ) and who experienced itching had plasma histamine levels ( 322 + / - 40 pg/ml ) which were significantly lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than those of the patients with pruritus but which were elevated compared with those of the control population ( p less than 0.01 ) . 4 . no correlation could be found between increased plasma histamine levels and the type of dialysis membrane used or the method of sterilization of the membrane . 5 . haemodialysis alone did not reduce plasma histamine concentrations , although high concentrations could be detected in the ultrafiltrate . in six patients a rapid decrease in plasma histamine concentration from 565 + / - 134 pg/ml to within the normal range could be detected after 60 min of combined haemodialysis and haemoperfusion . 
igg subclasses in the serum and skin in subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus and neonatal lupus erythematosus . igg subclasses differ in their biologic and chemical properties , such as complement fixation , protein and cellular binding , and placental transfer . in this study , igg subclasses of anti-ro/ssa antibodies in subacute cutaneous lupus ( scle ) and neonatal lupus ( nle ) are examined in the serum and in the skin . igg subclasses in nle beginning in utero ( nle-heart disease ) are compared to subclasses in nle beginning after birth ( nle-skin disease ) . human skin was grafted onto athymic mice , mice were injected with one of eight anti-ro/ssa maternal nle sera ( four heart block , four skin disease ) or seven anti-ro/ssa scle sera , and grafts were examined for igg subclasses using monoclonal anti-human igg subclass reagents in an immunofluorescent technique . lesional skin was examined from four scle patients . igg1 was the only igg subclass detected in the grafts and skin lesions . igg1 was the predominant anti-ro/ssa igg subclass detected in scle and nle sera in an elisa using a synthetic ro/ssa polypeptide . these studies show that the maternal anti-ro/ssa autoantibodies in nle-heart disease sera are predominantly igg1 and are therefore likely to be present in the fetus at the time of gestation , when heart block usually develops . second , differences in the clinical presentations of nle ( in utero vs. postnatal disease ) can not be attributed to differences in anti-ro/ssa igg subclasses . finally , the subclass bound in the skin in scle is igg1 , a subclass capable of mediating tissue injury via complement or cellular effectors . 
quantitative estimation of hair growth . i. androgenetic alopecia in women : effect of minoxidil . quantitative growth of hair over a 40-week period is reported for eight women with androgenetic alopecia . using a random , double-blind protocol , the women were given either a 2 % minoxidil solution or a placebo of vehicle only . hair in a permanently marked site on the fronto-parietal scalp was pulled through a 1-cm-square clear plastic template , and the outline of the template was drawn on the scalp . the hair was carefully hand clipped and collected at five eight-week intervals ( one untreated and four treated ) , using great care to collect only hairs within the marked area . subsequent measurements included the total weight of hair grown in the marked area , the total number of hairs , and , on a randomized 50-hair subsample , the weight , lengths , and optical diameters . calculated quantities included average weight per hair , average length , and average optical width . the average total hair weight of minoxidil-treated subjects increased over the 32-week test period by 42.5 % , compared to 1.9 % for the placebo-treated subjects ( average p = 0.018 ) . changes for the average number count were 29.9 % and -2.6 % , respectively ( average p = 0.022 ) . these increases , observed using an unusually small number of subjects , clearly distinguished the treated subjects from the untreated . during the same test period , the averaged quantities of weight , diameter , and length from the 50-hair subsample showed insignificant change ( p usually greater than 0.5 ) . in addition to showing a larger percentage increase than did the total number , the total weight is not only easier to obtain , but less prone to error during sampling and measurement . therefore , we recommend that total weight from a defined area be considered as the primary quantitative estimator for hair growth . 
extracellular collagenase , proteoglycanase and products of their activity , released in organ culture by intact dermal inflammatory lesions produced by sulfur mustard . peak ( 1 and 2 d ) and healing ( 3 , 6 , and 10 d ) inflammatory lesions were produced in rabbits by the topical application of the military vesicant , bis ( 2-chloroethyl ) sulfide , commonly called sulfur mustard ( sm ) . sm produces an acute sterile dermal inflammatory reaction with little or no necrosis , except in the epidermis , which dies during the first day . after an animal was killed , its lesions were excised intact , as full-thickness 1.0-cm2 explants . they were then organ-cultured for 3 d in order to maintain the viability of both local and infiltrating cells . the extracellular fluid in each lesion equilibrated with the culture fluid , which was collected daily and analyzed for collagenase and proteoglycanase activities . these metalloproteinase activities were measured after we had i ) destroyed the alpha-macroglobulin inhibitors with kscn , ii ) destroyed the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases ( timp ) by reduction and alkylation , and iii ) activated the latent proteinase activity with aminophenylmercuric acetate ( apma ) . hydroxyproline-containing peptides and glycosaminoglycans ( gag ) released into the culture fluids were also measured as indicators of local collagenase and proteoglycanase activity within the inflammatory lesions . in general , the levels of both the metalloproteinases and the products of their activity were higher in second - and third-day culture fluids than in first-day culture fluids , and higher in fluids from sm lesions than in those from normal skin . the activated fibroblast was apparently the major cell type producing the collagenase and proteoglycanase . the hydrolysis of collagen and ground substance occurs pericellularly . an excess of inhibitors exists outside the pericellular region . the daily change in culture fluids apparently decreased such inhibitors , so that by the second and third day of culture we could detect the changes in pericellular enzyme activity that were not detectable on the first day of culture . as the inflammatory lesions healed , the extracellular enzyme products ( hydroxyproline and gag ) increased more than the enzymes that produced these products . with healing , a decrease occurs in the extravasation of all serum components , especially the large ones such as the alpha-macroglobulin inhibitors . we propose that during healing , the decrease in these inhibitors allows the metalloproteinases to begin the remodeling process , and that during the peak phase of inflammation , these same inhibitors protect extracellular matrix against hydrolysis by such proteinases . 
diagnosis and management of infantile marfan syndrome . marfan syndrome is infrequently diagnosed early in infancy . the experience of the authors with 22 severely affected infants diagnosed as having marfan syndrome in the first 3 months of life is described and the literature on 32 additional infants with marfan syndrome is reviewed . it was found that serious cardiac pathology ( 82 % of the patients described in the article , 94 % of those described in the literature ) may be present at birth , and that congenital contractures ( 64 % of our cases , 47 % of literature cases ) are often an associated finding . other useful clinical findings included arachnodactyly , dolichocephaly , a characteristic facies , a high-arched palate , micrognathia , hyperextensible joints , pes planus , anterior chest deformity , iridodenesis , megalocornea , and dislocated lenses . echocardiography was useful as a noninvasive method for defining the extent of cardiovascular involvement and following its course . characteristic cardiac findings in early life included mitral valve prolapse , valvular regurgitation , and aortic root dilation . cardiac function ranged from normal to poor , with a tendency to worsen . of the 22 cases 3 infants died during the first year of life . morbidity and mortality may be high when marfan syndrome is diagnosed during infancy , and prompt recognition of this phenotype can facilitate management and counseling . most such severe cases appear to be due to a sporadic mutation in a single germ cell of one parent . many familial cases may have milder manifestations , be more difficult to detect during infancy , and have a better prognosis . 
arthropathy of down syndrome . a juvenile rheumatoid arthritis-like arthropathy has previously been documented in 12 patients with down syndrome . an additional 9 patients are described and the literature is reviewed . it is unknown whether these patients have juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or a unique arthropathy in light of the genetic and immunologic abnormalities associated with down syndrome . most of the patients had a progressive course with polyarticular disease complicated by subluxations and a long lag time to diagnosis . the purpose of reporting these children is to increase awareness of this association and facilitate more appropriate and timely diagnosis of arthritis in down syndrome patients . 
interleukin-2 immunotherapy in children . immunotherapy with interleukin ( il ) -2 possesses great potential in the treatment of immune-mediated diseases and cancers . however , only a few reports on a small number of children have appeared in the literature . from march 1988 to march 1989 , 11 children and adolescents were treated with il-2 . they included 1 patient with hepatocellular carcinoma , 1 with hepatoblastoma , 6 with childhood atopic dermatitis , and 3 with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . the dosages ranged from 10,000 to 50,000 u/kg every 8 hours by intravenous drip . the following side effects were observed : anorexia , fever , and chillness ( 100 % ) , general malaise ( 82 % ) , irritability ( 64 % ) , diarrhea ( 100 % ) , nausea and vomiting ( 73 % ) , weight gain ( 82 % ) , edema ( 82 % ) , abdominal distension ( 73 % ) , oliguria ( 82 % ) , cough ( 91 % ) , dyspnea ( 27 % ) , pleural effusion ( 40 % ) , hypotension ( 82 % ) , skin eruption ( 82 % ) , oral ulcer ( 18 % ) , enlarged liver ( 73 % ) liver function abnormalities ( 82 % ) , renal function impairment ( 36 % ) , electrolyte imbalance ( 73 % ) , anemia ( 91 % ) , thrombocytopenia ( 54 % ) , leukopenia ( 18 % ) , and eosinophilia ( 73 % ) . immunologically , numbers of natural killer cells were increased and natural killer and lymphokine-activated killer cell activities were augmented after il-2 treatment . there was a tendency for serum levels of il-2 and receptor il-2 to decrease , especially in patients with atopic eczema . ten patients ( 91 % ) completed one course ( 9 to 12 days ) of therapy , and the remaining patient interrupted the treatment because of intolerable adverse effects . clinically , complete remission for 3 months was obtained in 1 juvenile rheumatoid arthritis patient , transient improvement ( 2 to 6 weeks ) in all atopic dermatitis patients , minor response in the hepatoblastoma patient , and no response in the patient with hepatocellular carcinoma . 
response to diet and cholestyramine in a patient with sitosterolemia . in this report , an 11-year-old boy with diffuse tendinous and tuberous xanthomatosis and a plasma sterol concentration of 555 mg/dl , consisting primarily of cholesterol , is described . three months after changing from an unrestricted diet to a cholesterol-lowering diet , his plasma sterol concentration decreased to 221 mg/dl . because of the degree and rapidity of his response to diet , sitosterolemia was suspected . according to results of capillary gas-liquid chromatography of his plasma sterols , there was a sitosterol concentration of 31.3 mg/dl ( normal less than 1.0 mg/dl ) , establishing the diagnosis of sitosterolemia . addition of cholestyramine therapy ( 8 g/d ) to a low sterol diet further lowered his plasma sterol concentration to 173 mg/dl and led to complete regression of all tuberous xanthomata . tendinous xanthomata regressed at a slower rate . these findings show that the diagnosis of sitosterolemia should be suspected in severely hypercholesterolemic children ( total cholesterol greater than 400 mg/dl ) whose plasma cholesterol level is highly responsive to dietary manipulation . the rapid and sustained lowering of plasma cholesterol and regression of xanthomata after treatment with diet and cholestyramine suggest that sitosterolemia is a treatable cause of premature atherosclerosis . 
ulcerative lesions and herpes simplex virus type 2 in a patient with evan 's syndrome . we have described a case of herpes genitalis in a patient with evans 's syndrome who had violaceous macules leading to deep ulcerations . this case serves as a reminder that hsv infection may be atypical and have an unusual course in immunocompromised patients . with the availability of specific therapy for this infection , it is important to consider hsv in the differential diagnosis of all ulcerative skin lesions . 
glucagonoma syndrome is an underdiagnosed clinical entity . glucagonomas , considered among the rarest of the islet cell neoplasms , produce a well-defined clinical syndrome characterized by necrolytic migratory erythema , diabetes mellitus , glossitis , anemia , and weight loss . this report describes seven patients with glucagonoma treated at our institution . all seven had the characteristic dermatologic manifestations , present from 1 to 6 years prior to diagnosis . five patients had extensive disease at the time of initial operation , three of whom underwent aggressive cytoreductive surgery , whereas the other two had biopsy only . the remaining two patients presented with a single nodule each , underwent distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy , and remain free of disease 2 and 6 years postoperatively . earlier recognition of the distinctive physical findings peculiar to this syndrome should increase survival . aggressive cytoreductive surgery results in prolonged remission . 
hepatic cyst associated with peutz-jeghers syndrome . a solitary hepatic cyst , associated with peutz-jeghers syndrome , is described . to our knowledge , this association has not been previously reported . a developmental anomaly or hamartomatous nature of this lesion is suggested . knowledge of this association may be helpful in the clinical diagnosis of this benign entity . 
vastus lateralis myocutaneous flap for reconstruction of defects around the groin and pelvis . we present our experience using the vastus lateralis myocutaneous flap for the repair of defects around the groin and pelvis . it is a relatively new technique , with many advantages over other flaps used in this area , though it has limitations . the history , anatomy and surgical technique of raising the flap are described and clinical cases are discussed . the importance of patient selection is highlighted . 
total hip arthroplasty with cement . a long-term radiographic analysis in patients who are older than fifty and younger than fifty years . the long-term performance of a total of 712 charnley and sth prostheses was evaluated as a function of the patient 's age ( older than fifty years or younger than fifty years ) and of the underlying disease ( osteoarthrosis , rheumatoid arthritis , or avascular necrosis ) . in patients who were older than fifty years , there were lower incidences of continuous cement-bone radiolucency about the acetabular component ( p = 0.04 ) , wear of the polyethylene acetabular cup ( p = 0.03 ) , and resorption of the calcar ( p = 0.03 ) . however , larger percentages of younger patients had rheumatoid arthritis or avascular necrosis . in the cohort of patients who had osteoarthrosis , the performance of the prosthesis did not differ significantly between older and younger patients ; therefore we attributed the differences that were observed to the disease -- that is , to rheumatoid arthritis or avascular necrosis . 
anti- ( u1 ) small nuclear rna antibodies in anti-small nuclear ribonucleoprotein sera from patients with connective tissue diseases . small nuclear ribonucleoprotein ( snrnp ) particles are a class of rna-containing particles in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells . sera from patients with connective tissue diseases often contain antibodies against the proteins present in these snrnps . antibodies against the rna components of snrnps , the u snrnas , are thought to be rare . we tested 118 anti-snrnp sera for the presence of anti-snrna antibodies and found them in 45 sera ( 38 % ) . in all sera the antibodies ( igg and f ( ab ) 2 fragments thereof ) were exclusively directed against u1 snrna . the anti- ( u1 ) rna antibodies were always accompanied by anti- ( u1 ) rnp antibodies but were not found in sera which contain antibodies of the sm serotype directed against all nucleoplasmic u snrnp particles . like anti-rnp antibodies , anti-u1 rna activity is confined to sera from patients with sle or sle overlap syndromes and is rarely found in patients with other connective tissue diseases . by analyzing binding to subfragments of u1 snrna made in vitro , it was demonstrated that anti- ( u1 ) rna antibodies recognize epitopes distributed throughout the u1 rna molecule . in most sera , however , either the second or the fourth hairpin loop is the main target of the antibody . the possible mechanisms that could lead to the production of this new type of autoantibody are discussed . 
a controlled trial of clobetasol propionate ointment 0.05 % in the treatment of experimentally induced rhus dermatitis . we studied the effectiveness of clobetasol propionate ointment 0.05 % in experimentally induced rhus dermatitis . clobetasol rapidly decreased the vesiculation at each treated site , although the effect was most prominent at the site to which clobetasol was applied the earliest , that is , at 12 hours after exposure to rhus extract . on the basis of this experimental model , clobetasol propionate ointment 0.05 % may be effective therapy for naturally occurring rhus dermatitis . 
clinical association of autoantibodies to fibrillarin with diffuse scleroderma and disseminated telangiectasia . circulating autoantibodies against a variety of nuclear and nucleolar antigens are characteristic serologic findings in systemic scleroderma . some of these antibodies correlate with clinical subsets of the disease . we describe three patients with systemic scleroderma and high autoantibody titers against u3 ribonucleoprotein-associated fibrillarin , a recently identified 34 kd nucleolar protein . these patients showed a progressive course with multiple organ and diffuse skin involvement with disseminated telangiectasia . 
papular-purpuric " gloves and socks " syndrome . we report five cases of an acute , self-limiting dermatosis that has not been previously described . it consists of a pruritic edema and erythema of the hands and feet in a gloves-and-socks distribution and is associated with oral lesions and fever . the clinical course is characterized by the rapid development of petechial purpura and clearing of lesions within 1 to 2 weeks . the disease appears to affect only young and otherwise healthy persons and occurs mostly during the spring . the etiology is unknown but might be of infectious origin . 
multiple keratoacanthomas treated with oral retinoids . multiple eruptive keratoacanthoma of witten and zak is a rare disorder characterized by numerous small , eruptive tumors and larger , more typical keratoacanthomas . affected patients have features of grzybowski-type keratoacanthomas and ferguson smith type . two patients with multiple keratoacanthomas were treated with oral retinoids . both patients had hundreds of follicular papules on the trunk and extremities . less common lesions included nodules with central horn-filled craters more characteristic of classic keratoacanthomas . retinoid therapy resulted in regression of the larger , more typical keratoacanthomas in both patients . the small follicular keratoacanthomas remained unaffected . thus oral retinoids are only partially beneficial for the treatment of the grzybowski type or the witten and zak type of multiple eruptive keratoacanthomas . 
molecular identification of major and minor bullous pemphigoid antigens . the skin antigens defined by basement membrane zone antibodies in 38 patients with bullous pemphigoid were analyzed by western immunoblot . thirty-four patients ( 89 % ) had antibodies to a major bullous pemphigoid antigen with a molecular weight of approximately 230 kd . twelve patients ( 32 % ) had antibodies to a minor bullous pemphigoid antigen with a molecular weight of approximately 160 kd ; this included four patients who did not have antibodies to the 230 kd antigen . depending on the epidermal extract used , a variable number of patients ( up to 75 % ) also had antibodies to minor bullous pemphigoid antigens with molecular weights of approximately 180 and 200 kd . the results of this study confirm that bullous pemphigoid antigens are heterogeneous at the molecular level . approximately 10 % of patients have antibodies directed solely to a minor bullous pemphigoid antigen . 
digital imaging techniques in dermatology . digital imaging is a versatile technique that has been infrequently used in dermatology to record visual images . we have used this technology for 10 patients to follow cutaneous lesions , including alopecia mucinosa , psoriasis , and dysplastic nevi . the setup included a personal computer , digitizer board , monitor , video camera , and lights . an introduction to electronic ( digital ) imaging is given and some of the many possible applications in dermatology are discussed . 
treatment of drug-induced agranulocytosis with recombinant gm-csf a 53-year male patient , treated for rheumatoid arthritis with sulphasalazine , developed a total agranulocytosis . when this state had prevailed for at least 10 d no bone marrow granulocyte progenitor cells were detectable . intravenous gm-csf treatment was initiated 5 d later , and the patient recovered within the next 6 d. gm-csf treatment for severe agranulocytosis deserves further investigation . 
sensitivity of effect variables in rheumatoid arthritis : a meta-analysis of 130 placebo controlled nsaid trials [ published erratum appears in j clin epidemiol 1991 ; 44 ( 6 ) :613 ] in a meta-analysis of placebo controlled nsaid trials , the sensitivity of the effect variables was calculated as the correlation coefficient and as the difference between drug and placebo , divided by the placebo group standard deviation . the patient 's global evaluation was the most sensitive variable overall . pain was more sensitive than ritchie 's index . several variables may be omitted from clinical trials , especially if two active drugs are being compared . for example , the best maximum estimate for the difference in esr between nsaids and placebo was 1.0 mm/hr ( 95 % confidence interval -1.5 to 3.4 mm/hr ) , and for joint size 0.44 % ( -1.0 to 1.9 % ) , corresponding to a quarter of a millimeter for each of the 10 joints usually measured . it is suggested to record only the patient 's global evaluation , pain , and morning stiffness . 
clinical , laboratory and radiographic features in early rheumatoid arthritis . we evaluated disease status in relation to age , sex and disease duration using some short term indices of disease activity , laboratory tests , and radiological features in 315 patients with rheumatoid arthritis of duration varying from 3 to 36 months ( mean 12 months ) . no differences were observed among various age groups in disease duration , female/male ratio , incidence of radiologic lesions and other indices of disease process . some clinical markers of the disease process such as involvement of the flexor tendons of the hands and ritchie 's index ( score greater than 9 ) were significantly more frequent in the women ( p less than 0.0013 and p less than 0.04 , respectively ) . in the patients with disease of recent onset women were slightly more numerous ( 56 % ) than men ; however , in those with disease duration of 36 months there were significantly more women ( 72 % ) ( p less than 0.039 ) , suggesting a greater tendency to chronic disease in this sex . radiological lesions of the small joints of the hands , feet , and/or wrists were found in 37 % of the cases with disease duration of up to 4 months and in 91 % at 36 months ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the lesions were associated significantly more frequently with ritchie index ( p less than 0.02 ) and with laboratory indices of inflammatory activity ( erythrocyte sedimentation rate greater than or equal to 25 mm/h ) ( p less than 0.001 ) and immune response ( latex test greater than or equal to 80 ) ( p less than 0.0001 ) . logistic regression analysis showed that the duration of illness is the most important factor correlating with radiologic lesions . 
clinical and laboratory effects of prolonged therapy with sulfasalazine , gold or penicillamine : the effects of disease duration on treatment response . serial observations for up to 5 years of clinical score ( a subjective global assessment ) , serum c-reactive protein ( crp ) and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( esr ) were analyzed in 3 groups of patients with active rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) requiring treatment with a second line drug . the groups comprised 315 patients ( 243 women , 72 men ) who had sulfasalazine ( sas ) ; 203 patients ( 141 women , 62 men ) who had sodium aurothiomalate ( gold ) and 163 patients ( 131 women , 32 men ) who had penicillamine . the groups matched in most respects but the gold group had a smaller proportion of women , a shorter median disease duration and a higher median crp than the remaining 2 groups . the penicillamine group contained a higher proportion of seropositive patients . in each group there were significant improvements in clinical score , crp and esr for all time points from 6 to 30 months ; these improvements were maintained for longer ( up to 60 months for sas ) in the sas and gold groups but the differences between the drugs after 30 months were probably a consequence of falling number of patients , not differing drug potencies . the mean esr and crp levels fell to about 30 mm/h and 20-30 mg/l , respectively . response was defined as ( 1 ) treatment duration greater than 6 months , ( 2 ) clinical score improvement greater than 4 by 6 months , ( 3 ) esr fall to less than 30 mm/h by 6 months . by these criteria 142 of 681 patients ( 20.9 % ) responded ; the response rates were sas 20.3 % , gold 24.1 % , penicillamine 17.8 % . 
phenotypic characteristics of dissociated mononuclear cells from rheumatoid synovial membrane . the phenotypic characteristics of enzymatically dissociated synovial membrane mononuclear cells from 8 patients ( 14 samples ) with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) were assessed by fluorescence activated flow cytometry and compared to peripheral blood ( pb ) mononuclear cells from 18 patients with ra and 14 normal controls . there was no significant difference between the percentage of cd4 + and cd8 + lymphocytes in synovial membrane compared to ra and normal pb . double labelling experiments revealed similar percentages of cd4 + cdw29 + ( helper-inducer ) and cd4 + cd45r + ( suppressor-inducer ) cells in ra and normal pb . in contrast , sm cd4 + cdw29 + cells were present in significantly higher proportions than in ra and normal pb ( p less than 0.001 ) . conversely , synovial membrane cd4 + cd45r + cells were present in significantly lower proportions than in ra and normal pb ( p less than 0.001 ) . a similar pattern of cdw29 and cd45r antigen expression was noted on cd8 + lymphocytes reflecting increased killer-effector ( p less than 0.001 ) and decreased suppressor-effector ( p less than 0.001 ) cells , respectively . other experiments revealed a significant increase in the percentage of synovial membrane cd20 + cells ( b lymphocytes ) and hla-dr + cells compared to ra pb ( p less than 0.02 and p less than 0.001 ) and normal pb ( p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.005 ) , and similar proportions of cd14 + cells ( monocytes/macrophages ) . our results suggest that ra synovial membrane contains populations of t and b lymphocytes that differ quantitatively and qualitatively from those in pb . these may account for some of the abnormalities in intraarticular humoral and cellular immune responses in patients with ra . 
the temporomandibular joint in rheumatoid arthritis . correlations between clinical and computed tomography features . clinical and computed tomography ( ct ) examination of the temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) was performed in 26 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 26 control subjects . each examination was scored . in the group with ra 61.2 % had physical signs in the stomatognathic system compared to 42.3 % in a control group ( ns ) ; 88.4 % of the group with ra had erosive or cystic lesions of the tmj compared to 57.6 % of control subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) . the clinical dysfunction score did not correlate with the ct tmj score in ra . it correlated with the number of slow acting antirheumatic drugs used , the rheumatoid factor titer and radiographic scores of the hands and cervical spine . in agreement with others , we believe that the only specific ct lesions of ra are erosions and cysts of the mandibular condyle , that there is no correlation between clinical and ct findings of tmj in ra , and that the intensity of destructive lesions of tmj on ct in ra is well correlated with the severity of the disease . 
adherent synovial cells from nonrheumatoid arthritis do not release interleukin 1 beta and prostaglandin e2 spontaneously in longterm culture . adherent synovial cells from both 13 patients without rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) ( gout , osteoarthritis and meniscal lesion ) and 8 patients with ra consisted of dendritic cells , macrophage-like cells and fibroblast-like cells after cloning in a similar fashion as reported in our previous paper . all the adherent synovial cells from patients without ra did not release interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) beta and prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) spontaneously , while those cells released comparable amounts of il-1 beta , but not pge2 to ra cells after type ii collagen stimulation . only the synovial cells from ra , irrespective of morphology and cloning , released il-1 beta and pge2 without stimulation . nonrheumatoid synovial cells may differ functionally from ra cells . 
anti-rna polymerase i antibodies in the urine of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . urine samples from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) ( n = 80 ) , patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) ( n = 21 ) , and healthy controls ( n = 36 ) were analyzed by radio-immunoassay ( ria ) for anti-rna polymerase i ( rpi ) antibodies . significant levels of anti-rpi antibodies were detected in the urine of 46 % of the patients with sle but in only 19 % of the patients with ra and in no sample from healthy individuals . the presence of anti-rpi antibodies in the urine was confirmed by demonstrating that igg purified from the urine of patients with sle was capable of inhibiting the transcriptional activity of rpi in vitro . if the quantity of anti-rpi antibodies excreted is related to disease activity , analysis of urine for these antibodies may be a useful alternative for the purpose of monitoring the progression of disease in individuals with sle because of the ease by which the sample can be collected . 
specificity of anti-scl-70 antibodies in scleroderma : increased sensitivity of detection using purified dna topoisomerase i from calf thymus . a large scale purification of dna topoisomerase i from calf thymus was obtained using the combinations of 62 % ammonium sulfate precipitation , biorex 70 , hydroxylapatite and phenylagarose chromatography . silver staining of the preparation separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed 2 bands of apparent molecular weight of 70 and 60 kda . immunoblotting with a serum of anti-scl-70 specificity also recognized both proteins . anti-scl-70 antibodies were detected in 24/32 ( 75 % ) patients with diffuse scleroderma by elisa and 28/32 ( 87 % ) had the ability to neutralize the topoisomerase i activity . all of 14 sera with anticentromere antibodies did not react with dna topoisomerase i by both assays . the presence of anti-scl-70 antibodies remained disease specific despite the increase in sensitivity of both assays . 
clinical significance of antibodies to a 68 kda u1rnp polypeptide in connective tissue disease . in a series of 163 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) and/or systemic sclerosis and/or mixed connective tissue disease ( mctd ) , the presence of antibodies to a 68 kda u1rnp associated polypeptide was more predictive for sle ( 88 % ) than for mctd ( 38-68 % ) using 3 different sets of proposed criteria for the latter condition . in all but one case studied serially the immunoblotting profile remained constant . in sle recognition of the 68 kda polypeptide identified a subset with increased vasoreactivity with raynaud 's phenomenon ( 96 % , p less than 0.001 ) and swollen fingers ( 68 % , p less than 0.001 ) whereas recognition of a 47 kda la ( ssb ) polypeptide was associated with photosensitivity ( 72 % , p less than 0.02 ) , less renal involvement ( p less than 0.05 ) and an older age of disease onset ( 46.6 years + / - 18.3 sd , p less than 0.002 ) . 
incidence of polymyositis-dermatomyositis : a 20-year study of hospital diagnosed cases in allegheny county , pa 1963-1982 . the incidence of hospital diagnosed polymyositis-dermatomyositis ( pm-dm ) among residents of pittsburgh and allegheny county , pa was determined from 1963 to 1982 . medical records of all allegheny county hospitals were searched for patients diagnosed pm-dm , and each accepted case was reviewed and verified by a physician , according to specified criteria . direct age adjusted incidence rates were computed for race and sex , as new cases/million population/year , with the 1970 allegheny county population as the standard . one hundred seventy-seven cases were identified during this 20-year survey for a total annual incidence of 5.5 / million population . incidence more than tripled during 1973-1982 compared to the first decade of study , with the greatest increase occurring in black women . overall , the female to male incidence ratio was 2.2:1 , but during the childbearing years ( ages 15-44 ) this ratio increased to greater than 5:1 in both races . detection of pm-dm is increasing , as shown by temporal trends . although our series has significantly more adult pm and less dm and overlap cases than other published studies , annual incidence is similar to that reported in other locales . 
psychological stress and the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome . the relationship of stress and social support to the fibrositis/fibromyalgia syndrome ( fs ) was investigated by administration of 4 questionnaire instruments to 28 patients with fs , 20 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 28 pain-free normal controls . fs showed higher levels of stress as measured by daily " hassles " than did ra or controls . however , on a measure of major life stress , they reported lower levels . no differences were found between groups with regard to daily " uplifts " or social support . correlations between those measures of stress and social support with their scores on the arthritis impact measurement scale showed that the hassles scale was significantly related to the aims psychological component . 
synthesis and release of phospholipase a2 by unstimulated human articular chondrocytes . high activity of proinflammatory , type ii phospholipase a2 ( pla2 ) was found in synovial fluids ( sf ) in inflammatory arthritis . in search for the sources of this pla2 , we cultured human articular chondrocytes and cartilage explants from healthy , osteoarthritic and rheumatoid joints . all cultures , unstimulated by cytokines , released pla2 extracellularly . cultures obtained from the deep layers of the cartilage released more pla2 than those obtained from the superficial layers . deep layer explants released 0.38 to 18.16 pmol/min/mg protein pla2/day , whereas superficial layer explants released 0.39-3 .18 pmol/min/mg / day . chondrocyte cell cultures continuously released pla2 , in the first day 909-46347 pmol/min / ( 10 ) 6 cells and after 9-26 days of culture 166-2115 pmol/min/10 ( 6 ) cells . pla2 released from chondrocytes was calcium dependent and had optimum activity at ph 7.5 . cycloheximide markedly inhibited its release . chondrocyte cultures also released muramidase ( lzm ) but there was no correlation between pla2 and lzm release . it may be concluded that cytokine unstimulated human articular chondrocytes synthesize and release pla2 extracellularly which is similar to that found in the sf . thus , chondrocytes may possibly serve as one of the sources of intraarticular pla2 . 
diclofenac induced immune thrombocytopenia . we describe a patient with scleroderma who developed immune thrombocytopenia secondary to diclofenac on 2 occasions . platelet count returned to normal with cessation of diclofenac and institution of prednisone . 
sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis : two cases with differing dermatologic syndromes . sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis is a rare rheumatic condition characterized by ossification and erosion of the clavicle and the first rib , that has been shown to be associated with pustular skin lesions . we present 2 cases , one of which had features of pustulosis palmaris et plantaris and the other dissecting cellulitis of the scalp . although the dermatologic manifestations differ , both cases have rheumatologic and roentgenographic features diagnostic of sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis . 
