abnormal differentiation of human papillomavirus-induced laryngeal papillomas . we studied the proliferation and differentiation of human laryngeal papillomas , which are benign tumors induced by human papillomaviruses . immunofluorescent stains of tissues for a number of differentiation-specific proteins showed abnormal differentiation . papilloma tissue fragments in vitro showed a slightly decreased fraction of proliferating cells that incorporated tritiated thymidine and a markedly reduced incorporation of tritiated uridine when compared with normal tissue . we propose that papillomavirus infection results in normal basal cell proliferation but abnormal terminal differentiation and that this abnormality significantly contributes to the hyperplasia of the papillomas . 
transtympanic endoscopic findings in patients with otitis media with effusion . using a fine , rigid endoscope ( olympus , ses-1711k ) , we examined the middle ear , including the tympanic orifice of the eustachian tube , of children with otitis media with effusion ( ome ) in its active stage ( 26 ears ) , in the convalescent stage ( 13 ears ) , and during treatment with ventilation tubes for 10 days to 6 months ( five ears ) through myringotomy with the patients under general anesthesia . several color photographs of representative ears are shown . in the active stage of ome , edema ( 73.1 % ) and hyperemia ( 23.1 % ) were characteristic features of the middle ear mucosa , and normal mucosa was seen in only one ear ( 3.1 % ) . the tympanic orifice of the eustachian tube , which could be examined in 12 ears , were stenosed with edema in four ears ( 33.3 % ) or plugged with effusion in three ears ( 25.0 % ) in this group . in the convalescent stage of ome , dilated vessels were most often seen ( 69.2 % ) , but the rest of the patients had normal mucosa ( 30.8 % ) in the middle ear , and none of them had edema nor hyperemia . the tympanic orifice of the eustachian tube , which could be examined in five ears , was clearly patent in all the patients in this group . one ear that was treated with a ventilation tube for 1 month showed dilated vessels and less severe inflammation than did ears that were in the active stage of ome , and three ears that were treated for more than 3 months showed almost normal middle ear mucosa . 
pseudocyst of the auricle . case report and world literature review we treated a patient with pseudocyst of the auricle and reviewed the 113 cases previously published in the world literature . pseudocyst of the auricle is an asymptomatic , noninflammatory cystic swelling that involves the anthelix of the ear , results from an accumulation of fluid within an unlined intracartilaginous cavity , and occurs predominantly in men ( 93 % of patients ) . characteristically , only one ear is involved ( 87 % of patients ) , and the lesion is usually located within the scaphoid or triangular fossa of the anthelix . previous trauma to the involved ear is uncommon . the diagnosis may be suggested by the clinical features , and analysis of the aspirated cystic fluid and/or histologic examination of a lesional biopsy specimen will confirm the diagnosis . therapeutic intervention that maintains the architecture of the patient 's external ear should be used in the treatment of this benign condition . 
multiple intracranial mucoceles associated with phaeohyphomycosis of the paranasal sinuses . the purpose of this article is to alert clinicians to a new pathogenic fungus of the paranasal sinuses called exserohilum rostratum . exserohilum species are one of the etiologic agents of phaeohyphomycosis , a constellation of entities caused by dematiaceous fungi . this class of fungal sinus infection has emerged only in the past decade ; it occurs primarily in immunocompetent individuals and produces a tenacious , progressive pansinusitis . to our knowledge , this study describes the first case of multiple intracranial mucoceles secondary to e rostratum . the diagnostic workup includes computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging followed by direct microscopic examination of tissue biopsy specimens . a craniotomy followed by a bilateral external ethmoidectomy was necessary for complete extirpation of the infected mucoceles . aggressive surgical management of this mycotic infection is described . 
osteoma of the middle ear . report of a case . osteomas of the middle ear are rare . we report a case of a 7-year-old boy with osteoma originating from the pyramidal eminence , combined with congenital cholesteatoma . the osteoma and cholesteatoma were successfully removed by tympanomastoidectomy . the long process of the incus and the superstructure of the stapes disappeared . the body of the incus was sculpted and used as a columella . histopathologically , the osteoma was much the same as an external auditory canal osteoma . the possibility of a primary congenital origin of this neoplasm is suggested . 
topographic classification , clinical characteristics , and diagnostic delay of cancer of the larynx/hypopharynx in torino , italy . the case series of a population-based case-control study of laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancers in torino , italy , included 281 men with clinical and anamnestic data . two hundred fifteen , 28 , and 38 cancers originated from the endolarynx , epilarynx , and hypopharynx , respectively . regions invaded by the tumor were divided into 26 subsites . a classification based on the number of invaded subsites was proposed , which agreed well with the t classification of the tnm system . cancers originating from the hypopharynx invaded more subsites than cancers from the endolarynx , and among the latter , supraglottic were more invasive than glottic lesions . the number of invaded subsites was strongly associated with nodal involvement . among symptoms at onset of disease and at diagnosis , patients with endolaryngeal lesions reported dysphonia and dyspnea more frequently , and patients with lesions from other regions had a higher prevalence of dysphagia , odynophagia , otalgia , and adenopathia . clinical and epidemiologic results of this study suggest considering the endolarynx , epilarynx , and hypopharynx as separate anatomic entities . diagnostic delay was not associated with tumor size and showed a negative trend with involvement of cervical lymph nodes , suggesting that stage at diagnosis is due to intrinsic differences in tumor aggressiveness . 
human papillomavirus type 16 associated with oral squamous carcinoma in a cardiac transplant recipient . human papillomavirus type 16 ( hpv 16 ) has been associated with a variety of squamous carcinomas , particularly those involving the anogenital tract . the authors report the development of an oropharyngeal carcinoma in a 43-year-old man approximately 20 months after cardiac transplantation while he was on a maintenance regimen of cyclosporine a and prednisone . the carcinoma was resistant to treatment , and he died of complications related to metastatic disease 3 years posttransplantation . molecular biologic studies using nonisotopic-labeled viral dna probes were done . in situ hybridization demonstrated the presence of hpv 16 dna in the tumor cells . dna dot blot analysis confirmed the presence of multiple copies of hpv 16 dna within the tumor cells and their absence from adjacent normal-appearing tissue . southern blot analysis suggested that the hpv 16 dna was integrated into the tumor cell genome . with increasing recognition of the carcinogenicity of hpv type 16 infection , a role for this virus in the development of squamous cell malignancies in immunosuppressed organ transplant recipients is likely to be noted with increasing frequency . 
a clinical and flow cytometric analysis of patients with nasopharyngeal cancer . abnormal cellular dna content , a hallmark of malignancy , is known to be an important prognostic factor in many human solid tumors ; however , no data have been published on whether cellular dna content carries prognostic significance for patients with nasopharyngeal cancer ( npc ) . archival , formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded pathology specimens representing pretreatment tissue biopsies from 55 patients ( 41 men and 14 women ) with npc were analyzed for cellular dna content in a retrospective fashion from 1968 to 1988 . individual tumors were classified as either lymphoepithelioma , squamous cell , or anaplastic carcinoma , and were staged according to international union against cancer ( uicc ) criteria . all patients were treated with curative intent using a 4 to 6 mev linear accelerator to total doses ranging from 50 to 60 gy in 4 to 6 weeks . the overall 5-year actuarial survival for all 55 patients was 44.4 % ( men , 41 % ; women , 52 % ) . survival by t stage was as follows : t1 , 65 % ; t2 , 51 % ; t3 , 36 % ; and t4 , 27 % . similarly , the 5-year survival rate declined as the bulk of nodal metastases increased : n0 , 62 % ; n2 , 50 % ; n3 , 37 % ; and n1 , 25 % . patients who had anaplastic carcinoma had a 5-year survival of 73 % , those with lymphoepithelioma had a 60 % survival , and those with squamous cell cancer ( scc ) had a 30 % survival . there was a statistically significant difference in 5-year survival between patients with scc and those with nonkeratinizing histologies ( p less than 0.05 ) . in addition , there was a significant association between patients older than 40 years of age with scc and patients younger than 40 years of age with nonkeratinizing malignancies ( p less than 0.01 ) . of the 55 tumors successfully analyzed , 22 ( 40 % ) were diploid and 33 ( 60 % ) were aneuploid . the mean coefficient of variation ( cv ) of all 55 samples was 6.17 % . there was no significant difference in 5-year survival between patients with diploid and those with aneuploid tumors ( 48 % versus 42 % ) . furthermore , there was no statistically significant survival difference between aneuploid and diploid tumors within any one histologic subgroup . there was also no significant survival difference related to the dna index . the results indicate that the extent of local tumor spread is still the most important prognostic factor for patients treated with radiotherapy for npc . the data support the conclusion that patients with lymphoepithelioma and anaplastic carcinomas have a superior survival to patients with squamous cell carcinoma . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
aqueous beclomethasone diproprionate nasal spray : regular versus " as required " use in the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis . objective : to determine the effect of alternative regimens of nasal steroid administration on symptoms and quality of life . design : randomized , double-blind , parallel-group comparison . subjects : sixty ragweed-sensitive adults recruited from participants of previous studies and through media advertising . interventions : 200 micrograms of aqueous beclomethasone diproprionate nasal spray , twice daily , from 1 week before until 1 week after the ragweed-pollen season ( regular ) or 100 micrograms of the spray , taken as required , up to 400 micrograms daily ; troublesome nasal symptoms were treated , in both groups , by increasing the daily dose to 800 micrograms until symptoms were controlled . if this treatment was insufficient , 120 mg of terfenadine , daily , was added . results : one subject in the " as required " - treated group withdrew with uncontrolled nasal symptoms . in the remaining subjects , sneezing , stuffy nose , and rhinorrhea , measured by a daily diary , were significantly better controlled in the regular-treated group ( p less than 0.025 ) . impairment of quality of life , including sleep disturbance , nonhay fever symptoms , practical problems , and uncomfortable emotions were greater in the as required-treated group ( p less than 0.001 ) . subjects in the regular-treated group required less additional terfenadine ( 0.27 tablets per subject versus 1.40 ; p = 0.022 ) . eye symptoms and eye-drop use were similar in the two treated groups . conclusion : in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis , regular use of inhaled steroids results in fewer symptoms and better quality of life than when the spray is taken only as required . 
comparison of cefuroxime axetil , cefaclor , and amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium suspensions in acute otitis media in infants and children . in this randomized , blinded , multicenter comparison study , 377 infants and children with acute otitis media ( aom ) received a 10-day course of an oral suspension of one of the following : cefuroxime axetil ( cae ) , 30 mg/kg/day ; cefaclor ( cec ) , 40 mg/kg/day ; or amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium ( amx-cl ) , 40 mg/kg/day . clinical efficacy was determined by pneumatic otoscopy and tympanometric testing 3 to 5 , 11 to 14 , and 22 to 26 days after the initiation of therapy . there was a statistically significant difference among the three treatment groups with respect to clinical outcome ; more patients in the cae group ( 62 % ) than in the cec group ( 46 % ) or the amx-cl group ( 52 % ) had complete resolution of signs and symptoms of aom ( including effusion ) . paired comparisons revealed a significant difference in efficacy between cae and cec and a nearly significant difference between amx-cl and cec . taste acceptability was highest for cec and lowest for this formulation of cae . significantly more patients in the amx-cl group than in the cae or cec group had a side effect , primarily diarrhea , vomiting , or diaper rash . we conclude that cae suspension has greater clinical efficacy than cec and fewer side effects than amx-cl . 
nonendoscopic percutaneous gastrostomy . tight peritoneal adherence of the stomach to the abdominal wall as a prerequisite of percutaneous gastrostomy can be achieved by a newly developed cannula . it serves for puncture and fixation of the gastric wall . thus , percutaneous gastrostomy can be established safely even in instances of an endoscopically nonaccessible stomach . further applications of the device for the purpose of intestinopexy and facilitation of endoscopic procedures are being evaluated . 
magnetic resonance imaging of radiation optic neuropathy . three patients with delayed radiation optic neuropathy after radiation therapy for parasellar neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance imaging . the affected optic nerves and chiasms showed enlargement and focal gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement . the magnetic resonance imaging technique effectively detected and defined anterior visual pathway changes of radionecrosis and excluded the clinical possibility of visual loss because of tumor recurrence . 
complications of the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap in head and neck reconstruction . a retrospective review of the complications in 211 patients undergoing pectoralis major myocutaneous flap reconstruction is presented . the flap was used for mucosal lining of the oral cavity or oropharynx in 109 patients , for pharyngoesophageal reconstruction in 44 , for skin coverage in 47 , and for other locations in 14 patients . flap-related complications developed in 63 % of the patients . these included flap necrosis , suture line dehiscence , fistula formation , infection , and hematoma . analysis of risk factors for the development of flap complications showed the following factors to be significant : age over 70 ; female gender ; nomographic overweight ; albumin less than 4 g/dl ; use of the flap in reconstruction of the oral cavity after major glossectomy ; and presence of other systemic diseases . the median length of hospitalization for those developing complications was 33 days compared with 16 days for those who did not develop any complications . thirty-five ( 26 % ) of the 135 patients developing complications required reoperation and only 2 among these required a second flap . similarly , only 13 of the 61 patients who developed fistulas required surgical closure . 
patterns of cervical lymph node metastasis from squamous carcinomas of the upper aerodigestive tract . a consecutive series of 1,081 previously untreated patients undergoing 1,119 radical neck dissections ( rnds ) for squamous carcinoma of the head and neck was reviewed to study the patterns of nodal metastases . primary tumors were located in the oral cavity in 501 patients , in the oropharynx in 207 patients , in the hypopharynx in 126 patients , and in the larynx in 247 patients . lymph node metastases were confirmed histologically in 82 % of 776 therapeutic neck dissections , and micrometastases were discovered in 33 % of 343 elective rnds . lymph node groups in the neck were described by levels ( i to v ) . predominance of certain levels was seen for each primary site . levels i , ii , and iii were at highest risk for metastasis from cancer of the oral cavity , and levels ii , iii , and iv were at highest risk for metastasis from carcinomas of the oropharynx , hypopharynx , and larynx . supramohyoid neck dissection ( clearing levels i , ii , and iii ) for no patients with primary squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity and anterolateral neck dissection ( clearing levels ii , iii , and iv ) for no patients with primary squamous cell carcinomas of the oropharynx , hypopharynx , and larynx are recommended . 
efficacy of radical neck dissection for the control of cervical metastasis after radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . fifty-one patients who had persistent or recurrent neck disease from nasopharyngeal carcinoma after radiotherapy underwent radical neck dissection . the follow-up period ranged from 0.5 to 9 years ( median : 2 years ) . multiple cervical lymph node involvement was present in 51 % of the patients ( 26 of 51 ) . malignant cells were detected in 88 % of the resected specimens ( 45 of 51 ) . the clinical sign of fixation of lymph node is the only factor that affects the successful control of neck disease ( p = 0.04 ) . extracapsular extension of the nodal disease was present , and 35 % of the lymph nodes were adherent to surrounding structures at operation ( 18 of 51 ) . there was one hospital mortality and the overall morbidity was minimal . the actuarial survival at 5 years was 38 % , and the probability of control of neck disease was 66 % . radical neck dissection is effective in controlling post-irradiation cervical metastasis from nasopharyngeal carcinoma . 
comparison of propofol and thiopental/halothane for short-duration ent surgical procedures in children . experiences with propofol in pediatric anesthesia are limited . we undertook a study to evaluate the quality of induction and recovery from anesthesia with propofol compared to thiopental/halothane . twenty children received 3 mg.kg-1 . min-1 of propofol as a loading dose followed by a maintenance dose of 0.1 mg.kg-1 . min-1 ( + / - 10 % ) . twenty children received 5-7 mg/kg of thiopental , and maintenance was provided with halothane ( 0.5 % -1.5 % ) . the interval between the end of the administration of propofol or thiopental/halothane and extubation , as well to discharge to the ward , was significantly shorter with propofol ( 4.4 versus 13.5 min and 7.22 versus 30.4 min , respectively ) . spontaneous movements and pain on injection were seen significantly more frequently with propofol , whereas laryngospasm and hiccup were only observed with thiopental . during the first 6 h after the surgical procedure , analgesics were needed significantly more often in the thiopental group . nausea and vomiting also were observed more frequently in the thiopental group . in conclusion , propofol used as a single anesthetic is a satisfactory technique for ent surgery of short duration in children . 
a controlled , double-blind study of the effect of quazolast on nasal challenge with ragweed antigen . quazolast is a potent mediator release inhibitor as determined by in vitro and in vivo testing . a placebo-controlled , double-blind , two-way crossover study compared the safety and efficacy of quazolast , 400 mg bid orally , with placebo in 23 subjects with ragweed ( rw ) allergy , out of season . subjects were assigned to two 7-day treatments in a random sequence with an 8-day washout . subjects were challenged on days 1 and 7 of each trial with serial dilutions ( 10 , 100 , 1000 , 1350 , and 2700 pnu/0 .135 ml ) of rw , using metered pump spray bottles , ( two sprays delivered 0.135 ml ) , preceded by saline control . efficacy evaluation consisted of nasal flow rates measured by rhinomanometry , sneeze counts , nasal itchiness scores , and weight of nasal secretions during challenges . during quazolast treatment , subjects had significantly lower ( p less than .05 ) mean percent decreases in nasal flow rate at 1350 and 2700 pnu . nasal itchiness scores were significantly lower ( p less than .05 ) during quazolast treatment than at placebo at 1000 , 1350 , and 2700 pnu . although sneeze counts were lower during treatment with quazolast than with placebo , the results did not reach statistical significance . no significant improvement was seen in the weight of nasal secretions . adverse experiences , clinical laboratory results , and physical examinations were unremarkable , posttreatment . quazolast was superior to placebo in protecting against nasal congestion and nasal itchiness after ragweed nasal challenge . 
effect of vitamin c on histamine bronchial responsiveness of patients with allergic rhinitis . the effect of acute oral administration of 2 g vitamin c on bronchial responsiveness to inhaled histamine in 16 patients with allergic rhinitis was compared with placebo on two consecutive days in a double-blind , crossover design . the pc15fev1 was significantly increased one hour after treatment with vitamin c but not after placebo . 
teflon versus thyroplasty versus nerve transfer : a comparison . surgical rehabilitation of the paralyzed larynx is currently performed by teflon injection , thyroplasty , and reinnervation techniques . proponents of the two newer techniques maintain that they are preferred to teflon injection because superior phonatory quality is achievable . this paper was written in an attempt to dissect the issues regarding this question . teflon remains the quickest and least expensive procedure , but further experience with stroboscopic and other voice analyses reveals that the other procedures demonstrate some superiority in phonatory quality over teflon . in this author 's hands , the nerve transfer offers the best opportunity to achieve a normal phonatory voice . in addition , it is the only one of the three procedures that leaves the vocal cord entirely undisturbed -- important in the event one of the other two procedures becomes necessary . 
endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy revisited . arytenoidectomy is currently the most reliable method of treating patients with bilateral vocal cord paralysis . although both endoscopic and external approaches have been described , the endoscopic laser technique is more desirable because it requires no incision and allows for the immediate assessment of airway size . eleven patients with bilateral vocal cord paralysis treated by endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy were presented in 1984 . at that time , 10 of the 11 patients had been successfully decannulated . follow-up on that group of patients revealed that 7 of the 10 successfully treated patients remain decannulated with a good airway , although 2 of these patients required a revision procedure to excise a granuloma . one patient failed at 15 months and has failed two subsequent revision operations , and 2 patients have been lost to follow-up . since 1984 , 17 additional patients with bilateral vocal cord paralysis have been treated by the authors using the same endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy technique ; all have been successfully managed , with a minimum follow-up of 3 years . the technique of this operation will be reviewed . this study demonstrates the clinical usefulness of endoscopic laser arytenoidectomy in the treatment of bilateral vocal cord paralysis . 
combined laryngeal framework medialization and reinnervation for unilateral vocal fold paralysis . the laryngeal framework-silastic implant technique has become an increasingly attractive alternative to teflon injection , particularly when there is fixation of the cricoarytenoid joint or the defect to be corrected is larger than usual ; but it does not restore ability to change tension in the vocal fold . unilateral vocal fold reinnervation can overcome this drawback and , when used in conjunction with surgical medialization , may offer return of function very close to normal . twenty-nine patients with unrecovered unilateral vocal fold paralysis and/or fixation of the cricoarytenoid joint have been managed by use of a silastic implant combined with unilateral vocal fold reinnervation with no complications . voice improvement has been assessed on preoperative and postoperative voice recordings . the combined surgical techniques for reinnervation and a modification of silastic implantation via the laryngeal framework approach are reported . 
immunohistochemical interpretation of early epithelial disorders of pyriform sinus . expression of cytokeratins ( cks ) was investigated immunohistochemically by use of monospecific monoclonal anti-ck antibodies in normal epithelia of pyriform sinus and epithelial lesions such as simple hyperplasia , different degrees of dysplasia , in situ carcinoma , and invasive carcinoma . in normal epithelium , strong expression of ck-19 was consistently observed only in the basal layer as basic ck , while expression of ck-13 showed a completely reverse pattern , being expressed only in suprabasal layers as stratification-related ck . characteristic changes in expression pattern of these two cks were observed in accordance with the degree of epithelial disorders and differentiation of carcinoma . cytokeratin 1 , as keratinization-associated ck , was observed only in keratinized cells of hyperplastic epithelia and well-differentiated carcinomas . these findings may be useful in evaluating epithelial disorders and classifying carcinomas more objectively , and may assist earlier detection of carcinoma when used with standard histologic techniques . 
vestibular recruitment in meniere 's disease . the aim of this study was to search for vestibular recruitment in a sample of patients with meniere 's disease . recruitment was defined as an abnormal growth of response with increasing stimulus intensity . twenty-nine patients were tested with sinusoidal rotation of three different magnitudes at four different frequencies . we also searched for auditory recruitment in each patient via tests of auditory brain stem responses , acoustic reflexes , and loudness balance and discomfort level . analysis of vestibular responses indicated , on average , a linear relationship between stimulus magnitude and response magnitude , ie , doubling the stimulus magnitude resulted in twice the response magnitude . meniere 's patients did not yield results significantly different ( although they were more variable ) from those of the normal subjects . the vestibular responses of patients with auditory recruitment did not differ systematically from those of patients without auditory recruitment . we conclude that vestibular recruitment , if it exists in patients with meniere 's disease , is not demonstrated by sinusoidal rotational testing . 
identification and characterization of middle ear vascular leakage sites in experimental otitis media . the site of leakage in middle ear vessels was determined and characterized in experimental otitis media in rats . middle ear effusion was induced by intravenous administration or local application in the tympanic bulla of substance p ( sp ) , acetylcholine , and histamine . in another experiment , a 14 degrees c airstream was blown into the external auditory canal . colloidal carbon was used to trace leakage sites at the light and electron microscopic levels . all mediators tested and the 14 degrees c airstream resulted in an increased number of leaking vessels in the pars flaccida and the middle ear mucosa . the leakage sites were restricted to capillaries and postcapillary venules . increased numbers of degranulated pars flaccida mast cells were observed for sp only . interendothelial gaps formed in leakage vessels after administration of mediators and stimulation of the external auditory canal with a 14 degrees c airstream . also , cytoplasmic vesicle-like structures within the endothelial cells increased in number following sp and histamine treatment , suggesting that an increased permeability in experimental otitis media does not occur exclusively through interendothelial gaps . 
histopathologic study of otitis media in individuals with head and neck tumors . five temporal bones , each including the eustachian tube , were obtained from five adults with advanced malignant tumors of the head and neck . the specimens were from the side on which the tumor had occurred . otitis media had been detected clinically in two cases , and was detected histopathologically in the other three . we discuss the possibility that otitis media might have been caused by tumor invasion of the paratubal area , by postoperative inflammation in the nasopharynx , or by an inflammatory reaction of tubal structures to radiotherapy , or that these conditions may have coexisted . 
nasal lymphoma . a retrospective analysis of 60 cases . sixty cases of nasal lymphomas were reviewed . there were 42 men and 18 women . the median age was 49 years . the histologic types were low grade in four cases , intermediate grade in 33 , high grade in seven , and unclassifiable in 16 . thirteen cases had features of polymorphic reticulosis . the immunophenotype was available in 18 cases and a majority of 67 % of them were t-cell . forty-one of them ( 68 % ) had clinically localized ( stage i and ii ) disease which often spread locally to neighboring tissues and they presented predominantly with nasal symptoms . nasal lymphoma appeared to carry a poor prognosis . although our patients with clinically localized disease had significantly better prognosis than those with advanced disease , the 5-year survival of stage i and ii patients was only 55 % . chemotherapy did not appear to be more effective than radiotherapy alone in preventing relapses but the patient number was too small to allow a firm conclusion to be made . patients with advanced disease had even poorer prognosis with a 5-year survival of only 17 % . innovative therapy has to be developed for these patients . 
osteosarcoma of the maxilla in hong kong chinese postirradiation for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . a report of four cases . postirradiation osteosarcoma of the maxilla was seen in four hong kong chinese patients treated for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . these cases represent four of 42 ( 9 % ) cases of osteosarcoma at all sites in this institution during the period 1979 to 1989 , when more than 1000 patients were treated with radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . the latent periods varied from 8 to 11 years from completion of radiotherapy treatment to development of osteosarcoma . the radiation dosage varied from 6000 to 6280 cgy in three of the patients . these cases fit the criteria for diagnosis of postirradiation sarcomas . maxillary osteosarcomas after irradiation for nasopharyngeal carcinoma do not appear to have been described . the very high incidence of nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( for which radiotherapy is the treatment of choice ) in hong kong chinese would make the occurrence of such tumors more likely in hong kong , although the small risk does not contraindicate the use of radiation in the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma in view of its well-documented efficacy . 
possible involvement of the retinoblastoma gene in undifferentiated sinonasal carcinoma . retinoblastoma tumor formation is initiated by the loss of function of both alleles of the rb-1 gene on chromosome 13 . patients with the hereditary form of retinoblastoma carry a germ line mutation at one of the two homologous gene loci in all cells and have an increased risk for nonocular tumors ( mainly osteosarcoma and other mesenchymal tumors ) in later life . the authors studied a 38-year-old patient with sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma ( snuc ) who had been treated for bilateral retinoblastoma by enucleation ( left eye ) and irradiation ( right eye ) , respectively . using molecular probes for the rb-1 gene and other loci on chromosome 13 , the authors detected a deletion at the rb-1 locus in metastatic snuc cells that was not present in normal tissue . these findings indicate that somatic mutations at rb-1 locus may be involved in the formation or progression of ectodermal tumors . 
informed consent in head and neck surgery . informed consent is the fastest growing problem in the medical negligence debate . it was highlighted recently in the united kingdom in the sidaway case . informed consent comprises the advice you would give the patient , the consequences of not taking your advice , the specific risks of the surgery or treatment you have in mind , and the risks of surgery in general . in an attempt to identify what the present practice in otolaryngology was , a postal survey was carried out of the members of the scottish and north of england otolaryngological societies . 
hearing aids for high-frequency hearing loss . this cross-over study compares the relative benefits of a standard nhs contracted hearing aid with a high-frequency emphasis commercial aid in subjects with high-frequency hearing loss . disability questionnaires and free-field speech-in-noise ( faaf ii ) tests were used to assess subjects unaided and after 6 weeks of wearing each aid . total faaf ii test scores showed no significant difference with either aid , but analysis of frequency-specific subscores demonstrated less use of low-frequency information when using the high-frequency emphasis aid . overall questionnaire responses relating to conversation showed more benefit with the high-frequency emphasis aid . subjects generally preferred this aid , possibly due to less low-tone gain than the standard nhs aid . 
analgesia and removal of nasal packing . we present a prospective controlled trial , comparing methods of analgesia for the relief of discomfort on removing nasal packing , including a general discussion on the considerations for , and methods of , nasal tamponade . on the basis that nasal packing is likely to continue to be used frequently , nitrous oxide ( as entonox ) is advocated as a safe and relatively cheap means of pain relief with a statistically significant advantage over papaveretum . 
sensorineural hearing loss in bullous myringitis . a prospective study of eighteen patients . eighteen patients were seen over a period of 3 years . twenty of their ears were diagnosed as having bullous myringitis . pure tone audiograms and stapedial reflexes were performed within 48 h of referral . six ears demonstrated sensorineural hearing loss , 7 ears mixed loss and 4 conductive loss . recovery of sensorineural hearing loss complete in 8 out of 13 ears . stapedial reflexes were elicited in 5 patients and all showed recruitment . the findings of this study confirms the fact that sensorineural hearing loss is more common in bullous myringitis than previously thought and that it is temporary in many cases . the stapedial reflex results suggest that the site of the lesion is in the cochlea . 
chest infection following head and neck surgery : a pilot study . this paper reports the results of a pilot study which examined factors associated with chest infection following head and neck surgery . the overall rate of chest infection was 11 % , but was 20 % in those patients having a tracheotomy . no infection developed in patients with an intact airway . other factors which emerged as possibly important were the duration of surgery and heavy regular alcohol intake . we recommend that prophylactic antibiotics be continued for at least 48 h in patients requiring a tracheotomy as part of their head and neck surgery . this is against the trend of shorter antibiotic regimens recommended for prevention of wound infections . 
the presence of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) in solitary adult laryngeal papillomas demonstrated by in-situ dna hybridization with sulphonated probes . human papilloma virus ( hpv ) types 6 and 11 have been repeatedly demonstrated in multiple laryngeal papillomas , and there is little doubt that these lesions are caused by hpv . it has been clearly demonstrated in recent reports that the clinical course of solitary adult onset laryngeal papillomas is entirely different from that of multiple papillomas of juvenile as well as of adult onset . we here report the presence of hpv types 6 and 11 in 19 out of 20 solitary papillomas from 16 patients , while hpv types 16 and 18 were totally absent . we conclude that the milder clinical course in such patients is most likely to be due to host factors , rather than to viral factors . 
urinary n tau-methylimidazole acetic acid excretion in respiratory disease . n tau-methylimidazole acetic acid ( n tau-miaa ) is the principal urinary metabolite of histamine . the basal urinary excretion rate of n tau-miaa was determined as 0.117 + / - 0.008 ( se ) mg/h , with a renal clearance for n tau-miaa of 273 + / - 27 ml/min implying active secretion . after subpharmacological infusion of histamine ( 50 ng.kg-1 . min-1 over 2 h ) in five volunteers that increased plasma histamine from 0.28 + / - 0.04 to 0.71 + / - 0.15 ng/ml , urinary excretion of n tau-miaa over 8 h was increased by less than 17 % compared with a control saline infusion . urinary n tau-miaa excretion in normal controls ( 273 + / - 14 micrograms/mmol creatinine ) was similar to that observed in patients with severe acute asthma ( 253 + / - 22 micrograms/mmol ) , antigen-induced bronchoconstriction ( 269 + / - 21 micrograms/mmol ) , seasonal allergic rhinitis ( 304 + / - 31 micrograms/mmol ) , and clinically stable bronchiectasis ( 270 + / - 22 micrograms/mmol ) . in contrast , large increases in metabolite excretion ( greater than 7,000 micrograms/mmol creatinine ) were observed in a patient with systemic mastocytosis where very high plasma histamine levels were recorded ( greater than 500 ng/ml ) and marked systemic hemodynamic effects occurred . we conclude that urinary n tau-miaa will only be increased in pathologies where sustained hyperhistaminemia occurs and that increased local histamine production in the lung or the upper airway does not cause a measurable change in the basal urinary excretion of this metabolite . 
vasopressin and oxytocin responses to illusory self-motion and nausea in man . vasopressin and oxytocin are nonapeptides secreted from the neurohypophysis ; increases in vasopressin are associated with nausea and vomiting in some , but not all , species . our aim was to determine whether plasma vasopressin and oxytocin levels were altered in healthy volunteers who did or did not develop nausea during vection , an optokinetic stimulus which produces the illusion of self-motion . vection was produced by rotating a drum with an inner surface of black and white vertical stripes around the seated stationary subject . gastric myoelectrical activity was recorded continuously throughout the experiment with electrodes positioned on the abdominal surface . plasma samples were obtained before vection and after drum rotation stopped when nausea and tachygastria were present . vasopressin and oxytocin were extracted from plasma and quantified by ria . during vection six subjects reported nausea and developed gastric dysrhythmias ; six other subjects had no nausea and remained in normal 3-cpm myoelectrical rhythms . vasopressin and oxytocin values before vection were similar in each group of subjects . one minute after vection stopped , plasma vasopressin levels were significantly greater ( p less than 0.05 ) in subjects experiencing nausea and tachygastrias ( 35.4 + / - 26.7 pmol/l ) than in those without symptoms ( 2.7 + / - 0.47 pmol/l ) . oxytocin levels were unchanged by either vection or nausea . it is concluded that 1 ) vasopressin , not oxytocin , neurons in the magnocellular-neurohypophyseal system are activated during vection-induced nausea and gastric dysrhythmias ; and 2 ) illusory self-motion may be used safely to study the neuroendocrine responses to brain-gut interactions and nausea in man . 
sensitivity of digoxigenin and biotin labelled probes for detection of human papillomavirus by in situ hybridisation . the sensitivity of digoxigenin and biotin labelled dna probes for the detection of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) by dot blotting and in situ hybridisation was compared in tissues from cervical , laryngeal , and anogenital neoplasia . probes were either labelled with digoxigenin by the random primer technique and detected with anti-digoxigenin antibody , or labelled with biotin by nick translation and detected with streptavidin , both methods having a common final visualisation procedure using alkaline phosphatase . digoxigenin labelled probes proved two to 10-fold more sensitive by quantitative dot blotting and four-fold more sensitive in detecting hpv 16 dna in a series of 31 anal carcinomas , compared with biotinylated probes . the digoxigenin method also produced less non-specific background staining of tissue sections than biotin labelled probes . it is concluded that digoxigenin dna labelling and detection provides a simple , reliable , and efficient alternative to the use of biotin or radioactive isotopes for the detection of hpv dna by in situ hybridisation . digoxigenin labelled probes also offer the possibility of double labelling in situ hybridisation procedures when used with biotin labelled probes to provide simultaneous identification of different dna sequences . 
different prevalence and degree of nonspecific bronchial hyperreactivity between seasonal and perennial rhinitis . from the patients observed at our respiratory allergology service , we selected patients with rhinitis only , without any past or present respiratory symptoms , for our study . all these patients had normal pulmonary function , were administered carbachol or methacholine bronchial challenges , and had one or more skin reactions to perennial or seasonal allergens . patients were allocated to three groups : group a , patients with seasonal rhinitis who were administered nonspecific challenges out of season ; group b , patients with seasonal rhinitis tested during the season ; and group c , patients with perennial rhinitis . the three groups were divided into subgroups according to the duration in years of rhinitis and to the degree of nonspecific bronchial responsiveness . the distribution into four groups of reactivity , arbitrarily defined as normal and mildly , moderately , and severely increased reactivity , was as follows : group a , 124 , 21 , 30 , 22 ; group b , 75 , 15 , 7 , and 21 : and group c , 69 , 17 , 39 , and 72 , respectively . the patients of group c ( perennial rhinitis ) demonstrated a distribution significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) different from subjects with seasonal rhinitis , both group a and group b. our results are consistent with the hypothesis that perennial rhinitis is much more important than seasonal rhinitis as a risk factor for developing nonspecific bronchial hyperresponsiveness . 
the role of histamine in allergic diseases . histamine , which is stored mainly in mast cells and basophils , is a prominent contributor to allergic disease . elevations in plasma or tissue histamine levels have been noted during anaphylaxis and experimental allergic responses of the skin , nose , and airways . of the four cardinal signs of asthma ( bronchospasm , edema , inflammation , and mucus secretion ) , histamine is capable of mediating the first two through its h1 receptor and mucus secretion through its h2 receptor . of the five cardinal signs of allergic rhinitis ( pruritus , mucosal edema , sneezing , mucus secretion , and late-phase inflammatory reactions ) , histamine is capable of mediating the first three through its h1 receptor . in the nose , mucus secretion can be reflexively mediated by h1 and possibly also by h2 receptors . in the skin the cardinal features of urticaria ( vasodilation , vascular permeability , and pruritus ) can be mediated by stimulation of the h1 receptor . in anaphylaxis histamine h1-receptor stimulation can mediate vascular permeability , smooth muscle contraction , and tachycardia , whereas h2-receptor stimulation can mediate mucus secretion . stimulation of both receptors can mediate vasodilation and reduce peripheral vascular resistance . thus although histamine is only one of many mediators of allergic disease , it plays a primary role in allergic rhinitis , urticaria , anaphylaxis , and to a lesser degree , asthma . 
the role of histamine in allergic rhinitis . studies using nasal provocation followed by nasal lavage have demonstrated that histamine plays an important role in the mediation of allergic rhinitis but not of rhinovirus infection . the response to antigen challenge is often biphasic . during the early response , increases in histamine levels appear to be associated with activation of mast cells . in a subset of persons who exhibit an additional late response , however , the rise in histamine is concomitant with an increase in the number of basophils . further evidence of the role of histamine in allergic rhinitis has emerged from nasal provocation experiments involving pretreatment with a variety of drugs known to antagonize or affect release of histamine . nasal provocation with histamine causes sneezing , itching , rhinorrhea , and nasal congestion . most h1 antihistamines have been found to inhibit sneezing and to lessen the increase in vascular permeability , but they do not affect histamine release . the h1 antihistamine terfenadine , however , inhibits histamine release during the early response ; effects on late response remain unknown . prednisone decreases histamine levels during the late , but not the early , response . one-week pretreatment with topical steroids , on the other hand , affects both the early and the late response . 
the role of antihistamines in otitis . chronic and recurrent otitis media can manifest as otitis media with effusion . both infection and eustachian tube obstruction ( eto ) have been found to play an important role in its pathogenesis . eto can be demonstrated during both early - and late-phase reactions in patients with allergic rhinitis after intranasal challenge with an allergen . intranasal challenge with either histamine or prostaglandin d2 also provokes eto , with the latter mediator perhaps more potent than the former . middle ear effusions from patients with chronic or recurrent otitis media have been found to contain dramatically increased concentrations of histamine relative to the concentrations in their plasma . the development of nasal and eustachian tube obstruction in allergic rhinitis patients has been prevented by pretreatment with an antihistamine plus decongestant before intranasal challenge with pollen allergen . investigations are currently under way to assess the effect of antihistamine pretreatment on nasal and eustachian tube obstruction in patients undergoing intranasal histamine challenge . 
immunotherapy abrogates the generation of eosinophil and neutrophil chemotactic activity during pollen season . in a group of 40 birch pollen-allergic patients with a history of rhinoconjunctivitis and wheezing during the pollen season , 20 were immunotherapy ( it ) treated preseasonally with birch-pollen extract ( pharmacia , uppsala , sweden ) . blood samples for determination of the levels of heat-labile eosinophil chemotactic activity ( hl-eca ) , heat-labile neutrophil chemotactic activity ( hl-nca ) , and heat-stable neutrophil chemotactic activity were collected before the season , at the beginning of the study , at the start of the season , at the peak , at the end , and after the birch-pollen season . the symptoms from rhinoconjunctivitis and airways , peak expiratory flow , and use of medication were recorded throughout the season . significant increases of hl-eca and hl-nca were observed in untreated compared with it-treated patients at the start of the season ( p less than 0.0001 for both activities ) and at the peak of the birch-pollen season ( p less than 0.0005 and p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . at the end of the season , hl-eca levels were not significantly different between the patient groups , whereas hl-nca levels were still higher in untreated patients ( p less than 0.005 ) . we conclude that it completely abrogates the generation of hl-eca and hl-nca during a pollen season . 
unterberger stepping test : a useful indicator of peripheral vestibular dysfunction ? deviation of gait in a stepping test has been proposed as a useful indicator of peripheral labyrinthine dysfunction . a prospective study of 26 patients suspected of having uncompensated peripheral labyrinthine dysfunction and 49 normal patients with normal labyrinthine dysfunction showed no significant difference in performance of the unterberger stepping test between patients with electronystagmographically significant canal paresis and those with normal vestibular function . 
ligmaject system for local anaesthesia in otology . the ligmaject syringe for local anaesthetic injection incorporates a pistol-grip handle and a ratchet system designed to inject a very tiny aliquot of anaesthetic per ' click ' . this instrument was used to provide local anaesthesia for 22 otological procedures on consenting adults . the performance of the ligmaject syringe compared favourably with that of the conventional dental syringe in terms of patient acceptability and user convenience . 
comparison of the goode t-tube with the armstrong tube in children with chronic otitis media with effusion . treatment of otitis media with effusion is focused on reaeration of the middle ear cavity . in achieving long-term aeration , the insertion of ventilation tubes that have a long duration of stay can be beneficial . the results are presented of a trial in which the goode t-tube was compared with the armstrong tube . fifteen children were treated between 1981 and 1986 with a t-tube in one ear and a conventional tube in the other . the results are different with regard to duration of stay in the tympanic membrane . re-insertions were necessary in 47 per cent in the armstrong group and in 20 per cent in the t-tube group . otorrhoea occurred in 20 per cent of the armstrong and 13 per cent of the t-tube intubated ears . a persistent perforation was present in 6 per cent of the ears in both groups . it is concluded that the goode t-tube is indicated primarily in cases when long-term ventilation is needed . 
long-term results of revision endolymphatic sac surgery . the results of revision endolymphatic sac surgery on 30 patients with unilateral meniere 's disease are presented . good control is achieved in 73.3 per cent of cases at six months , falling to 56.7 per cent at one year and only 33.3 per cent by four years . the long-term results are disappointing but are more favourable if the initial surgery was successful , if the hearing remains fluctuant and improves on glycerol dehydration prior to the revision procedure and also if the sac is intubated . the current place of endolymphatic sac surgery is discussed and revision surgery only recommended for carefully selected cases . 
comparison of electro and chemical cautery in the treatment of anterior epistaxis . in the ent department of the royal victoria hospital , belfast , the impression ( supported only by anecdotes ) was that electro-cautery was superior to chemical cautery in the treatment of simple anterior epistaxis . since no evaluation of the relative merits of electro and chemical cautery has been reported , a prospective randomized study was conducted to assess the effectiveness of electro-cautery and cautery with silver nitrate . the results of the study showed that there was no statistically significant difference between the two methods in either controlling the epistaxis or in the incidence of complications . it is concluded that since cautery with a silver nitrate tipped applicator is simpler , and of equal effectiveness , it would appear to be the treatment of choice for simple anterior epistaxis . 
role of endoscopy in diagnosing scleroma in its uncommon sites . eighty cases suffering from rhinoscleroma were studied . suspected cases were examined by sinoscopy , nasopharyngoscopy and bronchoscopy for detection of secondary involvement in these sites . antroscleroma , salpingoscleroma and tracheo-bronchoscleroma have been found in a relatively high percentage of cases . the role of endoscopy in early diagnosis , initial symptomatic treatment and follow-up cases is discussed . 
smoking cessation in chronic reinke 's oedema . in evaluating the long term results of surgical treatment of reinke 's oedema , there has been found to be a high incidence of recurrence . the recurrence rate is significantly lower amongst those patients who gave up smoking after treatment . a group of patients with chronic reinke 's oedema were followed for six months . maximum efforts were made to help the patients to stop smoking . twenty-nine patients entered the study , but only eight of them ( 28 per cent ) refrained from smoking ; all were women ( 39-70 years ) and all experienced reduced discomfort , although none of the voices were restored to normal . diffuse laryngitis disappeared completely , but the oedema did not disappear entirely in any patient . before treatment of chronic reinke 's oedema patients must be well advised and informed , and if surgery is decided upon , they must be urged most strongly to stop smoking , if they wish to enhance the possibility of satisfactory long-term results . 
second primary tumours of the larynx following bronchial carcinoma . the occurrence of multiple primary malignancies in patients with laryngeal cancer is well known . the possibility that lung cancer patients may be at risk of subsequent laryngeal cancer is less well recognized . the possibility of laryngeal cancer developing later has implications for the follow-up of lung cancer patients . three cases of subsequent laryngeal primary cancer occurring in survivors of bronchial cancer are presented and the implications are discussed . 
endolymphatic hydrops precipitated by haemodialysis . we report a case of endolymphatic hydrops preceded by haemodialysis in the contralateral ear of a patient with known meniere 's disease , and discuss the possible mechanism . it is suggested that the sudden decrease of plasma osmolality during haemodialysis acts as a reverse glycerol test . the audiometric and electrophysiological recordings pre - and post-dialysis and the induction of the meniere 's triad of symptoms during dialysis , were strongly indicative of the presence of endolymphatic hydrops . 
epistaxis as an unusual presentation of an antrochoanal polyp . antrochoanal polyps rarely present with severe epistaxis . we present the case of a young male patient who presented in such a manner , thus leading to the suspicion of an angiofibroma as the underlying pathology . the radiological investigations , treatment and pathological features are discussed . 
infectious mononucleosis complicated by lingual tonsillitis . although upper airway obstruction and superimposed infection are well-known complications of infectious mononucleosis , lingual tonsillitis in this context has not been mentioned in the literature . we describe a case of acute bacterial lingual tonsillitis with airway obstruction complicating infectious mononucleosis . the role of the base of tongue region in the pathophysiology of infectious mononucleosis is discussed . 
acute upper airway obstruction following teflon injection of a vocal cord ; the value of nebulized adrenaline and a helium/oxygen mixture in its management a 67-year-old man presented with a 45-year history of a week voice . this was result of polio which had left him with a right vocal cord palsy . the patient underwent a teflon injection of the right vocal cord under general anaesthesia to improve the quality of his voice . in the immediate post-operative period , he suffered acute upper airway obstruction . the problem of acute upper airway obstruction following teflon injection is considered and its management with nebulized adrenaline and a helium/oxygen mixture is discussed . 
adenoid cystic carcinoma : a comparison between ct , mr and gd mr imaging techniques . nasopharyngeal carcinoma continues to be a difficult diagnostic problem in many patients . it is well known that amongst the many and varied manifestations of this disease , a unilateral middle ear effusion in an adult should be regarded with suspicion . such a case in a 42-year-old patient is presented . in this case the benefit of gadolinium enhanced magnetic resonance imaging over and above computerized tomography is demonstrated . 
dysequilibrium and otitis media with effusion : what is the association ? an association between non-suppurative otitis media ( nsom ) and symptoms of dysequilibrium has been observed but not previously quantified in children ( gates , 1980 ; busis , 1983 ; blayney and coleman , 1984 ) . this study compared the incidence of balance related problems in 154 children with surgically proven glue ear and 51 children with normal ear function . symptoms ranging from true vertigo to mild ataxia were discovered in 22 per cent of the children with nsom but in none of those within the control group ( p less than 0.001 ) . periods of dysequilibrium were associated with episodes of otalgia in 64 per cent of the children but were not increased in those with unilateral compared to those with bilateral effusions . complete resolution of symptoms occurred in 85 per cent of children following the insertion of grommets . a history of balance disturbance should be actively sought in all children with otitis media with effusion , and when present , provides a strong indication for early operative intervention . 
mucosal thickening on sinus x-rays and its significance . mucosal thickening is commonly seen on x-rays of the paranasal sinuses taken in the ent department . this sometimes leads to a sinus washout , which is clear , even though the x-rays were strongly suggestive of disease . this paper examines the prevalence of sinus x-ray anomalies in a general population , having facial x-rays for conditions other than possible sinus disease . the study suggests that up to 50 per cent of the so-called normal population may have sinus x-ray appearances consistent with sinus disease , and this may partly explain clear returns on sinus washout . 
multiple primary malignancies in patients with malignant tumours of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses . the incidence of multiple primary malignancies ( mpm ) was analysed in 1297 patients with malignant tumours of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses . the patients were followed for a minimum of six years or until death . the incidence of mpm was 3.4 per cent ( 44/1297 ) which is lower in patients with malignant tumours of other regions in the upper aerodigestive tract . five of the 44 patients had second malignancies within previously irradiated areas . there was a difference between the proportion of histologies occurring in irradiated tissues compared with the overall 1297 patients . this finding suggests that radiotherapy may induce a second cancer . 
radiation therapy of laryngeal cancer : a twenty year experience . this paper reviews a 20 year experience of radiation treatment of 286 laryngeal cancers and presents results with a minimum five year follow-up . all cases presented had glottic or supraglottic squamous cell carcinomas with no clinical evidence of nodal metastasis . a policy of primary radiotherapy with surgery for salvage of treatment failures , produced control of primary disease and prevention of metastases superior to most other regimes documented in the literature . 
effect of microwave and ionizing radiation in patients with recurrent laryngeal carcinoma . this study describes the treatment and survival of 54 patients with gross recurrent laryngeal carcinoma after radiotherapy . twenty-six patients were treated with local ultra-high frequency hyperthermia in combination with radiotherapy and chemotherapy ( hrch ) . twenty-eight control patients were treated with radiotherapy and chemotherapy ( rch ) . eight patients ( 33 per cent ) in hrch showed a three year survival but no patient in the rch group . at two years 18 patients ( 75 per cent ) in hrch and two ( 7 per cent ) in rch survived . 
another hazard of ear syringing : malignant external otitis . a case of malignant external otitis is presented . this occurred in a healthy 72-year-old non-diabetic , non-immuno-compromised man after ear syringing . the infection was treated with oral ciprofloxacin for eight weeks with complete resolution . 
laryngeal metastasis from colonic adenocarcinoma . metastases to the larynx from distant primaries are very rare . usually the secondary lesion comes from an hypernephroma or malignant melanoma . a case of metastatic laryngeal tumour from a colonic adenocarcinoma , occurring in a 59-year-old woman , is presented and the routes for laryngeal spread are discussed . the poor survival-rate of these patients justified only conservative surgery . 
intralaryngotracheal thyroid . a case of intralaryngotracheal thyroid in a 57-year-old man is presented . the treatment modalities are considered and the previous literature is reviewed . 
efficacy and morbidity of partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy . in recent years , we have seen increasing use of partial laryngectomies for larger lesions that were previously treated by total laryngectomy . the resultant closer margins have made postoperative radiation therapy an important adjuvant treatment to conservation laryngeal surgery . we review the university of california , los angeles , experience with combination partial laryngectomy and postoperative radiation therapy between 1973 and 1987 for treatment of carcinoma of the larynx . twenty-four such patients who underwent partial laryngectomies and postoperative radiation therapy are examined . techniques of treatment , complications , and the functional ability of the remaining larynx are discussed . the locoregional control rate at 5 years was 80 % . risk factors associated with an increased risk of recurrence were positive margins , vascular invasion , and extranodal spread . there were no major problems with postoperative wound healing or airway management during the radiation treatment . vocal and swallowing function were well preserved in most cases . we conclude that combination partial laryngectomy and radiation therapy permits preservation of laryngeal function without serious complications , and therefore is an effective treatment for selected patients with carcinoma of the larynx . 
computed tomography staging of the paranasal sinuses in chronic hyperplastic rhinosinusitis . in this study , the computed tomography scans of 100 patients with chronic hyperplastic rhinosinusitis were reviewed to establish a clinical staging system . fourteen percent of the patients were classified as stage i ( single-focus disease ) ; 36 % as stage ii ( multifocal disease responsive to conservative therapy ) ; 32 % as stage iii ( diffuse disease partially responsive to medication ) ; and 16 % as stage iv ( diffuse disease associated with bony changes and poorly responsive to conservative treatment ) . the incidence of recurrent or persistent disease ranged from 13 % for stage ii to 30 % for stage iv . stage i and iii patients had 13 % and 18 % recurrence rates , respectively . computed tomography staging is shown to be useful in outlining operative strategies and is a reliable prognosticator of the disease process . 
intraoral-extramaxillary sinus approach for ligation of the maxillary artery : an anatomic study with clinical correlates . surgical control of severe epistaxis is usually reserved for cases refractory to more conservative techniques . we present our experience with intraoral ligation of the maxillary artery as it courses through the buccal fat pad before it enters the pterygopalatine fossa and branches posterior to the maxilla . this technique has been found useful in the control of nasal hemorrhage as well as an adjunct to other surgical procedures , such as removal of benign and malignant neoplasms involving the maxilla and paranasal sinuses . this technique was used for ligation of the maxillary artery in 20 patients . the artery was readily identified in some cases , but required more extensive dissection in others ; therefore , an anatomic study in 18 preserved and fresh cadaver specimens was undertaken to investigate the variability of the maxillary artery in the region of the buccal fat pad . there appeared to be significant variation in the distance from the buccal mucosal incision site , as well as variation in the relationship to the pterygoid muscles . this relationship to the pterygoids explains the occasional difficulty in locating the artery for ligation . this technique represents a reasonable alternative to the more traditional transantral approach to ligation of the maxillary artery , as long as the surgeon understands the anatomy of the region , its variations , and where the artery may be located if not immediately apparent . no major complications have been experienced . 
vocal cord paralysis in children . bilateral vocal cord paralysis is a common cause of stridor in infants and children . there are significant differences in this entity between children and adults with regard to etiology , diagnosis , management , and outcome . a review of 10 years ' experience at children 's hospital of philadelphia identified 51 children seen with the diagnosis of vocal cord paralysis . these cases were evaluated with respect to etiology of paralysis , whether unilateral or bilateral , delay in diagnosis , need for tracheotomy , abnormality of voice , surgical treatment , and outcome . guidelines for management for a child with vocal cord paralysis are presented with emphasis on flexible endoscopic evaluation and conservative management . 
myogenic influences on the electrical auditory brainstem response ( eabr ) in humans . two cases demonstrating the effects of myogenic artifact on the electrical auditory brainstem response ( eabr ) when using a promontory stimulation site are presented . intensity-response functions were obtained in the unparalyzed condition , then repeated after infusion of a neuromuscular paralyzing agent . in both cases , the myogenic response was observed at lower stimulus intensities than the eabr components . as intensity increased , the myogenic responses grew at extremely rapid rates and made any subsequent identification of auditory responses virtually impossible . to alleviate the adverse influence of myogenic components , general anesthesia and a paralyzing agent must be incorporated into the test protocol when acquiring the eabr using a promontory site of stimulation . 
evaluation of neonatal subglottic stenosis : a 3-year prospective study . subglottic stenosis is the most common cause of chronic airway obstruction . it results in prolonged tracheal cannulation of infants and children . following the widespread adoption over the past 20 years of prolonged intubation for respiratory support in neonates , the incidence of acquired subglottic stenosis increased dramatically . on january 1 , 1987 , we began a 3-year prospective study to delineate potential etiologic factors involved in the development of subglottic stenosis in neonates . the present study analyzes data from 289 infants . relationships between birth weight , gestational age , endotracheal tube size , duration of intubation and ventilation , number and difficulty of intubations , and the subsequent need for medical and surgical therapy are discussed . whole organ larynges from autopsy specimens provide histological correlation . 
the efficacy of comprehensive neck dissection with or without postoperative radiotherapy in nodal metastases of squamous cell carcinoma of the upper respiratory and digestive tracts . neck recurrence-free curves corrected for local recurrence were compared for 494 patients who underwent 565 comprehensive neck dissections . in 42 dissections , no radicality could be obtained . of the 523 histologically radical dissections , examination revealed tumor in 352 cases . patients in whom three or more positive nodes or extranodal spread in one or more nodes were found received postoperative radiotherapy . in the histologically n0 group , the incidence of neck recurrence after 5 years was 3 % ; in the n + group as a whole , it was 10 % . analysis of the influence of extranodal spread and the number of positive nodes showed that the group with one or two positive nodes without extranodal spread ( that did not receive postoperative radiotherapy ) did not statistically differ from the other groups . this suggests that the results of the group with one or two positive nodes without extranodal spread can be improved by postoperative radiotherapy . 
esthesioneuroblastoma : surgical treatment without radiation . this study compares the treatment of two groups of patients diagnosed with esthesioneuroblastoma limited to the nasal cavity without evidence of cribriform plate erosion . five patients were treated with radiation and extracranial excision , and eight patients were treated by craniofacial resection only . the incidences of local recurrence were 60 % and 12 % , respectively . the paper also presents a new staging classification for these tumors . 
artificial restoration of voice . i : experiments in phonatory control of the reinnervated canine larynx . coordinated electronic pacing of implanted nerve pedicles into paralyzed laryngeal muscles has allowed selective dynamic control of abduction , adduction , and elongation of the vocal cords . modifications of the original circuit in a cervical muscle model has added fine tuning to basic " all-or-none " pacing . rehabilitation of phonation illustrated the sophisticated nature of voice and the need for restoration of fine tuning . five mongrel dogs received nerve-muscle pedicles into the thyroarytenoideus , cricothyroideus , and posterior cricothyroideus after denervation of one hemilarynx . following appropriate reinnervation time , pedicles and intact recurrent laryngeal nerves were injected with currents of variable amplitudes and pulse widths to achieve graded vocal fold control while air was blown intratracheally towards the glottic chink . videoscopic and spectral analyses indicated that artificial phonation could be restored to frequencies measured in the normal state . these experiments suggested that rehabilitation of the impaired voice by servocontrol might eventually be feasible . 
an in vivo canine model for testing treatment effects in laryngeal hyperadduction disorders . adductor spastic dysphonia is a voice disorder characterized by a strained , squeezed , effortful voice produced by true and false cord hyperadduction . an in vivo canine model has been developed to simulate hyperadduction of the true cords . using this model , the thyroarytenoid muscle was found to have a greater effect on intraglottic and subglottic pressure than cricothyroid muscle contraction . the intraglottic and subglottic pressure was reduced after simulated recurrent laryngeal paralysis . this model can be used in future studies to compare laryngeal treatment modalities for disorders that have a component of vocal cord hyperadduction , such as spastic dysphonia . 
lasers for otosclerosis -- which one if any and why . laboratory stapedotomy and stapedectomy revisions were performed in human temporal bones while pyroelectric wave energy analyzers and ultrasensitive thermocouples measured energy absorption at the stapes footplate and in the vestibule . analysis of these data shows that the visible lasers ( argon and ktp-532 ) possess ideal optical properties and precision for otosclerosis surgery but conversely have less than ideal tissue characteristics . the co2 laser possesses ideal tissue characteristics . recent advances in optical engineering and pulsing the energy have increased the precision of this laser to now provide the accuracy required for delicate microsurgery . two clinical studies analyze the long-term hearing results and complications in patients who had undergone co2 laser stapedectomy revision ( 59 patients ) and co2 laser stapedotomy ( 153 patients ) . the advantages that these laser techniques provide over conventional surgery methods are discussed . 
extrapulmonary pneumocystosis : clinical features in human immunodeficiency virus infection . pneumocystis carinii infection is reported with increasing frequency as a cause of disease outside of the respiratory tract in patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . extrapulmonary pneumocystosis is not limited to patients in any discrete risk group for hiv infection . patients with hiv infection who develop extrapulmonary pneumocystosis frequently do not have concurrent p. carinii pneumonia . signs and symptoms of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis are nonspecific but when present are frequently referable to the tissues or organs involved . extrapulmonary pneumocystosis can be diagnosed by examination of tissue biopsies from affected sites using standard histologic techniques . therapy with antimicrobial agents used to treat p. carinii pneumonia has been effective in some patients . an association between use of aerosolized pentamidine for prevention of p. carinii pneumonia and development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis has been suggested but remains unconfirmed . other factors such as the use of zidovudine and duration of immunodeficiency may also be important to the pathogenesis of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis . further studies are needed to better identify risk factors that may predispose patients to the development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis . 
chronic lyme disease with an expansive granulomatous lesion in the cerebellopontine angle . expansive granulomatous lesions in the posterior cranial fossa are rare and have not been reported in conjunction with lyme disease . we report a patient with verified borrelia burgdorferi infection who developed a tumor in the cerebellopontine angle . rapid growth of the tumor led to signs of cerebral compression and to hydrocephalus . surgical intervention was required despite florid meningitis . the histological examination showed inflammatory , nonspecific granulation tissue . the origin of this tissue is almost certainly causally related to the b. burgdorferi infection . signs of inflammation resolved rapidly after subtotal resection . the clinical , radiological , and biochemical course is documented . this is the first report of an expansive cerebral lesion in the chronic phase of lyme disease . 
management of chronic middle ear effusion with prednisone combined with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . fifty-three patients were enrolled and evaluable in a randomized , double-blinded controlled clinical trial comparing prednisone for 7 days plus trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole ( tmp/smz ) for 30 days vs. tmp/smz alone in treating chronic middle ear effusion ( mee ) . clearing of the effusion in both ears or in one when only one was involved was called complete resolution ; clearing in one of two affected ears was called partial resolution . the outcomes 2 weeks after initiation of therapy of 26 patients initially treated with prednisone plus tmp/smz were complete resolution in 20 , partial resolution in three , and unchanged in three . the outcomes in 27 patients initially treated with tmp/smz alone were complete resolution in eight , partial resolution in three , unchanged in 13 and development of acute otitis media in three ( p less than 0.01 for complete resolution ) . two weeks after initiation of therapy , patients with a mee that failed to clear were crossed over to the alternative regimen . overall 29 of 41 patients ( 71 % ) who received oral prednisone plus tmp/smz initially or after the crossover had complete resolution of their middle ear effusion at 2 weeks after starting prednisone and tmp/smz . five of 35 ( 14 % ) patients treated with prednisone plus tmp/smz and one of six ( 17 % ) patients treated with tmp/smz alone who had complete resolution at 4 weeks required subsequent referrals for tympanostomy tubes . a course of prednisone for 7 days plus tmp/smz for 30 days with monthly follow-up should be considered in children with mee persisting beyond 6-8 weeks before referral for tympanostomy tube placement . 
improved technique for a one-stage repair of significant defects of the ear . an improved technique for repair of severe acquired partial defects of the auricle in one stage is described . the common postauricular flap with its base on the margin of the auricular defect is usually unable to repair a severe partial auricular defect in one stage because of the limited length of the flap . the authors developed this technique by means of lengthening the flap with a piece of subcutaneous tissue of the scalp , so that the ear framework can be covered completely in one stage . all flaps in this group survived totally . seven patients with severe acquired partial defects of the auricle underwent this procedure , and good results were obtained . 
nasolaryngoscopy for family physicians . nasolaryngoscopy is easy to learn and safe and convenient to perform . it is readily accepted by patients and is a rich source of clinical information . the flexible nasolaryngoscope allows the physician to directly observe the anatomy of the nasal passages , pharynx and larynx . the procedure is helpful for identifying the etiology of chronic nasal complaints and hoarseness . other possible indications for nasolaryngoscopy include suspected nasal foreign body , recurrent nasal or pharyngeal bleeding , and epiglottitis . with the use of this instrument , treatment of otolaryngologic conditions may be more specific , thereby reducing unnecessary referral or delay in treatment . 
laryngeal oedema from a neck haematoma . a complication of internal jugular vein cannulation . laryngeal oedema occurred after formation of a neck haematoma after attempted internal jugular vein cannulation . this resulted in complete respiratory obstruction and respiratory arrest and it was impossible to ventilate her lungs manually or intubate her trachea . oxygenation of the patient was only possible using transtracheal ventilation . 
toxic streptococcal syndrome . the streptococcal toxic shocklike syndrome is a recently recognized , multisystem disorder that shares many of the features of staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome , but is caused by toxins elaborated by group a beta-hemolytic streptococcus . we describe a patient who fulfilled the major criteria for the clinical diagnosis of toxic shock syndrome ( fever , hypotension , multisystem dysfunction , and diffuse macular erythroderma followed by desquamation ) and who demonstrated serologic evidence suggesting streptococcal infection . in patients presenting with clinical findings consistent with a toxic shocklike syndrome , the emergency physician should consider streptococcal infection as a potential etiology . 
human basophil releasability . vi . changes in basophil releasability in patients with allergic rhinitis or bronchial asthma . we evaluated basophil releasability in two groups of allergic patients with positive skin tests to dermatophagoides pteronyssinus major allergen ( der p l ) ( 29 adults with bronchial asthma and 17 with allergic rhinitis ) and in 31 age-matched normal donors . both basophil reactivity ( maximal percent histamine release ) and basophil sensitivity ( the concentration that causes 50 % of maximal percent histamine release : hc50 ) to der p l in patients with asthma were similar to those in patients with allergic rhinitis . on the contrary , basophil reactivity to anti-ige was significantly higher in patients with asthma ( 58.0 + / - 3.6 % ) than in patients with allergic rhinitis ( 46.3 + / - 5.2 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . both groups of patients showed an increased releasability compared to control subjects ( 27.3 + / - 4.6 % ; p less than 0.001 ) , whereas there were no significant differences in basophil sensitivity to anti-ige among the three groups of donors . differences were also found with respect to basophil reactivity and sensitivity to f-met peptide , whereas no differences appeared when basophils from the three groups of donors were challenged with the ca2 + ionophore a23187 . there was a significant correlation between basophil reactivity and sensitivity to der p l and to anti-ige in both asthmatic and allergic rhinitis patients . a significant correlation was found between basophil reactivity and sensitivity to anti-ige and serum ige level only in patients with bronchial asthma , whereas no correlations were found in patients with allergic rhinitis . there was no correlation between in vivo mast cell releasability and in vitro basophil releasability in response to der p l in either group of allergic patients . 
delayed endolymphatic hydrops and its relationship to meniere 's disease . delayed endolymphatic hydrops ( eh ) can be characterized as having ipsilateral and contralateral types . they are similar in that both have early and late phases of otologic symptoms and that the early phase is a profound hearing loss in one ear . the late phases differ , however , in that the ipsilateral type develops the symptoms of eh ( episodic vertigo ) in the deaf ear and the contralateral type develops the symptoms of eh ( fluctuating hearing loss and/or episodic vertigo ) in the hearing ear . in more than half the cases of both types of delayed eh , the profound hearing losses in the early phase are simply discovered to be present in early childhood without a known time of onset . the temporal bones of two patients with contralateral delayed eh show pathologic changes in the deaf ears that are similar to those known to occur in mumps and measles labyrinthitis , whereas the pathologic changes in the hearing ears are similar to those known to occur in meniere 's disease . these observations support the proposition that meniere 's disease may occur as a delayed sequela of inner ear damage sustained during an attack of subclinical viral labyrinthitis occurring in childhood . 
head stability and gaze during vertical whole-body oscillations . to understand head and eye stabilities during upright locomotion , we investigated head and eye movements during vertical whole-body oscillations of various amplitudes ( 1 to 10 cm ) and frequencies ( 1 to 3 hz ) in both normal subjects ( n = 10 ) and patients with bilateral labyrinthine loss ( n = 5 ) . vertical oscillations produced pitching motions of the head , of which the amplitude was markedly altered by a change in the oscillation frequency or the displacement . vertical eye movements , being correlated with pitching head movements , were scarcely modified by gaze at 2 and 3 hz . acquired bilateral lesions presented deteriorated head stability and physically induced eye movements under stronger stimulations . however , significant increase of head movement upon stepping and suppression of pitching motion upon running , both characteristically found in bilateral lesions , were not reproduced by passive oscillations . thus , these features during active locomotion may result from imbalance produced by alternate bipedal motions and from adaptation to minimize oscillopsia , respectively . 
facial nerve monitoring in otologic surgery : clinical indications and intraoperative technique . while identification of the intratemporal portion of the facial nerve is mandatory in most otologic surgical procedures , inadvertent instrumentation , traction , or thermal injury may still result from inaccurate delineation , purposeful avoidance , or false protection of this critical structure . improved functional preservation of the facial nerve has been achieved in acoustic neuroma surgery through the monitoring of evoked facial electromyographic activity . this technique may also be used during otologic procedures in which facial nerve manipulation is anticipated in the management of recurrent cholesteatoma , temporal bone trauma , congenital deformity , or purposeful access for cochlear implantation . potential indications for using facial nerve monitoring in contemporary otologic surgery are detailed through illustrative case presentations , and necessary instrumentation and techniques are briefly reviewed . intraoperative monitoring can assist the surgeon in isolating the facial nerve when chronic inflammation , traumatic injury , or anomalous development has resulted in distortion or absence of microanatomic landmarks . 
titration streptomycin therapy for bilateral meniere 's disease . follow-up report . initial reports of the use of parenteral streptomycin for bilateral meniere 's disease ( md ) have demonstrated success in reducing the vestibular symptoms and , in some patients , stabilizing hearing . the long-term follow-up ( mean , 5.1 years ) of 19 patients treated with intramuscular streptomycin for bilateral md is presented . the amount of streptomycin administered ( 5 to 50 g ) was determined by clinical symptoms and by serial testing of the reduction in the slow-phase velocity on electronystagmography . episodic vertigo was totally relieved in 12 patients and improved in severity and frequency in an additional 4 patients . permanent posttreatment dysequilibrium occurred in 47 % of the patients treated . the changes in hearing ( speech reception threshold ) were independent of the therapeutic effect of streptomycin on the vestibular system . the overall results suggest that the intramuscular titration of streptomycin should continue to be considered as one of the therapeutic options in patients with disabling vertigo due to bilateral md . 
drop attacks with meniere 's syndrome . we report the clinical features of 12 patients with drop attacks associated with meniere 's syndrome . each described a sensation of being pushed , thrown , or knocked to the ground or a sudden illusion of movement of the environment that led to a fall . these episodes were not accompanied by symptoms of their typical attacks of meniere 's syndrome . the drop attacks occurred early and late in the course of the disease ; they were the initial manifestation in 1 patient . in the majority the episodes spontaneously remitted , although meniere 's syndrome continued to progress . these attacks probably result from a sudden mechanical deformation of the otolithic membrane of the utricle or saccule due to pressure gradients within the inner ear . they are important to recognize because their prognosis is relatively benign compared to other causes of drop attacks . 
the nasolabial flap as a single-stage procedure . the nasolabial flap is a useful reconstructive technique for the repair of defects on the nose . an improved technique used in 32 patients is presented , which allows use of this procedure as a single-stage rather than the more commonly seen two-stage procedure . the alterations include the following : ( 1 ) the excision of a burow 's triangle superior edge of the defect toward the inner canthus ; ( 2 ) the use of a periosteal or suspension suture to minimize tenting across the concave junction of the nose and cheek ; ( 3 ) wide undermining of the skin surrounding the defect to create a stabilizing platelike scar ; ( 4 ) significant thinning of the donor flap ; and ( 5 ) adjust the size of the flap to recreate the original preincisional skin tension on the flap after suturing . none of the 32 patients presented required a second-stage procedure to correct trapdoor defects or to recreate natural folds or creases . 
left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis : an unusual presentation of histoplasmosis . a case of histoplasmosis seen as left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis in a 49-year-old man is described . the patient had roentgenographic findings of a solitary , noncalcified left upper lobe mass and mediastinal adenopathy . tissue diagnosis of histoplasmosis was obtained using a thoracotomy , allowing institution of appropriate treatment . 
lovastatin . warfarin interaction . two patients who developed hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding due to lovastatin-warfarin drug interaction are described . because of the wider use of lovastatin and warfarin , heightened clinical awareness of this potentially serious interaction must be publicized . therefore , prothrombin time should be monitored diligently when warfarin is prescribed to patients receiving lovastatin . 
leiomyosarcoma of the sinonasal tract . a clinicopathologic study of nine cases . the clinicopathologic features of nine cases of sinonasal tract leiomyosarcoma ( sntl ) referred to the armed forces institute of pathology , washington , dc , during the period from 1970 through 1988 are described . this report represents the largest study to date on sntl , and our results are compared with the 21 previously reported cases of sntl . of the nine cases described , patients ranged in age from 22 to 86 years ( mean , 55 years ) . the most frequent clinical presentation was nasal obstruction unilaterally . the neoplasms were limited solely to the nasal cavity in four cases ( 44 % ) and involved both the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses in the remaining five cases . light microscopic , immunocytochemical , and ultrastructural features served to characterize these tumors as malignant neoplasms of smooth-muscle origin . in contrast with previous studies , immunocytochemistry was employed to differentiate sntl from other spindle cell malignancies of the region , using newly available monoclonal antibodies to smooth-muscle antigens . treatment was surgical . radiotherapy or chemotherapy did not appear to affect the progression of the disease . furthermore , no relationship was found between the aggressiveness of sntl and morphologic parameters ( eg , mitotic count and tumor size ) . instead , prognosis was dependent on the distribution of disease at presentation . of all 30 patients with sntl described to date , 10 had the neoplasm confined solely to the nasal cavity . the 10 neoplasms did not recur . we conclude that sntl may best be regarded as a locally aggressive neoplasm with only limited metastatic potential and that it could be curable by complete surgical excision . 
epstein-barr virus-related antibody . changes in titers after therapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma . using long-term follow-up data from a prospective , collaborative study of 182 north american patients , we evaluated the significance of various serologic tests for antibody to epstein-barr virus in predicting outcome after treatment in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma . we restudied these patients by examining repeated measurements of each titer at various times after diagnosis and treatment . we looked for associations between trends of titers , measured as the slope of log ( titer ) against time , and titer level , measured as the mean of log ( titer ) , with the outcome : alive and no evidence of disease ; alive with recurrence ; or dead of nasopharyngeal carcinoma . we found that posttreatment sequential measurements do not predict outcome . 
distortion product otoacoustic emissions in normal and impaired adult ears . distortion product otoacoustic emissions ( dpoes ) were recorded in a group of normally hearing subjects ( 29 ears ) and a group of subjects whose conditions were diagnosed as sensorineural hearing loss ( 23 ears ) to study any correlation that might exist between dpoe characteristics and hearing impairment of different configurations . three different dpoe paradigms have been used to investigate the influence of different test parameters on the dpoe data for normal and hearing-impaired ears . all normally hearing ears demonstrated detectable dpoes , provided that the primary tone level was above a certain value . hearing-impaired ears produced substantially reduced dpoes compared with normally hearing subjects when the primary frequencies f1 and f2 corresponded to the region of hearing loss . our data also suggested that , in general , more than one f2/f1 ratio is needed to examine any particular frequency region . the dpoes provide frequency-specific information about cochlear function , which after further development , may form a basis for a noninvasive , objective method of evaluating cochlear function . 
a patient-oriented approach to perilymph fistula . the subject of perilymph fistula is controversial in part because the preoperative diagnosis of perilymph fistula is difficult . patients suffering auditory and vestibular symptoms secondary to perilymph fistula , therefore , present a dilemma to the practicing physician . in some instances , patients with auditory and vestibular symptoms in the absence of perilymph fistula will be subjected to middle ear exploration without benefit , while in other instances patients with auditory and vestibular symptoms secondary to perilymph fistula will be denied surgical treatment . auditory and vestibular symptoms are a quality of life issue . therefore , in an effort to provide care of the highest quality the patient must be actively involved in the decision process . such involvement can be meaningful only after the patient is carefully counseled as to the pros and cons of surgery , as well as the alternatives . a prognostic paradigm based on the personal experience of one of us ( w.l.m. ) with perilymph fistula patients is described and is used in patient consultation in an effort to facilitate decision making . 
chondrosarcoma of the larynx . diagnosis with magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography . chondrosarcomas are the most common sarcomas of the larynx . they are generally slow-growing lesions with insidious onset of symptoms . we are presenting a case of chondrosarcoma that recurred 10 years after excision of a presumed chondroma . computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) scans were performed . both studies delineated the lesion nicely . to the best of our knowledge , this is the first report on mri characteristics of chondrosarcoma of the larynx . a review of the literature regarding the use of computed tomography in the management of chondrosarcoma is presented . the mri characteristics are discussed and the two scanning modalities are compared . computed tomography is an excellent study in its ability to demonstrate the extent of the lesion within the laryngeal skeleton . furthermore , it is more highly sensitive than plain roentgenograms in the detection of calcifications that are highly suggestive of chondrosarcoma . alternatively , mri can also demonstrate the lesion within the larynx but it has the added advantage of superior contrast resolution of the tumor and paralaryngeal tissues . when the three-dimensional imaging capacity of mri is considered as well , mri seems to be the superior study . 
small fenestra stapedotomy using a fiberoptic hand-held argon laser in obliterative otosclerosis . obliterative otosclerosis has been a challenge since the advent of stapes surgery . " drill-out " procedures have had a generally poorer prognosis than conventional stapes surgery because of excessive bleeding , acoustic trauma from the burr , and reclosure of the oval window by otosclerosis . in this report , we describe our early experience using a hand-held fiberoptic argon laser for small fenestra stapedotomy in 10 cases of obliterative otosclerosis . closure of the air-bone gap to within 10 db was seen in 100 % of the patients . there was no significant sensorineural hearing loss , vertigo , or facial weakness . argon-laser stapedotomy using a hand-held fiberoptic system is a safe and effective alternative to drill-out stapedotomy in cases of obliterative otosclerosis . 
chondrogenic potential of tragal perichondrium : a cause of hearing loss following stapedectomy . tragal perichondrium is a widely used tissue seal in the oval window following stapes surgery . autogenous and easily accessible , it is a suitable substance to cover the vestibule in total stapedectomy , and to seal around the prosthesis in small-fenestra stapedotomy . the incidence of complications from the use of perichondrium in this manner is exceedingly low . we report a case where tragal perichondrium in the oval window resulted in the proliferation of cartilage . the cartilage displaced the stapes prosthesis , resulting in a conductive loss . although the chondrogenic potential of perichondrium is known , we are not aware of other reports implicating this as a cause of failure in stapes surgery . the pertinent clinical and experimental literature regarding chondrogenesis is reviewed . this information suggests that the formation of cartilage from perichondrium in the oval window might be influenced by mechanical trauma and tissue orientation . 
selective management of early glottic cancer . seventy patients with stage i and ii glottic cancer were treated at the university of utah school of medicine hospitals from 1980 through 1987 . forty-four patients had stage i cancer and 26 patients had stage ii . the overall survival in the stage i group was 82 % . primary site control was 93 % with only three deaths due to laryngeal cancer . local control rates were 93 % with co2 laser excision , 80 % with co2 laser and irradiation , and 67 % with radiation alone . stage ii glottic patients had an overall survival of 61.5 % with a local control rate of 76 % . twenty-one of 24 patients were treated by full-course irradiation . of the eight patients who recurred at the primary site , all were irradiation failures who had initial bulky disease and impaired vocal cord mobility . selective co2 laser excision was highly effective , whereas radiation therapy results were somewhat disappointing . open partial laryngectomy should be considered in bulky stage ii disease patients . 
allograft tympanoplasty : predictive value of preoperative status . the functional and anatomical results of a series of 181 consecutive allograft tympanoplasties for ears with drum perforation and an intact ossicular chain were retrospectively reviewed and related to preoperative factors . drum closure was realized in 92 % ( 166 of 181 cases evaluated 1 year after surgery ) , and 96.6 % of the reconstructed drums were still intact 3 years after surgery ( 118 cases evaluated ) . an air-bone gap of less than 21 db was reached in 79.6 % ( of a total of 162 cases ) 1 year after surgery , and in 78 % ( of a total of 118 cases ) 3 years after surgery . age , contralateral pathology , the wet or dry status of the ear preoperatively , and the preoperative air-bone gap had no influence on anatomical results . the preoperative air-bone gap did not predict the postoperative air-bone gap . the influence of age and existence of contralateral pathology on hearing gain was only visible in some of the strictly defined patient groups . the wet preoperative status of the ear generally predicted lower functional gain . 
otologic disease in aids patients : ct correlation . the contrast-enhanced computed tomographic ( ct ) scans of the temporal bone and brain in 18 patients with otologic disease and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) were retrospectively reviewed . seven scans revealed middle ear and mastoid disease ; three scans were consistent with central nervous system ( cns ) pathology ; and eight scans demonstrated no abnormalities . ct scanning was found useful in localizing otopathology and diagnosing cns toxoplasmosis , aural polyps , osteomyelitis , mastoiditis , and middle ear effusion due to hypertrophic lymphoid tissue . the authors conclude that aids patients with sensorineural hearing loss should undergo contrast-enhanced brain ct scans to rule out cns pathology ; aids status does not alter criteria for ct scanning in patients with conductive hearing loss ; and that images of the nasopharynx should be included on temporal bone ct scans of patients with conductive hearing loss in order to exclude eustachian tube obstruction by hypertrophic lymphoid tissue . 
the inferiorly based superior tympanomeatal flap for removal of congenital cholesteatoma . we believe that the ib-stmf is preferable to the p-tmf for removal of a congenital cholesteatoma from the anterior superior portion of the mesotympanum . though developing an ib-stmf may require extra time and special care to avoid tearing the flap , the exposure that is achieved affords the best chance for complete removal of the mass , thus decreasing the chance for persistence or recurrence of the lesion . 
children with special needs in england and wales : the care of hearing impairment , myelomeningocele , and adolescent pregnancy . services for children with special needs in england and wales are described briefly , with attention to the services provided by the national health service , local authorities , the social security system , and voluntary organizations . for illustrative purposes , particular reference is made to children with hearing impairments and myelomeningoceles . a separate account is given of the provision for pregnant adolescents , again addressing services provided by all major sources of assistance . 
children with special needs in the netherlands : impaired hearing , adolescent pregnancy , and myelomeningocele . in the netherlands , treatment and management of children with special needs is characterized by the absence of financial barriers to care and the existence of a number of specialized services . for hearing-impaired children , there are special audiologic centers and special schools . adolescents at risk of unintended pregnancy are protected through education and a dedicated system of family planning clinics . children with multiple handicaps , such as those associated with myelomeningocele , face greater difficulties but still have an array of services available to them at little or no cost . families are sheltered from excessive expense through social insurance . 
aminoglycosides : assessing the potential for nephrotoxicity . although aminoglycosides have been a mainstay of antibiotic therapy in postsurgical infections , certain patients may be at risk for potential aminoglycoside induced toxicities . aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity is one of the most frequent causes of iatrogenic renal failure . a narrow toxicity to therapeutic ratio , a relatively long serum half-life and concentration in the renal cortex all contribute to renal dysfunction . patients at greatest risk for aminoglycoside-induced nephrotoxicity include the elderly , patients with pre-existing renal disease and those who are volume depleted . calculations based on the results of a multicenter study demonstrate that the average additional cost incurred for each patient who had aminoglycoside-related nephrotoxicity was $ 2,501 . methods are reviewed for prospectively assessing the potential for development of nephrotoxicity to identify patients for whom effective therapeutic substitutes for aminoglycosides should be sought . 
asymptomatic congenital cytomegalovirus infection . audiologic , neuroradiologic , and neurodevelopmental abnormalities during the first year . twenty-eight infants with asymptomatic congenital cytomegalovirus infection and 13 control infants were followed up prospectively . congenital sensorineural hearing loss was documented by auditory brain-stem responses in four infected infants ( two had mild bilateral loss , one had mild unilateral loss , and one had extreme unilateral loss ) but in no controls . four infected infants had diffuse periventricular radiolucencies on computed tomographic scan ; none had calcifications or ventriculomegaly . no differences between groups were noted on neurologic examination results or on the bayley mental developmental index ; however , one infected infant had a severely delayed bayley psychomotor developmental index score . in addition , the mean mental developmental index score of the four infected infants with diffuse periventricular radiolucencies was significantly below that of the remaining infected infants ( 93 + / - 8 vs 109 + / - 13 ) . these data suggest that asymptomatic congenital cytomegalovirus infection may be associated with a broad range of audiologic , subtle neuroradiologic , and neurodevelopmental differences in early infancy . 
endoscopic management of early supraglottic cancer . an initial endoscopic surgical approach to early supraglottic cancer provides the surgeon with the ability to accurately stage these lesions , avoiding possible undertreatment while allowing for a valuable treatment option for those supraglottic cancers with histologically incontrovertibly superficial disease . early invasion of the preepiglottic and paraglottic spaces can be determined accurately without altering or delaying any treatment option ( open surgical excision , radiotherapy , or chemotherapy ) . the tendency of supraglottic cancers to transgress the natural foramina of the epiglottis is well established , and the concern about this depth of invasion is reflected by the 1977 revised staging criteria , which required assessment of the preepiglottic space ( pes ) . along with the microscope and the carbon dioxide laser , the adjustable supraglottiscope facilitates the determination of pes invasion and facilitates en bloc excision of superficial supraglottic cancers . the resulting morbidity typically is no different from that with routine direct endoscopy and biopsy . 
bilateral semicircular canal aplasia with near-normal cochlear development . two case reports . congenital malformations of the vestibular labyrinth ( pars superior ) are rare . we present two patients with computed tomographic findings of bilateral semicircular canal aplasia with normal or near-normal cochleas . initial bone conduction thresholds were within normal limits , although both patients had significant conductive hearing losses due to congenital middle ear malformations . bithermal caloric responses were absent in both . to our knowledge these are the first reports of vestibular aplasia concomitant with normal or near-normal cochlear development . these findings conflict with conventional hypotheses that state that inner ear malformations result from arrested development during the normal stages of inner ear embryogenesis . 
effects of cyclophosphamide on the pathogenesis of cytomegalovirus-induced labyrinthitis . cyclophosphamide was used in this study to define the contribution of the inflammatory response relative to direct cytopathic effects of guinea pig cytomegalovirus ( gpcmv ) in inducing sensorineural hearing loss in the guinea pig . the eighth nerve compound action potential ( cap ) threshold on day 7 after inoculation of gpcmv into the scala tympani was an average of 35 db greater for control animals than for those that were immunosuppressed with daily intraperitoneal injections of cyclophosphamide ( 20 mg/kg body weight ) . the amount of gpcmv antigen in the cochlea , detected immunohistochemically did not correlate with the cap threshold . however , the greater the inflammatory response to gpcmv in the cochlea , the higher the cap threshold and thus the greater the hearing loss . this study demonstrates that the inflammatory response to gpcmv may be more important than direct cytopathic effects of the virus in producing sensorineural hearing loss in gpcmv-induced labyrinthitis . 
idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss and postnatal viral labyrinthitis : a statistical comparison of temporal bone findings . although the cause of idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss remains uncertain , a viral origin has been suggested in many cases on the basis of anamnestic microbiologic and pathologic data . twenty-two temporal bone specimens from 18 patients who during life suffered a sudden partial or complete sensorineural hearing loss were studied . on the basis of clinical data , these cases were assigned to one of three diagnostic categories , and the temporal bones were studied by light microscopy and serial section analysis . the implications of the histopathologic findings for the pathogenesis of idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss are discussed . 
immunohistochemical study of cytokeratin expression in normal and pathologic middle ear mucosa of the rat . the expression of cytokeratins in the epithelium of the middle ear and external auditory meatus of the rat was studied on cryosections of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid-decalcified specimens by use of a panel of monoclonal antibodies . the normal middle ear epithelium revealed a complex cytokeratin profile , including regional differences . the induction of sterile middle ear effusions resulted in increased cytokeratin expression . infective effusions were accompanied by both quantitative and qualitative changes in the cytokeratin expression patterns . the differences observed between the cytokeratin profiles of external meatal skin and those of middle ear epithelium may form a useful tool for research into cholesteatoma development . 
the association of selected cancers with service in the us military in vietnam . iii . hodgkin 's disease , nasal cancer , nasopharyngeal cancer , and primary liver cancer . the selected cancers cooperative study group as part of a series of investigations into the health of vietnam veterans , we conducted case-control studies involving 310 men with hodgkin 's disease , 48 with nasal carcinoma , 80 with nasopharyngeal carcinoma , 130 with primary liver cancer , and 1776 controls between 1984 and 1988 . all men born between 1929 and 1953 and diagnosed in an area covered by eight cancer registries were considered eligible as cases ; controls were recruited by random-digit dialing . whereas the study had excellent power ( 96 % ) to detect a twofold increase in risk for hodgkin 's disease among vietnam veterans , its ability to detect a similarly elevated risk in the other cancers was limited , ranging from 38 % ( nasal carcinoma ) to 75 % ( primary liver cancer ) . analyses showed that risks among vietnam veterans relative to other men were 1.1 ( hodgkin 's disease ) , 0.7 ( nasal carcinoma ) , 0.5 ( nasopharyngeal carcinoma ) , and 1.2 ( primary liver cancer ) . none of these relative risks was significantly different from 1.0 . similar results were obtained if vietnam veterans were compared with ( 1 ) other veterans or ( 2 ) men who never served in the military . an examination of several attributes of military service in vietnam ( eg , branch , duration of service , and other characteristics that may have been associated with the use of agent orange ) failed to identify any groups of veterans who were at increased risk for hodgkin 's disease . small numbers limited further analyses of nasal , nasopharyngeal , and liver cancer . these results provide no evidence that , 15 to 25 years following service in vietnam , the risk of these malignant neoplasms is higher among veterans . 
angiocentric immunoproliferative lesion/t-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome : a case report and review of the literature . the lesions known as lymphocytic vasculitis , polymorphic reticulosis ( midline malignant reticulosis , lethal midline granuloma ) , lymphomatoid granulomatosis , and angiocentric lymphoma form what have been collectively termed the angiocentric immunoproliferative lesions ( ail ) . because of recent reports demonstrating clonal rearrangements of the t-cell receptor in these lesions , the ail are now thought to represent a continuous spectrum of post-thymic t-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) . nhl associated with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) represents intermediate or high-grade b-cell malignancies in hiv-infected patients that may be etiologically related to the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) . there have been reports of ebv-associated t-cell nhl , ail , and large granular lymphocyte ( lgl ) proliferations , as well as hiv-associated t-cell neoplasia , lgl/t-cell proliferations , and ail . we describe a case of polymorphic reticulosis ( lethal midline granuloma ) arising in an hiv-infected individual , who later progressed to aids , and review the literature on hiv-associated and ebv-associated t-cell neoplasia , lgl/t-cell proliferations , and ail . the etiology of this ail/t-cell nhl , especially in relation to ebv and hiv , is discussed . 
ear involvement in the yellow nail syndrome . recognized features of the yellow nail syndrome include yellow nails , lymphedema , and pleural effusions . we report a patient with the additional feature of keratosis obturans , which may be a manifestation of this syndrome in the external ear . 
osteoma of the middle ear . osteomas involving the middle ear and causing a functional disturbance are rare . we report a case of a patient with an osteoma arising from the lateral semicircular canal . the main symptom was vertigo and to halt this the defect of the canal was obliterated with a bone chip and fibrin glue after removal of the tumour . 
hearing loss due to cranio-metaphysial dysplasia . craniometaphysial dysplasia is a rare cause of conductive hearing loss . it is a genetic disorder of bone due to decreased osteoclastic activity in the endosteal and periosteal regions of craniofacial and long bones . the characteristic temporal bone abnormalities are attic fixation , abnormally shaped ossicles and obliterated foramina ovale . computerised tomography is helpful in predicting operative findings ; surgery should be reserved for those with a severe hearing loss . 
auro-nasopharyngeal polyp and cholesteatoma . we report the association of an auronasopharyngeal polyp arising in a congenitally abnormal middle ear and eustachian tube . subsequently , ten years after removal of the polyp and insertion of a ventilation tube , there was recurrence of the polyp in association with cholesteatoma of the middle ear . 
chronic sinusitis and the yellow nail syndrome . diagnosing syndromes that include chronic sinusitis can expedite the management of both conditions . yellow nail syndrome is usually described as the combination of yellow nails , lymphoedema and often respiratory manifestations such as chronic sinusitis , bronchiectasis and pleural effusions . the pathology responsible for the syndrome is believed to be lymphatic hypoplasia . diagnosis of yellow nail syndrome is clinical not requiring any specialized tests . in the two cases described , the respiratory tract manifestations required the most active investigation and management . the significance of this syndrome to the otolaryngologist is discussed . 
direct extension of laryngeal carcinoma to the skin of the neck . invasion of the skin of the neck by laryngeal carcinoma is relatively uncommon . twelve cases of cancer of the larynx fungating through the cervical skin are presented . they mostly followed initial treatment by deep x-ray therapy or partial laryngectomy . a high tracheostomy was also considered to be a contributing cause for the occurrence of such a mishap . the management and follow-up of these patients is described . 
reduced allergen-induced nasal congestion and leukotriene synthesis with an orally active 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor background and methods . the clinical importance of leukotrienes in human allergy has not been defined , in part because there have been no selective 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors that have been effective and safe for use in humans . to address the hypothesis that stimulated leukotriene synthesis causes symptoms of immediate-hypersensitivity reactions in vivo , i investigated the effects of a new 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor , a-64077 , on provoked allergic nasal symptoms and mediator release in a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled study . eight subjects with allergic rhinitis underwent nasal challenge on two occasions after an oral dose of 800 mg of a-64077 or an identical-appearing placebo . results . allergen-induced nasal congestion was significantly attenuated ( p less than 0.02 ) by a-64077 ; peak levels of leukotriene b4 ( median , 684 pg per milliliter ) and 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( median , 704 pg per milliliter ) in nasal-rinse fluids were markedly reduced ( to 67 and 185 pg per milliliter , respectively ; p less than 0.01 ) , whereas levels of prostaglandin d2 were not . histamine release and sneezing were not reduced significantly by a-64077 , but there was a significant correlation ( p less than 0.01 ) between the changes in these variables within subjects . the mean ( + / - sem ) stimulated synthesis of leukotriene b4 in whole blood ex vivo was markedly reduced by a-64077 ( from 153 + / - 19 to 20 + / - 9 ng per milliliter , p less than 0.01 ) , and the specificity of a-64077 for 5-lipoxygenase inhibition was verified by its lack of effect on the synthesis of serum thromboxane b2 or 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid . conclusions . these results provide direct evidence of an important role for the 5-lipoxygenase products of arachidonic acid in allergic rhinitis and support the notion that further experiments in this area may lead to new therapeutic approaches to allergic disorders . 
sensorineural hearing loss : a reversible effect of valproic acid . we report 2 patients over the age of 70 who , while on valproate ( vpa ) for complex partial seizures , developed sensorineural hearing loss . following discontinuation of vpa for nonaudiologic reasons , the patients reported improved hearing which was confirmed by audiometry . these findings represent vpa-induced sensorineural hearing loss , possibly in preexisting presbycusis . 
the efficacy of oral steroids in the treatment of persistent otitis media with effusion . one hundred thirty-six children with otitis media with effusion of at least 2 months ' duration were investigated in a strict , double-blind , randomized prospective study to evaluate the efficacy of oral steroids in the treatment of this disease . the results of our study showed a significant complete and partial recovery from otitis media with effusion in the group treated by a combination of antibiotics ( amoxicillin ) and oral steroids ( prednisone ) , compared with an amoxicillin-treated group and a placebo-treated group . we believe that this treatment mostly benefits children aged 4 to 10 years without oversized adenoids . the findings of our study imply that a combined course of antibiotics and oral steroids deserves its place as a routine conservative trial before surgery . 
localized antigen challenge of the nasal mucosa . we describe a localized nasal antigen challenge and the measurement of mediators found at the same site . eight ragweed-allergic subjects were challenged on 2 days , 1 week apart . challenges consisted of six sequential provocations , beginning with two control challenges ( diluent for antigen-phenol-buffered saline ) followed by four increasing antigen doses ( 0.6 , 6 , 60 , and 160 protein nitrogen units ) ( antigen day ) or an additional four control challenges ( control day ) . the number of sneezes and the symptom scores increased significantly with increasing antigen doses . the levels of histamine and n-alpha-tosyl-l-arginine methyl ester-esterase activity increased in the eluted secretions on the antigen day , but not on the control day . the amount of secretions collected also increased per unit of time on the antigen day . we found no significant increase in the concentration level of either histamine or n-alpha-tosyl-l-arginine methyl ester-esterase in nasal secretions on either day . we conclude that the total amount of histamine and n-alpha-tosyl-l-arginine methyl ester-esterase activity increased per unit of time while their concentration did not . 
genetics of asthma and hay fever in australian twins . the occurrence of self-reported asthma/wheezing and hay fever among 3,808 pairs of twins from the australian national health and medical research council twin registry was examined for evidence of genetic transmission by path analytic methods . the cumulative prevalence of asthma or wheezing was 13.2 % and of hay fever , 32 % . there were significant correlations in liability to reported disease among twins , and these were higher in monozygotic twins ( mz ) ( r = 0.65 ) than in dizygotic twins ( dz ) ( r = 0.25 ) , and in male mz twins ( r = 0.75 ) compared with female mz twins ( r = 0.60 ) . analysis under the assumptions of the classic twin model suggested that there were genetic factors common to asthma and hay fever , with a correlation in genetic liability to the traits of 0.52 for men and 0.65 for women . these genes acted substantially in a nonadditive fashion in men but not in women . as the genetic correlation was significantly less than unity , this implied additional genetic factors influencing either or both diseases individually . the estimated heritability of these diseases was 60 to 70 % in this population . environmental causes of both diseases also were correlated ( r = 0.53 for men and 0.33 for women ) . cigarette smoking was only weakly associated with wheezing . 
excitation thresholds for nerves reinnervating the paralyzed canine larynx . electrical stimulation of paralyzed laryngeal muscles implanted with nerve-muscle pedicles ( nmp ) has resulted in documented return of motion . no study , however , has yet determined how nmp excitability correlates with that of normal muscle or nerve . in six anesthetized dogs , one hemilarynx was denervated and the paralyzed thyroarytenoid , cricothyroid , and posterior cricoarytenoid muscles were reinnervated via nmps originating from the ansa hypoglossi nerve . after 4.6 to 5.7 months , an electric stimulator delivering biphasic pulses of variable amplitude and widths was used to test thresholds for contraction in nine stimulatable nmps , six intact recurrent laryngeal nerves ( rln ) , and five normal cervical muscles . with one exception ( 2.1 ma ) , nmp rheobases varied between 0.0002 and 0.04 ma ( mean = 0.020 sd + / - 0.012 , n = 6 ) . two nmps belonging to animals stimulated for several hours had higher values ( 0.1 ma ) . rheobase varied from 0.01 to 0.09 ma for control rlns ( mean = 0.058 sd + / - 0.025 ) , and from 0.05 to 0.35 ma for muscles ( mean = 0.144 sd + / - 0.109 ) . histologic correspondence with reinnervation was established in implanted muscles by type grouping on atpase stains . these data suggest that 1 ) nerve pedicles may offer promise for the eventual construction of implantable low energy consuming laryngeal devices , and 2 ) the appropriate charge to be injected over time remains to be determined . 
sphenoid sinusitis , a cause of debilitating headache . we present a case of sphenoid sinusitis resulting in a debilitating headache refractory to both oral and intramuscular analgesics . despite an aggressive evaluation in the emergency department , the correct diagnosis and appropriate treatment were delayed . recognition of sphenoid sinusitis , the complications associated with it , and the need for aggressive management are addressed . 
