comparison of chloroquine , pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine , and chlorproguanil and dapsone as treatment for falciparum malaria in pregnant and non-pregnant women , kakamega district , kenya . objective -- to compare treatment and protection against falciparum malaria in pregnant and non-pregnant women with three drug regimens . design -- prospective intervention study with six weeks ' follow up . patients received one of three drug regimens in order of entry . setting -- primary care hospital and secondary girls ' school in rural western kenya . patients -- 158 of 988 pregnant women ( 89 primigravid and 69 multigravid ) in the third trimester and 105 of 1488 non-pregnant schoolgirls of reproductive age were parasitaemic ( more than 500 asexual forms/microliter . these women were divided into three treatment groups by gravid state . interventions -- women were treated with chloroquine base 25 mg/kg over three days or pyrimethamine 75 mg and sulfadoxine 1500 mg as a single dose or chlorproguanil 1.2 mg/kg and dapsone 2.4 mg/kg as a single dose . main outcome measures -- parasitaemia and haemoglobin concentrations measured at seven day intervals for six weeks . results -- primigravid women were more likely to be parasitaemic on follow up than multigravidas or nulligravidas , whose response was about the same . parasites did not clear by day 7 in primigravidas in six ( 20 % ) of 30 who received chloroquine , three ( 8 % ) of 35 treated with pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine , and none of 23 treated with chlorproguanil and dapsone . at day 28 , 83 % , 19 % , and 67 % of primigravidas in these treatment groups were parasitaemic . haemoglobin concentrations rose in all women , but improvement was sustained only in women who remained free of parasites . conclusions -- clearance of parasites was better with either pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine or chlorproguanil and dapsone than with chloroquine . longest protection was obtained with pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine . 
surgical aspects of malaria . the spread of drug-resistant organisms and increased international travel makes malaria a disorder of ever-increasing importance . this report reviews those aspects of malaria of surgical relevance . the importance of the spleen in host defence against malaria and other infections makes splenic preservation desirable whenever possible after rupture of the spleen . tropical splenomegaly is caused by an abnormal immune response to malaria and is best managed medically . careful selection of blood donors is essential to prevent transfusion malaria , and routine antimalarial prophylaxis is indicated for blood recipients in many endemic areas . the risk of postoperative malaria may justify chemoprophylaxis in certain patients . 
acanthamoeba keratitis with two species of acanthamoeba . we describe a case of acanthamoeba keratitis related to soft contact lens wear . the patient presented with a 3-week history of severe uniocular pain , radial stromal infiltrates and subepithelial infiltrates with no epithelial defect . acanthamoeba was cultured from the corneal biopsy specimen , contact lens and lens case . the corneal biopsy culture grew both a. castellani and a. polyphaga as well as escherichia coli . the patient was treated with topical dibromopropamidine isethionate ( brolene ) drops , neomycin and polymyxin b drops and fortified gentamicin drops . gradual clinical improvement ensued . 
the relationship of antibody levels to the clinical spectrum of human neurocysticercosis . one hundred proven cases of cerebral cysticercosis were studied with an enzyme linked immunoassay ( elisa ) employing cyst fluid as antigen , with a view to detecting specific antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) . antibody levels were correlated with the clinical presentation of the patients , the type and number of cysts detected on their brain scans , the anatomical position of these cysts and the presence of lymphocytes in the csf . patients could be divided into two distinct categories , one with low levels of antibody in the serum and absent antibody in the csf , and the other with high levels in both the serum and the csf . this differentiation matched the clinical presentation of a benign and a malignant group . antibody levels could not be related to the type of cysts as observed on the brain scan , but depended on the anatomical position of the cyst , being lower if the cysts were confined to the cerebral cortex . a correlation of antibody levels with the number of cysts was only found in the benign group . 
use of ct and mr imaging to distinguish intracranial lesions and to define the need for biopsy in aids patients to explore the potential usefulness of imaging studies in the diagnosis of focal central nervous system ( cns ) lesions associated with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , the authors retrospectively examined the radiographic studies of 149 aids patients who presented with signs and symptoms of the three most common focal cns lesions . of these patients , 74 ( 50 % ) had toxoplasma abscesses , 45 ( 30 % ) had primary cns lymphoma , and 30 patients ( 20 % ) had progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( pml ) . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was more sensitive than computerized tomography ( ct ) in detecting lesions , especially in cases of pml . whereas ct was unable to distinguish mass lesions caused by toxoplasmosis from those caused by lymphoma , 71 % of the solitary lesions seen on mr images were lymphomas . these results indicate that empirical treatment for toxoplasmosis , the most common initial treatment for aids patients with neurological symptoms stemming from mass lesions , is not likely to be successful for patients with solitary lesions on mr images . rather , early biopsy is advisable . if the presence of lymphoma is confirmed , the rapid initiation of treatment can allow prolonged high-quality survival . 
neurological sequelae of cerebral malaria in children . out of 604 gambian children admitted with falciparum malaria to one hospital between september and december , 1988 , 308 had cerebral malaria and 203 were severely anaemic ( haemoglobin less than 60 g/l ) . 14 % of those with cerebral malaria died , as did 7.8 % of those with severe anaemia . 32 ( 12 % ) of children surviving cerebral malaria had residual neurological deficit . 69 other children were admitted with clinical features strongly suggestive of cerebral malaria but with negative blood films ; 16 of these died and 3 had residual neurological deficits . the commonest sequelae of cerebral malaria were hemiplegia ( 23 cases ) , cortical blindness ( 11 ) , aphasia ( 9 ) , and ataxia ( 6 ) . factors predisposing to sequelae included prolonged coma , protracted convulsions , severe anaemia , and a biphasic clinical course characterised by recovery of consciousness followed by recurrent convulsions and coma . at follow up 1-6 months later over half these children had made a full recovery , but a quarter were left with a major residual neurological deficit . cerebral malaria in childhood may be an important cause of neurological handicap in the tropics . 
prenatal diagnosis of congenital toxoplasmosis . prenatal diagnosis of congenital toxoplasmosis was attempted in 50 pregnant women at risk for giving birth to an affected child . fifteen of these patients seroconverted during pregnancy and 35 had a high initial antibody level in their first serum sample . prenatal diagnosis consisted of a combination of ultrasound screening , amniocentesis , and funipuncture at about 20 weeks ' gestation . diagnosis of congenital toxoplasmosis was based on a positive toxoplasma culture of amniotic fluid or fetal blood and on the presence of specific immunoglobulin m antibodies in fetal blood . in addition , alterations in fetal hematology , cellular immunology , and fetal liver tests were indicative of infection . fetal infection was detected in six fetuses ; two died in utero as a consequence of the infection and four were born after 37 weeks ' gestation . despite antibiotic treatment with pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine , one child has internal hydrocephalus and chorioretinitis and another has unilateral chorioretinitis . in the two other children , the disease is still subclinical . of the 44 children born after a negative prenatal diagnosis , 35 have reached the age of 1 year ; toxoplasma antibodies have disappeared in all of them . investigation of the remaining nine children showed a decrease in toxoplasma antibodies , suggesting that none of them are affected . prenatal diagnosis was never associated with fetal loss , and premature delivery occurred in only two cases . we conclude that prenatal diagnosis of congenital toxoplasmosis is safe and reliable . 
infectious diarrhea . managing a misery that is still worldwide . infectious diarrhea is the largest single cause of morbidity and mortality in the world . bacteria , viruses , and protozoan parasites are the most common causative agents . treatment in most cases of bacterial and viral diseases consists of correcting fluid loss and electrolyte imbalance by oral or parenteral rehydration . antimicrobial therapy is reserved for very ill patients only . with the exception of cryptosporidium , for which no effective agent is yet available , all protozoan infections are treatable with metronidazole . 
clinicopathological features of childhood nephrotic syndrome in northern nigeria the clinicopathological features of childhood nephrotic syndrome in northern nigeria were studied in 100 consecutive patients . the patients presented with gross anasarca and very low serum albumin , which was less than 15 g/l in 30 patients . the three most frequent histological diagnoses in 98 renal biopsies were membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis ( 25 ) , quartan malarial nephropathy ( 20 ) , and proliferative glomerulonephritis ( 19 ) : together they accounted for 65 per cent of all biopsies . only nine patients had minimal change nephropathy . antigens were detected by immunofluorescence in the glomeruli of 70 of 76 biopsies ( 92 per cent ) : plasmodium malariae was detected in 25 per cent and hepatitis b surface antigen in 24 per cent . the disease was characterized by progressive deterioration in renal function and a high mortality rate of 13 per cent . nine of the 13 deaths occurred within one year of diagnosis . 
filarial-specific igg4 response correlates with active wuchereria bancrofti infection . the filarial-specific humoral immune response of adult residents of two areas of papua new guinea , differing in transmission of wuchereria bancrofti infection was compared . the majority of residents of the village of bonahoi , in an area where transmission of filariasis had been interrupted by a 20-year insecticide spray program to control malaria , showed no parasitologic signs of active w. bancrofti infection and were negative for both circulating phosphorylcholine ag and peripheral blood microfilariae . in contrast , adult residents of the village of nanaha were in an area exposed to infection , and were phosphorylcholine-ag - and microfilariae-positive . the antibody response of these two groups to both adult worm excretory/secretory ( es ) ag and somatic antigen extract was examined to determine which components of the filarial-specific immune response were dependent on active infection . identification of these immune responses may point to immunologic methods to evaluate control programs for lymphatic filariasis . adults from bonahoi were found to have significant immune responses to [ 35s ] methionine-labeled es ag by immunoprecipitation and to adult somatic antigen extracts by elisa and by immunoblotting . this result is consistent with the fact that these individuals were previously exposed to and/or infected with w. bancrofti . similarly , residents of the endemic village had detectable immune responses to these ag irrespective of if they were microfilaremic . the most striking immunologic difference observed between the two groups was that residents of bonahoi had a dramatically reduced filarial-specific igg4 antibody response to both adult somatic ag and adult es ag . these data suggest that longitudinal measurement of filarial-specific igg4 levels may be a useful seroepidemiologic indicator of changes in w. bancrofti infection status . 
serum resistance of metacyclic stage leishmania major promastigotes is due to release of c5b-9 . the mechanism of serum resistance for infective promastigotes of leishmania major was investigated . prior results suggested that the mechanism of resistance was mediated at a step after c3 deposition . equivalent amounts of c3b were deposited on serum-susceptible , noninfective promastigotes harvested from log stage cultures ( log ) and on c-resistant , infective , metacyclic promastigotes ( mp ) purified from stationary stage cultures . whereas binding of c9 to log was stable during incubation in serum , c9 binding to mp was minimal and unstable , because molecules bound initially to mp were released with continued incubation . failure to bind c9 was not a result of inability to activate c ; the kinetics of c3 , c6 , and c9 consumption were similar for log and mp . deposition of c5b-7 on mp was stable , indicating that the initial steps in terminal complex formation were intact . instead , the majority of c5b-9 formed on mp was spontaneously released into the serum as sc5b-9 . residual c5b-9 on mp was released with 1 m nacl . these data show that developmental modification of the promastigote membrane during transition from a noninfective to an infective stage blocks insertion of lytic c5b-9 into the promastigote membrane . 
analysis of the permissive association of a malaria t cell epitope with dr molecules . in this study we examined the association of a promiscuous malaria t cell epitope , cs.t3 , to different hla-dr alleles . a large series of singly substituted or truncated variants of cs.t3 was prepared and tested for the ability to be recognised in association with , or to bind to , three distinct hla-dr alleles ( dr1 , drw11 , and drw14 ( w6 ) ) and three natural variants of hla-drw11 . we found that although association with the different dr molecules mapped to identical or closely overlapping regions of the peptide , distinct substitutions could drastically influence the capacity of the peptide to interact with one but not another of the three dr molecules tested . based on analysis of the distribution of residues recognized by t cell clones restricted to the different dr alleles , we suggest that the peptide cs.t3 is not bound , at least for the three dr examined , as an alpha-helix . in addition we tested three subtypes of drw11 as apc for the cs.t3 analogues and observed that the peptide is most likely bound in the same conformation to the three natural variants of the drw11 molecule . 
sensitive and specific detection of toxoplasma dna in an experimental murine model : use of toxoplasma gondii-specific cdna and the polymerase chain reaction . toxoplasma gondii , an apicomplexan parasite of mammals and birds , is well recognized as a cause of encephalitis in aids patients and as a cause of congenital infections . the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) and toxoplasma cdna clones were used to diagnose t. gondii infection in an acute murine model of toxoplasmosis . diagnosis of tissue infection by southern blot hybridization with cdna clones of t. gondii was possible within 5 days of infection . this technique could detect as few as 10,000 organisms . specific t. gondii gene amplification by pcr using the primers 5 ' cacacggttgtatgtcggtttcgct3 ' and 5 ' tcaaggagctcaatgttacagcct3 ' followed by oligonucleotide hybridization using 5 ' gcggtcattctcacaccgacggagaaccacttcactctca3 ' allowed detection of t. gondii in the tissue of mice by day 2 after infection and in the blood of mice by day 5 after infection with rh strain t. gondii . this technique could detect as few as 10 organisms . thus , these techniques may be useful in the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis . 
tumor necrosis factor and severe malaria . to investigate the relation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf alpha ) to plasmodium falciparum infection , plasma tnf alpha concentrations were measured in zairian children with severe malaria , mild malaria , or other illnesses . the initial geometric mean plasma concentration of tnf alpha among 61 children with p. falciparum infection , ( 71 pg/ml ) was higher than the level in 26 severely ill , aparasitemic children ( 10 pg/ml ; p less than .001 ) . among 29 parasitemic children , initial geometric mean tnf alpha levels decreased from 77 to 5 pg/ml ( p less than .001 ) at day 7 . tnf alpha levels increased with parasite density and were associated with hyperparasitemia , severe anemia , hypoglycemia , and young age but not with cerebral malaria or fatal outcome . however , tnf alpha levels were elevated equally in children with cerebral malaria and with other signs of severe malaria . with multiple linear regression , tnf alpha levels were elevated independently in children with hyperparasitemia ( p = .001 ) and severe anemia ( p = .04 ) . in this study , high tnf alpha levels were associated with several manifestations of severe malaria and were not specific to cerebral malaria . 
effectiveness and tolerance of long-term malaria prophylaxis with mefloquine . need for a better dosing regimen to measure the effectiveness and tolerance of long-term malaria prophylaxis with mefloquine , the incidence of plasmodium falciparum malaria and of adverse reactions was compared in peace corps volunteers in west africa who took mefloquine every 2 weeks and in volunteers who took chloroquine phosphate weekly . mefloquine was only 63 % more effective than chloroquine ; the monthly incidence of p falciparum infections was one case per 100 volunteers who took mefloquine and 2.7 cases per 100 volunteers who took chloroquine . using daily proguanil ( chloroguanide ) hydrochloride in addition to chloroquine did not provide additional protection . all mefloquine prophylaxis failures occurred during the second week of the every-2-weeks dosing regimen in volunteers who had used mefloquine for more than 2 months . blood concentrations of mefloquine were lower during the second week of the alternate-week regimen than during the first week , suggesting that blood levels are too low during the second week to suppress parasitemia . no serious adverse reactions were observed . the results indicate that a dosing regimen of 250 mg of mefloquine weekly should be considered for travelers to areas with chloroquine-resistant p falciparum malaria . 
imported plasmodium falciparum malaria in american travelers to africa . implications for prevention strategies data from the us national malaria surveillance system were analyzed to assess characteristics of travelers who acquired plasmodium falciparum infections in africa and evaluate the impact of chloroquine resistance on the incidence of imported malaria . although the number of cases acquired in east africa has stabilized , the number of imported p falciparum infections acquired in west africa increased threefold from 1985 to 1988 , and the proportion of travelers who reported failure of chloroquine prophylaxis increased from 10 % to 48 % . fifty-eight percent of patients who acquired malaria in west africa had not used chemoprophylaxis . to curb the rising incidence of p falciparum infections in american travelers , the centers for disease control revised malaria prophylaxis recommendations to include the use of mefloquine in areas of chloroquine resistance . use of malaria protection measures by travelers to west africa must also be improved . 
leishmania donovani chagasi : new clinical variant of cutaneous leishmaniasis in honduras . during surveillance for endemic visceral leishmaniasis on an island off the pacific coast of honduras , an unusual form of cutaneous leishmaniasis was encountered . by clinical and laboratory criteria , 17 cases were identified over 5 months ; children aged 4 to 15 years were primarily affected . lesions were generally few in number , small , always papular , and non-ulcerative , even when present for several years . patients with skin lesions seemed otherwise healthy and were well nourished . montenegro skin tests with leishmania mexicana and l major antigens were positive in 10 of 17 patients tested , and lesions from 9 patients were positive by culture . since the summer of 1988 , cases of atypical cutaneous leishmaniasis continue to occur on the island ( 8 ) as well as on the mainland of southern honduras ( 23 ) . a total of 9 parasite isolates from skin lesions , 4 from bone marrow of patients with kala-azar , and 2 from sandflies were identified as l donovani chagasi and were indistinguishable from one another by isoenzyme analysis . 
strongyloides stercoralis associated with a bleeding gastric ulcer . infection with the helminthic parasite , strongyloides stercoralis , is usually acquired by skin invasion ( or occasionally via ingestion of larvae ) . after transformation to the adult form , the parasite preferentially localises in the small intestine , especially in the duodenal and jejunal part . a remarkable feature of strongyloides is its property of endogenous reinfection . in the case of an immunocompromised host a massive infection , called hyperinfections strongyloides , may occur . numerous gastrointestinal complications of strongyloides infections , sometimes with a lethal outcome , have been reported . the intestinal manifestations are usually limited to the small bowel , and rarely involve the stomach . we report a patient with complicated strongyloides infection of the stomach . 
potential role of igg avidity for diagnosing toxoplasmosis . sera from 20 cases of toxoplasmic lymphadenopathy were examined by an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay toxoplasma igg avidity ( elisa ) at two laboratories . the results obtained were largely in agreement and showed that sera from patients with acute infection had low avidity igg ( 30 % or less ) , whereas sera from patients with chronic infection had high avidity igg ( 40 % or more ) . it is suggested that this type of assay could have a useful complementary role in antenatal testing for toxoplasmosis . 
rapid diagnosis of malaria by fluorescence microscopy with light microscope and interference filter fluorochrome staining to detect malaria parasites in bloodfilms is more sensitive , is easier to do , and is less time-consuming than giemsa staining . however , standard epi-illuminated , mercury vapour , fluorescence microscopes are expensive , especially for tropical countries where malaria is endemic . fluorescence microscopy with a standard light microscope and a new interference filter specially designed for the fluorochrome stain , acridine orange , was used to detect malaria parasites in thick and thin bloodfilms . in this system two fluorescence colours , green ( nuclei ) and red ( cytoplasm ) , were emitted from stained parasites . thick and thin bloodfilms from patients with malaria were examined with this system . bloodfilms had been fixed and stored for 1-5 years . rapid scanning of both thick and thin bloodfilms was possible at a magnification of x200 with standard lenses , indicating that this may be a useful economic system for rapid diagnosis of malarias . 
exchange transfusion as an adjunct to the treatment of severe falciparum malaria : case report and review . malaria associated with complications or a fatal outcome is almost always caused by plasmodium falciparum . the mortality due to this disease parallels the degree of parasitemia . successful use of exchange blood transfusion as a therapeutic adjunct for this infection was first reported in 1974 , although the efficacy of this procedure has not been established by randomized , controlled trials . the rationale for this form of therapy is based on : ( 1 ) rapid reduction in the parasite load by direct removal ; ( 2 ) decreased risk of severe intravascular hemolysis and its consequences ( disseminated intravascular coagulation and renal dysfunction ) ; ( 3 ) improved rheology with transfused blood and reduced microcirculatory sludging ; and ( 4 ) improved oxygen-carrying capacity with transfused erythrocytes . we describe a case of severe falciparum malaria and review the literature describing the use of exchange transfusion for treatment of this infection . 
short-term course of corticosteroids in the treatment of resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease . the aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of short-term corticosteroids in resistant ascites complicating schistosomal liver disease after 4 wk or more on standard treatment . thirty-seven patients were randomly allocated to two groups : group i ( 18 patients ) was put on 40 mg furosemide and 200 mg spironolactone , in addition to a 15-day , tapering dose of prednisone ( 15 , 10 , 5 mg ) . group ii ( 19 ) patients received the same diuretics without steroids , and served as controls . at the end of a 2-wk course of therapy , the mean variations were as follows : body weight in patients in group i ( " cases " ) decreased by 9.8 kg , compared with 4.3 kg in controls ; abdominal girth decreased by 7.4 cm in cases , compared with 3.6 cm in controls ; urine output increased by 635.9 ml in cases , compared with 364.6 ml in controls ; urinary sodium excretion increased by 16.5 meq/day in cases , compared with 4.1 meq/day in controls . these differences between cases and controls were found to be statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . on the other hand , there were insignificant differences as regards decrease in blood urea ( 3.2 g/dl for cases and 2.7 g/dl for controls ) , decrease in serum creatinine ( 0.2 mg/dl for both cases and controls ) , increase in serum albumin ( 0.3 g/dl in cases and 0.2 g/dl in controls ) , increase in serum sodium ( 3.2 meq/l in cases and 2.7 meq/l in controls ) , and increase in serum potassium ( 0.2 meq/l in cases and 0.4 meq/l in controls ) . we conclude that a short-term course of corticosteroids in conjunction with standard diuretics has proved to be an effective , safe , and economical modality to relieve resistant hepatic ascites . it can be considered a temporary alternative to paracentesis with albumin infusion . 
eosinophilic ascites due to hyperinfection with strongyloides stercoralis . we report the case of a patient with cryptogenic cirrhosis , new onset ascites , and hyperinfection with strongyloides stercoralis who had significant eosinophilia of the peritoneal fluid . the eosinophilia resolved with treatment of the s. stercoralis infection , and did not recur during two subsequent episodes of ascites and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis . eosinophilic ascites is rare in parasitic infection , but it has been described in a variety of disorders which are discussed . 
a comparative study of gastrointestinal infections in united states soldiers receiving doxycycline or mefloquine for malaria prophylaxis . a double blind study of daily doxycycline ( 100 mg ) vs. weekly mefloquine ( 250 mg ) was performed on united states soldiers training in thailand to assess the effect of doxycycline malaria prophylaxis on the incidence of gastrointestinal infections . during a 5 week period , 49 % ( 58/119 ) of soldiers receiving doxycycline and 48 % ( 64/134 ) of soldiers receiving mefloquine reported an episode of diarrhea . infection with bacterial enteric pathogens was identified in 39 % ( 47/119 ) of soldiers taking doxycycline and 46 % ( 62/134 ) of soldiers taking mefloquine . forty-four percent ( 59/134 ) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 36 % ( 43/119 ) of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with enterotoxigenic escherichia coli ( etec ) , while 9 % ( 12/134 ) of soldiers receiving mefloquine and 4 % of soldiers receiving doxycycline were infected with campylobacter . side effects from either medication were minimal . after 5 weeks in thailand , the percent of non-etec strains resistant to greater than or equal to 2 antibiotics increased from 65 % ( 77/119 ) to 86 % ( 95/111 ) in soldiers on mefloquine and from 79 % ( 84/106 ) to 93 % ( 88/95 ) in soldiers on doxycycline . doxycycline prophylaxis did not prevent or increase diarrheal disease in soldiers deployed to thailand where etec and other bacterial pathogens are often resistant to tetracyclines . 
mucocutaneous leishmaniasis due to leishmania ( leishmania ) infantum : biochemical characterization . a vegetative mass in the right nasal cavity of a 62-year-old man from palma de mallorca , spain , was found to be due to leishmania . the organism was isolated in culture and characterized by in situ hybridization , southern blot hybridization , and isoenzyme analysis ; it was thus demonstrated to be the most common enzyme variant 1 ( mon 1 ) of leishmania ( leishmania ) infantum . 
leishmania mexicana complex : human infections in the republic of panama . parasites of the genus leishmania responsible for human cutaneous leishmaniasis in the new world form 2 major taxonomic divisions : the leishmania braziliensis and the l. mexicana complexes . we report the isolation and characterization of the l. mexicana complex among humans in the republic of panama . characterization was based on parasite morphology , pathogenesis in infected golden hamsters , cellulose acetate isoenzyme electrophoretic mobilities , and membrane-specific monoclonal antibodies using the radioimmune binding assay technique . 
infectivity of the subspecies of the leishmania braziliensis complex in vivo and in vitro . the infectivity of leishmania braziliensis ssp . in relation to their growth kinetics in senekjie 's medium was determined using the human macrophage cell line u937 and inbred hamsters . in both systems , infectivity was shown to be distinctive for each subspecies . while l. b. panamensis promastigotes from 6-day-old cultures ( early stationary phase ) were more infective than parasites from any other culture day , l. b. guyanensis and l. b. braziliensis reached maximum infectivity on days 8-10 and day 10 ( late stationary phase of growth ) , respectively . although maximum infectivity occurred during stationary growth , strict growth phase dependency was not observed . the populations of parasites on these culture days were composed mostly of small , highly motile promastigotes with flagella 2-3 times the length of their cell bodies . these promastigotes resembled the infective forms transmitted by the sand fly vector . a distinct pathological picture characterized the disease caused by the different who reference strains for these subspecies in hamsters : l. b. guyanensis developed the most severe lesions , while moderate and inconspicuous lesions were observed when l. b. panamensis and l. b. braziliensis , respectively , constituted the inocula . 
an improved serodiagnostic procedure for visceral leishmaniasis . the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) is a sensitive and specific serodiagnostic method for leishmaniasis . in this report , we describe how this versatile assay can be improved by the use of protein a or protein g conjugates for the specific detection of leishmania antibody in the sera of patients with visceral leishmaniasis . in direct comparisons with anti-immunoglobulin conjugate , enzyme-linked protein a gave significantly higher absorbance values for positive sera without a corresponding increase in absorbance values for sera from normal individuals or from patients with other diseases known to cross-react with leishmaniasis . the effect was to increase the distance between positive and negative values , which aided in the interpretation of the results . this also permitted visual distinction between positive sera and negative or weakly reactive sera . the assay was effective using either blood or serum as the source of primary antibody . a further advantage of protein a over anti-ig conjugate was its ability to detect specific antibody in dog as well as human sera . finally , we demonstrated the usefulness of the protein a elisa with a recombinant leishmania antigen , gp63 . 
wasting and macrophage production of tumor necrosis factor/cachectin and interleukin 1 in experimental visceral leishmaniasis . wasting and secretion of the catabolic cytokines tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) / cachectin and interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) were assessed in weanling syrian hamsters infected with leishmania donovani amastigotes . whereas the mean weight of uninfected animals increased progressively over 9 weeks , the mean weight of infected animals plateaued at 4-6 weeks and then decreased progressively until death . splenic mononuclear cells from control hamsters produced 11.3 + / - 8.3 ( sd ) ng tnf/10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr . tnf secretion in infected animals was greater than the mean + / - 2 sd of controls in 1 of 3 hamsters at 2 weeks post-infection and in 8 of 9 hamsters at weeks 4-8 . the mean tnf secreted by infected animals studied at weeks 4-8 was 371 ( range 28-800 ) ng tnf/10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr ( p = 0.005 ) . control hamsters produced 7.7 + / - 2.7 pg il-1 / 10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr . at 2 weeks , mononuclear cells from 2 of 3 infected animals secreted amounts of il-1 greater than the mean + / - 2 sd of controls . all of 8 infected hamsters secreted increased amounts of il-1 at 4-8 weeks . the mean was 164 ( range 17-370 ) pg il-1 / 10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr ( p = 0.002 ) . in comparison to infected animals , mononuclear cells from control hamsters incubated with lipopolysaccharide , 10 micrograms/ml , produced 172.5 ng tnf and 44.6 pg of il-1 / 10 ( 6 ) mononuclear cells/24 hr . the effect of visceral leishmaniasis on food intake was assessed in a separate group of animals housed individually in metabolic cages . significant reductions in weight and food intake were first observed at 2 and 3 weeks of infection , respectively . by 5 weeks , the food intake of infected animals was 46 % that of controls . syrian hamsters infected with l. donovani provide an excellent model with which to study the mechanism of wasting . 
effects of multiple monthly doses of ivermectin on adult onchocerca volvulus . this paper assesses the effects on adult onchocerca volvulus of monthly doses of ivermectin ( 150 micrograms/kg ) given over 4 , 8 , and 12 months to patients in guatemala . nodules were removed 4 months after the last dose ; the adult o. volvulus were extracted by collagenase digestion , studied by histological techniques , and compared with worms from untreated patients . twelve monthly doses killed a proportion of the adult worms ( 12 % of males and 22 % of females ) , leaving the remainder relatively unaffected and the females slowly resuming embryogenesis . after 8 and 12 doses , a number of female worms had resumed embryogenesis in 1 genital tract only , and in 1 female a total degeneration of 1 ovary was seen . ivermectin also led to a marked drop in the number of male worms in nodules . no serious adverse reactions occurred and the treatment was well accepted . 
amebic meningoencephalitis in a patient with aids caused by a newly recognized opportunistic pathogen . leptomyxid ameba . a fatal case of meningoencephalitis due to a leptomyxid ameba in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is presented . this opportunistic organism has not been previously recognized as a human pathogen . a 36-year-old male intravenous drug abuser died after an 18-day hospital course heralded by fever and headache and followed by nuchal rigidity and hemiparesis . computed tomography of the head showed multiple hypodense lesions . neuropathologic examination showed that in addition to human immunodeficiency virus encephalomyelitis , there was multifocal meningoencephalitis with trophozoites and cysts morphologically indistinguishable from those of acanthamoeba . these organisms were also found in the kidneys and adrenal glands . by immunofluorescence , the parasites showed antigenic identity with a free-living leptomyxid ameba and failed to react with any of a spectrum of antiacanthamoeba antisera . this emphasizes the importance of immunofluorescence identification of morphologically indistinguishable ameba species . 
scabies in nursing homes : an eradication program with permethrin 5 % cream . permethrin 5 % cream was used to treat scabies in three large nursing homes under a compassionate-plea protocol for chronic , therapy-resistant infestations . all residents , staff , and frequent visitors were treated whether or not symptomatic . family members of these groups were treated either when symptomatic or directly exposed to scabies . nine hundred ninety-five persons were treated , 202 of whom were diagnosed with scabies . approximately 35 % ( 111 of 313 ) of nursing home residents were diagnosed with scabies . these were patients in whom multiple treatments with other scabicides were unsuccessful . at the completion of the study , 195 patients were examined for efficacy of treatment . of these , 91 ( 46.7 % ) had clearing of lesions with one medication application , 77 ( 39.5 % ) with two treatments , and 23 ( 11.8 % ) with three or more treatments . the overall cure rate was 98 % . adverse experiences occurred in 2.4 % of cases and were mild ( i.e. , pruritus and rash ) . 
monoclonal , but not polyclonal , antibodies protect against plasmodium yoelii sporozoites . one of the primary strategies for malaria vaccine development has been to design subunit vaccines that induce protective levels of antibodies against the circumsporozoite ( cs ) protein of malaria sporozoites . in the plasmodium yoelii mouse model system such vaccines have been uniformly unsuccessful in protecting against sporozoite-induced malaria . to demonstrate that antibodies to p. yoelii cs protein could provide protection we established a passive transfer model . passive transfer of navy yoelii sporozoite 1 ( nys1 ) , an igg3 mab against the p. yoelii cs protein , protected 100 % of mice against challenge with 5000 p. yoelii sporozoites . binding of nys1 to sporozoites was inhibited by incubation with ( qgpgap ) 2 , a synthetic peptide derived from the repeat region of the p. yoelii cs protein , indicating that the epitope on sporozoites recognized by this mab was included within this peptide . the levels of antibodies to ( qgpgap ) 2 by elisa , and to sporozoites by indirect fluorescent antibody test and cs precipitation reaction were similar in sera from mice that received nys1 in passive transfer and were protected against challenge with 5000 sporozoites , and from mice that had been immunized with subunit vaccines containing ( qgpgap ) 2 but were not protected against challenge with 40-200 sporozoites . to determine if antibody avidity , not absolute concentration could explain the striking differences in protection , we established a thiocyanate elution assay . the results suggest that nys1 , the protective mab , has a lower avidity for ( qgpgap ) 2 and for sporozoites than do the vaccine-induced antibodies . although the results of the conventional antibody assays did not correlate with protection , sera from the protected animals inhibited sporozoite development in mouse hepatocyte cultures significantly more than did the sera from the unprotected , subunit vaccine-immunized animals , correlating with protection . the data clearly demonstrate that antibodies to the cs protein can protect against intense sporozoite infection . improved understanding of the differences between protective mab and nonprotective polyclonal antibodies will be important in the further development of malaria vaccines . 
antibodies to human t lymphotropic virus type i in a population from the philippines : evidence for cross-reactivity with plasmodium falciparum . residents of two areas in the philippines were tested for human t lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) : napsan , a site endemic for malaria , and a nonmalarious site , bacolod . by elisa , 30 % of the 1743 napsan residents were positive . western blot immunoreactivity with two or more htlv-i proteins was present in 81 % of the elisa positives ; however , there was no reactivity with the env proteins . the frequency of this indeterminate immunoreactivity increased with the malaria antibody titer . none of the 200 bacolod sera were western blot immunoreactive . in competitive serologic assays , an htlv-i lysate blocked the htlv-i immunoreactivity of the napsan sera but did not reduce malaria antibody . a plasmodium falciparum lysate blocked both the htlv-i and malaria immunoreactivity of the napsan sera . these results show that indeterminate htlv-i immunoreactivity can be caused by p. falciparum antibody . serosurveys conducted in malaria endemic areas should consider this possibility . 
a comparison of 6 - , 12 - , and 24-monthly dosing with ivermectin for treatment of onchocerciasis . this study was designed to examine the optimal dose and interval of administration of ivermectin , the now-accepted drug of choice for onchocerciasis . two hundred liberians with onchocerca volvulus infection received 100 , 150 , or 200 micrograms/kg ivermectin or placebo and were followed for 36 months . the reaction after the second dose of ivermectin was significantly less than after the initial dose , although it was still significant in the 200-micrograms/kg group . the skin microfilaria counts in the group treated 6-monthly with 150 micrograms/kg was significantly less than in the group treated yearly ( 12 and 24 months after initial therapy ) . prevalence of microfilariae in the anterior chamber and punctate corneal opacities decreased progressively in all groups over 3 years . there appears to be a slight advantage , in terms of antiparasitic effect over the first 2 years , of therapy given 6-monthly compared with yearly . 
community-based treatment of onchocerciasis with ivermectin : safety , efficacy , and acceptability of yearly treatment . the safety , acceptability , and efficacy of ivermectin during community-based mass treatment of onchocerciasis was assessed . ivermectin was distributed three times , 1 year apart , to the population of a rubber plantation ( 14,000 people ) in liberia where greater than 80 % of adults have onchocerca volvulus infection . in a sample of adults , the microfilarial density was reduced by 84 % after 2 years of treatment . acceptance was as high as 98 % during the third year . adverse reactions occurred in 6-13 in 1000 people after first treatment and in only 3-4 in 1000 receiving their second or third annual dose of ivermectin ; severe adverse reactions were not seen . these data show that community-based treatment with ivermectin is safe , well accepted , and effective in reducing microfilarial loads and suggest that ivermectin is the first practical drug suitable for mass treatment campaigns to control human onchocerciasis . 
visceral leishmaniasis in hiv infection and aids : clinical features and response to therapy . the development of visceral leishmaniasis with atypical features in an aids patient , and the recent flurry of reports of visceral leishmaniasis in hiv-infected individuals prompted the review of its manifestations in the 47 reported cases . splenomegaly , which is almost always a feature of visceral leishmaniasis in the immunocompetent host , was absent in eight . antibodies to leishmania donovani , which are present in approximately 95 per cent of immunocompetent patients with visceral leishmaniasis , were absent in 29 of 45 ( 66 per cent ) of hiv-infected patients tested . nine hiv-positive patients with visceral leishmaniasis did not exhibit a primary clinical response to therapy with antimonials and of those who did show a response , relapse occurred in 13 , at a mean 4.5 months after stopping therapy . seventeen patients are known to have died often in association with respiratory disease ; leishmania was seen in one bronchial lavage specimen and in lung tissue in one post-mortem performed . in order to improve the prognosis of visceral leishmaniasis in hiv-infected patients diagnosis will have to be made earlier , taking account of the atypical features , and treatment will need to be improved , both initially and perhaps also by the use of long-term maintenance therapy . 
infestation of extraocular muscle by cysticercus cellulosae . reports of orbital cysticercosis are uncommon despite the high incidence of brain and ocular involvement . infestation of extraocular muscle is exceedingly rare . two cases of cysticercosis of the extraocular muscles are reported here . surgical removal of the encysted parasites successfully resolved the infestation in both cases . 
meningitis due to protozoa and helminths . this article reviews the microbiology , pathogenesis , epidemiology , clinical manifestations , diagnostic tests , and recent advances in the therapy of protozoan and helminthic infections of the central nervous system , with more emphasis given to protozoan than to helminthic infections . 
toxoplasma gondii infection during pregnancy : t lymphocyte subpopulations in mothers and fetuses . prenatal diagnosis of fetal toxoplasmosis is possible with the use of fetal blood sampling , amniocentesis and ultrasound examination . the purpose of this study was to describe t lymphocyte subsets ( cd3 , cd4 and cd8 ) in mothers and their fetuses when toxoplasma gondii infection occurred during pregnancy . maternal and fetal blood samples were obtained in 86 cases and 9 fetuses showed t. gondii infection . control groups consisted of 30 healthy nonpregnant women and 30 pregnant women . pregnant women with t. gondii infection showed an increase in the suppressor ( cd8 ) t subpopulation and a significant depression in the total helper ( cd4 ) t cells . these alterations were more important in mothers whose fetus was infected . we showed the progressive maturation of the fetal immune system with a regular increase of all t lymphocyte subsets . marked alterations were observed in the 9 infected fetuses ( depression of cd4 population and lower cd4/cd8 ratio ) . in the future these differences might be used as a new marker of the severity of fetal lesions and become a useful diagnostic tool . 
protection against malaria morbidity : near-fixation of the alpha-thalassemia gene in a nepalese population . we have previously reported that the tharu people of the terai region in southern nepal have an incidence of malaria about sevenfold lower than that of synpatric non-tharu people . in order to find out whether this marked resistance against malaria has a genetic basis , we have now determined in these populations the prevalence of candidate protective genes and have performed in-vitro cultures of plasmodium falciparum in both tharu and non-tharu red cells . we have found significant but relatively low and variable frequencies of beta-thal , beta s , g6pd ( - ) , and duffy ( a-b - ) in different parts of the terai region . the average in-vitro rate of invasion and of parasite multiplication did not differ significantly in red cells from tharus versus those from non-tharu controls . by contrast , the frequency of alpha-thalassemia is uniformly high in tharus , with the majority of them having the homozygous alpha - / alpha-genotype and an overall alpha-thal gene ( alpha - ) frequency of .8 . we suggest that holoendemic malaria has caused preferential survival of subjects with alpha-thal and that this genetic factor has enabled the tharus as a population to survive for centuries in a malaria-holoendemic area . from our data we estimate that the alpha-thal homozygous state decreases morbidity from malaria by about 10-fold . this is an example of selection evolution toward fixation of an otherwise abnormal gene . 
the effect of n-alkyl modification on the antimalarial activity of 3-hydroxypyridin-4-one oral iron chelators . the antimalaria effect of iron chelators is attributed to their interaction with a labile iron pool within parasitised erythrocytes , and it was postulated that increased affinity to iron as well as increased lipophilicity may improve antimalarial activity . in the present study we have examined the antimalarial effect of 3-hydroxypyridin-4-ones , a family of bidentate orally effective iron chelators whose lipophilicity may be modified by altering the length of the r2 substituent on the ring nitrogen . a significant dose-related suppression of plasmodium falciparum cultures was observed with all drugs tested in vitro at concentrations of 5 mumol/l or higher . in contrast , there was a clear segregation of the in vivo effect on p berghei in rats ( 300 mg/kg/d subcutaneous ) into two categories : compounds cp20 , 38 , and 40 failed to suppress malaria , whereas cp51 , 94 , and 96 had a strong antimalarial effect , similar or better than deferoxamine . there was a close linear correlation between the suppression of peak parasite counts and the reduction in hepatic nonheme iron induced by the various drugs tested ( r = .9837 ) . the most lipophilic compounds were also the most effective in suppressing malaria and in depleting hepatic iron stores . these data indicate that 3-hydroxypyrydin-4-ones are able to suppress malaria in vivo and in vitro . because lipid solubility is an important determinant of antimalarial action , our study provides useful information regarding the selection of orally effective iron-chelating compounds that may be suitable for clinical application as antimalarial agents . 
changes in electrocardiographic patterns at different stages of chagas ' heart disease in rats . 1 . the resting electrocardiogram was obtained from 25 trypanosoma cruzi-infected rats 30 days after infection ( phase i ) . the resting electrocardiogram was abnormal in 12 ( group i ) and normal in 13 ( group ii ) animals . nineteen similar but non-infected animals served as controls . both the resting electrocardiogram and the ajmaline test were performed 120 and 350 days after infection ( phases ii and iii , respectively ) . 2 . with regard to the resting electrocardiogram of group i animals , left axis deviation was found in 10 of 12 ( 83 % ) in phase i , one of 12 ( 8 % ) in phase ii ( p less than 0.05 ) and in none of phase iii ( p less than 0.05 ) . an intraventricular conduction delay was found in four of 12 ( 33 % ) rats in phase i , two of 12 rats ( 16 % ) in phase ii ( p greater than 0.05 ) and six of 12 rats ( 50 % ) in phase iii ( p greater than 0.05 ) . the ajmaline test was abnormal in nine of 10 ( 90 % ) rats of group i with normal resting electrocardiogram in phase ii , and in three of six ( 50 % ) animals in phase iii ( p greater than 0.05 ) . 3 . an intraventricular conduction delay was found in the resting electrocardiogram of one of 13 ( 7 % ) rats of group ii in phase iii . the ajmaline test was abnormal in one of 13 ( 7 % ) rats in phase ii and in one of 12 ( 8 % ) rats in phase iii . 4 . no control rat showed pathological changes . 
genetic control of the immune response in mice to leishmania mexicana surface protease . congenic mouse strains were tested in the lymphocyte proliferation assay for their response to the purified surface protease of leishmania mexicana ( gp63 ) . the data obtained allow us to distinguish three different patterns of response , influenced both by h-2 ( class ii ) and non-h-2 genes . mice of the c57bl/10 ( b10 ) background carrying h-2 haplotypes b , q , and r were found to be high responders ; those carrying h-2 haplotypes d , j , v , and z were low responders ; and those with h-2a , h-2f , h-2k , h-2p , and h-2u haplotypes were intermediate responders . studies with h-2 recombinant strains indicated that the high responsiveness on the b10 background was determined by the ab allele and the low responsiveness influenced by the ad allele . other genes besides h-2 appear to have a role in the immune response as shown by the fact that some strains with balb , dba , or c3h background differed in their pattern of responsiveness from b10 background strains carrying the corresponding h-2 haplotypes . by using recombinant protein , the influence of the leishmanial surface lipophosphoglycan that might co-purify with gp63 , on the mhc restriction of the response to gp63 was excluded . the immune response to gp63 did not correlate with susceptibility of mouse strains to cutaneous infection with l. mexicana promastigotes . 
inability of malaria vaccine to induce antibodies to a protective epitope within its sequence . saimiri monkeys immunized with a recombinant protein containing 20 copies of the nine amino acid repeat of the plasmodium vivax circumsporozoite ( cs ) protein developed high concentrations of antibodies to the repeat sequence and to sporozoites , but were not protected against challenge . after intravenous injection of an immunoglobulin g3 monoclonal antibody ( nvs3 ) against irradiated p. vivax sporozoites , four of six monkeys were protected against sporozoite-induced malaria , and the remaining two animals took significantly longer to become parasitemic . epitope mapping demonstrated that nvs3 recognizes only four ( agdr ) of the nine amino acids within the repeat region of the p. vivax cs protein . the monkeys immunized with ( draadgqpag ) 20 did not produce antibodies to the protective epitope agdr . thus , determination of the fine specificity of protective immune responses may be critical to the construction of successful subunit vaccines . 
techniques in endoscopic lithotripsy using pulsed dye laser . the pulsed dye laser represents a new tool in the treatment of ureteral calculi . laser energy channeled through a delicate optical fiber is used to disimpact and fragment calculi . standard ureteroscopic instruments including graspers , baskets and dilatation balloons can be used with the laser system . interchangeable optical fibers ranging from 200 to 400 micrometers deliver up to 120 mj of energy to the stone 's surface . for two weeks in 1989 an endourology clinic was held in upper egypt . eighty patients ranging in age from nine years to sixty-seven years old were evaluated and treated endoscopically . endoscopes ranging from 6.9 f to 12.5 f were used to deliver the optical fiber . all stones visualized endoscopically were fragmented . greater than 60 percent of the stones fragmented were composed of pure calcium oxalate monohydrate . schistosoma hematobium was endemic among our study group . bilharzial strictures of the distal ureter were noted in 30 percent of these patients . treatment of these strictures using both balloon dilatation and graduated teflon dilators is reviewed . techniques in treating different types of ureteral calculi were explored . large calcium oxalate dihydrate stones were treated most efficiently with the 3-point fragmentation technique . the shear off-center technique was used for the calcium oxalate monohydrate calculi . variations in total energy delivered and frequency of pulsation allowed for prompt stone disimpaction as well as prevention of retrograde fragment migration . concurrent use of stone baskets and graspers with the pulsed dye laser was explored . 
impaired sympathetic nerve function in the inflamed rat intestine . the effect of intestinal inflammation on norepinephrine release from the myenteric plexus in the trichinella spiralis-infected rat was assessed . longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparations were preincubated with [ 3h ] norepinephrine and release was evoked by electrical field stimulation and kcl administration . preincubation of preparations with desipramine or pretreatment of rats with 6-hydroxydopamine significantly suppressed the uptake and evoked release of [ 3h ] norepinephrine ; electrical field stimulation but not kcl-evoked release of [ 3h ] norepinephrine was sensitive to tetrodotoxin . these results confirm the presence of functioning sympathetic nerves in the preparations . t. spiralis infection was associated with significant suppression of both electrical field stimulation and kcl-evoked release of [ 3h ] norepinephrine on the sixth day postinfection , and the suppression persisted 100 days postinfection . no suppression of [ 3h ] norepinephrine release was seen in the worm-free and noninflamed ileum of infected rats . suppression of [ 3h ] norepinephrine release from the jejunum of infected rats was attenuated by treatment with betamethasone ( 3.0 mg/kg sc daily ) . these results are consistent with the hypothesis that intestinal inflammation suppresses the release of norepinephrine from the myenteric plexus in the trichinella-infected rat . 
cardiac echinococcosis with fatal intracerebral embolism . a previously well 7 year old boy presented with sudden loss of consciousness and fitting . no evidence of trauma or space occupying lesion was identified . death occurred the next day due to cerebral infarction caused by embolised fragments from a ruptured left ventricular hydatid cyst that was found at necropsy . 
fatal adult respiratory distress syndrome following successful treatment of pulmonary strongyloidiasis . hyperinfection with strongyloides stercoralis occurs mostly in immunocompromised patients , including those treated with systemic steroids . a case of strongyloides-induced adult respiratory distress syndrome was recently reported , and we now report a case in which fatal ards appeared to result from the successful therapy of massive parasitic infection . 
isolation and characterization of a new human microsporidian , encephalitozoon hellem ( n. sp . ) , from three aids patients with keratoconjunctivitis . a new human microsporidian was isolated from cultures of madin-darby canine kidney cells incubated with conjunctival scrapings or corneal tissues from three aids patients with keratoconjunctivitis . the three isolates were morphologically similar to encephalitozoon cuniculi . the spores averaged 1 x 1.5-2 .0 microns , had six to eight polar filament coils , displayed monokaryotic nuclei , and possessed relatively thick endospores with irregularly shaped exospores . organisms developed within a parasitophorous vacuole . by sds-page analysis , the three isolates appeared to be identical but were different from e. cuniculi . identical banding patterns on western blots of the three isolates were expressed by each patient 's serum . by western immunoblotting , murine antisera to e. cuniculi reacted to several antigens of the new aids-related microsporidian , whereas murine antisera bound weakly to nosema corneum . the name encephalitozoon hellem ( n. sp . ) is proposed to identify this new human microsporidian . 
rapid microscopic detection of malaria parasites permanently fluorochrome stained in blood smears with aluminum and morin . intra - and extracellular plasmodium parasites in fixed blood smears are easily identifiable by fluorescence microscopy after brief mordanting with aluminum ammonium sulfate and staining with morin ( 3,5,7,1 ' ,4 ' - pentahydroxyflavanol ) . the intensely fluorescent preparations of stained parasites are strongly resistant to photodegradation and remained essentially unimpaired for two years . 
hosts on which nymphal ixodes ricinus most abundantly feed . to identify hosts that may serve as european reservoirs for the agent of lyme disease , borrelia burgdorferi , we determined whether nymphal ixodes ricinus feed mainly on particular mice ( apodemus flavicollis or a. agrarius ) , voles ( clethrionomys glareolus ) or on sand lizards ( lacerta agilis ) and whether the abundance of these hosts corresponds to the seasonal activity of the subadult stages of the vector tick . in all sites , the mice appeared most heavily infested by larvae ; at least seven parasitized each mouse , about three per vole and four per lizard . many fewer nymphal i. ricinus parasitized a. flavicollis and c. glareolus than did larvae . although more than 30 times as many larval than nymphal ticks parasitized the two most abundant hosts ( c. glareolus and a. flavicollis ) , about 15 times as many fed on a. agrarius and twice as many on lizards . nymphal and larval ticks fed on rodents at about the same time . lizards were most abundantly parasitized by nymphs somewhat earlier than by larvae . early in the season of transmission of lyme disease , virtually all a. agrarius as well as lizards were potentially exposed to spirochetes borne by nymphal i. ricinus . we concluded that larval and nymphal i. ricinus differentially parasitize different hosts . because so many of these nymphs feed on them , a. agrarius may more effectively serve as reservoirs for the agent of lyme disease than do other putative reservoir hosts . the presence of lizards may inhibit transmission . 
detection of plasmodium falciparum infection with the fluorescent dye , benzothiocarboxypurine . the fluorescent dye benzothiocarboxypurine ( bcp ) intensely stains nucleic acids . the dye does not penetrate viable white blood cells but does stain these cells following fixation . it has also been found that the dye stains the nucleic acid of viable plasmodium falciparum . we have subsequently evaluated the staining of p. falciparum by benzothiocarboxypurine within red blood cells and have found that the red blood cell membrane is freely permeable to this dye and consequently p. falciparum is stained within the red blood cell . this finding prompted an in-depth analysis of the dye in the laboratory and in a field study as an alternative to giemsa-stained blood smears and as a means of enhancing the microscopic diagnosis of malarial infection . in a field study the bcp dye allowed detection of malaria in fresh blood at a level equivalent to the giemsa method ( parasitemia ranged from 0.01 % to 30 % ) . the bcp staining procedure could also be used with fixed specimens although the differential staining characteristics were lost following specimen preparation . of 111 blinded samples obtained in the field 22 were negative by giemsa-stained thin smear , 16 were negative on thick smear and the same 16 were negative by bcp analysis . we have found that the bcp dye offers many advantages compared with the microscopic diagnosis of p. falciparum infection with standard giemsa stains . these advantages are especially evident in conditions of low parasitemia , in the speed of staining and evaluation , and the relatively low level of training required to provide consistent results . 
acridine orange fluorescent microscopy and the detection of malaria in populations with low-density parasitemia . detection of low-density malaria parasites with giemsa-stained thick smears ( g-ts ) requires time and experience and becomes impractical with high sample loads . acridine orange fluorescent microscopy ( ao/fm ) of capillary centrifuged blood may offer an alternative technique . we compared ao/fm readings with g-ts in 290 specimens from asymptomatic people in thai villages endemic for malaria . ao/fm specimens were prepared in modified capillary tubes coated with acridine orange ( quantitative buffy coat or " qbc tubes " ) and examined under a fluorescent microscope . twenty-three ( 85.2 % ) of the 27 specimens found positive by g-ts had under 100 parasites/microliters blood ( less than 35 parasites/200 microscopic fields ) . the overall ao/fm sensitivity was 78.9 % [ range : 66.7 % ( 10/15 ) -86.7 % ( 13/15 ) ] . for plasmodium falciparum , regardless of stages , the sensitivities varied from 66.7 % ( 8/12 ) to 91.7 % ( 11/12 ) . ao/fm performed better for p. falciparum than for plasmodium vivax and for asexual than for sexual stages of the parasite . however , the species - and stage-specific results must be interpreted with caution because of the small sample sizes and very low parasite densities involved . the test specificity was 96.6 % [ range : 95.6 % ( 263/275 ) -97.1 % ( 263/271 ) ] . these levels of accuracy plus the known advantages of ao/fm suggest that the test , supplemented with g-ts to improve species and stage differentiation , is also useful for screening low-density parasitemias . 
characteristics of natural antibody responses to the circumsporozoite protein of plasmodium vivax . the antibody response to the prototype circumsporozoite ( cs ) protein of plasmodium vivax ( cspv ) was studied in thai soldiers experiencing occupational malaria . seventy-four ( 65 % ) of 114 men followed during assignment to a malaria transmission area developed blood-stage infection with p. vivax . igg antibodies against the central repeat region of the cspv protein were quantitated by elisa using the recombinant protein , ns181v20 , as the capture antigen . one quarter of the subjects had detectable anti-cspv antibodies at the beginning of the study . cspv antibody seroconversion was documented in 16 of 26 subjects assessed during their first observed episodes of vivax malaria . this antibody response was of moderate magnitude , fell off after the first week post-diagnosis and appeared , at the low levels observed , to be unassociated with protection . continued assessment of anti-cspv antibody after subjects left the transmission area found no increase associated with release of p. vivax . these findings indicate that cs antibody responses to p. vivax during occupational malaria share many characteristics with responses to p. falciparum . 
plasmodium vivax sporozoite antibodies in individuals exposed during a single malaria outbreak in a non-endemic area . we studied seroreactivity against plasmodium vivax antigens in 62 individuals living in a small community near mantena , minas gerais , brazil , an area outside the endemic malaria zone brazil . eight months earlier , there had been transmission of p. vivax for a period of 50 days , which was then totally controlled by chemotherapy and insecticides . an anti-sporozoite response , measured by elisa using a recombinant protein expressed in yeast , was detected in 45 % ( 14 of 31 ) of individuals eight months after infection and persisted for 20 months in 12 % . eighteen individuals were treated prophylactically for malaria because they lived in houses in which an overt infection had occurred . seven of these individuals were elisa positive ; of these , 5 had antibodies against the blood stage parasites . among 13 other individuals in the endemic area who did not have positive smears , had not been ill , and had not received prophylaxis , five were anti-circumsporozoite positive up to a 40-fold serum dilution . they did not develop asexual blood stage antibodies and remained parasite-free for the following 20 months . 
comparison of high dose ivermectin and diethylcarbamazine for activity against bancroftian filariasis in haiti . this three-phase study was designed to compare high dose ivermectin with a standard diethylcarbamazine ( dec ) regimen for patient tolerability , potential to kill adult filaria , and duration of microfilarial suppression in 30 haitian subjects with wuchereria bancrofti microfilaremia . all were first given a 1-mg oral dose of ivermectin ( phase 1 ) to reduce microfilaria densities . participants were randomized into three groups : group 1 received dec ( 6mg/kg per day for 12 days ) , group 2 received 200 mcg/kg of ivermectin , and group 3 received 400 mcg/kg of ivermectin ( 200 mcg/kg per day for 2 days ) . all drug regimens were well tolerated with few adverse reactions . most reactions occurred during phase i and consisted primarily of headache , fever , and myalgia . at the end of phase 1 , 27 of 30 ( 90 % ) patients were microfilaria negative . during phase 2 , four of the six men receiving dec developed scrotal reactions suggesting killing adult worms ; no such reactions were noted in 10 men receiving ivermectin ( p less than 0.05 ) . at one-year follow up ( phase 3 ) , all treatment groups had less than 10 % return to pretreatment microfilaria levels . the mean percent of baseline microfilaria counts were for group 1 , 0.9 % ( range 0-5 % ) ; group 2 , 8.2 % ( range 0-31 % ) ; and group 3 , 3.8 % ( range 0-25 % ) . seven individuals in group 1 were microfilaria-negative , while only one and three individuals were microfilaria-negative in groups 2 and 3 , respectively . these results suggest that dec causes more damage to the adult worms and greater reduction in microfilaria densities than ivermectin , but that high doses of ivermectin may suppress microfilaremia in lymphatic filariasis for periods much longer than previously reported . 
immunization of owl monkeys with the ring-infected erythrocyte surface antigen of plasmodium falciparum . aotus nancymai were immunized with the 4-mer , 8-mer , and 11-mer repeat peptides of the ring-infected erythrocyte surface antigen molecule of plasmodium falciparum conjugated to diphtheria toxoid with muramyl dipeptide ( mdp ) as adjuvant . immunization failed to induce protective immunity against the uganda palo alto strain of p. falciparum as judged by maximum levels of parasitemia of immunized monkeys relative to those of controls . the fused polypeptide fpag632 , when combined with mdp , also failed to induce protective immunity . however , the maximum level of parasitemia and serologic response to the 11-mer peptide were inversely correlated . the safety of the use of mdp was evident . 
a spleen is not necessary to resolve infections with plasmodium yoelii . the role of the spleen in resistance to infections with nonlethal plasmodium yoelii 17x is dependent upon the genotype of the host . thus , dba/2 ( d2 ) mice infected with p. yoelii 17x were not adversely affected by removal of the spleen , while splenectomized c57bl/6 ( b6 ) or balb/c mice failed to resolve their infections and eventually died . the levels of parasitemia were lower in splenectomized mice compared to intact controls ; however , splenectomized mice became as anemic as did spleen-intact controls . splenectomy resulted in the appearance of large aggregates of mononuclear cells in the livers of infected mice and also altered the liver/body weight ratios . these results indicate that d2 mice have a spleen-independent mechanism of clearing parasites which is lacking in b6 and balb/c mice . 
intestinal cryptosporidiosis : pathophysiologic alterations and specific cellular and humoral immune responses in rnu / + and rnu/rnu ( athymic ) rats . in order to develop an experimental model of symptomatic cryptosporidiosis in an immunosuppressed mammal , we investigated the pathophysiology of infection with cryptosporidium and the humoral and cellular host responses in rnu/rnu ( athymic ) rats and their heterozygous ( rnu / + ) littermates by challenging suckling rats with greater than or equal to 2.5 x 10 ( 6 ) cryptosporidium oocytes oro-gastrically . normal and immunodeficient animals were followed for onset and duration of infection ( fecal oocysts ) , physiologic consequences ( diarrhea , impaired weight gain , brush-border enzyme activities ) , and immunologic response ( both b - and t-lymphocyte-mediated ) . homozygosity for the rnu gene was associated with protracted cryptosporidial infections ; shedding for up to 52 days occurred , and delay in weight gain was noted in rnu/rnu-infected compared with rnu/rnu-uninfected rats ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , cryptosporidial challenge of rnu / + rats resulted in self-resolving infections , occasionally with transient diarrhea lasting four days or less occurring 10-15 days after oro-gastric challenge . the latter animals mounted a cell-mediated immune response to cryptosporidium : three months after challenge , five of five rnu / + rats demonstrated positive skin test responses to a subcutaneous 3.5 micrograms dose of cryptosporidial antigen . further , sera from 6 rnu / + rats taken two to three months after oro-gastric oocyst challenge exhibited specific anticryptosporidial immunoglobulin binding ( a405 = 0.96 ) , compared to that of seven uninfected rnu / + controls ( a405 = 0.09 , p less than 0.02 ) . macromolecules of 150 , 105 , and 88 kd in the cryptosporidium antigen preparation were bound by serum immunoglobulin from previously infected , recovered rnu / + rats . two brush-border enzymes ( lactase and alkaline phosphatase ) were markedly reduced in the ileum 8-10 days after oro-gastric challenge in rats with diarrhea and oocyst shedding . we find the rnu/rnu ( athymic , nude ) rat provides a useful model for study of prolonged cryptosporidial infection with impaired weight loss , brush-border enzyme alteration and intermittent diarrhea . these studies further suggest that a t-lymphocyte population is involved in recovery from cryptosporidium infection and that this recovery is associated with both cellular and humoral immune responses to specific cryptosporidial antigenic macromolecules . this model should open further avenues for the study of the pathogenesis and protective immunity in cryptosporidial infection . 
the effect of chloroquine prophylaxis on yellow fever vaccine antibody response : comparison of plaque reduction neutralization test and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . weekly oral chloroquine prophylaxis for malaria has been associated with impaired antibody response to intradermal rabies vaccination . experimental data indicate that chloroquine may inhibit yellow fever virus in vitro , yet there has been no clinical evidence to suggest that antibody response to yellow fever vaccine is impaired by concomitant oral administration of chloroquine . a prospective trial was undertaken to evaluate the antibody response to yellow fever 17d vaccine ( connaught laboratories ) of volunteers who were randomized to taking either chloroquine or no drug . of fifty subjects , 28 were randomized to taking chloroquine , 22 were randomized to taking no drug . yellow fever 17d vaccine was administered on day 0 and blood sampled on days 0 , 14 , 35 and 210 . chloroquine was administered weekly for four weeks . there was no significant difference in peak antibody titer by plaque reduction neutralization testing ( prnt ) between the group that took chloroquine ( mean log peak of reciprocal titer 1.43 + / - sd 0.60 ) with vaccine subcutaneously compared to vaccine-only group ( mean log peak of reciprocal titer = 1.21 + / - 0.55 ) . all fifty subjects seroconverted to yellow fever vaccine by day 210 . elisa testing was also performed on all subjects . the two tests showed good correlation ( spearman r = 0.675 ) , although elisa readings were positive by day 14 in significantly more subjects ( p = .01 ) . we conclude that routine anti-malarial doses of chloroquine do not affect antibody response to yellow fever 17d vaccine . elisa testing , a less complex and less time-consuming test , correlates well with prnt and is proposed for additional trials to measure yellow fever 17d vaccine response in flavivirus non-immune subjects . 
definition of the role of contemporary surgical management in cisternal and parenchymatous cysticercosis cerebri . with increasing immigration from endemic regions , the incidence of neurocysticercosis in north america is rising . this retrospective study was undertaken to examine the role of surgery in those cases presenting with large cystic parenchymal and cisternal lesions in the current era of anthelminthic agents administered orally . a total of 237 patients presented with newly diagnosed neurocysticercosis to our institution over a recent 5-year period ( mean age , 31.2 years ) . among those who presented with cystic mass lesions predominantly affecting the brain parenchyma and cisternal spaces , 20 ( 8.4 % ; mean age , 40.2 years ) with large cystic lesions subsequently underwent surgical intervention , either because of an emergent presentation or because they were refractory to medical management . clinical presentation included increased intracranial pressure , focal neurological deficit , and seizure . radiographic imaging ( computed tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging ) demonstrated 12 cases with cisternal lesions , 7 with parenchymal lesions , and 1 involving both compartments . based on imaging guidelines , 30 operative procedures ( excluding shunt revisions ) were performed ( 14 craniotomies , 8 cerebrospinal fluid diversions , 7 stereotactic procedures , and 1 burr hole drainage ) . fifteen ( 75 % ) showed neurological or symptomatic improvement over a median follow-up period of 36.4 months . there were three surgery-related complications and no deaths . 
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the brain . congenital brain anomalies are classified as developmental anomalies , effects of teratogens , errors of histogenesis , or sequelae of infections . the imaging options for delineation of these anomalies are many ; a basic understanding of the disorder is central to the effective choice of imaging modality . this review begins with a brief overview of embryogenesis then reviews the common congenital brain anomalies encountered in infants . 
use of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements to show clonal lymphoproliferation in hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly in africa , hyper-reactive malarial splenomegaly ( hms ) , which is also known as tropical splenomegaly syndrome , can be associated with a prominent lymphocytosis in blood and bone marrow that is difficult to distinguish clinically from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia ( cll ) . the observation that some patients with hms become resistant to treatment with anti-malarial drugs has led to the suggestion that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder . to test this hypothesis , 22 ghanaian patients with hms and/or lymphocytosis were categorised by degree of response to proguanil according to standard clinical criteria , and dna was extracted from peripheral blood cells and screened for rearrangements of the jh region of the immunoglobulin gene with a dna probe . clonal rearrangements of the jh region were found in all 3 patients with no response , in none of 13 patients with sustained response , and in 2 of 6 patients with moderate response or relapse on proguanil therapy . the detection of such rearrangements , and hence clonal lymphoproliferation in individuals with clinical features intermediate between hms and cll , supports the hypothesis that hms may evolve into a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder . 
co-trimoxazole for childhood febrile illness in malaria-endemic regions . the efficacy of co-trimoxazole for the treatment of plasmodium falciparum parasitaemia in children younger than 5 years of age was evaluated in malawi . 46 children with p falciparum parasitaemia , 37 % of whom also met clinical criteria for a diagnosis of acute lower respiratory tract infection , were treated with 20 mg/kg co-trimoxazole twice daily for five days . parasitaemia ( mean clearance time 2.7 days ) and symptoms were rapidly abolished and improvement was maintained during follow-up for 14 days . co-trimoxazole may be an effective single treatment for febrile illness in young children in areas where malaria is endemic , resources are few , and diagnosis must rely on clinical findings alone . 
intracranial pressure in african children with cerebral malaria opening lumbar cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) pressure was measured with a paediatric spinal fluid manometer in 26 of 61 kenyan children ( mean age 39 months ) with cerebral malaria . in all cases pressure was above normal ( mean [ sd ] 22.6 [ 7.4 ] cm csf , range 10.5-36 ) . clinical features of our patients suggest that intracranial hypertension is important in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria in children , especially as a cause of death . we suggest that raised intracranial pressure is secondary to increased cerebral blood volume . lowering intracranial pressure may significantly reduce the mortality and morbidity of cerebral malaria . the potential risks and benefits of lumbar puncture should be considered carefully in patients with suspected cerebral malaria . 
onchocercacidal effects of amocarzine ( cgp 6140 ) in latin america . an open clinical trial of amocarzine was carried out in onchocerciasis patients in ecuador and guatemala . administration after food was more effective than that during fasting . the most effective and best tolerated regimen , 3 mg/kg twice daily after food for 3 days ( in 312 patients ) , killed 73 % of 1477 female worms at nodulectomy 4 months after treatment . the mean microfilarial skin count was greatly reduced within a week ( 6-11 % of day 0 value on day 8 ) and it remained low at least 6 months ( 14-18 % on day 180 ) . follow-up of a higher dose 3 day regimen taken while fasting showed microfilaridermia of 7-9 % of the day 0 value 2 years after treatment . 
cerebral falciparum malaria mimicking thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . we have described a patient with cerebral falciparum malaria who had rapidly progressive cns deterioration , renal failure , hemolytic anemia associated with striking and varied erythrocyte morphologic changes , and thrombocytopenia . the initial diagnosis was thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) of unknown origin . reexamination of the peripheral smear of this comatose patient led to correct diagnosis and effective treatment in this case of cerebral falciparum malaria -- another of medicine 's great mimickers . 
growth in children from the wosera subdistrict , papua new guinea , in relation to energy and protein intakes and zinc status . in a cross-sectional study of 123 children aged 24-120 mo from the wosera subdistrict of papua new guinea , height , weight , hematocrit , hemoglobin , hair zinc , and presence of malaria were measured . two 24-h recalls were undertaken in 67 of the children aged 72-120 mo ; 52 % , 73 % , and 76 % had energy , protein , and zinc intakes , respectively , less than two-thirds of the fao/who/unu recommendations . stunting was prevalent ( 29 % ) ; 16 % were moderately wasted . the prevalence of stunting and hair zinc concentrations less than 1.68 mumol/g was gender related ; 38 % of males vs 20 % of females had z scores for height-for-age ( haz scores ) less than -2 ( p = 0.04 ) ; 26 % of males vs 11 % of females had hair zinc less than 1.68 mumol/g ( p less than 0.05 ) . analysis of variance showed that age , sex , hemoglobin , and log hair zinc influenced haz scores , depending on the age group ; both sex and the log of the hair zinc values were significant factors in the older children . stunting in worsera children was related to chronic deficits in energy and protein and was excerbated in the older male children by suboptimal zinc status . 
the epidemiologic association of fuchs ' heterochromic iridocyclitis and ocular toxoplasmosis . between january 1983 and july 1987 , i examined 25 patients at the department of ophthalmology , west virginia university , who had the anterior segment characteristics of fuchs ' heterochromic iridocyclitis . of these patients , 16 had fundus lesions suggestive of ocular toxoplasmosis . of these 16 patients , 13 had a positive serologic test for toxoplasmosis , two patients were not tested , and one patient had a negative test at 1:16 . the remaining nine patients with fuchs ' heterochromic iridocyclitis had no fundus lesions suggestive of toxoplasmosis . a chart review of 792 consecutive patients at the retinal unit , west virginia university , during a six-month period disclosed that 24 of 590 patients ( 4 % ) had chorioretinal scars suggestive of toxoplasmosis . i concluded from these data that in at least one subgroup of patients with fuchs ' heterochromic iridocyclitis there is a significant association with the chorioretinal scars of toxoplasmosis ( p less than .01 ) , and this is suggestive of a causal relationship . 
