an unusual case of acquired localized argyria . we report an unusual cause of localized cutaneous argyria , due to the cutaneous implantation of a silver earring back . 
fractured and retained guide-wire fragment during coronary angioplasty -- unforeseen late sequelae . during a difficult coronary angioplasty , the tip of the guide wire became inadvertently wedged in a distal vessel , fractured , and retained in situ . because of the otherwise successful nature of the angioplasty and the patient 's great risk for cardiac surgery , it was elected to leave the wire fragment in place . recurrence of symptoms led to recatheterization , which in addition to restenosis of the original angioplasty site showed diffuse narrowing of the arterial segment that contained the retained wire fragment . this occurred despite systemic anticoagulation with coumadin in the interval between procedures . thus retained guide wire fragments in patent coronary arteries may cause arterial narrowing despite systemic anticoagulation . 
left ventricular rupture complicating percutaneous mitral commissurotomy : salvage using percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass support . left ventricular rupture resulting in death has been reported to be a complication of percutaneous mitral commissurotomy . we report a 71-year-old man in whom a left ventricular rupture occurred during percutaneous mitral commissurotomy and resulted in hemodynamic collapse due to acute cardiac tamponade . the patient was stabilized using percutaneously instituted cardiopulmonary bypass support with subsequent repair of the left ventricle and successful mitral valve replacement . three months later this patient remains in new york heart class i. 
five-year postoperative results of cemented femoral arthroplasty in patients with systemic bone disease . to determine whether bone cellular abnormality affects the results of cemented femoral arthroplasty , 21 patients had biopsies of the iliac crest and femoral cortex at the time of surgery . roentgenographic and histomorphometric studies were used to characterize fibrous membrane formation , cancellous bone , calcar resorption , and bone turnover . patients with high bone turnover and decreased femoral thickness and density before surgery were at risk of developing calcar resorption and cancellous diaphyses , conditions that weaken proximal stem support and lead to early failure . these findings suggest that noncemented stems may be indicated in this group . another group , osteoporotic patients , suffered from osteoblastic insufficiency , which may be the indication for the use of cemented stems rather than noncemented stems , which require bony ingrowth . 
trochanteric fractures . influence of reduction and implant position on impaction and complications . a review of roentgenograms and charts was made of 532 trochanteric fractures treated by the sliding-screw technique . according to evans ' modified classification , 65 % of the fractures were unstable . there was no breakage or bending of implants . twenty ( 3.8 % ) reoperations were performed because of technical complications or nonunion . the singh index revealed more unstable fractures and technical complications in hips with grades 1-3 than in hips with grades 4-6 . reoperation was more frequent if the screw tip was within 8 mm from the subchondral line in the superolateral quadrant or in the anteroproximal quadrant than if the screw ended farther from the subchondral line . fifty-five ( 10.8 % ) of the lag screws migrated 2 mm or more . postoperatively , the neck-shaft angle decreased more in unstable fractures than in stable fractures . the decrease in neck-shaft angle was less when the proximal fragment impinged medially on the shaft fragment . unstable fractures with this type of reduction also impacted less than hips with anatomic reduction or medial reduction of the shaft fragment . weight bearing did not significantly influence the degree of impaction . 
subtrochanteric fractures . a retrospective analysis . in a retrospective review of 107 patients treated during an eight-year period for subtrochanteric fractures , the average follow-up period was 25.5 months ( range , six to 96 months ) . comparisons of fracture patterns , fixation devices , and complications of osteosynthesis were made in an attempt to identify fixation devices that are best suited for the treatment of this difficult orthopedic problem . the seinsheimer system of classification was used , and the fracture at risk was identified . long spiral fractures with associated butterfly fragments in the osteopenic bone of elderly patients occurred most frequently , with complications of osteosynthesis and inherent instability . despite the theoretic biomechanical advantages offered by the intramedullary systems , follow-up observations showed better results in patients with treatment by extramedullary devices . 
paradoxes in the history of the anterior cruciate ligament . a historic review of anterior cruciate ligament ( acl ) investigation reveals two important paradoxes . ( 1 ) ideas and concepts recently proposed were first put forth much earlier . ( 2 ) controversy regarding this ligament continues despite the increased amount of information available . much of the recent acl literature , although regarded as newly discovered , has its roots in far older , and apparently forgotten or overlooked , work . examples include : ( 1 ) acl intactness is best tested at full extension ; ( 2 ) hemarthrosis and acl rupture are closely associated ; and ( 3 ) acl rupture sometimes masquerades as a minor injury . additionally , early investigators achieved notable advances in surgical techniques . these contributions disappeared from the literature for two major reasons . first , early investigators observed few patients , with typical practitioners rarely seeing acl injuries , and consequently , little data existed to support their observations . second , observations could not be confirmed until the advent of widespread , successful surgery . undoubtedly , orthopedists now know much more about the acl , yet many issues remain controversial . does the acl perform a vital function ? what is the efficacy of operative versus nonoperative treatment ? what are the relative merits of direct repair , intraarticular substitutes , and extraarticular nonanatomic procedures ? the origins and continued existence of controversy stem from several sources , including the less than rigorous study design and the scarcity of natural history , long-term follow-up studies , and basic science studies . the perception of the acl as a simple structural unit has also perpetuated this controversy . 
the outcome of nonoperatively treated complete tears of the anterior cruciate ligament in active young adults . the results of nonoperative treatment of 72 patients with complete anterior cruciate ligament ( acl ) tears , documented by examination under anesthesia and arthroscopy , were evaluated . all patients had an acute injury with hemarthrosis in a previously normal knee . patients having meniscal repair were excluded as were those with collateral or posterior cruciate ligament tears or associated fractures . treatment in all cases consisted of a standard protocol of early rehabilitation and bracing . a detailed rating of symptoms and function was performed at an average of 38 months postinjury ( range , eight to 84 months ) . overall results were 11 % excellent , 20 % good , 15 % fair , and 54 % poor . thirty-five percent had acl reconstruction during the follow-up period . results indicate that young adults who return to a vocation requiring strenuous physical activity frequently can expect unsatisfactory results after nonoperative treatment of an acute complete tear of the acl . 
isolated avulsion of the biceps femoris insertion . a case report . the clinical , roentgenographic , and operative findings of an isolated biceps femoris avulsion in a 21-year-old man demonstrated the significance of the static stabilizers about the knee , menisci , and articular cartilage . examination of the dynamic structures about the knee , however , may present a diagnostic problem . a systematic examination of the musculature ( hamstrings , quadriceps , and patellofemoral mechanism ) should be included in the evaluation of every acute knee injury . special attention should be given to the surface anatomy as well as function of the knee . 
factors influencing the results of open reduction and internal fixation of tibial plateau fractures . forty-three displaced tibial plateau fractures were treated with open reduction and internal fixation . the fractures were classified into four groups , and the clinical results were evaluated using a standard 100-point knee rating system . the average follow-up period after surgery was 2.7 years . overall there were 35 excellent , five good , three fair , and no poor results . in five of eight knees with a less than excellent score , the results were due to the technique of fracture fixation or the absence of a bone graft . there were ten postoperative complications , but only one ultimately affected the clinical result . fourteen patients required removal of implants . roentgenographic analysis showed that six knees had mild degenerative changes , two had moderate , and two had severe degenerative changes . there was no statistically significant association between the fracture type and a less than excellent result . the absence of bone grafting , however , was associated with a less than excellent result . bicondylar fractures had a mean range of motion of 110 degrees , 18 degrees less than that of all other types of fracture combined . 
a ten-year review of treatment of delayed union and nonunion with an implanted bone growth stimulator . a ten-year clinical and roentgenographic review was conducted on the patients in the original australian multicenter trial that evaluated use of an implantable bone growth stimulator for delayed union and nonunion . of the original 81 patients , 38 patients were located , seven patients had died from unrelated causes , and 36 were unlocatable . of the 38 patients located , 37 patients ( representing 38 fractures ) participated in a detailed clinical review and had a roentgenographic assessment . all fractures had remained united , and normal bone remodeling had occurred . there were no adverse effects of the generator or cathode wire . six patients initially reported as failures had healed after further surgical intervention . thus , normal osteogenesis occurs in association with electrical stimulation using an implantable bone growth stimulator . this ten-year review supports the long-term safety and effectiveness of this technique in treating nonuniting fractures . 
results of treatment of tibial and femoral osteomyelitis in adults . from january 1 , 1971 , to december 31 , 1985 , 425 patients with chronic osteomyelitis of the femur or tibia were seen at the authors ' institution . the success rate in this recent experience was 84.4 % compared with 50.9 % in the authors ' results published in 1970 . a classification of chronic osteomyelitis is as follows : ( 1 ) hematogenous osteomyelitis ; ( 2 ) osteomyelitis in united fractures ( fracture with union ) ; ( 3 ) osteomyelitis in nonunion ( fracture with nonunion ) ; and ( 4 ) postoperative or posttraumatic osteomyelitis in which bone was not fractured . for management of the scarring of surrounding soft tissue , there has been a change to excision of the scarred tissue and reliance on muscle flap , free-tissue transfer , or closure of soft tissues without irrigation with antibiotic solution . in recent years , free microvascular osseous grafts have permitted more aggressive resection of the involved osseous tissue . the predominance of gram-negative organisms and penicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus and the occurrence of methicillin-resistant s. aureus continue . 
toxic psychosis due to chloroquine -- not uncommon in children . toxic psychosis due to chloroquine is a relatively uncommon occurrence in childhood . this entity must be kept in differential diagnosis in a case of unexplained psychosis , before resorting to a sophisticated array of detailed investigations . the purpose of this is to familiarize pediatricians with this relatively uncommon entity . the authors encountered four cases of psychosis with a wide variety of symptomatology over a period of the past 18 months . 
contact sensitization by pesticides in farmers . 30 farmers with contact dermatitis and 20 controls were patch tested with a series of locally used pesticides . allergic reactions to 1 or more pesticides were seen in 11 patients but none of the controls . carbamates ( maneb , carbofuran , carbaryl ) were the most frequent sensitizers ( 7 patients ) , followed by organophosphorus compounds like : malathion and oxydemton methyl ( 4 patients ) ; 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and fenvalerate ( 3 patients each ) ; streptocycline ( 2 patients ) . irritant reactions to captaf were seen in 4 patients , thiobencarb weedicide in 3 , and organophosphorus compounds in 3 . pesticides should be patch tested in all farmers with contact dermatitis . 
critical care for clonidine poisoning in toddlers . clonidine may be a source of serious toxicity when ingested by toddlers . we describe 11 cases of clonidine ingestion by toddlers ( mean dose 0.15 mg/kg ; range 0.01 to 0.57 ) . the source of the clonidine was a grand-parent in six of 11 cases . symptoms included altered level of consciousness ( n = 11 ) , miosis ( n = 5 ) , bradycardia ( n = 8 ) , hypotension ( n = 5 ) , apnea and respiratory depression ( n = 6 ) , hypothermia ( n = 5 ) and hypertension ( n = 3 ) . therapeutic interventions included naloxone ( n = 8 ) and atropine ( n = 4 ) , dopamine ( n = 1 ) , fluid resuscitation ( n = 4 ) , and endotracheal intubation ( n = 1 ) . there were no deaths . symptoms of clonidine ingestion were typically mild if the dose ingested was less than 0.01 mg/kg , while bradycardia and hypotension occurred usually with doses of greater than 0.01 mg/kg . apnea and respiratory depression were common when the dose exceeded 0.02 mg/kg . more effective measures are needed to prevent these potentially serious intoxications . 
bronchial blood flow reduction with positive end-expiratory pressure after acute lung injury in sheep . smoke inhalation increases bronchial blood flow ( qbr ) and produces edema of the airway system . this study investigates whether the increased qbr seen 24 h after inhalation injury can be affected by mechanical ventilation with peep ( 5 , 10 , 15 cm h2o ) . sheep ( n = 8 ) previously prepared with cardiopulmonary catheters and ultrasonic transit time flow probes mounted around their bronchial arteries were insufflated with four sets of 12 breaths each of cotton smoke . different levels of peep were added to the mechanical ventilation 24 h after injury ; each peep level was applied for 45 min . there were significant increases in qbr and lung lymph flow ( ql ) associated with a marked decrease in bronchial vascular resistance ( bvr ) 24 h after injury . however , no change was observed in mean arterial pressure ( map ) or cardiac index ( ci ) . there was a substantial reduction in pao2/fio2 ( p/f ) , which indicated a deterioration in arterial oxygenation . the application of varying levels of peep decreased qbr ( p less than .05 ) while bvr increased ( p less than .05 ) , but ql and p/f did not . ci and map were recorded . after removal of peep , none of the cardiopulmonary variables were significantly different from their postsmoke control values . these findings suggest that mechanical ventilation with peep markedly decreases the smoke-induced hyperemia edema frequently seen after inhalation injury without any significant alterations in map or ci . 
aspiration and the elderly . aspiration is prevalent in the elderly but its association with impairment of oral intake and gastroesophageal reflux is often misunderstood . this paper describes the causes , pathophysiology , and consequences of aspiration and their unique features in aged persons . it also explains how videofluoroscopic evaluation can assess current function while limiting factors that result in misinformation . the management of aspiration is discussed , emphasizing the importance and difficulties in maintaining functional well-being and possible complications of therapy . 
pulmonary functional impairment associated with pleural asbestos disease . circumscribed and diffuse thickening . to define the pulmonary functional impairment associated with pleural asbestos signs ( pas ) , we compared 738 men with only circumscribed ( plaques ) or diffuse pleural thickening on chest roentgenograms but no irregular opacities by ilo pneumoconiosis criteria ( 1980 ) with 738 age-matched asbestos-exposed men without any roentgenographic signs and with 228 men unexposed to asbestos . all men were white . spirometry and total thoracic gas volumes ( tgv ) were measured and expressed as percentage of predicted of white michigan men who have been modeled for spirometric values thereby adjusting for height , age , and in current and ex-smokers for duration of smoking . asbestos-exposed men who never smoked had reduced fef75-85 ( p less than 0.01 ) and increased tgv ( p less than .0001 ) as compared with unexposed men . the 155 men with pas who had never smoked had reduced flows ( p less than .0001 ) , fvc ( p less than 0.0056 ) , and tgv ( p less than .0001 ) when compared with 155 age-matched asbestos-exposed men . the 325 asbestos-exposed current smokers with normal chest roentgenograms compared with unexposed smokers had reduced expiratory airflows ( p less than 0.0001 ) , reduced fev1 ( p less than 0.004 ) , and increased tgv ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the 325 current smokers with pas had additional air trapping that further reduced vital capacity . thus , pas were associated with significant pulmonary dysfunction in men who never smoked , and current and ex-smokers had additional dysfunction even after adjustment for duration of smoking . 
foreign body removal through an appendicostomy . the removal of button cell batteries or small coins impacted in the terminal ileum or right colon through an appendicostomy is described . this technique was used effectively in three patients . 
occupational distribution of inflammatory bowel disease among german employees . previous reports have shown that both crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis affect people in white collar occupations associated with higher income and higher social class more frequently than other groups in the population . this study sought to carry these analyses one step further and investigate the distribution of inflammatory bowel disease by individual occupations . the german social security statistics for ' rehabilitation ' were used to assess the occupational distribution of crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis . from 1982 to 1988 , a total of 12,014 people were granted rehabilitation as a result of inflammatory bowel disease . low male prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease was found among bricklayers , road construction workers , unskilled workers in brick and stone , unskilled labourers , and security personnel . low rates were found among women employed in cleaning and maintenance , and in those without occupation . in contrast , a high male prevalence was found among instrument makers , electricians , bakers , and technical assistants . among female employees , inflammatory bowel disease was significantly associated with sales representatives , office workers , health occupations , and hairdressers . these associations were found in the complete data for 1982-8 as well as in the separate data for the two half periods 1982-5 and 1986-8 . highly significant correlations between the occupational distribution of crohn 's disease and ulcerative colitis were found among both male and female employees . it seems that occupations involving work in the open air and physical exercise are protective , while being exposed to air conditioned artificial working conditions or extended and irregular shift working confer a risk of contracting inflammatory bowel disease . 
total hip arthroplasty after fracture of the acetabulum . long-term results . we made a retrospective study of 55 primary total hip arthroplasties in 53 patients with a history of previous acetabular fracture . the mean follow-up was 7.5 years and the average age at fracture was 48.7 years . the incidence of radiographic femoral loosening ( 29.4 % ) , symptomatic loosening ( 15.7 % ) , and femoral revision ( 7.8 % ) were similar to those previously reported at 10 years for routine arthroplasties by stauffer ( 1982 ) . on the acetabular side , the incidence of radiographic loosening ( 52.9 % ) , symptomatic loosening ( 27.5 % ) , and revision ( 13.7 % ) were four to five times higher . we conclude that a history of prior acetabular fracture has a significant adverse impact on the long-term outcome of any subsequent total hip arthroplasty . 
secondary total hip replacement after fractures of the femoral neck . we studied the rate of revision in 84 consecutive total hip replacements performed for failed osteosynthesis of femoral neck fractures and compared it with that for primary arthroplasty for osteoarthritis . the age and sex adjusted risk of prosthetic failure was 2.5 times higher after failure of fixation , but all the excess risk was in patients over 70 years of age . there were radiographic signs of loosening of the femoral component at five to 12 years after secondary arthroplasty in six of 33 survivors . in general , the results of secondary replacement were no worse than those obtained after primary arthroplasty for femoral neck fracture . we consider that internal fixation should be the primary procedure : total hip replacement is a safe secondary procedure when osteosynthesis fails . 
the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty for subcapital fractures of the femoral neck . a 10-year prospective study . in a 10-year prospective study , 561 displaced subcapital fractures of the femoral neck in 546 patients were treated with the hastings bipolar hemiarthroplasty . within six months of their operations , 148 patients had died . in 322 hips followed up , 243 with adequate serial radiographs separated by more than one year , only 14 ( 5.6 % ) showed acetabular erosion . a group of 91 had been reviewed for between three and nine years ( mean , 4 years 10 months ) and of these , 95 % had no pain or slight pain only . comparison with an earlier series of conventional hemiarthroplasties reported from this institution showed that the clinical results were similar , but that the erosion rate had been halved . 
the ao dynamic hip screw and the pugh sliding nail in femoral head fixation . we compared , under laboratory conditions , the resistance to cutting out of the ao dynamic hip screw and the pugh sliding nail . the mean load at cut out , adjusted for bone strength , was 70 % greater for the pugh sliding nail . the reasons for this difference are discussed . 
femoral neck fracture fixation . comparison of a sliding screw with lag screws . the rigidity of a sliding compression screw and three cannulated lag screws in the treatment of subcapital fractures was compared in five pairs of female cadaver femora . there were no significant differences between the compressive strength , bone density , cortical thickness or singh index of the bones in each pair . a subcapital fracture was standardised using a perpendicular saw cut across the femoral neck . a uniaxial ' load test system ' with force and length measurement facilities was used to mimic cyclical stressing applied in vivo at a frequency of 0.5 hz from 0 to 3 times body-weight . there was no significant difference between the fixation afforded by the sliding compression screw and three lag screws . bone quality was the single most important factor in the stability of the bone implant unit . 
external fixation for type iii open tibial fractures . an analysis of 51 type iii open tibial fractures treated by external skeletal fixation is presented . the fractures are subdivided according to the classification of gustilo , mendoza and williams ( 1984 ) into types iiia , iiib and iiic . the different prognoses of these fracture subtypes is examined . the use of the hoffmann and hughes external fixators in the management of type iii open tibial fractures is presented and it is suggested that the prognosis is independent of the type of fixator used . 
locked intramedullary nailing for displaced tibial shaft fractures [ published erratum appears in j bone joint surg [ br ] 1991 jan ; 73 ( 1 ) :181 ] we analysed the results of 93 tibial shaft fractures treated with the grosse-kempf locked nail . twenty-six fractures were comminuted , 19 were open grade i to ii , and 54 were located outside the middle third of the tibia . the deep infection rate was 3.2 % . there were only two poor results . the use of this method is recommended and discussed . 
reduction of post-traumatic swelling and compartment pressure by impulse compression of the foot . following the discovery of a powerful venous pump in the foot that is activated by weight-bearing independently of muscular action , a pneumatic impulse device was developed to actuate this pump artificially . in a multicentre international trial the device was shown to reduce post-traumatic and postoperative swelling ; pain also was alleviated . evidence is also presented that dangerously high compartment pressures may be reduced to acceptable levels and fasciotomy avoided . we present an explanation of the clinical effects of activation of the venous footpump , based on recent improved understanding of the physiology of the microcirculation . the hyperaemic response that follows the liberation of endothelial-derived relaxing factor ( edrf ) by sudden changes of pressure after weight-bearing or impulse compression is particularly important . 
the osteogenetic potential of fracture haematoma . subperiosteal and intramuscular transplantation of the haematoma . we studied the precise role of the fracture haematoma in healing by the experimental transplantation of the haematoma at two days and four days after fracture of the rat femur to subperiosteal and intramuscular sites . we used bone marrow and peripheral blood haematomas for control experiments . the transplanted two-day fracture haematoma produced new bone by endochondral ossification at the subperiosteal site , but not at the intramuscular site . four-day fracture haematoma produced new bone formation at both subperiosteal and intramuscular sites . these results suggest that fracture haematoma has an inherent osteogenetic potential . 
corticocancellous grafting and an ao/asif lag screw for nonunion of the scaphoid . a retrospective analysis . we report our experience in 42 patients , using corticocancellous bone grafts and lag screw fixation for un-united scaphoid fractures . using a grading system , we analysed the suitability of the method for three types of nonunion . we recommend the operation for the treatment of scaphoid nonunion , except where there is avascular necrosis of the proximal pole . 
transient cyst-like cortical defects following fractures in children . medullary fat within the subperiosteal haematoma . asymptomatic cyst-like cortical defects appearing after fractures in children have been occasionally reported . typically , these defects appear during fracture consolidation , within the newly formed subperiosteal bone , proximal to the fracture line , do not enlarge , and progressively disappear . we have previously shown a fatty density on ct scan within the early cortical defect . we now present two additional cases in which early ct scans appeared to confirm that these transient cortical defects may consist of fat , and probably result from the inclusion of medullary fat within the subperiosteal haematoma . 
extensor indicis proprius transfer for rupture of the extensor pollicis longus tendon . we reviewed 21 patients with 22 ruptures of the extensor pollicis longus at a mean of 5.3 years after transfer of the extensor indicis proprius tendon . of these , 19 with 21 transfers described the result as good , and two as fair . the mean deficit of extension between the operated and unoperated thumbs was 1.4 cm , and the mean flexion deficit 0.6 cm . pressure gauge measurements showed that the strength of the transfer was 51 % of that of the uninjured extensor . the two fair results had an extensor lag of over 1.5 cm . independent extension of the index was maintained in all patients , none having a discernible lag , but the strength of index extension was reduced to 49 % of that of the normal finger . there was no evidence of functional loss . extensor indicis proprius transfer for rupture of the extensor pollicis longus tendon is a simple and reliable procedure with few complications . it gives satisfactory long-term extension of the thumb . 
long-term prognosis of soft-tissue injuries of the neck . we reviewed 43 patients who had sustained soft-tissue injuries of the neck after a mean 10.8 years . of these , only 12 % had recovered completely . residual symptoms were intrusive in 28 % and severe in 12 % . pain in the neck and lower back was the commonest complaint and older patients had a worse prognosis . after two years , symptoms did not alter with further passage of time . 
plastic bullet arterial embolization following gunshot injury to the heart . case report and review of the literature . a plastic bullet penetrating the heart through the right ventricle embolized to the right profunda . suture of the heart and extraction of the bullet resulted in uneventful recovery . the literature revealed 21 instances of embolization following proven heart penetration , in two cases through the right ventricle . 
blunt traumatic pericardial rupture . a ten-year experience 1979 to 1989 . blunt traumatic pericardial rupture is rarely diagnosed preoperatively and is associated with high mortality . during a ten-year period from 1979 to 1989 over 20,000 patients were admitted to a major trauma center and 22 were found to have blunt traumatic pericardial rupture . sixteen of the 22 ( 72.7 % ) were injured in vehicle accidents , 3 ( 13.6 % ) in motorcycle crashes , and 2 ( 9.1 % ) in falls ; 1 ( 4.5 % ) was crushed . eighteen ( 81.8 % ) were diagnosed intraoperatively during resuscitation or surgery for associated injuries , and four ( 18.1 % ) were diagnosed preoperatively with pericardial window . eighteen were males and four were females . the median age was 40.14 years ( range , 17 to 68 ) . the tears were found at the following sites : left pleuropericardial ( 14/22 [ 64 % ] ) , diaphragmatic ( 4/22 [ 18 % ] ) , right pleuropericardial ( 2/22 [ 9 % ] ) , and superior mediastinal ( 2/22 [ 9 % ] ) . associated cardiac injuries were found in only 5 of the 22 ( 22.7 % ) ; all of those patients died . the overall mortality rate was 63.6 % ( 14/22 ) . a high index of suspicion should alert the trauma surgeon to make the diagnosis intraoperatively during emergency surgical resuscitation in the hemodynamically unstable patient and by pericardial window in the stable patient . 
the many faces and phases of borreliosis . i. lyme disease [ published erratum appears in j am acad dermatol 1991 apr ; 24 ( 4 ) :663 ] lyme disease is increasingly being reported throughout the united states and many parts of the world . borrelia burgdorferi , the etiologic agent of lyme disease , is a spirochete that , not unlike the treponema of syphilis , can cause a spectrum of disease from the initial skin lesion , through widely varied symptoms and signs , to chronic neurologic and arthritic disability . the borrelial spirochete and lyme disease are the subject of this review . a subsequent article will review other definite and possible cutaneous manifestations of borreliosis . 
chilblains ( perniosis ) . unfamiliarity of physicians with chilblains ( perniosis ) gives rise to unnecessary hospital admissions with expensive laboratory and radiologic evaluations and , at times , hazardous therapy . seven cases of chilblains were seen in san francisco from november 1986 through january 1987 . the patients presented with pruritic , at times painful , purple acral patches or plaques on the fingers , toes , and nose after exposure to a cool or a cold , damp environment . histologic examination in two cases revealed a perivascular lymphocytic infiltrate with endothelial swelling of the subcutaneous fat and of the upper and lower dermal plexus . 
incidence of lingual nerve trauma and postinjection complications in conventional mandibular block anesthesia . trauma to the lingual nerve is potential risk factor for patients receiving mandibular block anesthesia . this paper describes the results of a patient survey of 9,587 conventional mandibular blocks received by 2,289 adults . the incidence of lingual nerve trauma and postinjection complications is reported along with an associated analysis of the duration of complications , procedures at the time of incident , the side of occurrence ( right or left ) , and gender ratios . in addition , recommendations for patient evaluation , treatment , and follow-up care are discussed . 
alternation of gastric mucosal glycoprotein ( lectin-binding pattern ) in gastric mucosa in stress . a light and electron microscopic study . gastric mucosal cells of the rat glandular stomach were studied by light and electron microscopic procedures by use of lectins in the development of acute gastric mucosal lesions . effects of the h2-receptor antagonist sofalcone ( 2 ' carboxymethoxy-4 ,4 ' - bis 3-methyl-2 ) and truncal vagotomy with pyloroplasty on lectin binding sites and distribution were also investigated . biotinylated lectins in combination with abc ( avidin-biotinyl peroxidase complex ) method were used for light and horseradish peroxidase ( hrp ) - labeled lectins for electron microscopic studies . gastric mucosal cells showed the specific binding pattern for each lectin by light microscopy . especially , binding sites and distribution of peanut agglutinin ( pna ) were characteristic after induction of stress , truncal vagotomy , and administration of each drug . staining and distribution increased in the gastric mucosa upward and downward after that . in electron microscopic studies , pna strongly stained the membranes of the intracellular secretory canaliculi of a parietal cell . these results suggested that alternation of binding sites and distribution was regulated by change of gastric mucosal blood flow and of acidity in the parietal cells . therefore , increase of glycoconjugate distribution is supposed to be a possibility of cytoprotective effect for a change of environment in the parietal cells . 
role of oxygen-derived free radicals in the pathogenesis of gastric mucosal lesions in rats . the role of oxygen-derived free radicals and lipid peroxidation in the pathogenesis of acute gastric mucosal erosion was investigated in rat models produced by burn shock stress , by treatment with regional hyperthermia , platelet activating factor , and compound 48/80 , and by ischemia-reperfusion . in all experimental models , the increase in the gastric erosions and in tba reactants in the gastric mucosa were significantly inhibited by the treatment with superoxide dismutase ( sod ) and/or catalase . pretreatment with allopurinol , a competitive inhibitor of xanthine oxidase , prevented considerably the gastric injury ( a ) induced by burn shock , ( b ) produced by treatment with compound 48/80 , and ( c ) caused by ischemia-reperfusion . by the treatment with anti-rat neutrophil antibody , the gastric mucosal injuries induced by regional hyperthermia , platelet activating factor , and compound 48/80 were significantly inhibited ; however , burn shock and ischemia-reperfusion injuries were not inhibited . these results suggest that oxygen-free radical and lipid peroxidation contribute to the formation of gastric mucosal lesions , and that the sources of oxygen radicals seem to be different among these experimental models . 
an aid to the management of pediatric trauma in peripheral centers -- a proposal for a pediatric trauma board . in 1986 , 630,000 children under the age of 15 were living in queensland . this accounted for 17 % of australia 's pediatric population . that year there were 39 pediatric deaths in queensland resulting from road traffic incidents . another 408 injured children were admitted to hospital . less than 20 % of these children were treated in an accident and emergency ( a&e ) department staffed by a qualified pediatrician . only 35 % of the a&e departments were staffed by a qualified emergency physician . a pediatric trauma board is proposed , which will lead to improvement in the care of injured or critically ill pediatric patients . this board is made of pre-marked whiteboard and includes normal pediatric values and replacement fluid flow charts ; it is approximately three feet in height and six feet in width . the board is aimed primarily at nonpediatric clinicians who may or may not be specifically trained or interested in emergency medicine . it provides quick , easy access to the normal values of vital signs for children of different ages and sizes . it enables accurate calculation of the fluid requirements for resuscitation and provides a means for following the response to this therapy . drug doses per weight are provided . a copy of the board can be made on size a4 photostats for inclusion in the hospital chart as part of the admission notes . 
scroto-abdominal impalement injury in a skateboard rider . the injuries sustained by skateboard riders vary from minor cuts and abrasions to fractures . this report describes a unique injury sustained by a young skateboard rider who was impaled on a metal rod . literature review of over 1,254 skateboard injuries did not reveal any other instances of penetrating abdominal trauma . 
pneumatic firearm injuries : trivial trauma or perilous pitfalls ? this report describes an injury due to a pneumatic firearm . though powder firearm injuries are generally considered serious , pneumatic weapon injuries are often viewed as minor or insignificant trauma . children and adolescents primarily wield these weapons contributing to their " harmless " aura . however , dramatic increases in muzzle and impact velocities have transformed the newer generation of pneumatic firearms into formidable weapons . consequently , the literature is replete with increasing incidences of serious injury due to pneumatic weapons . 
a case of unexpected pasteurella multocida bacteremia . a case of pasteurella multocida bacteremia in a previously healthy hospital employee is presented . the patient had sustained a scratch from his dog four days prior to being seen in the emergency department with adequate healing and no evidence of localized infection . he presented with an acute febrile illness , and was discharged from the emergency department with a diagnosis of viral syndrome . he was asked to return to the hospital the next day when a bacteriology report of gram negative rods in both aerobic and anaerobic blood culture bottles was received in the emergency department . pasteurella multocida bacteremia/septicemia is seen most frequently in immunocompromised patients but the diagnosis should be considered in any patient with a febrile illness and exposure to cats or dogs . 
treatment of phenobarbital poisoning with multiple dose activated charcoal in an infant . a 28-day-old infant developed lethargy , hypotonia , and hypothermia following a phenobarbital overdose secondary to a pharmacist 's error . he was treated with multiple dose activated charcoal ( mdac ) and alkalinization of the urine , which resulted in prompt recovery with rapid elimination of the drug ( t1/2 -11.2 hours , expected 45 to 118 hours ) . the use of mdac in this newborn was safe and effective . we suggest that age should not pose a barrier to the use of mdac , when indicated . 
tricyclic antidepressant overdose : conservative management in a community hospital with cost-saving implications . reports of late-onset cardiovascular complications following tricyclic antidepressant ( tca ) overdose have led to a very conservative approach to these patients . many patients have been hospitalized for continuous cardiac monitoring , regardless of the clinical presentation . management algorithms based on clinical predictors of outcome have recently been proposed . we used the algorithm developed by tokarski and young to retrospectively evaluate the care of 33 tca overdose patients admitted to our hospital over a 3-year period . we then identified 11 patients who could have been treated on an outpatient basis had the algorithm been employed . ten were admitted to a monitored unit and spent a mean of 31.6 + / - 15.64 hours on the unit . none of the 11 patients developed complications during their hospital stay . use of the algorithm would have resulted in an estimated cost savings of 13 hospital days and $ 14,000 . 
effects of 4-methylpyrazole , methanol/ethylene glycol antidote , in healthy humans . 4-methylpyrazole ( 4-mp ) , an inhibitor of alcohol dehydrogenase , may be useful for the treatment of methanol and ethylene glycol intoxications . a placebo-controlled , double blind , multiple dose , sequential , ascending-dose study has been performed to determine the tolerance of 4-mp in healthy volunteers . oral loading doses of 4-mp were followed by supplemental doses every 12 h through 5 days , producing plasma levels in the therapeutic range . a slight , transient elevation in one or both serum transaminase values was observed in 6 of the 15 subjects treated with 4-mp . this effect was not dose related nor apparently mediated through a hypersensitivity reaction . serum triglyceride levels were increased in 30 % of 4-mp treated subjects , but also in 25 % of the placebo subjects . 4-mp treatment did not produce any other significant changes in objective clinical parameters nor in subjective side effects . the results suggest that a mild , transient increase in liver function tests might be observed in some subjects treated with multiple doses of 4-mp . nevertheless , the slower elimination rate and lesser degree of toxicity of 4-mp would make it preferable to ethanol in therapy of these poisonings . 
assessing the risk of occupational acquisition of the human immunodeficiency virus : implications for hospital policy . in determining infection control policy , it is essential to quantitatively assess the risk of transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) to health care workers and their families . the risk should be placed in perspective by comparing it with other occupational hazards . the risk of seroconversion from a needlestick injury can be calculated from the probability of a needlestick occurrence , the probability that the source patient is infected , and the probability of seroconversion , given an exposure . the risk of seroconversion due to drawing 1000 blood specimens from seropositive patients is between 86 and 470 in 100,000 . the risk to surgeons from performing 25 operations on infected patients is approximately 272 in 100,000 . the risk of fatal injury in the course of one year 's work on a louisiana oil rig is between 188 and 283 per 100,000 . 
medicinal leeches : once again at the forefront of medicine . medical grade leeches have recently been used in the management of acute problems relative to venous congestion in patients with traumatic injuries and surgical problems . specific cases , especially in the realm of reconstructive microsurgery , have demonstrated the effectiveness and application of leech therapy . specific contraindications include arterial insufficiency from either anatomic or mechanical obstruction . we present five illustrative cases of successful therapeutic intervention . 
hematoma of the optic nerve sheath after penetrating trauma . we have presented a case involving the diagnosis and management of optic nerve sheath hematoma . our patient 's positive outcome demonstrates the usefulness of megadose steroid therapy for acute optic nerve injury . 
histopathologic correlation of magnetic resonance imaging signal patterns in a spinal cord injury model . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) provides a noninvasive method of monitoring the pathologic response to spinal cord injury . specific mr signal intensity patterns appear to correlate with degrees of improvement in the neurologic status in spinal cord injury patients . histologic correlation of two types of mr signal intensity patterns are confirmed in the current study using a rat animal model . adult male sprague-dawley rats underwent spinal cord trauma at the midthoracic level using a weight-dropping technique . after laminectomy , 5 - and 10-gm brass weights were dropped from designated heights onto a 0.1-gm impounder placed on the exposed dura . animals allowed to regain consciousness demonstrated variable recovery of hind limb paraplegia . magnetic resonance images were obtained from 2 hours to 1 week after injury using a 2-tesla mri/spectrometer . sacrifice under anesthesia was performed by perfusive fixation ; spinal columns were excised en bloc , embedded , sectioned , and observed with the compound light microscope . magnetic resonance axial images obtained during the time sequence after injury demonstrate a distinct correlation between mr signal intensity patterns and the histologic appearance of the spinal cord . magnetic resonance imaging delineates the pathologic processes resulting from acute spinal cord injury and can be used to differentiate the type of injury and prognosis . 
orthotic stabilization of thoracolumbar injuries . a biomechanical analysis of the jewett hyperextension orthosis . spinal orthoses have been traditionally used in the management of thoracolumbar injuries treated with or without surgical stabilization . however , the orthotic treatment modality in the management of spinal fractures remains subjective since few objective data are available on the effectiveness of orthoses in stabilizing injured segments . this study used a finite element model of the spine to evaluate the effectiveness of a hyperextension orthosis in controlling the progression of deformities at the injury site under gravitational and flexion loads . two types of injuries were simulated : a single-level injury at t12-l1 and a two-level injury at t11-t12-l1 segments . an injury of increasing severity was simulated by progressively reducing the bending stiffness of the affected segments relative to the normal values in flexion-extension mode . the interaction of a three-point hyperextension orthosis with the spine was simulated using experimentally measured stiffness properties of the orthosis . the authors ' results suggest that in single-level injuries that cause up to 50 % loss of segmental stiffness , the orthosis can restore normal resistance to deformity at the injured segments , under gravitational as well as large flexion loads . in loss of stiffness between 50 % and 85 % of normal , such as severe two-column disruptions , the orthosis can restore resistance to deformity under restricted patient activity level in the brace ( low-flexion moment ) . beyond 85 % loss of segmental stiffness , such as three-column injuries , the orthosis alone appears to be ineffective in preventing progression of deformity . 
herniated intervertebral discs associated with unstable spinal injuries . to examine the occurrence of traumatic herniated intervertebral discs associated with unstable spinal injuries , the authors reviewed the records of all patients with spinal cord level unstable spine injuries managed at their institution over a 26-month period . ninety-three patients were identified . all patients had roentgenographic and computed tomographic ( ct ) evaluation . magnetic resonance imaging was performed in 48 patients , and revealed the presence of a herniated intervertebral disc in 16 , with the highest incidence being in the cervical spine . in the patients who had only plain film and ct scans , no disc pathology was identified . magnetic resonance imaging provides a noninvasive means of examining intervertebral disc damage in unstable spinal injuries that might otherwise be unidentified and result in spinal cord injury at the time of surgery . 
evaluation of surgical treatment for burst fractures . the authors instituted a prospective , randomized study of patients presenting with acute burst fractures of the thoracolumbar and lumbar spine . patients were alternately treated by posterior distraction using pedicle instrumentation ( ao fixateur interne ) or anterior decompression and instrumentation ( kostuik-harrington device ) . forty patients are presented with a mean follow-up of 20 months . preoperatively , there was significant canal compromise in 39 patients . this measured 44.5 % in those patients undergoing posterior surgery and 58 % in those patients undergoing anterior surgery . postoperatively , this was reduced to 16.5 % and 4 % , respectively . there is a statistically significant difference between these two groups ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the mean preoperative kyphotic deformity was 18.7 degrees in those patients treated by anterior surgery and 18.2 degrees in the group treated by posterior surgery . at last follow-up , the mean improvement in kyphotic deformity was 9.3 degrees in the anterior group and 11.3 degrees in the posterior group . there is no statistically significant difference between these two groups . there were two implant failures of the anterior kostuik-harrington construct and two implant failures of the ao fixateur interne . blood loss was significantly higher in the patients undergoing anterior surgery , but there were no complications from thoracotomy and anterior decompression of the dural sac . this study supports the hypothesis that posterior distraction instrumentation can effectively decompress the canal and correct kyphosis in patients sustaining burst-type injuries . anterior surgery , however , results in a more complete and reliable decompression of the canal . 
metabolic bone disease in lumbar pseudarthrosis . pseudarthrosis occurs in many patients who undergo lumbar spine fusion and it has been suggested that abnormalities of bone metabolism contribute to it . the authors evaluated 47 patients with pseudarthrosis for metabolic bone disease . symptomatic patients with pseudarthrosis underwent metabolic bone evaluation . abnormal results of laboratory tests were found in 7 patients ( 14.9 % ) : 3 low or borderline 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin d3 , 2 elevated 24-hour urine calcium , and 2 low serum testosterone . none of these abnormalities correlated with other clinical findings . bone density was low in 14 of 24 patients in whom it was measured . low values did not correlate with smoking or abnormal laboratory values . metabolic bone abnormalities do not appear to play a frequent or significant role in pseudarthrosis after attempted lumbar spine fusion . 
management of the pregnant patient with carcinoma of the breast . the diagnosis of carcinoma of the breast during pregnancy poses a challenging dilemma . although once regarded as incurable , recent reports reveal similar long term survival rates for pregnant and nonpregnant patients who have carcinoma of the breast . when referred to a surgeon , a pregnant woman with a suspicious mammary mass deserves an expedient histologic diagnosis ; delay may jeopardize the chances of survival . once the diagnosis is established , pregnant patients should be treated in a manner similar to nonpregnant patients because there is no evidence that carcinoma of the breast in pregnant women is biologically different than carcinoma of the breast in other premenopausal women . fears of fetal exposure to radiation should not deter a physician from ordering appropriate preoperative diagnostic tests to stage the patients . operation may be performed safely when general anesthesia is administered and postoperative adjuvant therapy should be administered when necessary . the involvement of multiple subspecialties in the management of these patients is highly recommended . 
value of magnetic resonance imaging in spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma due to vascular malformation : case report . a case of spinal cord compression due to spontaneous extradural spinal hematoma is reported . a spinal arteriovenous malformation was suspected on the basis of magnetic resonance imaging . early surgical exploration allowed a complete neurological recovery . the vascular malformation was histopathologically confirmed . the role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of acute spinal cord compression syndromes is stressed . 
early tracheostomy for primary airway management in the surgical critical care setting . during a 12-month period , 264 patients with multiple injuries who required mechanical ventilation were admitted to the surgical intensive care unit . one hundred twenty patients ( 46 % ) were disengaged from the ventilator , and 38 patients ( 14 % ) died . of the remaining 106 patients ( 40 % ) 51 patients ( group i ) were to receive tracheostomy within 1 to 7 days , and 55 patients ( group ii ) underwent late ( 8 or more days after admission ) tracheostomy . multiple variables in four categories ( admission , operative , ventilatory , and outcome ) were analyzed prospectively to define the impact that early tracheostomy had on duration of mechanical ventilation , intensive care stay , and hospital stay . morbidity and mortality rates of the procedures were assessed . early tracheostomy , in a homogeneous group of critically ill patients , is associated with a significant decrease in duration of mechanical ventilation , as well as shorter intensive care unit and hospital stays , compared with translaryngeal endotracheal intubation . there were no deaths attributable to tracheostomy , and overall morbidity of the procedures was 4 % . we conclude that early tracheostomy has an overall risk equivalent to that of endotracheal intubation . furthermore , early tracheostomy shortens days on the ventilator and intensive care unit and hospital days and should be considered for patients in the intensive care unit at risk for more than 7 days of intubation . 
combined orthopedic and vascular injury in the lower extremities : indications for amputation . a retrospective review was undertaken to determine risk factors associated with amputation after open fractures of the lower extremity that were complicated by vascular injury . during an 11-year period ending in december 1987 , we observed open fractures in 31 patients and injuries to the popliteal artery in 16 patients , to the tibial arteries in eight patients , to the femoral artery in five patients , and to the dorsal artery of the foot in two patients . vascular repair was accomplished in 25 patients ; 12 patients had primary end-to-end anastomosis , 12 patients had reverse saphenous vein grafts , and one patient had a bovine graft . of these 25 patients , five patients required amputation because of infection and three patients required amputation because of continued ischemia . three patients with irreparable damage had immediate amputation , and three patients without distal ischemia had vessel ligation only . the risk factors associated with amputation were shock on admission ( 10 of 19 patients [ p less than 0.02 ] ) and a crushed extremity ( 10 of 18 patients [ p less than 0.01 ] ) . the overall amputation rate , which included three immediate amputations and eight late amputations , was 35.2 % . the data suggest that limb salvage is possible in two thirds of patients with combined orthopedic and vascular injuries of the lower extremity , but a history of shock or crush injury with vascular compromise is an unfavorable prognostic sign . 
inadequate granulopoiesis after major torso trauma : a hematopoietic regulatory paradox . late postinjury sepsis is largely the result of defective host defense including failure to maintain an adequate number of functioning phagocytic cells . in this study we used stem cell culture techniques to measure colony-stimulating activity and have quantitated the number of circulating myeloid stem cells to see if defects in granulopoiesis occur after major torso trauma . forty-two acutely injured patients ( 13 blunt and 29 penetrating injuries ; mean age , 29.7 years ) undergoing laparotomy with an abdominal trauma index of 15 to 40 were studied prospectively . blood samples were obtained on days 1 , 5 , and 10 . patients were segregated by injury severity : abdominal trauma index less than 25 ( n = 25 ) versus abdominal trauma index greater than or equal to 25 ( n = 17 ) . the more severely injured ( abdominal trauma index greater than or equal to 25 ) patients had fewer circulating granulocytes and monocytes . colony-stimulating activity was below normal control levels in all patients and was decreased further with increased injury severity . the more severely injured patients had a blunted bone marrow response ( significantly fewer circulating myeloid stem cells ) and suffered more major septic complications ( 24 % vs 8 % ) . in conclusion , major trauma to the torso causes a paradoxic depression in granulopoiesis that worsens with increased injury severity and may contribute to late septic morbidity . this colony-stimulating activity deficiency state is similar to that seen after major burns and may be amenable to future modulation . 
subxiphoid pericardiotomy versus echocardiography : a prospective evaluation of the diagnosis of occult penetrating cardiac injury . diagnostic subxiphoid pericardiotomy ( sp ) is presently advocated for the diagnosis of occult cardiac injuries in patients with stable vital signs with juxta-cardiac-penetrating chest wounds . this approach , however , results in a reported 80 % negative pericardial exploration rate . to investigate the reliability of bedside two-dimension echocardiography ( 2-d echo ) in predicting cardiac injury as compared to sp , a prospective study was undertaken of patients with stable vital signs who were admitted with penetrating chest wounds that were located within the space bounded by the manubrium , nipples , and subcostal line . initial evaluation of the patients with bedside 2-d echo was found to have a 96 % accuracy , 97 % specificity , and 90 % sensitivity in predicting cardiac injury . the only false-negative findings were in a patient who consented to sp 18 hours after bedside 2-d echo was performed . the reliability of bedside 2-d echo compared to sp was not significantly different according to the kappa measure of reliability . these data suggest that bedside 2-d echo is an expeditious and reliable method to diagnose occult cardiac injuries during the initial assessment of a patient with stable vital signs who had penetrating chest trauma . this approach may allow for the selective use of sp on patients with positive bedside 2-d echo and could eliminate unnecessary surgical procedures . 
effort rupture of the diaphragm . effort rupture of the diaphragm is rare and accounts for only 1 % of all diaphragmatic injuries . a 23 year old patient with bilateral rupture that followed sudden movement is described . 
age-related spontaneous intracerebral hematoma in a german community . we investigated incidence , age distribution in relation to etiology , and localization of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma in 100 consecutive cases . incidence in the total population of the giessen area was estimated to be greater than 11/100 ,000 inhabitants/yr and increased with age . there was a trend toward higher incidence in males . overall mortality was 27 % , 22 % of 58 patients aged less than 70 years and 33 % of 42 patients aged greater than or equal to 70 years . hypertensive putaminal hematoma showed the highest mortality rate ( 42 % , 10 of 24 cases ) . chronic alcoholism and anticoagulant medication influenced the mortality rate unfavourably . we found the following localizations and etiologies to have a specific relation with age : 1 ) lobar hematomas from vascular malformations , group aged less than 40 years ; 2 ) hypertensive putaminal hematomas and hypertensive thalamic hematomas , group aged 40-69 years ; and 3 ) lobar hematomas , group aged greater than or equal to 70 years . alcoholism was an additional factor in 38 % of the 13 middle-aged men with hypertensive putaminal hematomas . fourteen cases of spontaneous intracerebral hematoma were possibly due to cerebral amyloid angiopathy . six of these 14 patients had recurrent lobar hematomas , but only three of the six could be histologically investigated . in these three cases , cerebral amyloid angiopathy was proven . 
evidence for platelet-activating factor as a novel mediator in experimental stroke in rabbits . platelet-activating factor is a potent mediator of inflammation , which has untoward effects on cerebrovascular and neural elements . while several investigators have reported attenuation of ischemic damage after treatment with antagonists of platelet-activating factor , no study has proved endogenous production of platelet-activating factor in ischemia of the central nervous system . we hypothesized that endogenous production of platelet-activating factor participates in the early pathologic manifestations of deteriorating stroke . in 12 rabbits , we found tissue levels of platelet-activating factor measured by the release of serotonin from washed platelets to be elevated by approximately 20-fold in spinal cord injured by 25 minutes of ischemia and 2 hours of reperfusion ( 2.80 + / - 0.98 ng/g ) compared with that in normal spinal cord ( 0.15 + / - 0.06 ng/g , p less than 0.01 ) . given during ischemia to seven rabbits , 10 mg/kg i.p. of a highly selective and potent antagonist of platelet-activating factor ( bn 50739 ) accentuated the early postischemic hyperemia and prevented the delayed hypoperfusion measured by on-line laser-doppler flowmetry ( -35 + / - 7 % of baseline [ n = 7 ] without versus 33 + / - 14 % with treatment , p less than 0.01 ) and the edema formation measured as the increase in tissue water content ( 4.4 + / - 0.7 % without [ n = 6 ] versus 2.1 + / - 0.6 % with [ n = 7 ] treatment , p less than 0.05 ) after 2 hours of reperfusion . this neurochemical and pharmacologic evidence emphasizes a new perspective of ischemia-induced phospholipid degradation and suggests an important role for platelet-activating factor in the early manifestations of stroke . 
management of penile gunshot wounds . the management of 10 cases of penile gunshot wounds treated at henry ford hospital from 1982 to 1986 is reviewed . all patients were assaulted by low velocity weapons ( handguns ) . eight patients had associated injuries , predominantly to the genital region ( thigh , pubis , and scrotum ) . there were 5 urethral injuries ; 4 were treated with primary repair , the remaining patient underwent delayed repair , complicated by severe urethral strictures requiring reoperation . blood at the urethral meatus was suggestive of urethral injury but microscopic hematuria was not . five penile injuries did not involve the urethra and were treated by debridement and primary wound closure with no immediate or delayed complications . in dealing with these injuries we recommend a high index of suspicion for urethral and regional organ injury and primary urethral closure if at all possible . 
single polypoid cystitis cystica and glandularis presenting as benign bladder tumor . a case report of a ten-year-old boy with a benign polypoid bladder tumor is presented . the rarity of benign or malignant bladder tumors in children is reviewed , as well as the possible etiology of this unique lesion . 
alcohol and trauma . an endemic syndrome . injuries are a pervasive and costly problem , and alcohol use appears to be an important risk factor for injury . we examined the blood alcohol levels and selected demographic and epidemiologic variables recorded on trauma patients by 1 trauma center for a 28-month period . a total of 2,262 trauma patients were admitted to the trauma center during this period , of whom 75 % were male and 72 % were injured in vehicle-related incidents . blood alcohol levels of 2,095 patients ( 93 % ) were measured , and alcohol was present in the blood of 855 ( 41 % ) . of those patients with a blood alcohol level done , 32 % had a level higher than 100 mg per dl . we conclude that the level of alcohol involvement in trauma is high and that this involvement must be addressed by the medical community and the health care system . 
stress and hypertension in susceptible persons emotional stress results in immediate sympathetic stimulation , with a vasomotor response that results in a high-output state and elevated blood pressure ; the vasopressor response seems to be transient . there seems to be no longitudinal epidemiologic validation of the attractive hypothesis that transiently elevated blood pressures are the prelude to fixed hypertension , however . the acquisition of hypertension by populations abandoning their traditional mode of living has been attributed to the sociocultural stress inherent in westernization , but these studies usually have not taken into account concomitants of this type of acculturation , such as dietary changes and increased body weight . the inverse relationship of blood pressure levels to education could explain the development of hypertension when aspiration to upward mobility is thwarted . the severity of perceived occupational stress relates inversely to blood pressure , suggesting that familiarity with a job renders the demands made by the work environment more predictable and less threatening in terms of vasopressor response . 
puffer fish poisoning . regarded by many as a delicacy , puffer fish can be the source of lethal food poisoning in humans . the syndrome is caused by tetrodotoxin , one of the most potent poisons known . intoxication produces a constellation of symptoms , with paresthesias and generalized muscle weakness being common complaints . treatment is symptomatic and often needs to be aggressive . life support may be required . in some series , the mortality rate has approached 60 percent . 
residual atrial septal perforation after percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy with inoue balloon catheter . to estimate the incidence of residual atrial septal perforation ( asp ) following percutaneous transvenous mitral commissurotomy ( ptmc ) with the inoue balloon catheter and to examine the factors contributing to asp , we studied 46 patients with mitral stenosis undergoing ptmc . residual asp was evaluated by doppler color flow imaging 1 day after ptmc , and was detected in 7 out of 46 patients ( 15.2 % ) . we examined the relationship between the development of asp ( asp + ) and the age of the patient , the left atrial dimension before ptmc , the mean pressure difference between left and right atrium after ptmc , and the duration of the procedure from atrial septal puncture by the brockenbrough method to balloon inflation . there was a good correlation between the development of residual asp and the duration of the procedure ( asp + , 51.0 + / - 34.0 minutes ; without asp , 24.6 + / - 16.2 minutes ; p less than 0.01 ) . however , there was no significant correlation between the development of asp and other factors . in the follow-up study , asp disappeared in four patients within 3 months . asp persisted in two patients for 1 year after ptmc . however , the shunt in these two patients was clinically insignificant . these data suggest that residual asp may depend on the duration of the procedure , and that most cases of asp disappear within 1 year after ptmc . 
wounding effects of the ak-47 rifle used by patrick purdy in the stockton , california , schoolyard shooting of january 17 , 1989 . the limited disruption produced in tissue simulant by the rifle and bullets used in the stockton , california , schoolyard shooting is entirely consistent with the autopsy reports on the five children who died of their wounds . it is also entirely consistent with well-documented battlefield studies and with previous tissue-simulant studies from many laboratories . it is inconsistent with many exaggerated accounts of assault-rifle wounding effects described by the media in the aftermath of this incident . this information should be documented for the historical record . however , the critical reason for correcting the misconceptions produced by media reaction to this incident is to prevent inappropriate gunshot-wound treatment . 
identification of the driver in two-rider motorcycle accidents . inguinal contusion-laceration as an indication of the driver . in motorcycle accidents involving two riders , medicolegal identification of the driver is necessary when one or both riders die . it is particularly important in the latter case , because the survivor almost always insists that he or she was not driving . one characteristic injury that distinguishes the driver from the passenger is inguinal contusion-laceration ( accompanied internally by pelvic fracture ) . this injury , caused by collision of the pelvis with the fuel tank , identifies the driver . 
atlanto-occipital disarticulation . accident characteristics . a retrospective study of cases of atlanto-occipital disarticulation was conducted to describe incident characteristics : 24 cases were identified , including nine motor vehicle drivers , two passengers , seven pedestrians , and five motorcyclists ; one other person had fallen four stories . the highest rates were found among motorcyclists and pedestrians . atlanto-occipital disarticulations occur in high-energy impacts and collisions and are associated with aortic laceration in 25 % and basilar skull fracture in 21 % of such cases . current restraint systems and motorcycle helmets do not appear to prevent this generally rapidly fatal injury . 
fatal big cat attacks . two cases of fatal attacks by large cats are presented . in the first case , a 30-year-old female zoo worker was attacked by a jaguar that had escaped its cage . in the second case , a 2-year-old girl was fatally injured by her father 's pet leopard . the pattern of injuries in these cases is nearly identical to those of these cats ' prey in the wild . 
carbon monoxide poisoning . five-years ' experience in a defined population . a review is presented of 302 cases in east denmark in 1982-1986 in which the manner of death was fatal carbon monoxide ( co ) poisoning . the incidence of this far too frequent single-substance poisoning has as yet not decreased over the years despite preventive measures . the number of fatal co poisoning cases may diminish as a result of a natural gas project in progress . the purpose of this survey , therefore , is to contribute to the evaluation of the actual causes of these fatal poisonings in east denmark , and to discuss existing measures that prevent gas poisonings , in the expectation of a decline both in gas suicides and in accidental gas poisonings within the next few years . 
arsenic poisoning : acute or chronic ? suicide or murder ? the case of the death by arsenic poisoning of a 62-year-old white man is presented . one year prior to death , he developed intermittent bouts of severe gastroenteritis with vomiting and diarrhea , hyperpigmentation and keratosis of the skin , neutropenia , and guillain-barre-like neuropathy for which he was hospitalized several times . urine test results 6 months prior to death indicating 36 mg/l arsenic were believed to be in error . at the patient 's last admission , he appeared in the emergency room with severe gastroenteritis , hypotension , and dehydration . he died 3 days later . antemortem as well as autopsy specimens revealed elevated arsenic concentrations . arsenic micrograms/g analysis by neutron activation of hair pulled from the man 's head revealed by centimeter segmental analysis proximal to distal : 226 , 104 , 28 , 56 , 41 , 40 , and 74 . the wife of the decedent was charged with murder by arsenic poisoning of this , her fifth , husband . the defense alleged that the decedent had committed suicide . the judge awarded a directed verdict of " not guilty . " particulars of the medical , toxicological , and investigative findings are presented . 
brake mechanics , asbestos , and disease risk . health risks posed by inhalable asbestos fibers are known to exist in a variety of industrial and nonindustrial settings . although early studies described an increased risk of asbestosis , lung cancer , and mesothelioma in asbestos-industry workers , subsequent research revealed the existence of a potential asbestos-related health hazard in nonasbestos industries such as the textile and railroad industries . brake mechanics and garage workers constitute a large work force with potential exposures to levels of asbestos capable of producing disease . unfortunately , the health risk faced by these workers has received little attention . this article briefly discusses currently available information on the asbestos health risks of workers in this setting , and highlights the need for further investigations of this occupational group . 
accidental death from a black-powder rifle breech plug . authentic black-powder muzzle-loader weapons and replicas are used today primarily for hunting game such as deer and hogs . the following is a case presentation of accidental death from cerebral trauma caused by a .45 - caliber black-powder-rifle breech plug implanting in the victim 's brain . 
path of bullet and injuries determined by radiography . radiography is commonly used to find bullet pathways in forensic pathology . in the case presented here , a man had sustained multiple gunshot wounds and one bullet could not be traced . a radiograph was used to find the bullet and showed an interesting bullet pathway . by observing the bullet pathway on a radiograph , sometimes we can surmise the victim 's body posture at the time of an incident . 
identification of the driver in an automobile collision . we report on a three-occupant automobile collision in which one of the two survivors claimed that the deceased had operated the vehicle . we attempted to identify the driver . the left face and neck of the deceased appeared to have struck the vehicle 's interior . the survivors were slightly injured on the right side of their faces . in japan , the passenger side is on the left , and in this case , the right side of the vehicle had been damaged . by comparing the injuries of the deceased and the survivors in relation to the vehicle damages , we concluded that the deceased occupant had probably been a passenger , not the driver . 
fatal high cervical spinal cord injury in an automobile accident complicating os odontoideum . we report a case where spinal instability from incomplete fusion of the dens of c2 ( os odontoideum ) allowed anterior displacement of the skull and first cervical vertebra following right frontal impact against the a pillar in an automobile accident . resultant crushing and laceration of the spinal cord occurred at the level of c1 and c2 . without either radiographic investigation or detailed examination of the spine , the fatal injury might have been overlooked and death attributed to acute alcoholic poisoning because the blood alcohol level was .613 % . 
sudden death due to delayed rupture of hepatic subcapsular hematoma following blunt abdominal trauma . blunt abdominal trauma can cause sudden , unexpected death due to injuries to internal organs . rupture of a hepatic subcapsular hematoma is a relatively rare cause of sudden death following minor blunt abdominal trauma . death may be delayed several days to weeks . the autopsy is an invaluable diagnostic tool that can be utilized to uncover sudden deaths due to abdominal trauma . the case of an alcoholic who died of a ruptured hepatic subcapsular hematoma is presented . the death investigation revealed that the victim had sustained blunt abdominal trauma during a fall a few days prior to death . 
evidence of subclinical blastomycosis in forestry workers in northern minnesota and northern wisconsin . purpose : to investigate the incidence of remote subclinical blastomycosis in a high-risk population of forestry workers . patients and methods : the study consisted of 39 male forestry workers from northern minnesota and northern wisconsin , areas endemic for blastomycosis but not for histoplasmosis . all subjects were histoplasmin skin test-negative , and none had ever been diagnosed with blastomycosis or pneumonia . an antigen-specific lymphocyte stimulation assay was performed to determine the presence of blastomycosis . results : peripheral blood lymphocytes from 12 of 39 subjects demonstrated specific antigen-induced proliferation when stimulated with a purified alkali - and water-soluble antigen derived from the cell wall of blastomyces dermatitidis . conclusion : the finding that 30 % of these men had evidence of previous blastomycosis suggests that subclinical cases do occur sporadically , and are probably more common than diagnosed symptomatic cases . this is similar to histoplasmosis , in which the majority of infections are subclinical . however , the reservoir of persons with previous undiagnosed blastomycosis is probably small compared to the huge number of persons ( perhaps 30 million ) with prior histoplasmosis . 
intrapartum uterine rupture and inflammatory bowel disease . the incidence of uterine rupture in pregnant women ranges from 0 % to 1.1 % in large series . this case report describes a woman with a history of obstetric complications , uterine rupture , and active inflammatory bowel disease that was treated with high-dose prednisone . 
magnetic resonance imaging of radiation optic neuropathy . three patients with delayed radiation optic neuropathy after radiation therapy for parasellar neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance imaging . the affected optic nerves and chiasms showed enlargement and focal gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement . the magnetic resonance imaging technique effectively detected and defined anterior visual pathway changes of radionecrosis and excluded the clinical possibility of visual loss because of tumor recurrence . 
successful treatment of recurrent corneal erosion with nd : yag anterior stromal puncture i used a new technique to create anterior corneal stromal punctures for the treatment of traumatic recurrent corneal erosions that had not responded to conventional therapy . three patients with such erosions within the visual axis were successfully treated by using multiple applications of the nd : yag laser set at energy levels between 1.8 and 2.2 mj . one of these patients had previous stromal puncture with a bent 25-gauge needle . the erosions of all patients healed without complications and have remained symptom-free for four to six months . compared with needle puncture , the laser punctures were more reproducible , shallow , and translucent . 
penetrating keratoplasty after ocular trauma . we reviewed the records of 41 patients who underwent penetrating keratoplasty for a corneal opacity caused by trauma between jan . 1 , 1983 , and dec . 31 , 1988 . most of the patients were young males whose average age was 35 years . common tools accounted for many injuries ( 14 of 41 , 34 % ) . sixteen injuries ( 39 % ) were work-related . thirty-six patients ( 88 % ) had corneal scars from a perforating injury , four patients ( 10 % ) had corneal edema , and one patient ( 2 % ) required emergency penetrating keratoplasty for extensive tissue loss . of the 39 patients with one year of follow-up , 31 ( 82 % ) maintained clear corneal grafts . rejection occurred in nine of 39 patients ( 23 % ) and only three ( 33 % ) of the rejections resolved . visual outcome was favorable with 20 patients ( 51 % ) attaining best-corrected postoperative visual acuity of 20/20 to 20/40 , nine patients ( 23 % ) attaining visual acuity of 20/50 to 20/100 , and ten patients ( 26 % ) attaining visual acuity of 20/200 or worse . preoperative retinal disease ( six of 39 , 15 % ) , astigmatic errors ( five of 39 , 13 % ) , graft failures ( four of 39 , 10 % ) , and postoperative glaucoma ( 12 of 39 , 31 % ) adversely influenced the outcome . although the prevalence of postoperative complications is relatively high , good visual results can be obtained in patients who undergo penetrating keratoplasty after ocular trauma . 
the natural history of alcohol abuse : implications for definitions of alcohol use disorders is the dsm-iii-r category of alcohol abuse validly differentiated from the dsm-iii-r category of alcohol dependence , or is abuse primarily a mild , prodromal condition that typically deteriorates into dependence ? a 4-year longitudinal epidemiologic study of male drinkers provided data to answer this question . the study used identical questions at baseline and follow-up . at follow-up , 70 % of the subjects who were initially classified as alcohol abusers were still abusers or were classified as remitted . this contrasted significantly with outcome in the subjects who initially reported alcohol dependence . although additional research is needed , these results indicate that alcohol abuse often has a course distinct from that of alcohol dependence . 
long-term effects of radiotherapy in childhood and adolescence . the records of 50 selected pediatric patients who were treated and followed at m. d. anderson cancer center were reviewed to study the late effects of nonsurgical treatment of cancer in children . there were 26 girls and 24 boys ranging in age between 2 months and 16 years . patients with head and neck cancer received chemotherapy and radiotherapy for rhabdomyosarcoma ( n = 27 ) , retinoblastoma ( n = 8 ) , or nasopharynx cancer ( n = 2 ) . median follow-up was 13 years . the most severe side effects were noted in the fields of radiation and included hypoplasia of the jaw , orbit , or hemi-face with varying degrees of atrophy of the overlying soft tissues . a wide range of endocrine , dental , and psychologic abnormalities was also documented . since 1 in every 1,000 adults older than 20 years today is likely to be a survivor of childhood cancer , recommendations are made for this " new " class of patients whom the head and neck surgeon will be seeing in the future . 
mandibular reconstruction with composite microvascular tissue transfer . microvascular free tissue transfer has provided a variety of methods of restoring vascularized bone and soft tissue to difficult defects created by tumor resection and trauma . over 7 years , 26 patients have undergone 28 free flaps for mandibular reconstruction , 15 for primary squamous cell carcinoma of the floor of the mouth or tongue , 7 for recurrent tumor , and 6 for other reasons [ lymphangioma ( 1 ) , infection ( 1 ) , gunshot wound ( 1 ) , and osteoradionecrosis ( 3 ) ] . primary reconstruction was performed in 19 cases and secondary in 9 . all repairs were composite flaps including 12 scapula , 5 radial forearm , 3 fibula , 2 serratus , and 6 deep circumflex iliac artery . mandibular defects included the symphysis alone ( 7 ) , symphysis and body ( 5 ) , symphysis-body-ramus condyle ( 2 ) , body or ramus ( 13 ) , and bilateral body ( 1 ) . fourteen patients had received prior radiotherapy to adjuvant or curative doses . eight received postoperative radiotherapy . all patients had initially successful vascularized reconstruction by clinical examination ( 28 ) and positive radionuclide scan ( 22 of 22 ) . bony stability was achieved in 25 of 26 patients and oral continence in 24 of 26 . one complete flap loss occurred at 14 days . complications of some degree developed in 22 patients including partial skin necrosis ( 3 ) , orocutaneous fistula ( 3 ) , plate exposure ( 1 ) , donor site infection ( 3 ) , fracture of reconstruction ( 1 ) , and fracture of the radius ( 1 ) . microvascular transfer of bone and soft tissue allows a reliable reconstruction -- despite previous radiotherapy , infection , foreign body , or surgery -- in almost every situation in which mandible and soft tissue are absent . bony union , a healed wound , and reasonable function and appearance are likely despite early fistula , skin loss , or metal plate or bone exposure . 
reconstruction of mandibular defects in irradiated patients . in this prospective study , mandibular reconstruction using titanium plates was evaluated in 31 patients treated between july 1988 and january 1990 . sixteen patients had prior surgery ; 13 had prior radiotherapy . in 11 patients , prior radiation and surgery had failed . sixteen patients received postoperative radiotherapy either in standard or accelerated fractions . twelve patients had complications of either intraoral ( 8 ) , extraoral ( 5 ) , or combined ( 1 ) plate exposure or fistula formation ( 2 ) . factors significantly related to complications were poor nutrition , accelerated radiation , and recurrence . sixty-one percent of all patients healed uneventfully . when patients with complications secondary to recurrence who subsequently died were excluded , the success rate was 73 % . only one patient had an unacceptable result that produced a cosmetic and functional deformity despite secondary repair . 
plasma noradrenaline , platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptors , and functional scores during ethanol withdrawal . plasma noradrenaline and platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptor density ( sites/cell using 3h-rauwolscine with and without phentolamine ) were correlated with withdrawal score in 23 hospitalized patients undergoing ethanol withdrawal . control groups for plasma noradrenaline were 25 patients admitted to hospital for elective gastroscopy and 12 laboratory workers accustomed to venipuncture . controls for platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptor measurements were a separate group of 31 normal subjects with a mean age close to that of the patients ' withdrawing from ethanol . plasma noradrenaline was significantly higher in the patients undergoing ethanol withdrawal than in patients admitted to hospital for elective endoscopy . twelve laboratory controls had plasma noradrenaline levels significantly lower than either patient group . a significant though poor statistical correlation existed between ethanol withdrawal score and simultaneously determined plasma noradrenaline level . platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptor sites/cell were reduced in ethanol withdrawal compared with the normal controls . platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptor sites/cell increased over the first 24 hr of ethanol withdrawal but remained significantly lower than control values . the change in platelet adrenoceptors was accompanied by a fall in mean plasma noradrenaline . thus , the stress of hospital admission itself is associated with an increase in plasma noradrenaline , but ethanol withdrawal enhances this increase , which is accompanied by and probably causes a reduction in platelet alpha 2-adrenoceptor numbers . these changes begin to return towards normal within 24 hr as the withdrawal reaction subsides . 
application of the tridimensional personality questionnaire to a population of alcoholics and other substance abusers . to assess its construct validity and application , cloninger 's tridimensional personality questionnaire ( tpq ) was administered to 267 inpatient substance abusers . one hundred seventy-two of the patients were alcoholic , 47 abused stimulants , and 48 abused other drugs , primarily benzodiazepines , marijuana , or were polysubstance abusers . of the sample 33.8 % were female . analyses were conducted to ( 1 ) determine whether tpq scores could be used to classify alcoholics as either cloninger type i or type ii ; ( 2 ) examine the intercorrelations of tpq scales and identify differences in these patterns due to drug of choice ; ( 3 ) replicate previously obtained gender differences on the tpq . the results indicate that ( 1 ) tpq scores did not classify the alcoholics into the expected frequencies for type i and type ii ; ( 2 ) the scales were not independent and did not give rise to any differences among drug user groups , but ( 3 ) did confirm previously reported gender differences . these results indicate that cloninger 's model and the tpq must be subjected to careful empirical study prior to their widespread acceptance . 
brain and liver dolichol in chronic alcoholism : a necropsy study . cerebral gray and white matter and liver dolichol levels were measured in postmortem samples from chronic alcoholics and nonalcoholic controls following recent suggestions that dolichol levels may be used as a marker for alcoholism . no significant differences in brain dolichol were found between the control and alcoholic groups . a significant reduction in the liver dolichol was observed in the alcoholic group . this was most marked in those alcoholics with liver disease . 
murine model of ethanol-induced immunosuppression . alcohol abuse has been associated with an increased susceptibility to infectious diseases and certain tumors . on the basis of these observations , an effect of ethanol on the immune system has been suggested . we have used a mouse model system in which male c57bl/6 mice were fed either lieber-decarli liquid diet containing ethanol sufficient to supply 37 % of the total calories or isocaloric control diet in a pair-feeding design to examine the effect of ethanol on the immune system . the group consuming the ethanol-containing diet maintained relatively stable levels of blood ethanol for the 8 days of feeding . consumption of ethanol for 8 days resulted in a profound loss of thymus and spleen cells , and the recovery of thymus cellularity was delayed relative to the recovery of spleen cell numbers after ethanol feeding was discontinued . proliferation of spleen lymphocytes to t-cell stimuli ( concanavalin a and alloantigens ) was diminished ; however , b-cell proliferation to lipopolysaccharide was relatively unchanged in mice fed ethanol-containing diet . also in ethanol-fed mice a significant decrease in the primary antibody response to sheep red blood cells but not to the t-independent antigen trinitrophenol-ficoll occurred . these data establish the murine model system as a means to define further the effect of ethanol on the immune system and host defense mechanisms . 
deranged vitamin d metabolism but normal bone mineral density in finnish noncirrhotic male alcoholics . to study the effect of prolonged ethanol consumption on calcium metabolism and on the prevalence of osteoporosis we examined 38 finnish noncirrhotic male alcoholics ( 30-55 years of age ) with dietary interviews and biochemical measurements and by measuring the bone mineral content of the forearm using single photon absorptiometry ( spa ) and the bone mineral density of the spine , humerus and proximal femur using nonquantified computer tomography ( ct ) and dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry ( dexa ) . in comparison two groups of healthy controls were studied . the mean daily dietary intake of calcium was 1.3 g in the patients and 1.2 g in the controls . the dietary intake of vitamin d was equal in the study groups , too . the serum levels of calcium , phosphate and parathyroid hormone did not show any difference between the patients and controls but in the alcoholics the urinary excretion of calcium was reduced by 42 % ( p less than 0.0001 ) as compared to the controls . the serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 , 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 , and 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 were reduced in the alcoholics by 40 % ( p less than 0.0001 ) , 23 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , and 48 % ( p less than 0.0001 ) , respectively , as compared to the controls . the alcoholic men had normal levels of serum testosterone and they did not have hypercortisolism . the bone mineral content of the dominant forearm measured by spa was similar in the study groups as were the bone mineral densities ( bmd ) of the lumbar and humeral areas measured by ct . the bmd at the lumbar , femoral neck , ward 's triangle and trochanter sites measured by dexa did not differ , either . 
the detection of alcoholism in hospitalized schizophrenics : a comparison of the mast and the mac . the michigan alcoholism screening test ( mast ) and the macandrew alcoholism scale ( mac ) were administered to forty-one schizophrenic inpatients also meeting dsm-iii criteria for either alcohol abuse or alcohol dependence and 29 schizophrenic inpatients who did not qualify for an additional substance abuse diagnosis other than marijuana abuse/dependence . the mac failed to differentiate between the alcoholic and nonalcoholic groups and both groups scored above the recommended cutting score . the mast significantly differentiated the alcoholic and nonalcoholic schizophrenic patients and was as sensitive to a history of alcohol abuse as to alcohol dependence . neither the mast nor mac was sensitive to recent versus more remote drinking . the overall classificatory accuracy of the mast was found to be 80 % and that of the mac was 56 % . a logistic regression analysis revealed that the use of just four mast items can yield a group classificatory rate of 83 % . it was concluded that the mast exhibited sufficient sensitivity and specificity to be used as an initial screening instrument for alcoholism in schizophrenic patients . 
esophageal motor disorder in alcoholics : result of alcoholism or withdrawal ? both acute and chronic ethanol consumption may cause esophageal dysmotility . in order to systematically evaluate the effect of ethanol on esophageal motility , we studied esophageal motility in 13 healthy subjects before and following acute intravenous administration of 0.8 g/kg ethanol and in chronic alcoholics within 6 hr of their last drink ( n = 6 ) and following 24 to 48 hr of abstinence when signs of withdrawal were present ( n = 13 ) . withdrawing alcoholics were also restudied after intravenous administration of 0.8 g/kg ethanol . ethanol transiently decreased lower esophageal sphincter pressure ( lesp ) and inhibited les relaxation in all control subjects ; this inhibitory effect of ethanol on lesp in alcoholics was significantly less , indicating the development of tolerance . ethanol moderately decreased esophageal contraction amplitude ( eca ) in 10 of 13 controls and prolonged duration of contractions in all but had no effect on velocity of esophageal contractions . in contrast , eca was significantly elevated in both groups of alcoholics , but this was significantly more marked in withdrawing alcoholics . ethanol infusion returned eca toward normal values in withdrawing alcoholics . abnormal motility was noted in three intoxicated alcoholics and 10 ( 77 % ) withdrawing alcoholics . this included nutcracker esophagus in five and hypertensive les in two . these data indicated that ( 1 ) esophageal motor dysfunction is common in alcoholics ; ( 2 ) acute ethanol administration decreases lesp and esophageal contraction amplitude , whereas chronic ethanol consumption and withdrawal from ethanol increases eca . this suggests development of a compensatory mechanism in chronic alcoholics leading to high pressure esophageal contractions during withdrawal . 
alcohol protects the diaphragm during dietary restriction . we recently reported that alcoholic rat diaphragm develops greater contractile force than diaphragm of pair-fed control animals . the present experiment examines whether alcohol or dietary restriction is the more likely cause of this surprising finding . we conditioned 10 rats using a liquid diet containing ethanol as 36 % of calories . ten pair-fed control animals received an equal amount of isocaloric , ethanol-free liquid diet . ten ad libitum control animals had unrestricted access to lab chow and water . rats were killed after 30 weeks . left costal diaphragm strips were studied in vitro at optimal length using direct stimulation at supramaximal voltage . isometric force was measured and divided by muscle cross-section to compute stress . maximal tetanic stresses developed by muscle from pair-fed controls were systematically less than alcoholic and ad libitum control values ( p less than 0.0001 ) ; this did not depend on temperature ( 25 degrees vs. 37 degrees ; p greater than 0.50 ) . pair-feeding increased twitch half-relaxation times ( p less than 0.03 ) and shifted the tetanic stress-stimulation frequency relationship leftward by 10 hz ( p less than 0.01 ) . diaphragm of pair-fed rats continued to generate lower stresses during the fatigue caused by repeated contractions ( p less than 0.01 ) . we conclude that dietary restriction associated with pair-feeding compromises diaphragm performance in rats . chronic alcohol consumption prevents or reverses these changes , since diaphragm function of alcoholic and ad libitum control animals was not different . 
late versus early onset problem drinking in older men . age at onset of problem drinking was studied in 132 older men ( age 60 years and older ) admitted to a va geriatric alcoholism outpatient treatment program . demographics , alcohol history , self reported psychological status , special treatment , and treatment compliance variables were tested for association with onset age . late onset ( defined as onset of the first alcohol problem at or after age 60 ) was not uncommon , occurring in 15 % of the sample ( 29 % of patients age 65 or older ) . compared to earlier onset cases , late onset alcohol problems were milder and more circumscribed , and were associated with less family alcoholism and greater psychological stability . late onset patients were also more compliant with outpatient treatment requirements ; however , treatment program variables were better predictors of compliance than onset age . 
inpatient treatment of employed alcoholics : a randomized clinical trial on hazelden-type and traditional treatment . the first randomized clinical trial on the hazelden-type of treatment showed that this aa-oriented treatment for alcoholism can result in significant improvement in drinking behavior as compared to a more traditional form of treatment . one hundred forty-one employed alcoholics were randomized to either hazelden-type treatment ( n = 74 ) or to traditional-type treatment ( n = 67 ) . the treatment groups were highly comparable . the bimonthly follow-up lasted one year . according to the copes-questionnaire ( short form ) , the treatment at the hazelden-type institute was significantly more involving , supportive , encouraging to spontaneity and oriented to personal problems than at the traditional-type institute . in accordance the treatment drop-out rate was 7.9 % at hazelden-type institute and 25.9 % at traditional-type institute ( p less than 0.02 ) . the participation in outpatient treatment was significantly better after the hazelden-type treatment . the proportion of those abstinent ( admitted ethanol consumption , 0 g/day ; gammaglutamyl transferase , and mean cell volume were normal ) was higher at hazelden-type institute during the last ( 8-12 months ) follow-up period ( 26.3 % vs. 9.8 % , p = 0.05 ) . fourteen percent of the hazeldon-type institute patients and 1.9 % of the traditional-type institute patients stayed abstinent during the whole 1-year follow-up period ( p less than 0.05 ) . the differences for the corresponding rates for controlled drinking ( admitted ethanol consumption less than 40 g/day , ggt , and mcv normal ) were in the same direction but did not reach statistical significance . thus the hazelden-type treatment obtained better results in 1-year abstinence rate than a more traditional-type treatment . 
ethanol-inducible cytochrome p-450 : assessment of substrates ' specific chemical probes in rat liver microsomes . the capacity of liver microsomes to oxidize various substrates known to be specific of alcohol-inducible cytochrome p-450 was studied in rats treated with different xenobiotics such as 3-methylcholanthrene , phenobarbital , acetone , and ethanol . analysis of results showed a significantly marked increase following ethanol and acetone treatments of the p-nitrophenol hydroxylation ( 283 + / - 19 % and 304 + / - 21 % ) , n-nitrosodimethylamine ( ndma ) demethylation ( 280 + / - 105 % and 228 + / - 95 % ) , benzene hydroxylation ( 258 + / - 60 % and 236 + / - 61 % ) , butanol oxidation ( 173 + / - 34 % and 154 + / - 32 % ) , aniline hydroxylation ( 147 + / - 22 % and 95 + / - 8 % ) , and ether de-ethylation ( 95 + / - 17 % and 83 + / - 17 % ) and a not significant increase of n-nitrosodiethylamine ( ndea ) de-ethylation ( 34 + / - 11 % and 9 + / - 8 % ) in rat microsomes , respectively , versus control animals ( mean + / - sd , values expressed as nmol/min/nmole p-450 ) . all of these activities significantly decreased after 3-mc treatment , except for the p-nitrophenol hydroxylation . pb treatment markedly enhanced ndea de-ethylation , p-nitrophenol , and benzene hydroxylations ( 106 + / - 38 % , 109 + / - 14 % , and 153 + / - 62 % , respectively ) versus controls . these results suggest that ndma and especially 1-butanol are the most specific and useful probes of alcohol-inducible cytochrome p-450 in crude liver microsomes . 
effects of alcohol on the import of aldehyde dehydrogenase precursor into rat liver mitochondria . we previously showed that incubation of rat liver mitochondria with alcohols resulted in the inhibition of the import of aldehyde dehydrogenase precursor but not that of ornithine transcarbamylase precursor ( wang tty , farres j , and weiner h : arch biochem biophys 272:440 -449 , 1989 ) . the time required for inhibition of import to occur was now measured with ethanol ( 200 mm ) and butanol ( 100 mm ) at 0 degree and 30 degrees c. it required approximately 30 min to achieve 50 % inhibition with butanol and 50 min with ethanol . to further substantiate the membrane perturbing effects of alcohols , we also examined the effect of oleic acid on import . we found that incubation of mitochondria with oleic acid ( 0-100 microm ) resulted in inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase precursor import in a dose response fashion . in addition to in vitro effects of alcohols on import , we conducted a preliminary study on import of protein into liver mitochondria isolated from rats fed ethanol . we found that the rate of aldehyde dehydrogenase precursor import into liver mitochondria isolated from ethanol fed rats was identical to that from control . the results are consistent with finding that the activity and amount of aldehyde dehydrogenase was the same in mitochondria isolated from the alcohol-fed or control animals . 
alterations in splanchnic blood flow following chronic ethanol exposure . the purpose of these experiments was to determine whether or not tolerance develops to the effect of 3.0 g/kg ethanol on total and regional splanchnic blood flow in male wistar rats . the animals were given the lieber-decarli liquid diet containing ethanol for 10 days ; ethanol-fed animals were withdrawn 24 hr prior to experiments . regional blood flow and cardiac output ( co ) were measured by the reference microsphere technique after an intraperitoneal injection of 3.0 g/kg of ethanol . acute ethanol administration produced early nonsustained increases in portal vein blood flow in animals fed ethanol for 10 days and withdrawn for 24 hr and in control animals . however , after chronic exposure to ethanol , the pattern of increase in blood flow in response to ethanol in the splanchnic organs was different between the ethanol-fed and control groups . increases in portal vein flow in control groups were due to concomitant increases in small intestinal , colonic , and cecal blood flow while the increase in the ethanol-fed group was due to a rise in small intestinal and stomach blood flow . the increase in stomach blood flow that occurred in the animals treated chronically with ethanol may be viewed as a conditioned response to ethanol , since this was not found in the control group . these results , demonstrate that the pattern of increase in blood flow in the splanchnic organs produced by an acute dose of ethanol depends on the animal 's previous exposure to ethanol . 
examination of cloninger 's type i and type ii alcoholism with a sample of men alcoholics in treatment . cloninger 's clinical method of classifying alcoholics into two groups ( types i and ii ) was examined with data obtained from 360 va hospitalized male alcoholic patients . for operational criteria , the cloninger clinical method of subtyping alcoholics employs age-of-onset of problem drinking and symptom-clusters supposedly associated with each subtype . marked overlap was found between the symptom-clusters used to define the two subtypes . ninety-one percent of the entire sample satisfied criteria for both symptom-clusters . dividing the sample by early-onset ( type ii , less than or equal to 25 years ) and late-onset ( type i , greater than 26 years ) alcoholism did not substantially reduce the overlap between symptom-clusters ; i.e. , 96 % of the early-onset and 83 % of the late-onset subgroups were positive for both symptom-clusters . only 21 men ( 6 % ) could be classified when both age-of-onset and the type-appropriate symptom-cluster were used to separate patients . in hospital settings , at least , these findings suggest that the two-group clinical alcoholism typology proposed by cloninger basically reflects the age-of-onset of problem drinking . 
relationship between anesthetic procedure and contact of anesthesia personnel with patient body fluids . we recorded the frequency with which anesthesia personnel came in contact with patient body fluids in order to provide an empirical basis for the recommendation of relevant precautions . anesthesia personnel completed a questionnaire when performing a range of standardized procedures . the rate of contact with blood was as follows : catheterization of peripheral vein , 18 % ; insertion of central venous catheter , 87 % ; arterial puncture , 38 % ; lumbar puncture , 23 % ; catheterization of the extradural space , 34 % ; tracheal intubation , 4 % ; tracheal extubation , 9 % ; suction of oral cavity , pharynx , or trachea , 13 % ; intramuscular injection of drug , 8 % ; and establishment or discontinuation of drip for blood transfusion , 43 % . by using protective gloves , 98 % of contacts with patient blood would have been prevented . blood contact was more frequent in the emergency ward than in the operating room ( p less than 0.05 ) . health care workers were not able to predict when a specific procedure would imply that contact with patient blood would occur . we recommend that specific precautions be adopted for the various procedures and discuss precautions that could have prevented contact with body fluid . 
separation of a ruptured angioplasty balloon with successful percutaneous retrieval -- a case report . a case of ruptured angioplasty balloon with complete separation from the catheter is presented . successful percutaneous retrieval of the balloon with endoscopic biopsy forceps was performed . 
arterial revascularization by laser angioplasty : first italian experiences . eighty-seven laser angioplasty procedures were performed on 85 patients ( 73 men and 12 women ) . in the first phase ( 54 patients ) a broad selection process included long occlusions ( 23.9 cm avg ) and vessels with heavy calcification ; in the second phase ( 31 patients ) the authors treated vessels with shorter occlusions ( 10 cm avg ) and less calcific . the primary success rate , based on number of procedures ( 73.5 % overall ) was 69 % in the first phase but reached 81.3 % in the second phase . there were 14 perforations ( 16 % ) , 8 dissections ( 9.4 % ) , and 4 peripheral emboli ( 4.7 % ) . six-month follow-up shows that the winsor index maintained its initial improvement in 76.5 % of all patients , or 62 % in just the long occlusions . these data and a review of the cases suggest that no more of 10-20 % of patients with claudication in lower extremities can be treated by laser angioplasty ; the authors consider ideal candidates those patients who noncalcific lesions in the common iliac or superficial femoral arteries at the iii medium level with obstructions shorter than 8 cm and good runoff . 
bakers ' asthma : prevalence and evaluation of immunotherapy with a wheat flour extract . one hundred thirty-nine bakers and pastry cooks were included in a prevalence study of ige-mediated hypersensitivity to wheat flour demonstrated by skin tests , specific ige to wheat flour ( rast ) , and inhalation challenge . from the sensitized workers , we selected 30 asthmatic patients . twenty patients were treated with a standardized wheat flour extract , and ten with a placebo in a double-blind clinical trial . before and after immunotherapy we performed tests in vivo ( skin tests with wheat flour and methacholine tests ) , and in vitro ( total ige and specific ige to wheat flour ) . we found substantial prevalence of wheat flour allergy ( 25.17 % of workers ) , and a significant decrease ( p less than .001 ) in hyperresponsiveness to methacholine , skin sensitivity ( p = .002 ) , and specific ige ( p less than .005 ) to wheat flour after 20 months of immunotherapy . there was also significant subjective improvement ( p less than .001 ) . the placebo group showed no changes in these variables . 
treatment of moderate-to-severe hypothermia in an urban setting . study objectives : to study the treatment of moderate-to-severe hypothermia using a combination of core rewarming techniques . design : a prospective study . setting : the emergency department of an urban , community hospital . type of patients : sixteen patients who presented with accidental hypothermia with a core temperature of less than 32 c. interventions : all patients were treated with warmed iv fluids either through central or peripheral iv lines and heated aerosol masks . measurements and main results : the patients had a mean rewarming rate of 1.16 c/hr ; all survived . the majority were chronic alcoholic patients who presented with multiple medical conditions that required hospitalization . conclusion : all patients recovered with this method of core rewarming . 
interaction between whole-bowel irrigation solution and activated charcoal : implications for the treatment of toxic ingestions . study objectives : the purpose of this study was to address the issues of safety and efficacy of combining whole-bowel irrigation and activated charcoal administration for the treatment of toxic ingestions . study design : two in-vitro studies were performed . in the first , serial ratios of polyethylene glycol ( peg ) and activated charcoal ( ac ) powders were added to water and the solutions were analyzed for peg concentration and osmolality . in the second , serial ratios of a pharmaceutical bowel irrigation solution and an ac preparation were combined with a constant amount of salicylic acid . solution osmolalities , peg , and salicylic acid concentrations were then quantified . results : adsorption of peg powder by ac was demonstrated ; however , changes in solution osmolality were negligible . thus , concurrent administration of these therapies appears safe . however , combining bowel irrigation solution with ac resulted in decreased salicylic acid adsorption . this was especially so with smaller amounts of ac that would pertain more to the smaller doses of ac used for multiple-dose charcoal therapy . conclusion : if these in-vitro data are applicable to overdose patients , the administration of a routine initial charcoal dose to those who will be treated with whole-bowel irrigation would be appropriate . however , it is unlikely that the addition of multiple-dose charcoal therapy to whole-bowel irrigation would provide additional benefit for the patient . 
clinical evaluation of an acetaminophen meter for the rapid diagnosis of acetaminophen intoxication . study objectives : to test the accuracy of a newly developed meter that determines serum acetaminophen concentration after a 30-second analysis of one drop of whole blood . design : sixty-six blood samples from patients with known or suspected drug overdose were analyzed for the presence of acetaminophen . in all cases determination of serum acetaminophen concentration was performed simultaneously with the meter and by a reference laboratory . setting : eligible patients were those who presented during a nine-month period to the emergency departments of two tertiary care hospitals ( including a pediatric hospital ) . results : thirty-one specimens had a laboratory-confirmed detectable acetaminophen concentration . the meter identified these toxic specimens in all cases ; there were no false-negatives ( sensitivity , 100 % ) . among the 35 specimens not containing acetaminophen , the meter invariably confirmed a nondetectable serum acetaminophen concentration ( specificity , 100 % ) . acetaminophen measurements by the meter correlated strongly with laboratory determinations ( r = .985 , p less than .001 ) . repeated testing of one specimen documented the precision and reproducibility of the meter 's analysis ; mean coefficient of variation was .08 in measuring toxic acetaminophen concentrations . drug coingestion had no significant effect on the accuracy of the meter . instrument accuracy was maintained after more than 100 uses without recalibration . conclusions : this meter identifies the possibility of rapid and accurate determinations of serum acetaminophen concentration . the instrument is ideally suited for patients with acetaminophen poisoning in whom expeditious and appropriate administration of antidotal therapy is desired . 
predicting the severity of cocaine-associated rhabdomyolysis . study objectives : the syndrome of rhabdomyolysis associated with cocaine use has been recently described , but the incidence , severity , risk factors , and complications are unknown . this study sought to describe the spectrum of the syndrome and identify clinical features of patients at risk . design : retrospective case series with analysis of common clinical features . setting : medical emergency department of an urban teaching hospital serving an indigent population . types of participants : ed patients with acute cocaine intoxication and a serum creatine kinase ( all mm ) of more than 500 u/l ( 8.3 ukat/l ) who were admitted for in-hospital management . measurements and main results : twenty-nine patients , representing 5 % of cocaine-related patient visits , were identified over 20 months . patients were divided into three groups : mild , characterized by anxiety , tachycardia , diaphoresis , dyspnea , or chest pain ; moderate , characterized by delirium , agitation , fever , leukocytosis , or an elevated serum creatinine ; and severe , characterized by seizure , coma , hypotension , arrhythmia , or cardiac arrest . there was a significant association between the rating system for level of intoxication and the severity of rhabdomyolysis and its complications ( p less than .01 ) . patients at highest risk for complications of rhabdomyolysis were those in the moderate or severe groups . conclusion : this classification system may be useful for the management of patients with acute cocaine intoxication , predicting those patients in whom aggressive therapy should be initiated in the ed to minimize the complications of rhabdomyolysis . 
whole-bowel irrigation as treatment for zinc sulfate overdose . a 16-year-old boy ingested approximately 50 zinc sulfate tablets ( znso4 ; 500-mg tablets ) . after spontaneous emesis , ipecac-induced emesis , and orogastric lavage , an abdominal radiograph performed four hours after ingestion still demonstrated approximately 50 znso4 tablets within the stomach and three pills within the colon . whole-bowel irrigation was begun with a polyethylene glycol lavage solution ( peg ; golytely ) that was administered through a nasogastric tube ; within one hour , the patient began producing a rectal effluent that contained pills . the patient remained asymptomatic throughout whole-bowel irrigation . stool guaiac tests were negative . the serum chloride , however , increased from 105 to 127 meq/l . follow-up kidney , ureter , and bladder studies demonstrated the clearance of the zinc tablets from the gastrointestinal tract during the next 24 hours . 
methylene iodide poisoning . a 20-month-old girl ingested a maximum of 25 ml of pure methylene iodide . within two hours , the patient exhibited lethargy and incoordination and vomited . an abdominal radiograph demonstrated the radiopaque material in the gut . in vivo conversion to carbon monoxide was documented with a peak carboxyhemoglobin level of 14.2 % reached at 11 hours after ingestion . two days after ingestion , evidence of hepatotoxicity was apparent , and fulminant hepatic failure quickly ensued . despite aggressive supportive care and transfer to a liver transplant center , the patient died nine days after ingestion . methylene iodide ingestion has not been previously reported in human beings . this case verifies that this substance is a potent hepatotoxin , is metabolized to carbon monoxide in vivo , is radiopaque , and may cause bone marrow suppression . 
castor bean intoxication . we report the cases of a child who ingested two or more castor beans and two adults who each ingested four beans . all three patients developed severe gastroenteritis and recovered without sequelae after receiving iv fluids . the literature contains reports of 424 cases of castor bean intoxication . symptoms of intoxication include acute gastroenteritis , fluid and electrolyte depletion , gastrointestinal bleeding , hemolysis , and hypoglycemia . delayed cytotoxicity has not been reported . of the 424 patients , 14 died ( mortality rates : 8.1 % of untreated and 0.4 % of treated ) . deaths were due to hypovolemic shock . recommended treatment for asymptomatic patients who have chewed one or more raw beans is emergency department evaluation , gastric decontamination , administration of activated charcoal , observation until four to six hours after ingestion , and discharge instructions to return if symptoms develop . after decontamination and activated charcoal , symptomatic patients require hospitalization for treatment with iv fluids , supportive care , and monitoring for hypoglycemia , hemolysis , and complications of hypovolemia . monitoring for delayed cytotoxicity is unnecessary . castor beans and their dust are highly allergenic and may cause anaphylaxis . 
the relationship between respiratory impairment and asbestos-related pleural abnormality in an active work force with the general improvement in environmental controls in workplaces where asbestos is used , an increasing number of workers are seen who exhibit isolated pleural plaques . the question as to whether these are associated with respiratory impairment independently of parenchymal disease remains unresolved . the question was reinvestigated using quantitative gallium-67 lung scanning to take into account early parenchymal change not evident on the chest radiograph . we carried out a cross-sectional study of 110 construction insulators all currently at work . overall , 58.2 % had pleural abnormality , 52.5 % pleural plaques only , and 5.5 % diffuse pleural thickening as assessed from the pa chest radiograph . compared with those without , those with any pleural abnormality had a decrease in fev1 and fvc on average of 222 and 402 ml ( p less than 0.05 ) , and those with isolated pleural plaques , a decrease on average of 200 and 350 ml ( p less than 0.05 ) , after taking into account age , height , smoking status , and the presence of parenchymal abnormality as assessed by chest radiography and gallium uptake . the complaint of dyspnea with strenuous activities was also significantly related to the width and extent of chest wall pleural thickening ( p less than 0.05 ) , independently of parenchymal disease . this study suggests that the most common radiographic findings in asbestos-exposed , isolated pleural plaques are associated with a significant reduction in fev1 and fvc , which can not be attributed to the presence of radiographic and subradiographic pulmonary fibrosis . 
asbestos content of lung tissue , lymph nodes , and pleural plaques from former shipyard workers . autopsy samples from eight former shipyard workers were collected from lung parenchyma , tracheal lymph nodes , and pleural plaques . the tissue from each respective area was prepared by a modified bleach digestion technique , and the residue was collected on a 0.2-micron pore polycarbonate or 0.22-micron mixed cellulose ester filter . quantitation of ferruginous bodies and uncoated fibers was done by light and transmission electron microscopy , respectively . differences in the asbestos burden were noted for each site . ferruginous bodies were observed in both parenchyma and nodes but not in plaques . three subjects were found to have more ferruginous bodies per gram dry weight in their lymph nodes than in their lung parenchyma . likewise , all subjects were found to have more uncoated fibers per gram in the nodes than in the parenchyma . amphibole and chrysotile fibers were noted in the lung and extrapulmonary sites , with chrysotile being the predominant asbestiform in plaques . the majority of the uncoated fibers in both the nodes and the plaques were less than or equal to 5 microns in length . however , some fibers with dimensions conforming to the " stanton hypothesis " reached both areas . these residual patterns most likely reflect the impact of clearance on lung burden as opposed to the eventual accumulation and stasis in the extrapulmonary areas . 
comparison of ulcer surgery at a veterans administration and university hospital . we compared the patient populations and outcome of surgery for peptic ulcer disease in 81 patients at a veterans administration hospital ( ovah ) and 97 patients at an affiliated university hospital ( unh ) . the surgeons and choice of operation were comparable at both facilities . patients were similar with respect to severity of ulcer disease , percentage of elderly patients and distribution of comorbid conditions . there were significantly more female patients ( 45 % vs 2 % , p less than 0.05 ) , patients less than 40 years old ( 22 % vs 6 % , p less than 0.05 ) , and patients with gastric ulcers ( 27 % vs 12 % , p less than 0.05 ) at unh . alcoholism was more prevalent at ovah ( 57 % vs 22 % , p less than 0.05 ) . postoperative morbidity and mortality rates were 27 per cent and 14 per cent at ovah and 25 per cent and 16 per cent at unh . these data suggest that quality of care for surgical therapy of ulcer disease at a va hospital is comparable to its tertiary care affiliate with a similar patient population . 
penetrating injuries of the abdominal aorta . the charts of 56 consecutive patients with penetrating injuries to the abdominal aorta were reviewed in an attempt to identify prognostic factors . mechanism of injury was gunshot wound ( gsw ) , 82 per cent ( .22 cal : 15.2 % ; greater than .38 cal : 84.8 % ) ; shotgun wound ( sgw ) , 5 per cent ; and stab wound ( sw ) , 13 per cent . overall mortality was 73 per cent , with gsw 78 per cent ( .22 cal : 0 % ; greater than .38 cal : 92 % ) , 67 per cent with sgw , and 43 per cent with sw . average initial systolic blood pressure ( isbp ) was 53 ( 0-130 ) ; 87 ( 0-120 ) in survivors ; and 40 ( 0-130 ) in nonsurvivors ( ns ) . eighteen patients ( 32 % ) had no isbp , with one survivor . thirty ( 54 % ) patients had isbp less than 70 , with three survivors . six emergency department ( ed ) thoracotomies were performed , with five patients surviving to reach the operating room ( or ) , and none surviving long-term . ten patients died in the ed , 18 during surgical intervention , six within 24 hr , and seven greater than 24 hr postop . average time from injury to or was 75 minutes , with 122 minutes in survivors , and 53 minutes in nonsurvivors ( p less than 0.05 ) ; 49 minutes in those dying in the or ; and 58 minutes in those surviving the or but dying postop ( ns ) . at surgery , six patients had thoracotomy before celiotomy for control of the thoracic aorta , with three surviving the or and two surviving long-term . survivors had 2.53 associated injuries ; nonsurvivors had 2.89 ( ns ) . no significant difference was noted in number or location of associated injuries between survivors and nonsurvivors . 
treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis with high doses of synthetic calcitriol . a randomized controlled study objective : to study the efficacy of synthetic 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( calcitriol ) in the treatment of osteoporosis . design : two-year , double-blind , randomized clinical trial . setting : university medical center . patients : fifty postmenopausal women with vertebral fractures recruited by referral . intervention : calcium intake was adjusted to 25 mmol/d ( 1000 mg/d ) at baseline . patients were then randomized to treatment with either calcitriol or placebo . during the study , calcium intake was reduced to 15 mmol/d ( 600 mg/d ) and the dose of calcitriol was adjusted to maintain serum calcium less than 2.74 mmol/l ( less than 11.0 mg/dl ) or urine calcium less than 9.96 mmol/d ( less than 400 mg/d ) . measurements and main results : after 2 years , the mean dose of calcitriol in the treated group was 0.62 micrograms/d . bone mineral density of the spine increased 1.94 % with calcitriol therapy and decreased 3.92 % with placebo ( p = 0.001 ) . total body calcium increased 0.21 % with calcitriol therapy and decreased 1.85 % with placebo ( p = 0.004 ) . patients receiving placebo had significant decreases in spine density ( p = 0.0007 ) and total body calcium ( p = 0.0004 ) . there were no differences in vertebral fracture rates between the groups . renal function studies were not statistically different between the groups after 2 years . conclusion : the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporotic women with synthetic calcitriol for 2 years was associated with increases in spine density and total body calcium . no adverse effects on renal function were seen after long-term calcitriol therapy . 
the process of microbial translocation . the process of microbial translocation was studied using candida albicans , escherichia coli , or endotoxin instilled into thiry-vella loops of thermally injured guinea pigs and rats . translocation of c. albicans occurred by direct penetration of enterocytes by a unique process different from classical phagocytosis . translocation between enterocytes was not observed . internalization was associated with a disturbance of the plasma membrane and brush border , but most internalized organisms were not surrounded by a plasma membrane . passage of the candida into the lamina propria appeared to be associated with disruption of the basal membrane with extrusion of cytoplasm of the cell and candida . organisms in the lamina propria were commonly phagocytized by macrophages but also were found free in lymphatics and blood vessels . translocation of e. coli and endotoxin also occurred directly through enterocytes rather than between them , but translocated endotoxin diffused through the lamina propria and muscular wall of the bowel wall by passing between rather than through the myocytes . these descriptive phenomena provide new insight into the role of the enterocyte and intestinal immune cells in the translocation process . 
selective monitoring of patients with suspected blunt cardiac injury . blunt chest trauma can result in cardiac injury with consequent dysrhythmias , valve malfunction , or frank rupture . typically , patients with blunt chest trauma and suspected cardiac injury have required cardiac monitoring for 48 to 72 hours . predicting which patients with blunt chest trauma are not at risk for cardiac complications would obviate many patient-hours of monitoring in the intensive care unit . this series examines the sensitivity of two-dimensional surface echocardiography in predicting cardiac complications . over a 24-month period , 115 patients were admitted with blunt chest trauma and prospectively evaluated for cardiac injury with admission electrocardiograms , serial creatine kinase isoenzyme studies , and two-dimensional echocardiography . thirty-one patients ( 27 % ) had abnormal two-dimensional echocardiograms . in 8 ( 25.8 % ) of these patients , cardiac complications requiring treatment developed . eighty-four patients ( 73 % ) had normal two-dimensional echocardiograms , and a cardiac complication requiring treatment developed in only 1 ( 1.2 % ) of them . of the 9 patients who required treatment of cardiac complications , 3 had normal admission electrocardiograms and only 1 had elevated levels of the myocardial-specific isoenzymes of creatine kinase . we believe two-dimensional echocardiography is a sensitive test for evaluating cardiac injury resulting from blunt chest trauma and is helpful in selecting those patients who require monitoring in the intensive care unit . 
tracheal and main bronchial disruptions after blunt chest trauma : presentation and management tracheobronchial disruption is one of the less common injuries associated with blunt thoracic trauma . this injury can be life threatening , however , and failure to diagnose it early can lead to disastrous acute or delayed complications . nine cases of tracheobronchial disruption in the setting of nonpenetrating thoracic trauma were seen at four los angeles trauma centers between 1980 and 1987 . mechanism of injury , presentation , diagnosis , and management of these patients were reviewed . disruptions involved the trachea in 3 patients , the right bronchus in 5 patients , and the left bronchus in 2 patients . tracheobronchial disruptions occurred in settings of high-energy impact-type injuries and were more likely to have associated injuries than they were to occur alone . common presenting signs included subcutaneous emphysema , dyspnea , sternal tenderness , and hemoptysis . radiographic findings were most commonly pneumothorax , pneumomediastinum , and clavicle or rib fractures . rigid bronchoscopy and fiberoptic bronchoscopy were both highly accurate methods for diagnosis but only in the hands of trained cardiothoracic surgeons . delay in diagnosis increased the likelihood of postoperative complications . 
pharyngoesophageal perforation after blunt neck trauma . pharyngoesophageal perforation secondary to blunt neck trauma is an uncommon injury that can cause serious morbidity and mortality if not recognized and treated . pharyngeal perforation secondary to blunt trauma sustained while boxing is reported . review of the world literature found 10 cases of pharyngoesophageal perforation secondary to blunt neck trauma . analysis of these cases indicates that perforations less than 2 cm and limited to the pharynx may be treated medically with close observation . large perforations and those perforations that extend to the esophageal inlet or involve the esophagus exclusively are best treated surgically . 
the influence of age vs peak serum concentration on life-threatening events after chronic theophylline intoxication . to identify risk factors for the development of seizures and cardiac arrhythmias after chronic , unintentional theophylline intoxication we monitored the clinical course of 72 consecutive patients referred to a regional poison center with chronic theophylline intoxication ( serum theophylline concentration , greater than or equal to 167 mumol/l after protracted use ) . the median age of the sample was 47.5 years ( range , 4 days to 91 years ) . median peak theophylline concentration was 239 mumol/l , with a range of 167 to 722 mumol/l . a life-threatening event ( lte ) occurred in 28 patients ( 39 % ) that included seizures in eight and a major cardiac arrhythmia in 22 . the median peak ( theophylline ) of patients who had an lte vs those who did not was 235.8 vs 238.7 mumol/l . however , the median age of patients with an lte compared with those without an lte was significantly greater ( 70.5 vs 18.0 years ) . stratification of data by chronologic age revealed a stepwise increase in the frequency of lte with advancing years : patients more than 75 years old had a 16.7-fold greater risk of lte than patients less than 25 years old ( 95 % confidence interval , 3.56 , 77.5 ) despite comparable intergroup median serum ( theophylline ) . these data suggest the primary determinant of ltes after chronic theophylline intoxication is chronologic age . elderly patients have an inordinately greater risk of lte than younger patients . peak serum theophylline concentration can not predict which patients with chronic theophylline intoxication will have an lte . finally , these data indicate that theophylline should be used cautiously and with frequent monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in elderly patients . 
acute lead poisoning in nursing home and psychiatric patients from the ingestion of lead-based ceramic glazes . to our knowledge , acute inorganic lead poisoning from single ingestions of lead compounds has been only rarely reported . during a 14-month period , we were contacted regarding eight instances of acute ingestions of liquid lead-based ceramic glazes by mentally impaired residents of nursing homes or psychiatric facilities participating in ceramic arts programs . while some ingestions did not cause toxic effects , some patients developed acute lead poisoning characterized by abdominal pain , anemia , and basophilic stippling of red blood cells . in the blood of several patients , lead concentrations were far above normal ( 4 to 9.5 mumol/l ) . urinary lead excretions were tremendously elevated during chelation therapy , with one patient excreting 535.9 mumol/l of lead during a 6-day period , the largest lead excretion ever reported in a patient suffering from acute lead poisoning , to our knowledge . all patients recovered following supportive care and appropriate use of chelating agents . lead-based glazes are commonly found in nursing homes and psychiatric facilities . we suspect that acute or chronic lead poisoning from the ingestion ( s ) of lead-based ceramic glazes may be an unrecognized but not uncommon problem among such residents . we urge physicians to take ingestions of lead-based glazes seriously and to consider the diagnosis of lead poisoning in nursing home and psychiatric patients who have participated in ceramic crafts programs . 
mortality following hip fracture before and after implementation of the prospective payment system . recent studies of patients with hip fractures from two hospitals have suggested that the marked reduction in length of stay that occurred following implementation of the medicare prospective payment system ( pps ) resulted in decreased quality of care for these patients . to assess whether this change influenced mortality , we studied patients with hip fractures aged 65 years or older from a 20 % sample of michigan medicare enrollees . there were 2130 such patients in the 2 years preceding ( october 1981 through september 1983 ) and 2238 in the 2 years following ( october 1984 through september 1986 ) implementation of pps . although the demographic characteristics of patients with hip fractures did not change after pps , the mean length of stay ( 95 % confidence interval ) decreased by 4.4 ( 4.1 to 4.7 ) days . however , mortality in the year following the fracture did not change : 23.2 % before pps , 23.7 % after pps ; rate difference of 0.5 % ( -2.0 to 3.0 ) . this finding was consistently present within subgroups defined by patient demographic characteristics . furthermore , when the analysis was restricted to patients treated in those hospitals with the greatest reduction in average length of stay following pps ( 7.5 days , or 35 % ) , there was no significant change in 1-year mortality . for those patients who were enrolled in medicaid and not in a nursing home at the time of the fracture , there was no increase in the rate of nursing home residence 1 year after the fracture . thus , the findings of this population-based study suggest that the key outcomes of postfracture mortality and nursing home residence were not affected by the implementation of pps . 
long-term therapeutic use of benzodiazepines . i. effects of abrupt discontinuation [ published erratum appears in arch gen psychiatry 1991 jan ; 48 ( 1 ) :51 ] we compared the effect of abrupt discontinuation of therapeutic doses of short half-life and long half-life benzodiazepines in 57 benzodiazepine-dependent patients ( daily use , greater than 1 year ) . despite the use of a mean daily dose of 14.1 mg of diazepam equivalents , there were notable residual symptoms of anxiety and depression present at intake ( hamilton rating scale for anxiety score , 17.0 ; hamilton rating scale for depression score , 14.0 ) . benzodiazepine intake was stabilized for 3 weeks before double-blind assignment to placebo ( n = 47 ) , or continued benzodiazepine use ( n = 10 ) . clinical assessments were performed daily , including benzodiazepine plasma levels . depending on the outcome criteria used , anywhere from 58 % to 100 % of patients were judged to have experienced a withdrawal reaction , with a peak severity at 2 days for short half-life and 4 to 7 days for long half-life benzodiazepines . relapse onto benzodiazepines occurred in 27 % of patients who were receiving long half-life benzodiazepines and in 57 % of patients who were receiving short half-life benzodiazepines . baseline predictors of relapse were nonpanic diagnoses , a higher benzodiazepine dose , and a higher eysenck neuroticism score . a short half-life and higher daily doses were associated with greater withdrawal severity , as were personality traits , such as dependency and neuroticism , less education and higher baseline levels of anxious and depressive symptoms . patients who were able to remain free of benzodiazepines for at least 5 weeks obtained lower levels of anxiety than before benzodiazepine discontinuation . these results provide a detailed picture of the symptoms , time course , and multidimensional determinants of the benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome . 
long-term therapeutic use of benzodiazepines . ii . effects of gradual taper . we compared the effect on withdrawal severity and acute outcome of a 25 % per week taper of short half-life vs long half-life benzodiazepines in 63 benzodiazepine-dependent patients . patients unable to tolerate taper were permitted to slow the taper rate . ninety percent of patients experienced a withdrawal reaction , but it was rarely more than mild to moderate . nonetheless , 32 % of long half-life and 42 % of short half-life benzodiazepine-treated patients were unable to achieve a drug-free state . the most difficulty was experienced in the last half of taper . baseline personality , high eysenck neuroticism , female sex , and mild-to-moderate alcohol use were found to be more significant predictors of withdrawal severity than the daily benzodiazepine dose or benzodiazepine half-life . these findings suggest that personality factors contribute significantly to the patient 's difficulties with gradual benzodiazepine discontinuation of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines . 
pulmonary arteriolar muscularization in coal workers ' pneumoconiosis and its correlation with right ventricular hypertrophy . the relationship between the thickness of the walls of small pulmonary arteries ( the medial wall thickness as a percentage of external diameter , percentage of medial thickness ) in coal miners and control subjects were studied using morphometric techniques and correlated with the degree of right ventricular hypertrophy , severity of coal workers ' pneumoconiosis , emphysema , and other chronic lung diseases . pulmonary arteries less than 100 microns in external diameter were identified and the external diameter , medial thickness , and intimal thickness were quantitatively measured in the lung tissues of 57 coal miners and 15 control subjects with and without other chronic lung diseases . coal workers ' pneumoconiosis , emphysema , and right ventricular hypertrophy were assessed uniformly in all cases . the arterial wall thickness correlated with right ventricular hypertrophy , progressive massive fibrosis , and other chronic lung diseases . severity of emphysema also showed a weak correlation . although the functional significance of these findings is not known , we conclude that the muscularization of pulmonary arterioles provides a structural basis for the development of right ventricular hypertrophy in coal miners . 
physiologic responses to prolonged electrically stimulated leg-cycle exercise in the spinal cord injured . this study determined the physiologic responses to prolonged functional neuromuscular stimulation ( fns ) leg-cycle exercise in seven quadriplegic and seven paraplegic subjects . each subject completed 30 minutes of continuous fns leg cycling during which open-circuit spirometry , impedance cardiography , auscultation , and fingertip capillary blood sampling were used to assess metabolic and hemodynamic responses . compared with resting values , oxygen uptake , carbon dioxide production , respiratory exchange ratio ( rer ) , pulmonary ventilation , heart rate ( hr ) , left ventricular stroke volume ( sv ) , cardiac output ( qt ) , and blood lactate ( la ) concentration were significantly ( p less than .05 ) elevated , whereas plasma volume , bicarbonate concentration , and ph were significantly decreased in both groups during prolonged fns leg-cycle exercise . mean arterial pressure remained unchanged in quadriplegic and paraplegic subjects during the prolonged fns leg-cycle exercise bout . persons with quadriplegia elicited significantly lower map and tended to have lower sv and qt responses than persons with paraplegia , probably due to a higher degree of sympathetic dysfunction and circulatory hypokinesis during fns leg-cycle exercise . all other physiologic variables responded similarly between groups . we speculate that the relative increases observed for hr ( 33 % to 60 % ) , sv ( 45 % to 69 % ) , and qt ( 113 % to 142 % ) during prolonged fns leg-cycle exercise create a sufficient cardiac-volume load to promote central cardiovascular conditioning in persons with both quadriplegia and paraplegia . the la accumulation ( 4.7 to 5.2 mmol.l-1 ) in the spinal cord injured during prolonged fns leg cycling is unusually high for the power output attained ( 5.2 w and 6.1 w for quadriplegia and paraplegia , respectively ) . 
is arterial proximity a valid indication for arteriography in penetrating extremity trauma ? a prospective analysis . three hundred seventy-three patients with a penetrating extremity injury were studied to assess the yield of arteriography . patients underwent arteriography if any of the following was present : bruit , history of hemorrhage or hypotension , fracture , hematoma , decreased capillary refill , major soft-tissue injury , or nerve or pulse deficit . in the absence of these findings , arteriography was performed if the injury was in " proximity " to a major neurovascular bundle . in 216 patients , arteriography was performed when an abnormal finding was noted . sixty-five injuries were identified , 19 requiring intervention . proximity was the indication for arteriography in 157 patients . seventeen injuries were identified , of which one required repair . in penetrating extremity trauma , the need for arteriography is based on clinical findings . the use of arteriography to screen for an arterial injury when proximity alone is the indication rarely identifies a significant injury and should be abandoned . 
analysis of potential risks associated with 7.5 % sodium chloride resuscitation of traumatic shock [ published erratum appears in arch surg 1991 jan ; 126 ( 1 ) :43 ] we evaluated the potential side effects of rapidly infusing 250 ml of either 7.5 % sodium chloride or 7.5 % sodium chloride per 6 % dextran 70 , using lactated ringer 's as the control , to 106 critically injured patients in two prospective double-blinded emergency department trials . eight patients had a significant hyperchloremic acidemia in association with infusion of the hypertonic solutions , but all eight were moribund before infusion and many factors other than hyperchloremia could have contributed to their acidemia . other blood chemistry changes that might have been associated with the hypertonic solutions , such as hyperosmolality or hypernatremia , were made insignificant by other factors , such as high blood alcohol levels or concomitant administration of sodium bicarbonate . there were no cases of central pontine myelinolysis ; bleeding was not potentiated . there was no difficulty with crossmatching of blood . no anaphylactoid reactions occurred . in a setting of limited volume resuscitation , the solutions are likely to have a favorable risk-to-benefit ratio . 
blunt intestinal injury . keys to diagnosis and management . fifty-six patients with blunt intestinal injury seen during 39 months were reviewed for keys to diagnosis and treatment . motor vehicle accidents were involved in 80 % of the cases and seat/lap belts were in use 69 % of the time . blunt intestinal injury was the only abdominal injury in 70 % of the cases . there were 42 perforations and 20 devascularizations ; multiple injuries were common ( 27 % ) . abdominal tenderness was present on admission in 43 of 44 patients in whom a reliable examination was possible . peritoneal lavage was positive in 13 ( 93 % ) of 14 patients . computed tomography was falsely negative in three of four instances in which it was used . perforations were most common in the upper and lower ends of the small bowel and in the sigmoid colon ; devascularizations were most common in the distal ileum and sigmoid colon . resection/anastomosis was performed in 38 % of small-bowel perforations and in all small-bowel devascularizations . resection/diversion was required in most colonic perforations ( five of six patients ) and devascularizations ( four of six patients ) . there were five deaths ( 9 % ) , none due to intestinal injury . there were seven complications related to intestinal injury . diagnostic delay occurred in two patients ; both had resultant morbidity . blunt intestinal injury is associated with physical findings in conscious patients . peritoneal lavage should be used when tenderness can not be evaluated . timely operative intervention minimizes morbidity and hospital stay . 
popliteal vascular trauma . a community experience . preventing amputation continues to be a significant challenge when popliteal vascular injuries occur . a retrospective review of cases from the san diego county ( california ) trauma system identified 108 patients with 76 blunt and 32 penetrating arterial injuries . the limb preservation rate was 88 % ; there were 13 amputations . the fracture-dislocated knee injury and close-range shotgun blasts were particularly limb threatening . in general , the trauma system achieved rapid evaluation of injuries and early operative intervention . all 13 patients who underwent amputations presented with signs of severe ischemia . concomitant injuries to the popliteal vein , tibial nerves , and soft tissue were significantly more frequent in patients who underwent amputations . the importance of complete fasciotomy for compartment hypertension , early reconstructive management of soft-tissue injuries , and expeditious arterial repair , frequently without preoperative roentgenographic suite arteriography , is emphasized . an aggressive , multidisciplinary approach is required to achieve a functional extremity when popliteal vascular trauma occurs . 
endocrine consequences of alcohol abuse . the recognized endocrine consequences of alcohol abuse are reviewed on an organ by organ basis . the organ systems for which the most information is available ( liver , heart , brain ) are presented first followed by those where the information base is less . 
alcohol and bone disease . alcohol is considered to be an important risk factor for various bone diseases but recent studies have shown that moderate alcohol intake can be beneficial to bone structure . alcohol decreases osteoblastic activity , leading to decreased bone formation and defective mineralization . the changes reported in calciotropic hormones , mainly vitamin d and parathyroid hormone , are observed due in part to a deficient intestinal absorption of vitamin d and an inadequate synthesis of its hepatic metabolite , although greater emphasis has been given to dietary deficiencies or lack of exposure to sun . the changes in parathyroid hormone are not consistent and since there is no greater incidence of hyperparathyroidism in alcoholic patients , it suggests that alcohol does not have a long-term effect on the parathyroid glands . alcohol increases calcitonin secretion acutely ; calcitonin is an inhibitor of bone resorption and may be the mechanism by which moderate alcohol intake protects bone structure . alcohol increases urinary calcium , magnesium and zinc excretion . zinc deficiency has been postulated as a cause of oesteoporisis because it causes hypogonadism . the decrease in the levels of the gonadal hormones and the increase of cortisol , observed in chronic alcoholics , may indirectly cause osteopenia and aseptic necrosis . to these actions must be added the acidosis due to alcohol and the greater tendency of the alcoholic to fall , all of which influence bone changes and increase the incidence of bone fractures . 
laboratory tests in the follow-up of treated alcoholics : how often should testing be repeated ? the study group consisted of 60 male and 13 female alcohol-dependent employed patients who participated in inpatient treatment for alcoholism . they were followed up bimonthly for eight months after the treatment period . the results with ggt , asat , alat , mcv and the combination of ggt and mcv were studied with respect to the effect of taking the tests once ( at eight months ) , twice ( once every four months ) or four times ( bimonthly ) . according to our definition , the treatment outcome was good when the laboratory test values were within the normal range during the whole follow-up period . the differences in observed outcome ( at eight months after treatment ) were small whether one took the tests once at the end of the follow-up period or up to four ( i.e. bimonthly ) times . nevertheless , there were some differences between the laboratory markers . to get the most accurate picture of drinking during the follow-up period one should repeat the test bimonthly with asat or alat , once every four months with ggt ( or combined ggt and mcv ) , and once after eight months with mcv . when the time course of relapses is important for the study the more frequent test taking is also indicated . 
serum and urinary beta-hexosaminidase as markers of heavy drinking . serum and urinary beta-hexosaminidase ( shex and uhex ) were determined in 32 alcoholic men admitted to inpatient detoxification treatment for seven days , and in 27 teetotallers . on the admission shex was increased in 68.8 % and uhex in 81.3 % and after seven days of abstinence the corresponding percentages were 37.5 ( shex ) and 71.9 ( uhex ) . during the treatment shex decreased significantly while uhex did not . on the admission to the treatment uhex correlated positively with shex ( r = 0.54 ; p less than 0.01 ) . the results suggest that uhex may be a more sensitive marker of heavy drinking than shex . furthermore uhex stays longer elevated than shex . 
estimation of the amount of alcohol ingested from a single blood alcohol concentration . capillary blood alcohol concentrations ( bal ) measured in 22 young adult male volunteers each of whom received three different treatments of alcohol ( total n = 66 ) have been related quantitatively to the dose of alcohol ingested . linear regression with reasonably homogeneous variances have been found when the bal at 2 , 2.5 and 3 hr are divided by the person 's body weight and plotted versus the g/kg ( d/w ) dose . error analysis indicated that the least error in the predicted dose ( d/w ) was obtained for bal measured at 2 hr post dosing . in the latter case the mean absolute error was 6.23 % , 59 % of the errors were within + / - 5 % and 88 % of the errors were within + / - 10 % . 
ethanol-inducible cytochrome p-450 activity and increase in acetaldehyde bound to microsomes after chronic administration of acetaldehyde or ethanol . chronic ethanol consumption results in acetaldehyde adduct formation with proteins such as haemoglobin and liver proteins in vivo . our purpose was to study the binding of acetaldehyde to liver microsomal proteins , a site of ethanol oxidation via cytochrome p-450 ( especially p-450 ii e1 ) , after chronic administration of ethanol or acetaldehyde for 21 days to rats . the liver microsomal oxidation of 1-butanol by the ethanol-inducible p-450 also was examined . acetaldehyde bound to liver microsomal proteins was higher in ethanol-fed rats compared with acetaldehyde-treated rats ( 0.735 vs 0.413 nmol/mg of protein respectively ) . the biotransformation of n-butanol to butyraldehyde by liver microsomes was increased ( by 136 % ) in ethanol-fed rats vs controls , whereas in acetaldehyde-treated rats this increase was much lower ( only 27 % ) . however , in this last group , a significant negative relationship between the quantity of acetaldehyde bound to microsomal proteins and the monooxygenase-catalyzed transformation of butanol by liver microsomes was demonstrated ( r = -0.79 , p less than 0.01 ) . these results suggest that proteins of liver microsomes are a target for acetaldehyde binding during ethanol oxidation and such adduct formation could impair the oxidative properties of the alcohol-inducible cytochrome p-450 . 
experimental alcoholic skeletal muscle myopathy is characterised by a rapid and sustained decrease in muscle rna content . an investigation was made into the effects of ethanol feeding ( 36 % of total calories ) on skeletal muscle . from 7 to 42 days , muscle weights and protein and dna contents of alcohol-treated rats were significantly lower ( 10-23 % ) than pair-fed controls ( with glucose as 36 % of total calories ) . ethanol feeding markedly reduced muscle rna content by 22-34 % , when compared to controls . muscle rna content of ethanol-fed rats at 7 , 14 , 28 and 42 days of treatment was significantly lower than initial values ( i.e. at 3 days ) by 22-38 % . thus , ethanol feeding caused an initial net loss and thereafter a reduction in the rate of accretion of rna . the marked and sustained loss in the muscle protein synthetic apparatus may be a precipitating event in the development of experimental skeletal muscle myopathy . 
alcohol use and depressive symptoms among mexican americans and non-hispanic whites . alcohol use is associated with depressive symptoms in several studies . using data from a community survey , this study examined whether this relationship ( a ) can be accounted for by ethnic or sociodemographic differences among persons who engage in various levels of alcohol use ; and ( b ) differs for mexican americans ( n = 1244 ) and non-hispanic whites ( n = 1149 ) . using large quantities of alcohol , and , among men , daily drinking , were associated with depressed mood . these associations were similar for mexican americans and non-hispanic whites , and associations of quantity and frequency with depression were independent of each other . among women , the cultural and demographic characteristics of high-quantity drinkers and abstainers ( both of whom tended to be mexican americans ) accounted for the association of alcohol use with depression . among men , there was some suggestion that unemployment and unmarried status mediated the association of alcohol quantity with depression . people who drank greater quantities of alcohol per occasion reported more somatic depressive symptoms , and more frequent male drinkers reported more of most types of depressive symptoms . 
prospective evaluation of gastric emptying in the self-poisoned patient . the authors prospectively studied the effect of gastric emptying ( ge ) and activated charcoal ( ac ) upon clinical outcome in acutely self-poisoned patients . presumed overdose patients ( n = 808 ) were treated using an alternate day protocol based on a 10-question cognitive function examination and presenting vital sign parameters . asymptomatic patients ( n = 451 ) did not receive ge . ac was administered to asymptomatic patients only on even days . ge in the remaining symptomatic patients ( n = 357 ) was performed only on even days . on emptying days , alert patients had ipecac-induced emesis while obtunded patients received gastric lavage . ac therapy followed gastric emptying . on nonemptying days , symptomatic patients were treated only with ac . no clinical deterioration occurred in the asymptomatic patients treated without ge . ac use did not alter outcome measures in asymptomatic patients . ge procedures in symptomatic patients did not significantly alter the length of stay in the emergency department , mean length of time intubated , or mean length of stay in the intensive care unit . gastric lavage was associated with a higher prevalence of medical intensive care unit admissions ( p = .0001 ) and aspiration pneumonia ( p = .0001 ) . the data support the management of selected acute overdose patients without ge and fail to show a benefit from ac in asymptomatic overdose patients . 
controlling for the severity of injuries in emergency medicine research . the injury severity score ( iss ) and age have been used retrospectively to control for trauma severity . other control variables such as the revised trauma score ( rts ) and the triss method ( which estimates the probability of survival for each patient ) additionally require that values of blood pressure , glasgow coma scale , and respiratory rate , be recorded in the emergency department . the authors question when the rts , iss , the iss and age , or the probability of survival calculated using the triss method should be used to control for severity of injuries in trauma research . relations between predictor variables and ( 1 ) survival to hospital discharge , ( 2 ) hospital length of stay for survivors , and ( 3 ) length of icu stay were compared by cause of injury : penetrating , motor vehicle accident , low fall , or other blunt . data were collected over 12 months for 2,914 consecutive adult patients who died or stayed in five nontrauma and three trauma centers for 48 hours or more . for survival , the false-negative rates of probability of survival calculated using the triss method were approximately half that of the iss and age ; no variable adequately explained survival among those with low falls . combinations of iss , rts , and age explained the most variation in lengths of hospital stay among survivors , while iss explained the most variation in lengths of intensive care unit ( icu ) stay . researchers should consider the iss with rts and age to control for severity when lengths of hospital or icu stay are studied . the triss method should be used in studies of survival . in both cases , the rts which requires data collection in the emergency department must be calculated . 
whole bowel irrigation and the cocaine body-packer : a new approach to a common problem . gastrointestinal drug smuggling is a common problem in many major cities . though the majority of cases never require medical attention , the " body-packer " frequently presents with life-threatening symptoms of intoxication , including seizures and cardiorespiratory collapse , as well as mechanical obstruction from the ingested drug packets . the risk to asymptomatic smugglers may vary with packaging materials , and remains unknown . lack of controlled studies , and variations in packaging materials and clinical outcomes have prevented formulation of a consistent management strategy . current recommendations for asymptomatic body-packers vary from immediate surgical removal , to use of laxatives , to observation . the authors present the first reported case of an asymptomatic cocaine body-packer treated with whole bowel irrigation with polyethylene glycol electrolyte lavage solution . this strategy was safe , well tolerated , resulted in the rapid elimination of drug packets from the gastrointestinal tract , and facilitated assessment by contrast radiography . the potential benefits and limitations for the use of whole bowel irrigation in this difficult problem are discussed . 
the spectrum of emergency care of agricultural trauma in central wisconsin . agriculture is among the most dangerous occupations in the united states . when injuries do occur , the emergency department ( ed ) is the primary source of care . over a 2-year period , the emergency medicine section of the marshfield clinic/st joseph 's hospital , cared for 913 victims of agricultural trauma . although 11 % were initially admitted and 4 % were later treated , the remainder received their care solely in the ed . unlike most occupational injuries , people of any age may be involved in agricultural injuries ; 27 % in this series were less than 18 years of age and 5 % were 65 years or older . just over half of all injuries were from mechanical devices , including tractor and farm machinery . the remainder were from animals , falls , or exposure . although several different types of injuries occurred , the most common diagnoses were soft tissue injuries and fractures and the most common procedure was diagnostic radiography followed by wound and fracture care . an ed in a rural setting should be prepared to deal with agricultural trauma . 
methylene chloride : report of five exposures and two deaths . five patients presented to the emergency department ( ed ) following exposure in an enclosed space to methylene chloride ( dichloromethane ) , used for removing paint . two workers and three rescuers were involved . two rescuers complained only of dizziness and mild nausea , and were subsequently discharged from the ed . one rescuer was asymptomatic . worker no . 1 arrived in cardiac arrest and eventually died in the ed despite resuscitation efforts . worker no . 2 also presented to the ed in cardiac arrest , and was successfully resuscitated to pulse and blood pressure . however , he never regained consciousness or spontaneous respirations , and died on the fourth day . of interest is that worker no . 2 's carboxyhemoglobin level increased from 2 % to 8 % over the 9 hours following admission , despite administration of 40 % to 50 % oxygen by endotracheal tube . among the conclusions that can be drawn are ( 1 ) the cause of death in these patients was not carbon monoxide poisoning , but solvent-induced narcosis ; ( 2 ) carboxyhemoglobin levels may continue to rise following cessation of exposure , despite administration of high flow oxygen ; ( 3 ) rescuers can easily become victims if proper protective clothing and respirators are not worn . 
near fatal subacute thallium poisoning necessitating prolonged mechanical ventilation . the authors describe a case of severe sensory-motor polyneuropathy caused by subacute thallium-intoxication rapidly progressing to respiratory failure due to complete muscle paralysis . after more than 2 months of mechanical ventilation , weaning from the ventilator was possible . further intensive physical rehabilitation required an additional 6 months hospital stay , and 18 months later , neurological recovery was complete except for the distal lower limbs muscles . the authors discuss the different forms of thallotoxicosis and the present treatment is reviewed . maximal prolonged therapeutic support should be offered in severe thallotoxicosis because of possible near complete recovery . 
the influence of prophylactic orthoses on abdominal strength and low back injury in the workplace this study was designed to determine the effect of multimodal intervention and the prevention of back injury , and to evaluate the adverse side effects of using a lumbosacral corset in the workplace . subjects were 90 male warehouse workers randomly selected from over 800 employees at a grocery distribution center . subjects were assigned to three groups : true controls , no back school , no brace orthoses ; back school only ; and back school plus wearing a custom molded lumbosacral orthosis . comparisons of pre-testing and 6-month follow-up post-testing for abdominal strength , cognitive data , work injury incidence and productivity and use of health care services were evaluated . controls and training-only group showed no changes in strength productivity or lost time . orthoses and training-group showed no changes in strength productivity or accident rate ; however , they showed substantially less lost time . this study supports the concept of using education and prophylactic bracing to prevent back injury and reduce time loss . it appears that the use of intermittent prophylactic bracing has no adverse affects on abdominal muscle strength and may contribute to decreased lost time from work injuries . 
the supraspinal anxiolytic effect of baclofen for spasticity reduction . recent studies in the psychiatric literature indicate that baclofen has an anxiolytic action in certain psychopathologic conditions . clinical observation has shown that manifestations of spasticity are increased in anxious individuals , implicating a supraspinal site of mediation for these responses . the purposes of this study were to determine if baclofen reduced anxiety in individuals with traumatic spinal cord lesions and whether that reduction was correlated with decreased spasticity from the baclofen . five adult males with traumatic spinal cord injury were randomly assigned to the study protocol . a double-blind , repeated measures , multiple base-line , single-case research design was employed . the independent variable was dose of medication with the three levels being placebo , 40 mg/day of baclofen and 80 mg/day of baclofen , in four evenly divided doses . the dependent variable was the score obtained on the beck inventory-a anxiety scale ( bia ) . the subjects were administered the bia twice per week for a nine-week period of time , during which they received the doses of medication as described . quantitative measurements of spasticity were also taken at each session . visual inspection analysis of the data showed that two subjects had no measurable anxiety of the bia throughout the study . three subjects had measurable anxiety on the bia during the base-line/placebo phase . they showed a decreased level of their bia scores with 40 mg/day of baclofen , and a further level reduction with 80 mg/day of baclofen . the reduction in bia scores was statistically significant using the standard deviation band test in one of these subjects . these data indicate that bia probably has an anxiolytic effect for individuals status post-traumatic spinal cord injury . 
prediction of hip fracture in elderly women : a prospective study objective -- to assess the relative importance of osteoporosis of the os calcis , cognisance , and mobility in the risk of subsequent fracture of the hip in elderly women . design -- prospective study of elderly women in residential care over two years . setting -- 21 private or 38 local authority residential homes for the elderly and 4 geriatric hospitals in doncaster and hull . subjects -- 1414 ambulant women aged over 69 , in private or local authority residential care or geriatric care . those who had had bilateral hip surgery were excluded . main outcome measures -- broad band ultrasonic attenuation ( bua ) index , clifton assessment procedures for the elderly test ( for cognisance ) , and mobility on a six point scale , and fracture of the hip in the subsequent two year period . results -- 73 women fractured their hip during the two years . their mean age was not significantly different from that of the women who did not have a fracture ( 85.3 ( sd 5.6 ) v 83.9 ( 6.3 ) ; p = 0.07 ) , but their mean bua index ( 40.3 ( 19.3 ) v 50.9 ( 22.2 ) db/mh2 ) , and score for cognisance ( median 19 ( interquartile range 10.5-27 .0 ) v 24 ( 17-30 ) ) were significantly lower ( both p less than 0.001 ) . these variables had independent associations with fracture of the hip . women with fractures had a significantly lower score for the psychomotor component of the cognisance test ( 4.5 ( 1-8 ) v 7 ( 2-10 ) ; p less than 0.0025 and were significantly more mobile ( 1 ( 1-3 ) v 3 ( 1-6 ) ; p less than 0.02 ) . subdividing women according to high , medium , and low scores for bua index and cognisance testing disclosed a high risk group ( 118 women ) with low bua index and cognisance score , whose incidence of fracture was 12.8 % ; in the group at lowest risk ( 136 women ) with high bua index and cognisance score , the incidence of fracture was only 1.5 % ( relative risk 8.4 ( 95 % confidence interval -2.0 to 35.5 ] . further analysis showed that those most at risk were , additionally , most mobile but that less mobile women with good cognisance had a low incidence of fractures , regardless of the bua index , ( 1.2 % , high index , v 0.9 % , low index ) . conclusions -- elderly women most at risk of sustaining hip fractures were those with low bua index , low cognisance test score , and high mobility . improving bone strength and cognisance in elderly women may reduce their incidence of hip fracture . 
bone mineral loss in young women with amenorrhoea . objective -- to examine the impact of amenorrhoea on bone mineral density in women of reproductive age . design -- cross sectional study of 200 amenorrhoeic women compared with normally menstruating controls . setting -- teaching hospital outpatient clinic specialising in reproductive medicine . subjects -- 200 women aged 16-40 with a past or current history of amenorrhoea from various causes and of a median duration of three years , and a control group of 57 age matched normal volunteers with no history of menstrual disorder . main outcome measure -- bone mineral density in the lumbar spine ( l1-l4 ) as measured by dual energy x ray absorptiometry . results -- the amenorrhoeic group showed a mean reduction in bone mineral density of 15 % ( 95 % confidence interval 12 % to 18 % ) as compared with controls ( mean bone mineral density 0.89 ( sd 0.12 ) g/cm2 v 1.05 ( 0.09 ) g/cm2 in controls ) . bone loss was related to the duration of amenorrhoea and the severity of oestrogen deficiency rather than to the underlying diagnosis . patients with a history of fracture had significantly lower bone density than those without a history of fracture . ten patients had suffered an apparently atraumatic fracture . conclusions -- amenorrhoea in young women should be investigated and treated to prevent bone mineral loss . menopausal women with a past history of amenorrhoea should be considered to be at high risk of osteoporosis . 
the sulphated glycosaminoglycan levels in synovial fluid aspirates in patients with acute and chronic joint disease . proteoglycan levels were measured in a series of synovial fluid samples from patients with acute and chronic joint diseases using a modified chemical dye binding method . levels found in 50 miscellaneous inflammatory arthritis fluids ( mean = 173.2 + / - 90.9 micrograms/ml ) were higher than found in either 50 with rheumatoid arthritis ( 96.3 + / - 31.3 micrograms/ml ) or 50 with osteoarthritis ( 83.8 + / - 27.3 micrograms/ml ) . for comparison , proteoglycan levels were measured in 15 cadaver synovial fluids ( 98.9 + / - 44.2 micrograms/ml ) and 12 synovial fluids from patients with sports injury ( 163.7 + / - 79.4 micrograms/ml ) . patients were recruited into a trial where synovial fluid was aspirated as often as possible over a 6-month period during which the patients were followed using a number of well proven clinical parameters . no correlation was found between the degree of joint destruction as measured by x-ray damage and the concentration or total amount of proteoglycan in the synovial fluid . in addition , there was no correlation between the level or total amount of proteoglycan and any clinical parameter of disease activity . 
lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus presenting as shoulder capsulitis . we describe three patients who presented with pain and restriction of movement at the shoulder suggestive of capsulitis , but proved to have lesions of the mid-shaft of the humerus . it is important to be aware of the possibility of this cause of a ' frozen shoulder ' , since radiographs of the shoulder are usually cropped at the mid-humerus and lesions at this level may easily be missed . a radiograph of the entire humerus , or an isotope bone scan , may be more useful than repeated shoulder radiographs in patients whose shoulder symptoms do not respond to standard treatment . 
ureteric substitution with boari bladder flap . between 1986 and 1989 , 12 patients underwent ureteric substitution with a boari bladder flap at this institute . the indications were ureteric injury following hysterectomy , difficult forceps delivery , difficult ureterolithotomy , ureteric strictures caused by a dormia basket and previous ureteric surgery , tuberculosis , retroperitoneal fibrosis and a post-ureteric reimplantation fistula . there were 2 patients with a solitary kidney and 2 in acute renal failure . double j stenting was carried out in 11 patients and the stent was removed 3 to 6 weeks post-operatively . good results , with no morbidity or mortality , were achieved in all but 1 patient where a simple silastic stent had migrated to the pelvis and required open surgery to remove it . we attribute our success to the tension-free anastomosis , a wide based posterior flap with preservation of its vascular supply , the use of a double j stent and vicryl suture material . 
experimental study of starch-induced intraperitoneal adhesions the effects of starch on the development of postoperative adhesions were examined in 144 sprague dawley rats . groups of rats were injected intraperitoneally with suspensions of washings from starched gloves , starch-free gloves and starch-poor washed gloves , and after operative manipulation of the bowel . the incidence of adhesions was greatest ( 78 per cent ) after laparotomy and injections of starch-rich washings and least when starch-poor ( 33 per cent ) or starch-free glove suspensions ( 37 per cent ) were used , confirming an advantage for washing gloves or switching to starch-free products . 
stress in surgeons . a sample of 1000 members of the association of surgeons of great britain and ireland was circulated with a postal questionnaire relating to their occupational stressors , their type a coronary-prone behaviour and their mental health . six hundred and seventy-two ( 67 per cent ) useable forms were returned anonymously . the major individual stressors were : ( 1 ) the interference of the job with personal life , ( 2 ) general administration , and ( 3 ) the number of patients in clinics . type a behaviour was similar to that of other professional groups . surgeons showed mean scores significantly higher than the general population on two subscales of the mental health index ( free-floating anxiety and hysterical anxiety ) . the findings for the few female surgeons ( 2 per cent ) were similar to those in men but they did not exhibit raised free-floating anxiety levels . 
the physician 's role . physicians can play an important role in society 's response to alcohol problems . in diagnosis , alcohol problems among patients are frequently overlooked . physicians should routinely ask patients about alcohol intake . in light of evidence on the effectiveness of brief interventions , especially with heavy-drinking but nondependent patients , physicians ' treatment efforts should be focused in this direction . patients who are alcohol dependent might best be treated by nonphysicians . research contributions of physicians should be concentrated on topics for which physician input is needed : longitudinal studies of health consequences , factors contributing to mortality and health service costs , biochemical markers of alcohol use and basic pharmacology . strong evidence links population alcohol consumption levels to overall harm . therefore , prevention efforts should be aimed at the population as well as at people who may be at risk . physicians can contribute to these efforts by influencing public policy and by setting healthy examples in their own alcohol use . 
the role of medical schools in the prevention of alcohol-related problems . there is agreement that physicians can play a major role in the prevention of alcohol problems among their patients and that medical schools should prepare physicians for this role by teaching three major subject areas : knowledge , attitudes and clinical skills . despite this agreement and the acknowledged high prevalence of alcohol problems in clinical populations , medical school coverage of these problems is not proportional to their importance . barriers to adequate coverage of alcohol problems are traditional attitudes , confusion as to whether such problems are " medical " and lack of adequate faculty role models . these problems could be remedied by encouragement and training of interested faculty members , establishment of substance abuse centres in university medical schools , integration of alcohol-related material with relevant topics in all departments and inclusion of alcohol-related questions on medical qualifying exams . 
spectrum of drinkers and intervention opportunities . most adults in north america are either light drinkers or abstainers , so alcohol does not cause them problems . however , a small but often highly visible minority -- approximately 5 % of the adult population -- show major symptoms of alcohol dependence . between these extremes , there is a sizable group of about 20 % of the population , particularly young men , who are drinking at risk levels and have encountered some problems related to their alcohol use . traditionally , physicians ' efforts have focused on diagnosing and treating patients with a substantial history of alcohol dependence , and relatively little attention has been given to early intervention with nondependent problem drinkers , such as identifying patients who present in primary care settings with alcohol-related morbidity or an accidental injury . recent evidence indicates that early intervention by primary care physicians is an effective strategy for reducing alcohol problems among patients . 
early identification of alcohol problems . a high proportion of patients seen in clinical practice have an underlying alcohol problem . this is often difficult to detect , but failure to make the diagnosis may result in unnecessary investigations and inappropriate treatment . furthermore , there is now good evidence of the effectiveness of brief intervention for problem drinking when it is still at an early stage . several questionnaires and procedures based on clinical examination findings and laboratory tests are available to help in early diagnosis . they can be incorporated into the standard medical assessment and form the basis for screening programs for health risk factors . 
brief intervention strategies for harmful drinkers : new directions for medical education . recent advances in the technology of behavioural interventions for harmful drinkers have created a new role for clinical practice and new challenges for medical education . several reports from expert committees have recommended new initiatives in the secondary prevention of alcohol problems through physician-based interventions at the primary care level . the conceptual and scientific bases for these recommendations are discussed in terms of recent studies of harmful and hazardous drinkers . the behavioural principles thought to account for the effectiveness of brief interventions are explained . despite these promising developments , difficulties are inherent in the introduction of new technologies , especially behavioural technologies , into medical practice . a major challenge to medical education will be the development of academic programs that not only teach skills and competencies in secondary prevention but also deal with the socialization of physicians as behavioural practitioners . 
preventing alcohol problems : survey of canadian medical schools . in preparation for a national conference on medical education in the prevention of alcohol problems , a survey of conference participants was conducted . participants were undergraduate and postgraduate representatives from each canadian medical school and representatives from 11 provincial and territorial alcohol and other drug agencies . there was agreement that physicians and medical schools have important roles in prevention and treatment of alcohol problems , with " traditional " medical roles seen as the most important . current training is variable and was seen as inadequate , with more time devoted to treatment than prevention . to correct this situation , renewed priorities and faculty leadership are needed . respondents felt that there should be uniform standards for assessing undergraduate students ' skills in dealing with alcohol problems . provincial alcohol and other drug agencies are underused in medical education in the prevention and treatment of alcohol problems . 
the development of medical education on alcohol - and drug-related problems at the university of toronto . medical education on alcohol - and drug-related problems at the university of toronto covers undergraduate , residency and graduate programs , a result of collaboration since 1959 between the university and the addiction research foundation of ontario . an undergraduate core curriculum , developed in the early 1970s , is offered in year 2 ; it has been supplemented by electives , selectives and comprehensive clinics . the undergraduate program is rated highly by students ; since 1978 , 3024 have completed the core program . residency training started in 1974 and is available through electives lasting from 1 to 12 months in internal medicine , psychiatry , and family and community medicine . to date , 370 residents have completed one of these electives ; 129 have completed graduate programs in which their theses concerned alcohol - and drug-related topics , and there have been an additional 13 research and postdoctoral fellows . despite the progress , there is still a need to improve and expand the undergraduate and residency programs and to develop an effective program of continuing medical education . the goals should be to ensure that , as far as possible , all medical graduates from the university of toronto have the knowledge , attitudes , skills and behaviours needed to contribute effectively to the prevention and treatment of alcohol - and drug-related problems in their chosen field of practice and to avoid problems from their personal use of alcohol and other drugs . 
medical education for alcohol and other drug abuse in the united states . initiatives by individuals , private foundations and government have led to improvements in the united states in medical education dealing with alcohol and drug-related problems . progress has been made , particularly in the past 5 years , in developing new medical school curricula and in faculty development . greater activity by national professional organizations has helped raise the priority of training in alcohol - and drug-related areas for undergraduate and postgraduate medical education . as an example , project adept ( alcohol and drug education for physician training in primary care ) at brown university in providence , rhode island , is described . the importance of positive and motivated faculty role models and of skills training is emphasized . 
risk of occupational exposure to herpesvirus simiae ( b virus ) in quebec . herpesvirus simiae ( b virus ) causes a mild infection in macaques . transmission to humans may result in life-threatening encephalomyelitis . to evaluate the risk of occupational exposure to b virus we surveyed the directors of 11 biomedical laboratories in quebec that use monkeys . information was obtained on the monkey population and on the use of infection control measures recommended by the us centers for disease control ( cdc ) , atlanta . of the 519 monkeys belonging to susceptible species the serologic status was positive in 264 ( 51 % ) , all captured in the wilds , and it was unknown in 24 ( 5 % ) . all of the monkeys were caged individually , and newly acquired ones were quarantined for 2 to 8 weeks . of the 84 workers 52 ( 62 % ) handled monkeys whose serologic status was either positive or unknown . only five laboratories ( representing 61 % of the workers ) complied fully with the cdc guidelines . nine of the laboratories had a wound management protocol , but only six had a designated specialist for consultation and prophylaxis . although no cases of b virus infection have been reported from quebec the severity of human illness necessitates strict adherence to infection control measures and expert management of occupational exposure to susceptible monkeys . 
malignant fibrous histiocytoma developing in bone 44 years after shrapnel trauma . tumors induced by foreign bodies are uncommon in humans , but they are a relatively common occurrence in some experimental animals . the development of sarcoma in association with metallic foreign bodies has rarely been reported . the development of a malignant fibrous histiocytoma in a 65-year-old man 44 years after shrapnel fragments lodged in his left arm is described . the literature regarding metallic foreign body-induced cancer in humans is reviewed . 
unusual case of pacemaker lead migration . pulmonary artery migration of pacemaker lead is rare and may result in pulmonary emboli originating from the thrombus around the infected catheter and causing multiple pulmonary infarcts . we report an unusual case of pacemaker lead migration to the right pulmonary artery with septic pulmonary embolism . while being treated with intravenous cefuroxamine , the patient had spontaneous migration of the lead to the left pulmonary artery with subsequent left pulmonary embolism . 
continuous suprascapular nerve block for analgesia of scapular fracture . fracture of the scapular is uncommon but painful . a case is described in which a comminuted scapular fracture was treated with a continuous suprascapular nerve block . with the patient lying supine an epidural needle was directed towards the scapular notch via a superior approach and an epidural catheter was placed when the notch was believed to have been identified . repeat injections of 10 ml bupivacaine 0.25 per cent with 1/200 ,000 epinephrine provided analgesia within minutes and a duration of 8-10 hr . injection of 10 ml radio-opaque dye demonstrated the catheter to be lateral to the scapular notch . however , dye dispersed throughout the supraspinous fossa including the scapular notch thus blocking the suprascapular nerve . this case demonstrates that continuous suprascapular nerve block can be performed for five days and that location of the scapular notch is less important than previously thought . 
post-traumatic acute renal failure , 1956-1988 . eighty patients with acute renal failure secondary to trauma treated between 1956 and 1988 are reviewed . the overall mortality was 46.3 % . factors associated with increased mortality were age , high injury severity score , and injury to the abdomen and pelvic contents . the number of injuries , the delay between injury and the institution of dialysis , and the level of urea on starting dialysis did not affect mortality . the declining incidence of traumatic acute renal failure highlights the importance of prompt effective resuscitation of injured patients . 
uterine rupture . uterine rupture is a sudden , unforeseeable event that carries a high rate of maternal and perinatal mortality . when the diagnosis of uterine rupture is suspected , prompt surgical intervention with an experienced pelvic surgeon and blood product replacement should be considered . at the time of uterine rupture , the patient should be evaluated for possible repair or hysterectomy . it appears , based on the aforementioned information , that repair is a reasonable consideration . in those patients who have undergone a repair , early delivery by elective cesarean after assessment of fetal lung maturity at or around 36 weeks gestation would appear prudent . in those patients with a prior cesarean , continuous electronic fetal monitoring to detect intrapartum fetal distress would appear prudent . in these patients fetal distress is the most common sign or symptom of uterine rupture and frequently precedes any other clinical manifestations of this complication . 
treatment of juxtaarticular nonunion fractures at the knee with long-stem total knee arthroplasty . a retrospective study of ten patients with juxtaarticular nonunions at the knee treated with long stem total knee arthroplasty was performed . the average age of the patients was 76 years old , with an average follow-up of 36 months . the nonunions were present for an average of 36 months . there were six patients in the series with prior total knee arthroplasty . clinical union was achieved in all ten patients . all patients improved their ambulatory status . range of motion improved from an average preoperative range of 40 degrees to an average postoperative range of 85 degrees . complications occurred in three of ten patients , with one being a postoperative infection . surgical techniques are described to aid in treatment of difficult juxtaarticular nonunion fragments . 
magnetic resonance imaging and computer tomography of acute spinal cord trauma . spinal cord lesions are not detectable on roentgenograms and computed tomography ( ct ) scans . magnetic resonance images ( mris ) are able to make soft-tissue lesions visible . interpretations of mris , ct scans , and roentgenograms were compared in 25 patients and three postmortem specimens with spinal cord injuries . in 14 patients and one specimen with normal roentgenograms and ct scans , the mri demonstrated ten soft-tissue injuries as minimal displacement of the vertebral bodies or as a high signal intensity in the disc space , indicating a hematoma . seven of the ten patients demonstrating soft-tissue injuries also had an intramedullary lesion , while in five of the 15 patients with normal ct scans , only a medullary lesion was present on mri . in 11 patients and two postmortem specimens , fractures were seen on roentgenograms and ct scans . in these patients , the ct was superior to the mri in detecting small bony fragments , but the medullary lesions were visible only on the mris . an intramedullary low signal intensity corresponded to macroscopically visible hemorrhages in the three postmortem specimens . the mri provided important information in patients with neurologic deficits . no obvious pathologic changes were evident on the roentgenograms and ct scans . the mri also demonstrated intramedullary and extramedullary soft-tissue lesions and was useful in establishing a diagnosis and in choosing appropriate therapy . ct , on the other hand , was superior in detecting small bony fragments and fracture lines . 
htlv-i viral-associated myelopathy after blood transfusion in a multiple trauma patient . this may be the first documented case in the united states and in the orthopedic literature of transfusion-transmitted human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) - associated myelopathy ( ham ) . progressive myelopathy occurred in a 58-year-old white man with serologic and molecular evidence of htlv-i infection after multiple trauma and subsequent transfusion with multiple units of banked blood products . symptoms of myelopathy occurred 15 months after the transfusions . myelopathy from htlv-i infection simulates a disorder of orthopedic interest . physicians should be aware of the symptoms of ham and unexplained myelopathy . 
anterior acromioplasty for treatment of the shoulder impingement syndrome . between 1975 and 1979 , anterior acromioplasty was performed in 65 patients with 66 involved shoulders . the procedure appears to be safe and reasonably effective . of the 65 patients in this study , 50 had chronic tendon inflammation with fibrosis , and 16 also had a small supraspinatus tendon tear . these 16 had rotator cuff repairs . twenty-six patients were also treated with distal clavicle excision , and seven had tenodesis of the long head of the biceps brachii . the average age of the patients was 50 years ( range , 23-75 years ) . all patients were followed for an average of eight years ( range , three to 13 years ) . at final evaluation , no or slight pain was present in 77 % of the shoulders : 39 of 50 without tendon tearing and 12 of 16 with tendon tearing and repair . active shoulder abduction averaged 167 degrees . ninety-two percent returned to employment , including 18 % with some job modification . eighty-six percent returned to recreational athletics , 20 % with some modification of activities . seven patients had additional surgical treatment . the progression of rotator cuff disease is not always prevented , but the need for subsequent shoulder treatment generally decreases . 
the latissimus dorsi musculocutaneous flap for extremity reconstruction in orthopedic surgery . the latissimus dorsi was transferred as a pedicle flap in ten patients and as a free vascular flap in ten others for extremity reconstruction . group i comprised ten patients in whom the transfer was used solely to cover a skin or soft-tissue defect . although there was partial necrosis of the transferred skin in one patient , the remaining nine patients obtained complete coverage without further reconstructive surgery . group ii comprised five patients in whom transfer of the latissimus dorsi was performed for active flexion or extension of the elbow or for abduction of the shoulder . postoperatively , muscle strength obtained was classified from grades 0 to 5 according to the muscle testing method . three patients obtained muscle strength of grade 3 , while two obtained grade 2 . group iii comprised five patients who had brachial plexus palsy after high-dose irradiation . coverage of the skin and soft tissue was performed after neurolysis of the brachial plexus palsy to free the tissue bed of scarred tissue . postoperatively , sensory and motor disturbances were alleviated in four of five patients . 
humeral head retroversion in patients with unstable humeroscapular joints . humeral head retroversion and shoulder rotation in both the frontal and scapular plane were studied in 34 patients with anterior glenohumeral instability . twenty-two patients had traumatic anterior shoulder dislocations and another 12 patients had nontraumatic dislocations with generalized joint laxity . patients with traumatic recurrent dislocations had a smaller than normal retroversion angle in the unstable shoulder . the angles were 26 degrees on the dominant side and 23 degrees on the nondominant side compared with 33 degrees and 29 degrees , respectively , in normal shoulders . the stable contralateral shoulder joint was clinically and roentgenographically similar to the normal shoulder . the patients with nontraumatic dislocations had increased rotation and smaller retroversion angles , irrespective of stability in the shoulder joint . the retroversion angles were 18 degrees for unstable shoulders on the dominant side and 15 degrees on the nondominant side . the retroversion angle of the stable contralateral joint in these patients was less in five of eight shoulders . 
treatment of manifest and impending pathologic fractures of the femoral neck by cemented hemiarthroplasty . thirty-four patients with manifest or impending pathologic fractures of the femoral neck were treated between 1971 and 1987 . breast carcinoma was the primary tumor in the majority of patients . all patients were treated with cemented hemiarthroplasty . twenty-seven patients ( 79 % ) could walk at an average of nine days postoperatively . all patients experienced relief of pain . two superficial wound dehiscences , one loosening of the prosthesis , and two prosthetic dislocations were encountered . mean survival was 17.6 months overall ( 12 months for manifest fractures and 40 months for impending fractures ) . these results indicate that cemented hemiarthroplasty for pathologic fractures is a safe procedure resulting in long-lasting palliation without necessitating postoperative irradiation . the importance of tumor excochleation and the advantages of bone cement are emphasized . 
femoral neck fractures in patients receiving long-term dialysis . the morbidity and mortality of 11 femoral neck fractures were analyzed to compare operative and conservative management of femoral neck fractures in dialysis patients . all fractures occurred in older men with severe cardiac , pulmonary , gastro-intestinal , and neurologic conditions and with advanced renal osteodystrophy . six of the seven operated patients survived the surgery and achieved varying degrees of ambulation . stability of the operated hip was excellent in each case . post-operative complications included transient confusional state related to narcotics , pneumonia , decubitus ulcers , and severe hypoalbuminemia . all four patients who were managed conservatively died from complications of the fracture . progressive deterioration was noted in each nonoperated patient , with confusion caused by narcotics and analgesics , pneumonia , hepatic coma , decubitus ulcers , severe depression , and severe hypoalbuminemia . therefore , operative management was superior to conservative management for femoral neck fractures of patients receiving chronic dialysis with multiple medical problems and advanced renal osteodystrophy . narcotics must be used with great caution , and efforts should be directed toward prevention of malnutrition and decubitus ulcers . 
trochanteric fractures . mobility , complications , and mortality in 607 cases treated with the sliding-screw technique . six hundred seven trochanteric fractures ( 563 patients ) were treated with a sliding-screw technique and followed clinically and roentgenographically for at least one year . of 351 patients admitted from their homes , 209 ( 60 % ) were discharged to their homes after an average of 18 days in the hospital . during the first year another 61 ( 17 % ) patients returned home after rehabilitation in a geriatric ward . of 446 patients walking without support or with one cane before surgery , 360 ( 80 % ) had regained the same mobility after one year . the one-year mortality rate was 18 % , while the ten-year rate was 74 % . compared with a control cohort , the mortality rate was increased during the first two years after fracture . the increase in mortality was influenced by advanced age , admission from long-term care institutions , male gender , and ambulatory or nonambulatory status before surgery . forty-five ( 7.4 % ) were reoperated , 17 because of technical complications , three because of infection , and three because of nonunion . no further nonunions occurred . the deep infection rate was nine of 339 ( 2.7 % ) before and two of 268 ( 0.8 % ) after the introduction of antibiotic prophylaxis . thromboembolic complications decreased from 4.1 % to 1.2 % after the introduction of dextran 70 as thromboembolic prophylaxis . 
long-term morphology of spastic or flaccid muscles in spinal cord-transected rabbits . despite difficulty in long-term maintenance of spinalized rabbits , muscular pathologic changes in chronic spinalized rabbits could be observed for a period of four weeks . rabbits were prepared by spinal cord transection at t10 ( spastic paralysis ) or by spinal cord removal below l7 ( flaccid paralysis ) . spastic preparations showed hind-limb spasticity and reflex incontinence one to two days after operation . hypertrophic fibers began to appear in spastic muscles after two weeks . this hypertrophy , thought to be caused by phasic repetitive contraction , was verified by electron microscopy to be different from normal exercise hypertrophy . flaccid preparations maintained hind-limb flaccidity and overflow incontinence . in flaccid muscle , marked muscle fiber necrosis indicated rapid atrophy . spinal deformity and joint contracture inactivate spinalized rabbits , and cause pressure sores . however , feeding assistance and avoidance of complications make long-term maintenance possible . 
hypophosphatemia -- incidence , etiology , and prevention in the trauma patient . hypophosphatemia is associated with a number of undesirable physiologic consequences and has been reported to occur frequently in trauma patients . we studied patients in the immediate posttraumatic period to document a ) the decrease in serum p , b ) renal p excretion , and c ) the response to prophylactic po4 administration . in both group 1 ( n = 12 ) and group 2 ( n = 10 ) patients , we measured serum p , creatinine , ionized ca , urinary p excretion , and creatinine clearance daily for the first 3 to 4 days postinjury . patients in group 2 also received 0.5 mmol/kg . day of po4 for the first 48 h after admission . group 1 patients exhibited a significant ( p less than .05 ) decrease in serum p over the first 24 h ( 1.00 + / - 0.30 to 0.75 + / - 0.23 mmol/l ) . in contrast , group 2 patients did not demonstrate a decrease in serum p. urinary p excretion in group 1 accounts for the observed decrease in serum p. the results of our study show that the immediate posttraumatic period is associated with a decrease in serum p and massive urinary p excretion . we also showed that prophylactic administration of 0.5 mmol po4/kg . day prevents serum p decrease . 
rounded atelectasis complicated by obstructive pneumonia and pulmonary arterial thrombosis [ published erratum appears in chest 1991 jun ; 99 ( 6 ) :1556 ] a patient with a history of asbestos exposure developed rounded atelectasis . the mass was associated with local bronchial obstruction , obstructive pneumonia and arterial thrombosis . autopsy demonstrated marked pleural thickening and radiographically inapparent asbestosis . this is the first reported case in which seemingly benign rounded atelectasis not only increased morbidity , but also contributed to mortality through airway obstruction and local arterial thrombosis . 
septic pulmonary emboli . a rare cause of bilateral pneumothorax in drug abusers . an intravenous drug abuser presented with bilateral pneumothorax . this is a previously unreported ( to our knowledge ) complication of septic pulmonary emboli secondary to right-sided endocarditis . this possibility must be considered in the differential diagnosis of pneumothorax in drug addicts . 
retroperitoneal air after routine hemorrhoidectomy . report of a case . retroperitoneal air as a complication after routine hemorrhoidectomy has not been reported in the literature . this occurred recently after hemorrhoidectomy in a 34-year-old patient receiving glucocorticoid therapy for rheumatoid arthritis . adverse steroidal effects of wound healing have been well documented . it is believed that steroid-induced tissue changes contributed to the development of this unique complication . 
small bowel phytobezoar mimicking presentation of crohn 's disease . a case of small bowel phytobezoar formed from unusual ingested vegetation is described . the patient presented with recurrent subacute obstruction and a right iliac fossa mass mimicking the presentation of crohn 's disease . none of the usual gastrointestinal disorders that predispose to bezoar formation were present . the phytobezoar passed spontaneously following small bowel enema and colonoscopy . it is possible that relaxation of the gut secondary to the antispasmodics administered at investigation or the physical disturbance during these procedures enabled migration through the ileocecal valve . antispasmodics may be of use in the conservative management of bezoars obstructing otherwise normal bowel . 
acute intoxication . acute alcohol intoxication is a commonly encountered clinical presentation in emergency medicine . its role should be considered in many emergency department presentations , specifically in major and minor trauma , and in gastrointestinal , metabolic , neurologic , and psychiatric disorders . the differential diagnosis of change in mental status must be considered in all intoxicated patients . management of intoxicated patients is generally supportive although complications of chronic alcoholism should be considered . management should consist of correction of complications resultant from intoxication , as well as observation and the provision of a safe environment for the patient during the recovery phase of acute intoxication . 
alcoholic ketoacidosis . alcoholic ketoacidosis is characterized by a metabolic acidosis with an elevated anion gap . it generally is seen in the chronic alcoholic patient who has recently gone on a " binge " that was terminated because of complaints such as nausea , vomiting or abdominal pain . caloric intake is diminished . treatment includes volume repletion and glucose administration . morbidity and mortality usually result from intercurrent illness . 
electrolyte abnormalities in the alcoholic patient . the acute effect of ethyl alcohol ingestion is to induce diuresis with excretion of free water and preservation of electrolytes . this occurs as the blood alcohol concentration is increasing and is due to the suppression by alcohol of the endogenous release of adh . during a steady blood alcohol concentration , alcohol acts as an antidiuretic , causing retention of water and electrolytes . while at steady state , additional doses of alcohol will produce progressively smaller and eventually absent diuretic responses . the chronic effect of alcohol is to promote isosmotic retention of water and electrolytes due to increased adh levels . excess water and electrolytes are acutely excreted in response to additional alcohol ingestion . with the cessation of alcohol intake , this excess will be excreted over several days . routine parenteral fluid administration to chronic and withdrawing alcoholics should be avoided . the role of potassium and magnesium in the genesis of specific manifestations of the alcohol withdrawal syndrome is not clear . alcoholic patients may have electrolyte abnormalities due to alcohol-induced diseases , poor nutrition , or vomiting and diarrhea . each case must be individually evaluated . 
cardiac disease in the alcoholic patient . ethanol in acute low doses is believed to be relatively nontoxic to the normal myocardium , despite data indicating low-level contractility impairment . in patients with myocardial disease , or as the serum ethanol concentration is increased to high levels , angina , myocardial infarction , and arrhythmia may be potentiated . chronic ethanol use , at moderate doses , may be protective against coronary artery disease , despite increased rates of hypertension . alcohol consumption at high doses may result in dilated cardiomyopathy and a dismal prognosis . alcohol abuse is associated with increased mortality . 
infections in alcoholic patients . alcoholic patients have an increased susceptibility to certain bacterial infections . among the more important of these infections are pneumonia , tuberculosis , spontaneous peritonitis , and bacteremia . this susceptibility is caused by alteration of immune function and mechanical defenses and are the sequel of chronic alcoholism , most notably cirrhosis . in many infections , morbidity is increased in alcoholics , with the course of the illness being more severe and complications more frequent . assessment of the alcoholic patient with suspected infection should , therefore , be thorough and treatment prompt . 
alcohol withdrawal syndromes . current studies have begun to elucidate the pathophysiology of alcoholism and its withdrawal syndrome . newer benzodiazepines , beta-blockers , alpha-agonists , butyrophenones and calcium channel blocking agents , alone and in combination , have been studied recently in alcohol withdrawal . this article discusses evaluation and therapy for delirium tremens , major alcohol withdrawal , mild alcohol withdrawal , adjunct therapy , and admission criteria . 
seizures in the alcoholic patient . the first international symposium on alcohol and seizures ( september 1988 , washington , dc ) convened experts from north america and europe to discuss the basic and clinical research findings in this field . most of the observations communicated at this symposium are included in this article . emergency physicians are familiar with the alcoholic patient who presents during or after a seizure ( s ) . this familiarity must not obscure the fact that a significant minority of these patients will have an underlying process that can cause morbidity or mortality if the unsuspecting physician does not have an organized and methodic approach to the evaluation and management of the seizing alcoholic patient . status epilepticus should be evaluated and treated in a similar fashion , whether or not the patient is an alcoholic . otherwise , almost without exception , there are nuances and controversies with respect to the evaluation and management of the alcoholic patient with a seizure ( s ) , from the indications for ct scan , to the proper role of sedatives and anticonvulsants , and the need for admission . the emergency physician must remain a patient advocate . the great majority of alcoholic patients with seizures who require admission can be treated satisfactorily at the hospital of presentation . 
neurologic complications of alcoholism . neurologic and myopathic complications of alcoholism are multiple and diverse , affecting both the central and peripheral nervous systems . in the ed , initial concern is for diagnosing readily reversible causes and ruling out possible life - or limb-threatening etiologies . a rapid assessment of the abcs , a fingerstick blood glucose determination , and , in cases of ams , the administration of intravenous naloxone is indicated . in almost every instance of a potential neurologic complication , intravenous thiamine replacement is indicated initially , along with the parenteral administration of folic acid and the other b vitamins , including nicotinic acid and pyridoxine . metabolic screening with electrolytes , glucose , blood urea nitrogen , creatinine , calcium , magnesium , liver enzymes ( ast , alkaline phosphatase ) , bilirubin , arterial blood gases with carboxyhemoglobin determination , and a complete blood count are often warranted . special tests such as ct scan , ck , ammonia , or toxicologic screens are indicated in specific instances . in terms of physical examination , attention to the presence of focal neurologic findings is paramount because of the possibility of a subdural or epidural hematoma . it is important not to miss meningitis and a low threshold for treatment or lumbar puncture should be maintained . specialized consultation and referral are needed only after stabilization and appropriate tests are performed . if an organized approach to the evaluation of an alcoholic with neurologic symptoms is undertaken , occult disease will not be missed and outcomes will be improved . 
alcohol and gastrointestinal bleeding . ethanol has experimentally been shown to be " ulcerogenic , " independent of gastric intraluminal ph. ethanol remains ulcerogenic despite antisecretory doses of h2-receptor antagonists . low-dose alcohol stimulates acid secretion in man , an effect possibly mediated by histamine or gastrin . high-dose alcohol reduces intraluminal acid by damaging mucosa , thereby enhancing back diffusion of hydrogen ion , and also by direct damage to oxyntic ( parietal ) cells . ethanol is capable of increasing gastric mucosal permeability as evidenced by the increase in back diffusion ( increases intraluminal ph ) and by the characteristic fall in transmucosal potential difference which reflects surface cell layer exfoliation . this exfoliation may offer an explanation for the potentiating effect of alcohol on gastric mucosal injury when it is ingested simultaneously with other gastric irritants . ethanol of greater than 20 % concentration can rapidly destroy the gastric mucus-bicarbonate layer , which may be a defense layer for both the inhibition of back diffusion and bicarbonate neutralization of existing acid . ethanol depletes sulfhydryl compounds in gastric mucosa . these sulfhydryls may be necessary for stabilization of cell membranes as well as for binding free radicals . ethanol is damaging to the mucosal microcirculation . the rapidity of ethanol-induced damage makes it unlikely that the process is purely ischemic . the cytoprotective phenomenon , as this brief literature review suggests , is a multifactorial , dynamic process . the complex interplay of mucosal defense factors , endogenous and exogenous stimuli , induction of humoral responses , and ultimately the success or failure of cellular repair , is unlikely to be solely mediated by endogenous prostaglandins . although prostaglandins are unquestionably significant to cytoprotection , the supporting and , perhaps , major roles of leukotrienes , sulfhydryls , histamines , and like substances can not be ignored . several innovative therapeutic agents directly derived from these research efforts have already entered the clinician 's formulary . the significance of the concept of cytoprotection is only now being realized in clinical applications . alcoholic hemorrhagic gastritis , although a significant clinical entity , remains a rather elusive diagnosis for the emergency physician . as a diagnosis of suspicion , therapeutic trials of antacids , sucralfate , or perhaps synthetic prostaglandin analogues are acceptable , pending endoscopic verification or short-term resolution of symptoms . all patients presenting with true hemorrhage or with persistent symptoms should undergo gastroenterologic referral and endoscopic evaluation . the mallory-weiss syndrome has long been associated with acute and chronic alcohol abuse . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
alcoholism and society . the problems of alcohol abuse are rampant in society and permeate the emergency department experience . the cost to society as measured by social , medical , occupational , and legal effects is exceedingly high and probably underestimated . emergency physicians have the opportunity to intervene in this vicious cycle and must learn their role in the process . 
the other alcohols . methanol , ethylene glycol , and isopropanol . the alcoholic patient , in an attempt to maintain an altered mental status , may ingest ethanol substitutes containing methanol , ethylene glycol , or isopropanol . the subsequent clinical presentation in the emergency department is highly variable and depends on the ethanol substitute ingested , the time since ingestion , and concomitant ethanol abuse . this article describes the clinical features of intoxication by the ethanol substitutes . early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention may prevent irreversible sequelae . the rationale for treatment interventions is discussed . 
alcohol and trauma . countermeasures to alcohol-related trauma are essential . the public perception that there is low risk of detection and punishment for alcohol-precipitated violence is being addressed . current legislation is aimed at decreasing the availability of alcohol ( e.g. , adjusting legal drinking age , decreasing the serum alcohol intoxication limit , restricting the sale of alcoholic beverages at public events ) , increasing detection ( e.g. , greater driver surveillance , increased number of dedicated personnel ) , strengthening legal penalties for alcohol-related offenses , and mandating rehabilitative therapy . physicians can intervene in the alcohol-trauma cycle . unfortunately , they are notably poor in detecting the patient with alcohol-related injury . moreover , physicians infrequently refer these patients to facilities and personnel that are expert in alcohol detoxification and rehabilitation . recidivism can be positively impacted by physicians who are sensitive to and versed in the medical and social patterns of alcohol abuse . 
post-traumatic epilepsy : cellular mechanisms and implications for treatment . epilepsy complicates severe head trauma . development of persistent seizures appears to correlate with the extent of trauma . although early reports suggested that prophylactic administration of antiepileptic drugs would prevent epileptogenesis , controlled studies have failed to corroborate this assumption . head trauma initiates a sequence of responses that includes altered blood flow and vasoregulation , disruption of the blood-brain barrier , increases in intracranial pressure , focal or diffuse ischemia , hemorrhage , inflammation , necrosis , and disruption of fiber tracts . the presence of an intracranial hematoma has a robust association with the development of post-traumatic epilepsy . extravasation of blood is followed by hemolysis and deposition of heme-containing compounds into the neuropil , initiating a sequence of univalent redox reactions and generating various free radical species , including superoxides , hydroxyl radicals , peroxides , and perferryl ions . free radicals initiate peroxidation reactions by hydrogen abstraction from methylene groups adjacent to double bonds of fatty acids and lipids within cellular membranes . intrinsic enzymatic mechanisms for control of free radical reactions include activation of catalase , peroxidase , and superoxide dismutase . steroids , proteins , and tocopherol also terminate peroxidative reactions . tocopherol and selenium are effective in preventing tissue injury initiated by ferrous chloride and heme compounds . treatment strategies for prevention or prophylaxis of post-traumatic epilepsy must await absolute knowledge of mechanisms . antioxidants and chelators may be useful , given the speculation that peroxidative reactions may be an important component of brain injury responses . however , potential treatment strategies involving gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) agonists , nmda receptor antagonists , and barbiturates need further scientific assessment . 
host response to mycobacterial infection in the alcoholic rat . animals , chronically treated with alcohol , were inoculated with mycobacteria ( bacillus calmette-guerin , 10.2 x 10 ( 6 ) organisms ) into the spleen to produce a granulomatous hepatitis . before infection , chronic alcohol ingestion was associated with a depressed skin test response to phytohemagglutinin , 71.7 % of baseline ( p = 0.009 ) . mycobacterial ( bacillus calmette-guerin ) infection stimulated phytohemagglutinin skin test response to 417 % of baseline in controls and 299 % in alcoholics ( p less than 0.001 ) . the hepatic granuloma response was altered with smaller but more numerous granulomas ( mean + / - sem , 81.2 + / - 1.5 microns2 of area with a frequency of 1.8 granulomas per field in alcoholics vs. 129.8 + / - 5.71 microns2 and 1.2 granulomas per field in controls ; p less than 0.001 ) . these changes were associated with a 10-fold increase in colony-forming units per gram of liver ( 54.5 + / - 18.2 in alcoholics vs. 5.6 + / - 1.83 in controls ; p = 0.0006 ) . this model offers precise parameters for host response to infection and indicates that alcohol significantly impairs the clearing capacity for mycobacteria from the liver . 
esophageal obstruction after ingestion of a fiber-containing diet pill . foreign bodies of the esophagus in adults may be the result of a food bolus that becomes lodged proximal to a structural abnormality of the distal esophagus . a case of peptic stricture of the esophagus in a patient who presented with acute dysphagia after ingesting an over-the-counter diet pill composed of guar gum is discussed . it is recommended that anorectics composed of dietary fiber should not be used in patients with a history of esophageal stricture . 
fulminant hepatitis after lisinopril administration . a case of fulminant hepatitis in a patient taking lisinopril for 5 weeks for arterial hypertension is reported . jaundice , fever , myalgia , and marked increase in serum aminotransferase activities occurred after 2 weeks of treatment . continuation of lisinopril administration for 3 weeks after the onset of jaundice was associated with the development of grade iii encephalopathy and a marked decrease in prothrombin and proaccelerin levels . this case strongly suggests that lisinopril may induce acute hepatitis and that continuation of the treatment after the onset of jaundice can lead to life-threatening hepatic failure . 
cardiovascular responses to arm cranking and fns-induced leg exercise in paraplegics . twelve spinal cord-injured males performed arm-crank exercise ( ace ) with and without concurrent functional neuromuscular stimulation ( fns ) of paralyzed leg muscles to investigate the hypothesis that fns would augment cardiovascular performance during submaximal ace . six men who exhibited vigorous isometric contractions of thigh and calf muscles were classed as " responders " to fns ( r ) , and the remaining subjects with poor or nonexistent contractions served as " nonresponder controls " ( c ) . steady-state heart rate and oxygen uptake during ace at 30 , 60 , and 90 w were not appreciably different from the ace + fns condition . however , cardiac outputs in r were augmented by 30 % during fns at rest ( from 4.9 to 6.4 l/min ) , by 18 % during 30-w ace + fns ( from 8.6 to 10.1 l/min ) , and by 28 % during 90-w ace + fns ( from 12.1 to 15.6 l/min ) . similarly , resting stroke volumes were increased by 18 % ( 9 ml ) and by 23 % ( 19 ml ) at 60 w during fns in the r group . calculated total peripheral resistance was reduced at rest and during 90-w ace + fns by approximately 24 % . in contrast , no alterations of circulatory hemodynamics were observed for c subjects . these data indicate that fns-induced contractions of paralyzed leg muscles augment venous return to aid central cardiovascular control during upper-body submaximal exercise in paraplegics . 
results of treatment of displaced patellar fractures by partial patellectomy . the results of partial patellectomy as a treatment for displaced patellar fractures were assessed retrospectively with use of clinical , radiographic , and isokinetic strength-testing criteria . forty patients who had been followed for an average of 8.4 years were studied . in the extremity that had been operated on , the mean active range of motion was 94 per cent , the circumference of the thigh was 100 per cent , and the strength of the quadriceps was 85 per cent of these measurements in the contralateral extremity . the over-all result was rated as excellent in twenty patients , good in eleven , fair in six , and poor in three . there was a significant statistical correlation between the type of fracture and the outcome . the results of this study indicate that partial patellectomy can be an effective treatment for selected patellar fractures . 
dealing with geographic variations in the use of hospitals . the experience of the maine medical assessment foundation orthopaedic study group . orthopaedists and other physicians in maine organized the maine medical assessment foundation to deal with the problem of variations in the rates of hospitalization for orthopaedic conditions . five musculoskeletal injuries and five orthopaedic procedures were selected for study . the variation in decision-making by orthopaedists was least for fractures of the ankle and fractures of the hip and was greatest for fractures of the forearm , derangement of the knee , and lumbosacral sprain . the rates in an area tended to be consistently high or low for the same treatments . the major reasons for the variations appeared to be related to lack of agreement about optimum treatment . feedback of data to physicians on variations in patterns of practice reduced the variations . 
unexpected geographic variation in rates of hospitalization for patients who have fracture of the hip . medicare enrollees in the united states . with the use of data from hospitals for fiscal year 1985 , we calculated the rates of hospitalization for fracture of the hip , by state of residence , for all enrollees in medicare who were sixty-five years old or older ; we adjusted for age and race . the rate of fracture of the hip was highest in the south and lowest in the northeast , especially in women . the cause of this difference is not known . 
measurement of anterior-posterior displacement of the knee . a comparison of the results with instrumented devices and with clinical examination . thirteen subjects who had normal knees and fifteen patients who had a chronic rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament were tested in order to compare the measurements of tibiofemoral displacement as recorded by four commercial devices : the acufex knee-signature system , the genucom knee-analysis system , the medmetric kt-1000 arthrometer , and the stryker knee-laxity tester . anterior and posterior displacement were measured at forces of eighty-nine newtons ( twenty pounds ) and 133 newtons ( thirty pounds ) . we found significant differences in reproducibility of measurement among the devices . the acufex , medmetric , and stryker devices had more reproducible measurements , and they could be used to identify 80 to 90 per cent of the normal subjects and anterior cruciate-deficient patients . the genucom device had poorer reproducibility of measurement , and it tended to register greater differences in displacement between the right and left knees of normal subjects . 
comparison of a hybrid with an uncemented total hip replacement . a retrospective matched-pair study . the efficacy of a type of uncemented total hip replacement was compared with that of a hybrid total hip replacement in which an uncemented acetabular and a cemented femoral component were used . twenty-five patients who had had a hybrid total hip replacement were matched , by age , weight , sex , and diagnosis , with twenty-five patients who had had an uncemented total hip replacement . all of the operations were done by one surgeon , who used the same operative approach and the same regimen of postoperative rehabilitation . all of the patients were followed for at least two years . the mean postoperative hip score was 96 points for the hybrid group and 84 points for the cementless group ( p less than 0.02 ) . twenty-four ( 96 per cent ) of the patients who had a hybrid prosthesis reported no or only slight pain postoperatively . in the uncemented group , of the six patients ( 24 per cent ) who reported mild to severe pain , five had pain in the thigh , a limp occurred more frequently , five femoral components had migrated , and four hips needed reoperation . the results with the hybrid replacement that had a cemented femoral component were superior to those with the uncemented femoral component over the relatively brief period for which these patients were followed . 
the lateral approach for operative release of post-traumatic contracture of the elbow . a lateral approach was used to release a post-traumatic contracture of the elbow in seven patients , and the results were evaluated an average of thirty-eight months postoperatively . extension improved from an average flexion contracture of 45 degrees preoperatively to one of 12 degrees postoperatively , and the average point of maximum flexion increased from 116 degrees preoperatively to 129 degrees postoperatively . the average arc of motion increased 46 degrees . all patients began using a continuous-passive-motion device immediately after the operation . there were no problems with wound-healing or formation of heterotopic bone . 
replantation of the distal part of the leg . we successfully replanted five amputated legs in five patients and followed the patients for two years or more ( average , six years and three months ) . although some patients found it impossible to squat and to run because of joint contractures , muscle weakness , or deformities of the foot , all patients could perform other activities without difficulty . none had important pain or any intolerance to cold , and all were satisfied with the results of the replantation . 
the osteogenic response to distant skeletal injury . we tested the hypothesis that when one bone of the skeleton is injured , others experience an osteogenic response . although similar or related phenomena have been observed previously , the purposes of the study were to determine if this response was reproducible , to characterize it in terms of its magnitude and duration , and to show how it is related to the type of injury sustained . to obtain this information , a model was used in which an intramedullary nail was implanted in the femur and a standard closed fracture was subsequently produced . the osteogenic response was measured by histomorphometry . eight-four nine-week-old male sprague-dawley rats were divided into seven groups of twelve animals each . groups i and ii consisted of control animals in which no injury was produced . in group-iii rats , cortical drilling of the intercondylar notch and piriformis fossa of the right femur was performed , without intramedullary nailing . in groups iv through vii , half of each group received intramedullary nails only , and in the other half intramedullary nailing was done and a closed transverse diaphyseal fracture was produced . with two different fluorochrome labels , rates of mineral apposition were measured in the left and right tibiae of all animals . the labeling periods differed in each group and were designed to determine when the peak response occurred , how long it lasted , and whether aging during the course of the experiment affected the response . 
amputation or limb-lengthening for partial or total absence of the fibula . thirty-two patients who had ablation of the foot by the syme or boyd technique for partial or total absence of the fibula , with subsequent fitting of a prosthesis , were compared with eleven patients who had lengthening of the lower limb by the wagner method , to assess the long-term results of each procedure . the final results were evaluated on the basis of pain , limp , limb-length discrepancy , level of physical activity , and satisfaction of the patient . of the thirty-two patients who had an amputation , twenty-eight ( 88 per cent ) had a satisfactory result , compared with only six ( 55 per cent ) of the eleven patients who had limb-lengthening . the amount of inequality between the lower limbs was classified as follows : group i -- the foot of the shorter extremity was at the distal third of the contralateral , normal limb , and the percentage of shortening was 15 per cent or less ; group ii -- the foot of the shorter extremity was at the level of the middle third of the contralateral , normal limb , and the percentage of shortening was between 16 and 25 per cent ; and group iii -- the foot of the shorter extremity was at the level of the proximal third of the contralateral , normal limb , and the percentage of shortening was greater than 26 per cent . lengthening was best suited for patients in group i who had stable hips , knees , and ankles and a plantigrade foot . patients in groups ii and iii were best served by ablation of the foot and fitting of a prosthesis . 
nonosmotic stimuli alter osmoregulation in patients with spinal cord injury . studies on two quadriplegic patients who developed severe hyponatremia during episodes of acute respiratory distress were performed to determine whether differences in osmoregulation of vasopressin release could be identified in these patients compared to other quadriplegic subjects previously studied in a similar manner . both patients were clinically stable and normonatremic , with no signs or symptoms of respiratory distress , when the studies were performed . however , both exhibited evidence of hemodynamic instability in the sitting posture . linear regression analysis of the plasma vasopressin/plasma osmolality ( pavp : posm ) relationship during infusions of 0.85 m sodium chloride showed no significant differences in either the slope ( sensitivity ) or abscissal intercept ( osmotic threshold ) of this relationship compared to that of other quadriplegic subjects when the patients were supine . in contrast , when the patients were studied in the sitting posture there was a marked shift in the relationship of pavp : posm indicative of increased sensitivity and reduced osmotic threshold for vasopressin release . the slopes of the pavp : posm relationships were 0.249 and 0.178 for the two patients , respectively , compared to 0.092 + / - 0.03 ( + / - sd ) for previously studied quadriplegic subjects . oral water-loading studies performed on one patient revealed marked impairment of urine-diluting ability and free water clearance in the sitting posture compared with observations in similar studies performed when the patient was supine . impairment of renal water excretion could not be attributed to an effect of vasopressin , which was reduced to unquantifiable levels by water loading . these studies have shown that hemodynamic stress related to autonomic dysfunction in quadriplegic patients may result in marked alteration of osmoregulation of vasopressin release in more severely affected individuals . such altered osmoregulation , which may also be associated with vasopressin-independent impairment of renal water excretion in the sitting posture , may be a predisposing factor in the development of hyponatremia , especially in the presence of other potent nonosmotic stimuli . 
traumatic asphyxia . traumatic asphyxia is a distinctive clinical syndrome characterized by cervicofacial cyanosis and edema , multiple petechiae , and subconjunctival hemorrhage after a severe crush injury of the thorax or of the upper part of the abdomen . a case of traumatic asphyxia is reported , and its clinical and pathophysiologic features are discussed . 
direct visualization of ruptured chordae tendineae by transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography . to determine the value of transesophageal echocardiography in the detection of ruptured chordae tendineae , 28 patients who had surgical therapy for pure mitral regurgitation were evaluated prospectively by conventional transthoracic and transesophageal two-dimensional echocardiography . seventeen patients ( group i ) had ruptured chordae tendineae and 11 ( group ii ) had intact chordae tendineae . transthoracic echocardiography detected ruptured chordae tendineae in 6 patients from group i ( sensitivity 35 % ) and flail leaflets in 11 patients from group i ( sensitivity 65 % ) . transesophageal echocardiography disclosed ruptured chordae tendineae in all 17 group i patients ( sensitivity 100 % ) ; the sensitivity was significantly higher than that of transthoracic echocardiography . no abnormal chordal echoes were visualized in any patient from group ii by either transthoracic or transesophageal echocardiography ( specificity 100 % ) . transesophageal echocardiography is a highly sensitive method for detecting ruptured chordae tendineae and is superior to transthoracic echocardiography in establishing its diagnosis . 
prevalence of occupational asthma and immunologic sensitization to guar gum among employees at a carpet-manufacturing plant . guar gum is a high-molecular-weight agent that can cause occupational rhinitis and asthma . we surveyed the employees at a carpet-manufacturing plant in which guar gum is used to adhere the dye to the fiber ; 162/177 of the employees ( 92 % ) participated in the first part of the survey that included a questionnaire and skin prick tests with common allergens and guar gum ( 1 mg/ml ) . ige and igg antibodies to guar gum were also measured in those subjects ( 133/162 or 82 % ) who agreed to blood tests . thirty-seven subjects ( 23 % ) had a history suggestive of occupational asthma and 59 ( 36 % ) , of occupational rhinitis . eight subjects ( 5 % ) demonstrated immediate skin reactivity to guar gum . eleven subjects ( 8.3 % ) had serum ige antibodies to guar gum . all subjects , except one subject who had a history suggestive of occupational asthma ( n = 37 ) or positive skin tests ( n = 4 ) , participated in the second part of the study . a methacholine-inhalation test was performed during a workshift or in the 3 to 4 hours after the workshift . five subjects had a concentration of methacholine causing a 20 % fall in fev1 of less than 16 mg/ml ( significant bronchial hyperresponsiveness ) and positive skin reactions to guar gum . four of these subjects underwent specific inhalation challenges . the remaining subject had a history of severe bronchospastic reaction on exposure to guar gum , and his fev1 of 1.6 l made specific challenges impossible . two subjects had typical isolated immediate reactions . 
the hymenoptera venom study . iii : safety of venom immunotherapy . one thousand four hundred ten ( 44 % ) of the 3236 subjects in the hymenoptera venom study accepted venom immunotherapy ( vit ) . time to maintenance averaged 95 days , and the largest number achieved maintenance ( 147 subjects , 10.4 % ) at day 56 . ninety-two percent of the treated subjects achieved maintenance , and 84 % continued therapy , most subjects ( 91 % ) until the study was terminated . one hundred seventy-one subjects ( 12 % ) experienced 327 treatment systemic reactions ( srs ) . the incidence of pruritus and angioedema/urticaria was similar with mild , moderate , or severe srs . the sr severity did not correlate with the severity of the most recent sting before entry into the hymenoptera-venom study , the most severe historical sting sr , the most severe sr during venom skin tests , the total dose of venom , the degree of skin test reactivity , or the lowest concentration yielding a positive skin test . most srs occurred between 1 and 50 micrograms and at maintenance ; honeybee or wasp venoms were most likely to produce sr . this study , the largest of its kind with the use of standardized extracts , demonstrates ( 1 ) that there was good compliance , ( 2 ) that various historical and diagnostic criteria did not predict srs to vit , ( 3 ) that srs to vit were most likely to occur between 1 and 50 micrograms and at maintenance , ( 4 ) that honeybee or wasp venoms were most likely to produce an sr , and ( 5 ) that vit is relatively safe . 
heterosexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus among intravenous drug users . to examine sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) among heterosexual intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) , hiv antibody status of ivdus with intravenous drug-using sexual partners ( ivsps ) was compared with that of ivdus with no ivsps . initial bivariate analyses indicated ivdus with ivsps were more likely to be hiv antibody-positive than those with no ivsps . analyses by gender indicated that this relationship held for men but not women . ivdus with ivsps also differed from those without ivsps demographically , in drug use , and in other sexual behaviors . when effects of other variables were controlled , no statistically significant relationship was found between injection history of sex partners and hiv status for the total sample or separately for men or women . 
neisseria mucosa endocarditis . a case of neisseria mucosa tricuspid valve endocarditis in an intravenous drug abuser is described . the patient was treated initially with intravenous penicillin g followed by oral penicillin vk but relapsed . he was cured after 4 weeks of combined therapy with penicillin g and gentamicin . in vitro synergy studies performed on the patient 's and two other isolates revealed synergy in all three . thus , combination therapy is recommended for treatment of recalcitrant cases of bacterial endocarditis caused by n. mucosa . 
unusual type of foreign body in the maxillary sinus . a broken end of the spear presenting as a foreign body in the nasopharynx and right maxillary sinus in a 19-year-old papua new guinean is described . the types of foreign bodies and their mechanisms of introduction into this site are summarized . 
field performance of the intoxilyzer 5000 : a comparison of blood - and breath-alcohol results in wisconsin drivers . intoxilyzer 5000 and blood-alcohol results from drivers arrested for operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated and for related offenses were compared during a two-year period . three hundred and ninety-five pairs of results were studied . the breath - and blood-alcohol specimens in this study were collected within 1 h of each other . the mean blood-alcohol concentration obtained was 0.180 g/dl , with a range from zero to 0.338 g/dl . by comparison , the mean intoxilyzer 5000 result was 0.16 g/210 l with a range from zero to 0.32 g/210 l. compared with the blood-alcohol result , intoxilyzer 5000 results were lower by more than 0.01 g/210 l 67 % of the time , within 0.01 g/210 l 31 % of the time , and higher by more than 0.01 g/210 l 2 % of the time . 
determination of human immunodeficiency virus antibody status in forensic autopsy cases in vancouver using a recombinant immunoblot assay . sera from 207 forensic autopsy cases were tested for the presence of antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) using a recombinant immunoblot assay ( riba ) technique developed by chiron corporation of emeryville , california -- the chiron riba-hiv216 test system . out of these cases , 172 autopsies were of individuals with no known risk factors for hiv infection , and of these , 169 had no detectable antibodies to hiv . in 2 cases , the serum reacted with p24 alone on the riba-hiv216 assay , but these results were not confirmed by further testing and are considered to be false positive reactions . in 1 case , the serum reacted only with gp41 on the riba-hiv216 test but was nonreactive with further testing . this result has been designated equivocal . of the 35 cases at high risk of hiv infection , 4 had antibodies to hiv detected in postmortem serum samples . the sensitivity ( 100 % ) and specificity ( 98.5 % ) of the riba-hiv216 test system are high . however , the test appears to be more suitable for routine diagnosis of hiv infection than for rapid screening in the mortuary . 
fatal ethanol intoxication from household products not intended for ingestion . fatal acute ethanol intoxication is frequently encountered in medicolegal practice . although the vast majority of acute ethanol toxicity deaths follow the ingestion of conventional alcoholic beverages , ethanol can be obtained from a variety of commercial products , which often contain high levels of ethyl alcohol but are not manufactured or designed for consumption . such products may be easily purchased in locales where statutory limitations restrict liquor availability on sundays or during the early morning hours . several acute ethanol fatalities have been encountered in new mexico that were directly related to consumption of non-beverage ethanol-containing products , all of them occurring during times when alcoholic beverage sales were restricted . despite the fact that manufacturers deliberately include compounds in these products that discourage ingestion , this policy apparently does little to deter individuals who are searching for a source of ethanol when no conventional beverages are available . the products that were consumed in these fatalities also contained other compounds which would be toxic at much greater concentrations , but which were inconsequential in their effects in comparison with the direct toxic effect of ethanol . investigation of the scene and awareness that alcohol-containing products can be fatally abused are essential to detecting these unconventional ethanol sources . 
causes of death in hospitalized intravenous drug abusers . the authors reviewed at autopsy the causes of death of 274 patients with evidence of intravenous drug abuse who had been admitted to a large public hospital . there were 127 who died from diseases unrelated to intravenous drug abuse , and in 41 % of these , chronic alcoholism was implicated . deaths from overdose syndromes and drug-related organ pathology comprised only 11 % of all cases . the mean age at death was 39 years . there was a male/female ratio of 3.6:1 . half of all patients died from infection -- 72 from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) alone . these findings indicate that persons hospitalized with a history of intravenous drug abuse usually die from causes other than overdose and that aids and chronic alcoholism are significant problems . emphasis should be placed upon detecting " hidden " intravenous drug deaths to provide more accurate statistical information . 
liberty and tardive dyskinesia : informed consent to antipsychotic medication in the forensic psychiatric hospital . this paper addresses informed consent to antipsychotic medication of those incarcerated in a forensic psychiatric hospital . the ways in which the unique setting of the forensic psychiatric hospital impinge upon the three components of informed consent -- information , voluntariness , and competency -- are explored . special attention is given to the risk-benefit ratio of receiving antipsychotic medication in terms of the liberty interests at stake -- freedom of movement , that is , the effects of tardive dyskinesia , and freedom of space , that is , release from the forensic psychiatric facility . 
inadvertent clavicular fractures caused by " chiropractic " manipulations in an infant : an unusual form of pseudoabuse . a nine-month-old child was found unresponsive in his crib , five hours after his last feeding . at autopsy , there were no external or internal signs of abuse or neglect , and a few visceral pleural and epicardial petechiae were consistent with the sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) . however , postmortem total body radiographs revealed healing , symmetrical clavicular fractures and a healing left medial humeral epicondyle fracture . the parents had no explanation for these injuries and denied causing any harm to the child . the location and nature of the fractures strongly suggested abusive origin , and the case was reported to the police and the district attorney 's office as child abuse . during the investigation , information from the parents indicated that the child had undergone " chiropractic " manipulations by an unlicensed therapist , between three and four weeks prior to death , to correct supposed " shoulder dislocations . " this time interval correlated with the histologic age of the injuries , and the history explained their unusual bilateral location and appearance . the parents were exonerated of abuse charges , and the death was ascribed to sids . 
an elliptical incised wound of the breast misinterpreted as a bite injury . bite injuries upon homicide victims are most often initially identified by the forensic pathologist during the course of the autopsy examination . following such recognition , the injury or photographs of the traumatized site are then referred to a forensic odontologist for his or her examination , further characterization , and subsequent comparison with any suspect 's dentition . however , if the pathologist misidentifies an injury caused by another mechanism as a human bite , this mistake can potentially be perpetuated by the dental consultant , since relatively few dentists regularly examine traumatic injuries other than those arising from bites . to illustrate such an event , a case is presented involving an incised wound of the breast , which was originally identified as an avulsive bite wound . detailed examination by two odontologic consultants confirmed the wound as having been caused by human teeth , and further , they related the " bite injury " to a specific individual . the bite injury interpretation represented the only scientific evidence implicating the suspect at a subsequent trial for capital murder . later examination of the tissues and photographs by a forensic pathologist and another dental consultant revealed that the injury was not due to human dentition , but rather resulted from a sharp-edged instrument . these consultants conducted a unique experiment to reduplicate the injury and prove its causation . this information was presented to the jury during the suspect 's trial and resulted in his acquittal on all charges . 
multiple gunshot wounds of the head : an anthropological view . a decomposed body was judged at the scene to have two gunshot wounds of the thorax and three of the head . confirmed at autopsy , the condition of the remains precluded conclusions about the precise nature of the defects . preparation and reconstruction of the skull disclosed seven large cranial defects and a series of fractures . this preparation allowed the application of well-known principles of gunshot wound analysis . although the analysis of specific gunshot wound defects is well covered in the literature , there are few examples of the application of gunshot wound principles to complex wound cases . three entrances and three exits were identified . a seventh defect resulted from bullet passage . finally , the wounds were sequenced . 
articulatory impairment associated with tardive dyskinesia . the speech of two patients with tardive dyskinesia was studied , and one neuroleptic-treated patient having no signs of overt tardive dyskinesia served as control . a structured interview , including reading , repetition of sentences , and spontaneous conversation , was performed . a phonetic transcription and analysis of abnormal phonemes was done by a linguist under blind conditions . both patients with tardive dyskinesia had abnormal phonemes whereas the control patient had none . these differences could not be explained by age , direct neuroleptic effect , or neuroleptic exposure time . the abnormal phonemes were all consonants . the authors conclude that tardive dyskinesia may cause articulatory communication problems . 
cruciate paralysis : a clinical and radiographic analysis of injuries to the cervicomedullary junction . fourteen patients with superior cervical spinal cord injuries and the clinical signs and symptoms of cruciate paralysis are presented . this rare injury pattern is characterized by weakness of the upper extremities with little or no compromise of lower-extremity function following trauma to the superior spinal cord . anatomically , cruciate paralysis is thought to represent selective injury to descending corticospinal tracts as they decussate at the cervicomedullary junction . the clinical and radiographic findings of each patient are outlined and the incidence and natural history of the injury syndrome , including a review of the literature , are presented . 
needlestick injuries among resident physicians . objective : to assess the frequency and causes of needlestick injuries in medical and surgical housestaff . design : a retrospective survey . setting : urban university teaching hospital . participants : 386 housestaff ; 221 responded . intervention : survey questionnaire . main results : 1 ) frequency of needlestick : of 221 respondents , 57 ( 26 % ) reported never having had a needlestick , while 164 ( 74 % ) reported at least one needlestick injury with a suture or hollow-bore needle . the average frequencies were 0.63 per resident-year among 149 non-surgical residents and 3.8 per resident-year among 72 surgical residents . among residents in internal medicine , 12 of 78 needlestick injuries ( 15 % ) sustained were from patients documented to be hiv-positive . 2 ) causes of needlestick : the causes of injury were assessed in detail in a sample of the 157 most recent needlestick injuries . suturing was the cause in 35 of 61 ( 57 % ) surgical residents , while recapping needles was the cause in 36 of 96 ( 38 % ) non-surgical residents . inexperience was not the cause of injury ; in 94 % of cases the residents felt comfortable performing the procedure , and in 74 % of cases the residents had performed the procedure more than 50 times before . 3 ) reporting of injury : only 30 ( 19 % ) of 157 injuries were reported to the personnel health service , thus compromising documentation for potential workmen 's compensation . conclusions : needlestick injuries are common among medical and surgical housestaff . efforts should be made to prevent needlestick injuries and to report those that occur . 
screening for psychiatric and substance abuse disorders in clinical practice . psychiatric disorders , particularly depression and alcohol abuse , represent a large burden of illness to the society . many individuals with these disorders receive all of their care from health care providers who are not mental health specialists . there is evidence that non-psychiatric physicians frequently do not recognize these disorders in their patients . screening questionnaires have been introduced to improve detection of these patients . several studies have found that these screening questionnaires can increase detection rates , but no important impact on patient outcomes has been demonstrated . this review article outlines several reasons why it has been difficult to discern improvement in patient outcomes : inadequate study design , insufficient physician education , interdependence of psychiatric and medical conditions , and vague treatment guidelines . practical use of the current psychiatric screening questionnaires and key areas for further investigation are considered . 
the physician 's role in injury prevention : beyond the u.s. preventive services task force report . injuries and their prevention have received little attention by the medical community , despite the fact that injuries are the leading cause of premature death . however , much can be done to reduce the number and severity of injuries , and the practicing physician has an important role to play in this process . this report outlines the u.s. preventive services task force report recommendations for prevention strategies to reduce injuries and then seeks to define a broader role for the physician in prevention injuries that extends beyond the confines of office-based practice . while screening and counseling have proven effectiveness in certain situations , interventions that are passive or automatic in action , such as air bags , have proven to be more effective long-term solutions to reduce both the number and the severity of injuries . the author outlines and provides examples of seven areas where physicians can have a major impact either directly or through implementing effective injury-control strategies . these are : treatment , education , screening , hazard identification , research , advocacy , and policy making . using all of these approaches , physicians can play a truly effective role in reducing the burden of injuries for their patients . 
nicotine dependence : a preventable risk factor for other diseases . nicotine meets all critical criteria for an addictive drug . furthermore , there is no evidence that there would be widespread compulsive use of tobacco without nicotine . these findings have led to consideration of the cigarette as a contaminated vehicle for an addictive drug ( nicotine ) . nevertheless , nicotine itself may also be used therapeutically to reduce exposure to carcinogens and other tobacco toxins . nicotine replacement is a useful adjunct in treating tobacco dependence . for example , nicotine replacement in the form of a polacrilex resin ( chewing gum ) can alleviate physically based signs and symptoms of tobacco abstinence . the fact that this form of nicotine replacement is not attractive to non-users of tobacco has opened the door to the use of nicotine in a therapeutic modality , permitting hope of eliminating tobacco dependence . 
facial trauma in women resulting from violence by men . in a 2 1/2 - year period , 546 women with facial injuries were treated . in 8.2 % , the injury was related to some form of violence exerted by a man . in cases where the individual was known , it was usually the husband or boyfriend ( almost 67 % ) . the assault consisted of a beating with the hands in over 70 % of the cases . fracture of the mandible was the most common injury . there were also 62 cases of home accidents . 
the problem of the bifid mandibular condyle . in a survey of 1,882 prehistoric and historic skulls with 2,077 condyles , 7 double ( bifid ) mandibular condyles were found . one mandible with bilaterally bifid condyles is presented in detail . possible causes and consequences of the anomaly are discussed . it is assumed that bifid mandibular condyles with anteroposteriorly situated heads are caused by early childhood fractures , whereas those with mediolaterally situated heads are caused by the persistence of connective tissue septa . 
conventional radiographic and computed tomographic findings in cases of fracture of the mandibular condylar process . a total of 40 patients with 46 fractures of the mandibular condylar process were examined an average of 47 months after the injury . the conventional radiologic examination consisted of panoramic radiography and lateral transcranial view of the fracture in the mouth-open and mouth-closed positions . sixteen patients with 21 fractures of the condylar process were examined additionally by computed tomography ( ct ) because of temporomandibular joint problems in the sagittal and coronal projection . computed tomography revealed bony changes in the fractured mandibular condyle and its position in the mandibular fossa more exactly than conventional radiographic examinations . furthermore , the results showed that disturbances in the position and function of the articular disc may be more common than was earlier anticipated , suggesting the more frequent use of ct examinations to evaluate temporomandibular joint changes after condylar process fractures . 
poly ( l-lactide ) implants in repair of defects of the orbital floor : an animal study . because of the life-long presence of alloplastic , nonresorbable orbital floor implants and the complications of their use mentioned in literature , the use of a resorbable material appears to be preferable in the repair of orbital floor defects . a high-molecular-weight , as-polymerized poly ( l-lactide ) ( plla ) was used for repair of orbital floor defects of the blowout type in goats . an artificial defect was created in the bony floor of both orbits . reconstruction of the orbital floor was then carried out using a concave plla implant of 0.4-mm thickness . at 3 , 6 , 12 , 19 , 26 , 52 , and 78 weeks postoperatively , one goat was killed . microscopic examination showed full encapsulation of the implant by connective tissue after 3 weeks . after 6 weeks , resorption and remodeling of the bone at the points of support of the implant could be detected . a differentiation between the sinus and orbital sides of the connective tissue capsule was observed . the orbital side showed a significantly more dense capsule than the antral side , which had a loose appearance . at 19 weeks , a bony plate was progressively being formed , and at 78 weeks , new bone had fully covered the plate on the antral and orbital side . no inflammation or rejection of the plla implant was seen . 
auto-peep in the multisystem injured patient : an elusive complication . auto-peep ( a-peep ) , unrecognized alveolar positive and expiratory pressure during mechanical ventilation , is an acknowledged hazard in patients with chronic obstructive lung disease . we evaluated 50 consecutive trauma patients for the presence of a-peep and its effect on hemodynamic stability . injury severity scores ( iss ) were 8 to 41 ( 21 + / - 1 ) ; revised trauma scores ( rts ) ranged from 2.0 to 7.8 ( 6.2 + / - 0.2 ) . mode of ventilation was assist control , inspiratory flow rates were 40 to 120 l/m ( 78 + / - 2 ) . a-peep , determined in the non-assisting patient by occluding the expiratory port at end exhalation , was present in 28 patients ( 56 % ) and ranged from 1 to 12 cm h2o ( 5.3 + / - 0.4 cm h2o ) . data segregated by a-peep versus no a-peep were as follows ( mean + / - sem ) : [ table : see text ] * p less than 0.05 , ve = minute ventilation , paw = mean airway pressure . upon reversal of a-peep in the eight patients with levels greater than 5 cm h2o , mean blood pressure rose from 90 + / - 17 to 102 + / - 22 mm hg and central venous pressure fell from 13 + / - 5 to 7 + / - 5 mm hg . a-peep was successfully treated in these eight patients by increasing peak flows , minimizing ve requirements and selective use of bronchodilators . in sum , the hypermetabolic ventilated trauma patient should be monitored routinely for this common phenomenon which may have profound cardiopulmonary effects in the setting of acute resuscitation . 
gunshot injuries to the hip and abdomen : the association of joint and intra-abdominal visceral injuries . a retrospective review of all gunshot injuries to the hip at our medical center over a 24-year period was performed . adequate information and radiographs were available for 49 patients . of these , five patients ( 10.2 % ) had associated abdominal visceral injuries . these five patients were examined at an average of 5.9 years after their injury , and compared by utilizing the harris hip score rating . radiographs were also obtained . four of these five patients ( 80 % ) had initially developed infections in their hip joints , with all four having poor functional outcomes , with an average harris hip score of 48.5 from their hip injury . careful initial evaluation and aggressive surgical and antibiotic treatment are recommended to prevent these poor results . 
effect of endotoxin and a burn injury on lung and liver lipid peroxidation and catalase activity . both endotoxin and a burn alone produce oxidant-induced tissue lipid peroxidation . the endotoxin response is due in large part to hydrogen peroxide . the combination of endotoxin after a burn results in an increased liver , but not lung , oxidant injury . our purpose was to determine whether the burn oxidant injury inactivated endogenous liver tissue catalase , thereby amplifying a subsequent h2o2 insult . twenty-six adult sheep were studied . twelve sheep had a 15 % tbs burn . tissue catalase activity , measured in lung and liver 3 days postburn , was significantly decreased from a control of 3.58 + / - 1.8 and 193 + / - 63 , respectively , to 1.72 + / - 0.63 and 148 + / - 33 k ( sec-1 ) / 0.5 gram tissue . the addition of endotoxin 3 days postburn resulted in an increase in liver malondialdehyde , mda , a measure of lipid peroxidation , from a control of 110 + / - 80 to 450 + / - 54 nmol/gram tissue . this value was significantly greater than the 210 + / - 80 nmol/gram tissue seen after endotoxin alone . lung tissue mda with burn and endotoxin was 65 + / - 8 compared to 42 + / - 7 for control and 80 + / - 6 nmol/gram for endotoxin alone . we conclude that a decrease in liver catalase activity occurs after a burn . the decrease corresponds to an accentuated oxidant-induced lipid peroxidation after an added endotoxin insult where h2o2 is known to be an etiologic agent . the catalase activity also decreases in postburn lung , but accentuated lung damage was not seen , indicating a variable tissue response from the burn-induced decrease in antioxidant activity . 
the abdominal trauma index -- a critical reassessment and validation . the abdominal trauma index ( ati ) was devised to quantify the risk of complications following abdominal trauma . with scores greater than 25 , the risk of postoperative complications became exponential . the purpose of the present study was to determine if : 1 ) the organ risk factors previously assigned were more statistically valid ; and 2 ) the addition of physiologic variables would enhance the prediction of postinjury intra-abdominal sepsis . fifteen abdominal organ systems and 17 physiologic variables in 300 consecutive patients were analyzed to determine ability to predict intraabdominal sepsis . there were no significant differences in predictive ability between the old and new organ risk factors . the addition of physiologic factors did not enhance the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis . this clinical study demonstrates that : 1 ) the risk of intra-abdominal sepsis increases with increasing ati score ; 2 ) the previous ( 1979-initial ) organ risk grading concept is statistically valid ; 3 ) six of the 15 organ systems warrant a change in their relative rank order ( 1989-revision ) ; 4 ) the addition of demographic , physiologic , and immunologic variables did not significantly improve the prediction of intra-abdominal sepsis . 
diagnostic peritoneal lavage : accuracy in predicting necessary laparotomy following blunt and penetrating trauma . the purpose of this study was to evaluate the ability of diagnostic peritoneal lavage ( dpl ) to predict intra-abdominal injuries that required surgical repair . to do this , we retrospectively reviewed 944 patients with blunt and penetrating abdominal trauma who underwent 975 dpls . initial dpl in 608 patients sustaining blunt trauma had a sensitivity of 87 % , a specificity of 97 % , an accuracy of 95 % , a positive predictive value ( ppv ) of 85 % , and a negative predictive value ( npv ) of 97 % . initial dpl in 336 patients with penetrating trauma had a sensitivity of 87 % , a specificity of 89 % , an accuracy of 89 % , a ppv of 75 % , and a npv of 95 % . when utilizing final lavage results on the 944 patients , dpl had a sensitivity of 91 % , a specificity of 94 % , an accuracy of 93 % , a ppv of 80 % , and a npv of 98 % in predicting intra-abdominal injury requiring surgical repair . 
the major trauma outcome study : establishing national norms for trauma care . the major trauma outcome study ( mtos ) is a retrospective descriptive study of injury severity and outcome coordinated through the american college of surgeons ' committee on trauma . from 1982 through 1987 , 139 north american hospitals submitted demographic , etiologic , injury severity , and outcome data for 80,544 trauma patients . motor vehicle related injuries were most frequent ( 34.7 % ) . twenty-one per cent of patients had penetrating injuries . the overall mortality rate was 9.0 % . the mortality rate for direct admissions was strongly related to the presence of serious head injury , 5.0 % and 40.0 % , when head injuries were less than or equal to ais ( abbreviated injury scale ) 3 or greater than or equal to ais 4 , respectively . survival probability norms use the revised trauma score , injury severity score , patient age , and injury mechanism . patients with unexpected outcomes were identified and statistical comparisons of actual and expected numbers of survivors made for each institution . results provide a description of injury and outcome and support evaluation and quality assurance activities . 
basophil releasability in severely burned patients . thermal injury is known to induce dysregulation of the immune system ; however , the precise mechanisms have to be clarified . we investigated the histamine release of basophil granulocytes from severely burned patients ( n = 12 ) after stimulation with anti-ige or the ca-ionophore a 23187 , respectively . the anti-ige-induced basophil histamine release of all patients was reduced in comparison to healthy donors beginning at day one postburn ( p.b. ) ( 5.0 + / - 2.3 % vs. 30.5 + / -3.4 % ) , while the ca-ionophore-induced release was not decreased before day two p.b. basophils of patients who finally succumbed to their injuries showed poor responsiveness ( to zero levels ) over the total time . in contrast , the basophil releasability of surviving patients returned to nearly normal levels ( fifth to seventh week p.b. ) . already in the second week p.b. there was a significant difference in histamine release between survivors and nonsurvivors [ e.g. , days 6-9 p.b. : 23.7 + / - 4.0 vs. 6.9 + / - 2.7 ( p less than 0.005 ) after ca-ionophore stimulation ] . the altered basophil histamine release was neither due to a diminished dose - or a delayed time-response to the stimuli nor due to differences in the basophil counts or the cellular histamine content . our data indicate that the decrease of the basophil releasability , which may be secondary to altered signal transduction pathways in severely burned patients correlates with the clinical outcome . 
studies on b-lymphocyte dysfunctions in severely burned patients . we studied in vitro functional parameters of peripheral blood b-lymphocytes from severely burned patients ( n = 10 ; burn injuries ranging from 25 to 72 % tbsa ) . while the number of b-cells remained unchanged , b-cell proliferation induced by staphylococcus aureus strain cowan i ( sac ) was normal or even enhanced at early and late phases postburn , but showed a marked suppression during the second to fourth week . a similar pattern was observed for the pokeweed mitogen ( pwm ) - or sac-stimulated synthesis of immunoglobulin m ( igm ) , whereas igg production was decreased over the whole postburn period monitored . cytokine ( interleukin 4 ) - induced b-cell activation as indicated by the expression of the cd23 surface antigen was impaired throughout the second to fifth week . in parallel , the release of the proteolytic cleavage product scd23 which represents a b-cell growth and differentiation factor was reduced . our data provide evidence that activation , proliferation , and differentiation processes of b-lymphocytes are impaired in severely burned patients , which may contribute to their enhanced susceptibility to infection and sepsis . 
parotid gland and facial nerve trauma : a retrospective review . included in this study are all patients with trauma to the parotid region seen at our center from 1979 to 1989 . there was a total of five patients with injury to the parotid area : two patients with isolated facial nerve injury ; one with isolated parotid duct injury ; two with combined duct and nerve injury . there were four males and one female , with a mean age of 34 years ( range , 16 to 62 years ) . the three patients with parotid duct injury required other procedures for associated trauma . a total of eight nerve branches were severed in four patients . seven of the eight nerve branches ( 82.5 % ) were primarily repaired , with excellent functional results . two of the three ductal injuries were repaired primarily over a stent , and one was ligated . no complications resulted from either treatment . based on our clinical experience and review of the literature , we suggest that the treatment of parotid region injuries should include : 1 ) a complete initial assessment ; 2 ) primary repair of parotid duct transection within 24 hours when possible ; 3 ) primary repair of all facial nerve injuries , although delayed nerve repair remains a viable alternative ; and 4 ) nonsurgical treatment of sialoceles and fistulae . 
subxiphoid pericardial windows -- helpful in selected cases . there is a small group of patients who sustain multiple penetrating injuries who present with haemodynamic changes , making it difficult to clinically exclude or prove the presence of penetrating cardiac injury . it is in this select group of patients that we found subxiphoid pericardial windows to be extremely useful to prove or disprove the existence of a cardiac injury and thereby prevent a delay in diagnosing these injuries . 
bilateral sacroiliac joint fracture-dislocation : a case report . bilateral sacroiliac joint fracture-dislocation of the sacrum with displacement is a rare injury . we found only four such injuries previously reported in the literature . nonoperative management in this case led to complete functional return and acceptable alignment . 
use of recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) in a jehovah 's witness refusing transfusion of blood products : case report . recombinant human erythropoietin ( r-huepo ) administration to a jehovah 's witness refusing blood transfusions increased her nadir packed cell volume from 13 % to 37 % and reticulocyte count from 2 % to 17.7 % . r-huepo may provide an alternative safe and effective therapy in life-threatening anemia when blood transfusions are unacceptable to the patient . 
pediatric blunt liver injury and coagulopathy managed with packs and a silo : case report . packing the abdomen can be lifesaving when severe hepatic trauma is complicated by refractory hypothermia , coagulopathy , and continuing hemorrhage requiring large-volume transfusion . this report describes the successful use of abdominal packs and a modified silo in a child following blunt liver injury . 
acute aortic valvular incompetence following blunt thoracic deceleration injury : case report . blunt trauma leading to aortic valvular incompetence is rarely encountered , with 27 cases reported to date . all cusps and commissures are involved to a similar degree . treatment includes either reattachment of cusps to the annulus ( 80 % recurrence of incompetence ) or valvular replacement ( no recurrence ) . valve replacement is the treatment of choice for these patients . 
bilateral simultaneous fractures of the femoral neck : case report . a case of bilateral fractures of the femoral neck resulting from high-voltage electric injury is reported . surgeons caring for patients with electrical injuries must be aware of the possibility of this injury as well as other skeletal injuries which may result from muscle contraction or falls related to electric shock . without vigilance for these injuries , diagnosis may be delayed . 
organ injury scaling , ii : pancreas , duodenum , small bowel , colon , and rectum . the organ injury scaling ( o.i.s. ) committee of the american association for the surgery of trauma ( a.a.s.t. ) has been charged to devise injury severity scores for individual organs to facilitate clinical research . our first report ( 1 ) addressed o.i.s. 's for the spleen , liver , and kidney ; the following are proposed o.i.s. 's for pancreas ( table i ) , duodenum ( table ii ) , small bowel ( table iii ) , colon ( table iv ) , and rectum ( table v ) . the grading scheme is fundamentally an anatomic description , scaled from 1 to 5 , representing the least to the most severe injury . we emphasize that these o.i.s. 's represent an initial classification system which must undergo continued refinement as clinical experience dictates . 
alcoholic blackouts : legal implications . alcoholic blackouts are defined as the temporary , complete inability to form long-term memory as the result of a high blood alcohol level . this means that a neuron-to-neuron system has been blocked . since that is the case , such central nervous dysfunction should have legal implications , both from the blackout itself and also from the fact that this degree of neural interference in one system is at least suggestive that other dysfunction may be present . the subject of blackouts is updated with recent developments in neuroscience . the legal significance of the blackout is examined in enough depth to allow for further discussion and exploration . 
health locus of control beliefs and alcohol-related factors that may influence treatment outcomes . treatment programs have based their treatment approach on the premise that alcoholics should exert internal control over situations and events that affect them . since chronic alcohol use affects the health of an individual , walston and walston 's multidimensional health locus of control scale was administered to 47 alcoholics in a treatment program . the population reflected a higher belief that health status is more under their own control than under the control of chance or powerful others . however , the results indicated that recovering alcoholics with a more powerful other health orientation tended to maintain membership longer with alcoholics anonymous , would seek help sooner , would begin heavy drinking at a later age , and would attempt formal treatment more often . 
cranial electrostimulation ( ces ) use in the detoxification of opiate-dependent patients . this paper reviews the scientific literature on cranial electrostimulation ( ces ) as a non-chemical means to alleviate opiate withdrawal symptoms . ces involves applying small amounts of electrical stimulation through electrodes applied to the skin surface over the cranium . the paper summarizes major theories ( gate , endorphin , and chinese acupuncture ) which attempt to explain how ces may help alleviate drug withdrawal and craving . two of the studies reviewed show that ces patients experienced more severe withdrawal during the early part of treatment than comparison groups of methadone patients . other studies show that ces patients did better than methadone patients . the findings from all studies reviewed , however , were limited because of low participation rates , high dropout rates , difficulties in blinding subjects and evaluators , and the absence of standardized procedures and equipment . the evidence reviewed suggests that ces is a promising line of inquiry for continued efforts to develop nonchemical ways to detoxify opiate-dependent individuals . improved research designs , larger sample sizes , more integrity in data collection , and improved data analysis are needed in the future . 
case management in addictions treatment . the need for case management in addictions treatment systems has been recognized for at least 10 years . as more attention is paid to developing this treatment component and as more data are available concerning the implementation of case management in addictions , it is becoming apparent that there is a lack of consensus concerning who should provide case management and how it should be defined . this paper reviews sources of variability of case management services identified in the mental health field and discusses the implications for the development of case management in addictions programs . 
the role of buspirone in the management of alcohol withdrawal : a preliminary investigation . one hundred eighteen patients , 77 men and 23 women ranging in age from 18 to 70 years of age , admitted to an inpatient facility in central new york were administered buspirone hcl for treatment of the alcohol withdrawal syndrome . although one patient had an unwitnessed seizure , none of the subjects required discontinuance of buspirone hcl because of symptoms of dizziness , nausea , headache , nervousness , or lightheadedness , typical side effects described by the manufacturer . all but one of the individuals given buspirone hcl for alcohol detoxification completed that phase of treatment within six days in a manner which effectively controlled their withdrawal symptoms . the findings were suggestive of an important role for buspirone hcl in the detoxification of the alcohol-dependent patient using a pharmacologic agent other than traditional medications such as benzodiazepines , phenobarbital , beta blockers , magnesium sulphate , or clonidine . 
gastrointestinal pathology in adult iron overdose . the gastrointestinal effects of iron overdose have been described in children . they may occur acutely , ranging in severity from mucosal injury to complete infarction , or several weeks later , as obstruction due to stricture formation . they typically occur in the stomach or proximal small bowel . we describe an adult example of both , each occurring in the distal portion of the small intestine . both patients had ingested enteric-coated iron preparations and both experienced significant , protracted abdominal pain . thus adults as well as children are at risk for severe gastrointestinal complications after iron overdose . significant protracted abdominal pain should alert the clinician of its possibility . damage to distal areas of the bowel can occur with complete sparing of proximal portions particularly if the iron is an enteric-coated preparation . 
rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure associated with cocaine abuse . cocaine abuse has emerged as a major public health problem among young adults . illicit use of cocaine has been associated with an increasing array of medical complications . both traumatic and nontraumatic rhabdomyolysis , often complicated by acute renal failure , has recently been described following cocaine abuse . the present report describes our experience with 15 such patients and serves to further define the spectrum of muscle injury associated with cocaine abuse ranging from the incidental finding of elevated serum levels of muscle enzymes to acute renal failure . those patients who developed renal failure experienced more severe rhabdomyolysis in association with trauma , seizures or hyperpyrexia . 
the effects of fluoxetine in the overdose patient . fluoxetine ( prozac ) is a new antidepressant , first marketed in the united states in january 1988 . only limited toxicologic information during a fluoxetine overdose is available . the goal of this prospective multi-center study was to develop a toxicity profile of initial signs and symptoms observed in fluoxetine overdose . a standardized data collection form was used on all patients ingesting fluoxetine as reported to four poison centers . information obtained included age , dose , co-ingested drugs , presenting symptoms , vital signs , ekg abnormalities and lab values . of the 127 cases of acute fluoxetine overdose collected , 106 cases met the criteria of the study . of these , 69/106 ingested other drugs , including ethanol and 37/106 ingested fluoxetine alone . of the latter group , the amounts ingested ranged from 20 to 1500 mg . it was observed that 48.6 % ( 18/37 ) remained asymptomatic , 16.2 % ( 7/37 ) were sleepy , 24.3 % ( 9/37 ) had a sinus tachycardia ( of 100 beats per minute or greater ) , and 8.1 % ( 3/37 ) had a diastolic pressure over 100 mm hg . data collection is ongoing . based upon our initial experience , fluoxetine in overdose appears to be relatively benign . 
clinical experience with the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil in suspected benzodiazepine or ethanol poisoning . the clinical efficacy of different doses of the specific benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil was studied in a total of 72 patients with benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose . in a randomized double-blind study , 18 patients ( group 1 ) and eight patients ( group 2 ) with suspected benzodiazepine overdose received 5 mg ( group 1 ) or 1 mg ( group 2 ) flumazenil or placebo , respectively . the stage of coma , heart rate , blood pressure and respiratory rate were monitored within the following 15 min . if no change in the stage of coma was observed , 5 mg ( group 1 ) or 1 mg ( group 2 ) flumazenil were given , and the stage of coma , heart rate and blood pressure were again monitored . in a similar way , the effect of 5 and 1 mg flumazenil was investigated in 13 patients ( group 3 ) and four patients ( group 4 ) with ethanol intoxication . in an open trial , the clinical efficacy of flumazenil for the diagnosis of benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose was studied in 29 patients ( group 5 ) . in all patients , a toxicological screening confirmed benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose . none of the patients receiving placebo showed effects on stage of coma , heart rate , blood pressure or respiratory rate . patients with benzodiazepine overdose who received 5 mg flumazenil regained consciousness about 1-2 min after the end of injection . the effect of 1 mg flumazenil ( group 2 ) on benzodiazepine-induced coma was less pronounced . in patients with ethanol overdose ( group 3 ) , ethanol-induced coma was reversed after 5 mg flumazenil more slowly than in patients of group 1 . no effect of flumazenil on ethanol-induced coma was observed in group 4 . in group 5 , flumazenil proved to be useful for diagnosing benzodiazepine or ethanol intoxication . in one patient with coma due to carbamazepine overdose , flumazenil was also found to be effective . additionally , a possible analytical interference of flumazenil and its metabolites with the identification of other benzodiazepines by a toxicological screening procedure was studied . even after an oral dose of 200 mg flumazenil , no interference with immunological benzodiazepine assays ( emit , tdx , and ria ) was found . a metabolite and an artifact of flumazenil could be identified in urine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry . 
toxicological screening : a three year experience in poisonings in kuwait . the results of toxicological screening of body fluids ( urine , blood and gastric lavage ) from pediatric patients were analyzed for the period january 1985 - december 1988 . of the 119 cases , approximately one half were positive for at least one foreign substance . in about one fifth of the cases , multiple substances were detected . the most commonly implicated drugs were those acting on the central nervous system including the barbiturates , tricyclic antidepressants , phenothiazines , benzodiazepines and carbamazepine . 
clinical course and pharmacokinetics following a massive overdose of amphotericin b in a neonate . amphotericin is the drug of choice for the treatment of fungal infections in infants and children . when used in the recommended doses , amphotericin therapy is associated with high rates of adverse effects , including nephrotoxicity , hepatotoxicity , decrease in white blood cells , platelets and hemoglobin , chills , fever and even death ( 1 ) . we report a case involving a neonate who was exposed to a 50 fold overdose of amphotericin over a three day period . 
skin blisters as a manifestation of oxazepam toxicity . a 75 year-old comatous patient was admitted after ingestion of 200 mg oxazepam . skin blisters , attributed to oxazepam toxicity , appeared on the left forearm the following day and regressed spontaneously nine days later . 
arteriographically determined occlusive disease within the hypogastric-cavernous bed in impotent patients following blunt perineal and pelvic trauma . to determine the presence , location and pattern of arterial occlusive disease within the hypogastric-cavernous arterial bed in impotent men following blunt perineal and pelvic trauma , we reviewed the selective internal pudendal arteriograms of 20 patients with a history of blunt perineal and 7 with blunt pelvic trauma who had immediate development of impotence . arteriographic studies of 104 other impotent patients also were reviewed and compared . patients with persistent impotence immediately after blunt pelvic and perineal trauma had significantly different patterns of arteriographically demonstrated occlusive disease within the distal hypogastric-cavernous arterial bed consistent with the site of the traumatic injury . those who sustained blunt pelvic trauma and complained of immediate impotence revealed arterial occlusive lesions mainly in the internal pudendal , common penile , cavernous and dorsal arteries . the incidence of arterial lesions in the distal internal pudendal or common penile artery was significantly higher ( p less than 0.01 ) in patients with blunt pelvic trauma ( 92 % ) than in those with blunt perineal trauma ( 35 % ) . patients who sustained blunt perineal trauma and complained of immediate impotence demonstrated a more focal pattern of pathological arterial occlusion primarily in the cavernous and dorsal arteries . the incidence of a solitary arterial lesion in the cavernous artery without proximal disease was significantly higher ( p less than 0.05 ) in patients with blunt perineal trauma ( 48 % ) than in those with blunt pelvic trauma ( 8 % ) . it is hypothesized that blunt trauma without immediate impotence may be a potential risk factor for later development of arterial vasculogenic impotence , and that unrecognized or seemingly innocuous trauma may be a factor in cases of idiopathic impotence . patients without trauma and with vascular risk factors have a more diffuse pattern of arteriographically demonstrated arterial lesions . 
salvage posterior urethroplasty after failed initial repair of pelvic fracture membranous urethral defects . experience with 20 salvage urethroplasties in patients with pelvic fracture membranous urethral defects who failed previous delayed urethroplasty is presented . a total of 15 patients was successfully managed by 1-stage procedures , 14 by bulboprostatic reanastomosis and 1 by a tubed pedicled island of skin . substitution urethroplasty with a staged perineoscrotal skin tube inlay was performed in 5 patients in whom an anastomosis could not be achieved either due to an excessively long urethral defect or inelasticity of the anterior urethra precluding its elongation for an anastomosis free of tension . a successful result was achieved in 19 of the 20 patients ( 95 % ) . the rationale for procedure selection is discussed . 
the effect of an alpha-2 agonist on bladder function and cord histology after spinal cord injury [ retracted by weiss r , tomasula jj , sotologo jr jr . in : j urol 1991 aug ; 146 ( 2 ) :426 ] spinal injury in cats is accompanied by urinary bladder and hind limb dysfunction . ten cats subjected to spinal contusion at the ninth thoracic segment were treated with guanabenz ( an alpha-2 agonist ) intraperitoneally ( 0.65 mg . / kg . ) three hours after injury , and twice daily for eight weeks . an additional six spinal cats were untreated and served as controls . urodynamic studies were performed on a weekly basis on all animals . guanabenz modified the vesico-somatic reflex : detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia was either ablated or abolished . in contrast , the controls demonstrated detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia , high residual urine , and spasticity below the lesion . histological evaluations of the spinal cords revealed that the six paraplegic animals ( untreated ) suffered marked cavitation of the cord and complete destruction of the grey matter . the five incomplete paraplegic animals ( treated ) showed minimal cavitation with some preservation of the grey matter . the five ambulators ( treated ) demonstrated some distortion of grey matter with preservation of white matter . treatment with guanabenz post traumatic cord injury results in decreased cord cavitation . detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia is diminished and hind limb function is improved in treated animals . 
femur fracture with limb shortening causing occlusion of a polytetrafluoroethylene femoral popliteal graft . traumatic occlusion of lower extremity polytetrafluoroethylene arterial grafts is exceedingly rare . we report a patient who suffered a supracondylar femur fracture resulting in shortening of her right lower extremity with kinking and thrombosis of her above-knee polytetrafluoroethylene arterial graft . this is the first report in the english language of prosthetic graft occlusion as a result of traumatic limb shortening . the graft thrombus was successfully lysed by use of intraarterial urokinase , and the kink was repaired by graft resection and reanastomosis . the mechanism of injury and treatment are discussed . 
comorbidity of mental disorders with alcohol and other drug abuse . results from the epidemiologic catchment area ( eca ) study the prevalence of comorbid alcohol , other drug , and mental disorders in the us total community and institutional population was determined from 20,291 persons interviewed in the national institute of mental health epidemiologic catchment area program . estimated us population lifetime prevalence rates were 22.5 % for any non-substance abuse mental disorder , 13.5 % for alcohol dependence-abuse , and 6.1 % for other drug dependence-abuse . among those with a mental disorder , the odds ratio of having some addictive disorder was 2.7 , with a lifetime prevalence of about 29 % ( including an overlapping 22 % with an alcohol and 15 % with another drug disorder ) . for those with either an alcohol or other drug disorder , the odds of having the other addictive disorder were seven times greater than in the rest of the population . among those with an alcohol disorder , 37 % had a comorbid mental disorder . the highest mental-addictive disorder comorbidity rate was found for those with drug ( other than alcohol ) disorders , among whom more than half ( 53 % ) were found to have a mental disorder with an odds ratio of 4.5 . individuals treated in specialty mental health and addictive disorder clinical settings have significantly higher odds of having comorbid disorders . among the institutional settings , comorbidity of addictive and severe mental disorders was highest in the prison population , most notably with antisocial personality , schizophrenia , and bipolar disorders . 
diclofenac-associated hepatotoxicity diclofenac sodium , a phenylacetic acid-derived nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) recently released in the united states , was associated with the development of significant hepatitis in seven patients , with one associated death . signs and symptoms developed within several weeks of initiation of drug use and generally resolved 4 to 6 weeks following discontinuation of use of the drug . the only patient rechallenged with the drug developed a recurrence of her hepatic abnormalities . in one patient , fatal , fulminant hepatitis developed despite early withdrawal of the drug . review of the european literature disclosed three additional fatalities associated with diclofenac therapy . it is unclear whether the incidence of hepatotoxicity is higher with this drug compared with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs . careful patient monitoring is advised , and prompt discontinuation of the drug is suggested when signs or symptoms of liver disease develop . 
alcohol consumption by college undergraduates : current use and 10-year trends . in a carefully executed study with a high response rate , a random sample of 10 % of the undergraduate student body at a rural new england university was surveyed as to the subjects ' use of alcohol in 1987 . over 87 % of the surveyed students returned questionnaires . the results were compared to similar studies conducted on the campus in 1977 and 1983 . " daily or almost daily " use of alcohol was registered by 4.7 % of the respondents , which represents a continuing decrease in daily consumption from earlier studies . one-fourth of the sample indicated drinking only one drink or fewer per week , contrary to the common perception on the campus . nevertheless , 25.5 % recorded a hangover , 7.5 % recorded vomiting from drinking too much and 4.4 % recorded a blackout , all " in the last week . " compared to the u.s. population , alcohol consumption appears to be more evenly distributed in the college sample but , still , most of the drinking is done by one-fifth of both groups . 
alcohol consumption and problem drinking in vietnam era veterans and nonveterans . the relationship between vietnam era veteran status and 13 indicators of alcohol consumption and problem drinking is examined using data from the 1977 , 1983 and 1985 national health interview surveys conducted by the national center for health statistics . compared to a group of nonveterans frequency matched on age , a greater proportion of vietnam era veterans are currently heavy drinkers and a smaller proportion are abstainers , after simultaneous adjustment for seven demographic factors ( age , region of the u.s. , urbanization , ethnicity , marital status , education and income ) . further , both white veterans and white nonveterans demonstrate an effect of increasing abstention with increasing age across the 3 interview years . in all race and veteran groups the proportion of lifetime abstainers can be ranked in increasing order as follows : white veterans , white nonveterans , non-white veterans and non-white nonveterans . this ranking is reversed for lifetime heavy drinking . nearly half of the white veterans report drinking heavily at some point in their lives . among both whites and non-whites , a significantly greater proportion of veterans than nonveterans report alcohol-related motor vehicle crashes or violations . 
agreement between two dietary methods in the measurement of alcohol consumption . this study compares estimates of alcohol consumption from two dietary methods : a self-reported diet diary and a quantitative food frequency questionnaire . in the 1984-85 university of michigan food frequency study , 228 black and white , male and female respondents , ages 23-51 years , kept diet diaries covering 16 days during a 1-year period . at the end of the year , the same respondents completed a dietary quantity-frequency questionnaire that included alcoholic beverages . the two methods showed excellent agreement in estimated group mean ethanol consumption and good agreement in the ranking of individual respondents . respondents described alcohol consumption in abstract terms on the questionnaire in a way that was consistent with the consumption recorded in the diary . however , the two methods showed only poor to moderate agreement in classifying individuals as infrequent , moderate or heavier drinkers , suggesting that such classifications should be used cautiously . these results suggest that in general population studies a dietary quantity-frequency questionnaire and a diet diary covering several weeks can measure moderate levels of alcohol consumption similarly . the degree of consistency suggests that , for moderate levels of intake , measures of alcohol consumption derived from the two methods are equally valid . 
anomie , alcohol abuse and alcohol consumption : a prospective-analysis . cross-sectional and 36-month prospective analyses of the relationships among anomie and both alcohol abuse and alcohol consumption patterns provided little support that anomie was directly associated with ethanol ingestion patterns in a sample of 302 male air traffic controllers . this lack of association was observed for self-reported alcohol consumption , interview-established alcohol abuse and biochemical markers of alcohol intake . in addition , anomie was not predictive of change in alcohol use/abuse over 36 months , controlling for baseline levels of alcohol use and abuse and for relevant demographic factors . measurement of anomie and alcohol use/abuse , the relative importance of anomie in various socioeconomic groups and issues related to prospective research on this topic are discussed . 
the situational riskiness of alcoholic beverages . using face-to-face interview data on a sample of young adults , this study investigates the perceived risk of alcohol consumption in drinking and driving , interactions with police and the probability of intoxication . results show that beer is perceived as less risky than liquor in two risk situations , with men and drinkers in particular ranking beer as a lower risk beverage . when intoxication is considered , drinkers rank their preferred beverage as less risky than their alternative . finally , an analysis of the relative riskiness of beer in comparison to liquor reveals that beer is perceived as less risky than liquor . this consensus does not vary significantly by sex or most other respondent characteristics . 
portrayals of alcohol on prime-time television . alcohol portrayals were analyzed for a 3-week composite sample of prime-time fictional television programs aired in the fall of 1986 . approximately 64 % of the 195 episodes contained one or more appearances of alcohol . alcohol was ingested on 50 % of all programs . overall , there were 8.1 alcohol drinking acts per hour . movies made-for-television had the highest rate of drinking acts per hour ( 10.0 ) followed by situation comedies ( 9.2 ) and then theatrical movies ( 7.4 ) and dramas ( 7.4 ) . within the category of dramas , evening soap operas stand out with 13.3 acts per hour . drinking and nondrinking characters were compared on a number of attributes relevant to role modeling . regularly appearing characters were more likely to drink than nonregular characters . drinking characters also tended to be of high status , largely being white , upper-class professionals . a time trend analysis showed a regular increase in alcohol on television from 1976 to 1984 , reaching 10.2 acts in 1984 . after 1984 the trend appears to reverse . 
public support for policy initiatives regulating alcohol use in minnesota : a multi-community survey . public support for policies to control alcohol sales and consumption was surveyed in seven minnesota communities . a total of 438 women and 383 men were asked to indicate their level of support of or opposition to nine different proposals designed to regulate alcohol . there was general support for all policies , which was strongly related to characteristics of respondents and type of policy proposed . women were significantly more supportive of all items than were men . marriage , older age and low alcohol consumption were also associated with support . education and voter status generally were not . policies and activities that serve primarily to protect youth received the strongest support . restrictions and prohibitions such as limiting advertisements were less popular . the least support was expressed for increases in taxes on alcohol and for measures that would eliminate an existing practice such as prohibiting wine-cooler sales at convenience stores . the majority of respondents also indicated that they felt the individual , as opposed to the manufacturer or retailer , was responsible for problems associated with alcohol and should be the focus of intervention . strategies for shifting the focus from the individual to environmental and regulatory control are discussed . 
a comparison of familial and nonfamilial male alcoholic patients without a coexisting psychiatric disorder . both family history of alcoholism and the presence of additional psychiatric disorder in male alcoholic patients are associated with an earlier onset of problem drinking , greater alcoholism severity and poorer clinical outcomes . to assess the relative contribution of family history alone , a sample of 212 male alcoholics not positive for any other psychiatric disorder was selected and divided into those with a family history of alcoholism ( fh + ) or no family history of alcoholism ( fh - ) among first degree relatives . although fh + alcoholics reported a younger age of onset of problem drinking and greater severity of some alcohol-related sequelae , the differences were not as extensive or pronounced as those found in a previous study of a sample of psychiatrically heterogeneous patients ( penick et al. , 1987 ) . a bi-dimensional typology of alcoholism incorporating both additional psychiatric diagnoses and a positive family history of alcoholism is suggested . 
the relationship between ethanol intake and dsm-iii-r alcohol dependence . the purpose of this investigation was to quantify the relationship between ethanol consumption and dsm-iii-r alcohol dependence using mathematical modeling techniques that allowed for the control of confounding and assessment of interaction . although sex , education , ethnicity and marital status were not identified as actual confounders in the logistic regression model , the ethanol intake-dependence association was stronger among younger as opposed to older respondents . for 20 year olds , the average log odds for dependence increased .62 for each additional ounce of ethanol consumed daily , while the corresponding increase in risk among 60 year olds was .26 . implications of these results are discussed in terms of age differences in drinking patterns and differential social control of drinking behavior . separate analyses in which aggregates of the alcohol dependence criteria served as outcome measures helped qualify the interpretation of the overall ethanol intake-dependence relationship . the need to examine components of global classifications of alcohol dependence using better operationalizations is highlighted . 
the mac scale in a normal population : the meaning of " false positives " . the mac scale has been very successful in identifying alcoholics and , in studies of clinical populations , is often considered a test for predisposition to alcoholism . macandrew , however , holds that the mac scale assesses a more general personality trait characterized by sociability , boldness , rebelliousness and pleasure seeking . the present study examines the distribution of mac scale scores in a normal population and tests for correlates of high mac scores other than alcohol-related problems ( e.g. , arrest history ) . the sample consisted of 1,117 men , participants in the normative aging study ( mean age = 61.6 ) . as expected , heavier drinkers and problem drinkers reported significantly higher mac scale scores than did lighter and nonproblem drinkers . however , arrestees without drinking problems had mac scale scores nearly identical to those of problem drinkers without arrest histories ( 23.19 and 23.42 , respectively ) . further , 36 % of the sample without problem drinking or arrest histories had mac scale scores of 24 or above , the clinical indicator of alcoholism , and more than 32 % of these had scores above 27 . in the entire sample , of the 152 men who had mac scores above 27 , 71 % had no problems , either with arrest or drinking . results are interpreted as supporting macandrew 's interpretation of the meaning of the mac scale as a general personality measure rather than a specific alcoholism instrument . 
the effect of gender and subtype on platelet mao in alcoholism . decreased platelet mao activity has been identified in male alcoholics with suggestions that this is primarily true of type 2 alcoholics as defined by criteria from the stockholm adoption study . little information has been available regarding platelet mao activity in female alcoholics . this study evaluated a group of 71 alcoholics receiving inpatient treatment , including 16 female alcoholics , for platelet mao activity compared to controls . female alcoholic 's platelet mao was significantly lower than controls and not different from activity levels in male alcoholics . among male alcoholics , both type 1 and type 2 subgroups were lower than controls and type 2 levels did not differ from type 1 levels . thus , we were unable to replicate a gender and subgroup low platelet mao specificity among alcoholics , but did find significant differences between alcoholics and controls . 
the acute effects of alcohol on the blood pressure of young , normotensive men . alcohol 's acute effects on arterial blood pressure ( bp ) were examined . to separate the effects of alcohol on bp from those of fluid volume and expectancy , normotensive men were divided into three groups . the alcohol group received 1.0 ml of absolute alcohol/kg of body weight . the expectancy group expected alcohol but received only tonic . the control group expected and received only tonic . with age as a covariate , significant changes in systolic bp were found only in the alcohol group , indicating that the changes in systolic bp were not attributable to subject expectancy or volume of fluid consumed . the expectancy control groups did not differ from each other . a significant quadratic trend was found for systolic bp in the alcohol group , suggesting that alcohol may have an acute biphasic effect on systolic bp , with an initial decrease as the alcohol is ingested followed by an increase toward the basal level during detoxication . no significant effects were found for diastolic bp . 
rupture of thoracic aorta caused by blunt trauma . a fifteen-year experience . during the 15 years from 1971 through 1985 , 114 patients with rupture of the thoracic aorta caused by blunt trauma were admitted to the shock trauma center of the maryland institute for emergency medical services systems . mean age was 31.3 years ( range , 15 to 80 ) . ninety were male and 24 were female , a 3.75:1 ratio . of the 114 , 89 ( 78.1 % ) survived initial resuscitation in the admitting area . twenty five of the 89 initial survivors ( 28.1 % ) died during or after surgical repair . paraplegia occurred in 11 of the 78 operating room survivors ( 14.1 % ) . further analysis was done of the 83 patients admitted in the 10-year period from 1976 through 1985 . mean injury severity score , excluding aortic injury , was 18.2 . twenty-five of the 83 ( 30.1 % ) died during resuscitation in the admitting area or operating room . seven others died during surgical repair and 12 died postoperatively , leaving 39 survivors ( 39/83 [ 47 % ] of total admissions and 39/58 [ 67.2 % ] of survivors of resuscitation ) . paraplegia/paresis developed postoperatively in six of 34 ( 17.6 % ) cases involving shunt and four of 17 ( 23.5 % ) without shunt . other major complications occurred in 21 of the operating room survivors . statistically significant risk of death or major complication was associated with female sex , higher injury severity score , lower admission blood pressure , larger hemothorax on admission , less qualified surgeon , major operation before aortic repair , use of shunt , and transfer directly from scene of injury . there was no advantage in this series to using or not using a shunt in preventing paraplegia . mortality rates are realistic for a highly developed trauma system . better techniques are needed to manage exsanguination and prevent paraplegia . 
effect of exposure of miners to aluminium powder . ' mcintyre powder ' ( finely ground aluminium and aluminium oxide ) was used as a prophylactic agent against silicotic lung disease between 1944 and 1979 in mines in northern ontario . to find out whether the practice produced neurotoxic effects a morbidity prevalence study was conducted between 1988 and 1989 . there were no significant differences between exposed and non-exposed miners in reported diagnoses of neurological disorder ; however , exposed miners performed less well than did unexposed workers on cognitive state examinations ; also , the proportion of men with scores in the impaired range was greater in the exposed than non-exposed group . likelihood of scores in the impaired range increased with duration of exposure . the findings are consistent with putative neurotoxicity of chronic aluminium exposure . 
comparison of oral iron chelator l1 and desferrioxamine in iron-loaded patients . the efficacy of the oral iron chelator 1,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one ( l1 ) was compared with that of subcutaneous desferrioxamine in 26 patients with transfusional iron overload . immediately after red-cell transfusion , 20 patients were randomised to receive either desferrioxamine ( 50 mg/kg daily as a 12 h subcutaneous infusion ) , or l1 ( 50 mg/kg daily by mouth ) . patients were evaluated during treatment with the other drug after transfusion the next month . mean ( sd ) daily urinary iron excretion was lower during l1 than during desferrioxamine ( 12.3 [ 6.7 ] vs 18.2 [ 15.3 ] mg/day ) . in 5 patients the dose of l1 was raised from 50 to 75 mg/kg daily ; mean urinary iron excretion rose from 13.8 ( 7.0 ) mg/day to 26.7 ( 17.8 ) mg/day , comparable with that during desferrioxamine ( 24.9 [ 24.3 ] mg/day ) . faecal iron excretion rose slightly over baseline in 6 patients studied during l1 administration ( from 8.5 [ 0.9 ] mg/day to 12.2 [ 0.9 ] mg/day ) . pharmacokinetic studies showed an elimination half-life for l1 of 117-237 min . studies in dogs and in volunteers showed no absorption of the l1-iron complex , excluding a contribution of absorption of intraluminal complexes of l1 and food iron to urinary iron excretion . further animal toxicity testing is needed before l1 can be studied in a broader group of patients . 
variations on the temporoparietal fascial flap . an improved understanding of the vascular supply of the layers of the temporal fossa has increased the potential of this region for new and ingenious reconstructive techniques . separate and independently vascularized layers of this region include hair-bearing scalp , glabrous skin , tempororoparietal fascia ( and galea aponeurotica ) , temporalis muscle and fascia , and pericranium . island flaps of glabrous skin and scalp provided esthetically appropriate tissue to cover a variety of defects . the malleable bulk of the subcutaneous fascial layers were combined with skin grafts to restore thin lining , and used as a vascularized bed for cartilage grafts in otherwise unsatisfactory recipient sites . illustrative cases from our 5-year clinical experience are presented to demonstrate various combinations of the temporoparietal fascial pedicle with tissues from the temporal region to reconstruct the eyebrows , eyelids , orbits , cheeks , and lips . 
pulsed carbon dioxide laser ablation of burned skin : in vitro and in vivo analysis . pulsed lasers produce efficient and precise tissue ablation with limited residual thermal damage . in this study , the efficiency of pulsed co2 laser ablation of burned and normal swine skin was studied in vitro with a mass loss technique . the heats of ablation for normal and burned skin were 2,706 and 2,416 j/cm3 of tissue ablated , respectively . the mean threshold radiant exposures for ablating normal skin and eschar were 2.6 j/cm2 and 3.0 j/cm2 , respectively . radiant exposures greater than 19 j/cm2 produced a plasma , which decreased the efficiency of laser ablation . thus the radiant exposures for efficient ablation range from 4 to 19 j/cm2 , and within this radiant exposure range 20-40 microns of tissue are ablated per pulse . we also examined , on a gross and histopathologic basis , in vivo burn eschar excision with a pulsed co2 laser . the laser allowed bloodless excisions of full thickness burns on the backs of male hairless rats . the zone of thermal damage was approximately 85 microns over the subjacent fascia . the pulsed co2 laser can ablate burn eschar efficiently , precisely , and bloodlessly and may prove valuable for the excision of burned and necrotic tissue . 
genucom knee analysis system : reproducibility and database development . the genucom is a relatively new computerized system that performs a multidimensional analysis of knee laxity . therefore , the purposes of the present investigation were twofold : 1 ) to estimate the reproducibility of the testing system in its ability to obtain similar test values on the same test subject within a back-to-back two-test protocol and 2 ) to develop a database of normal values as a standard against which values of suspected ligament injury can be compared to reliably determine whether , in fact , ligament injury has occurred . in the reproducibility phase of the study , 20 subjects were tested in two trials each of eight tests , yielding 20 separate test values per trial , accounting for each angle of flexion and plane of force tested . both legs were tested , providing an n of 40 . test-retest correlations of the two trials and dependent t-tests indicated that the genucom provided generally stable and reproducible results . in the normal value database phase of the study , 218 different subjects were given one trial of the same eight tests . testing of both legs provided an n greater than 400 . means and standard deviations were calculated for each test . 
in vivo biological effects of stereotactic radiosurgery : a primate model . single-fraction , closed skull , small-volume irradiation ( radiosurgery ) of intact intracranial structures requires accurate knowledge of radiation tolerance . we have developed a baboon model to assess the in vivo destructive radiobiological effects of stereotactic radiosurgery . three baboons received a single-fraction , 150-gy lesion of the caudate nucleus , the thalamus , or the pons using the 8-mm diameter collimator of the gamma unit . serial standard neurodiagnostic tests ( neurological examination , computed tomographic scan , magnetic resonance imaging , stable xenon-enhanced computed tomographic scan of cerebral blood flow , somatosensory and brain stem evoked potentials , and myelin basic protein levels of cerebrospinal fluid ) were compared with preoperative studies . magnetic resonance imaging revealed the development of a lesion at the target site between 45 and 60 days after irradiation . deterioration of the brain stem evoked potentials preceded imaging changes when the lesion encroached on auditory pathways . myelin basic protein levels increased subsequent to imaging changes . postmortem neuropathological examination confirmed a well-demarcated radionecrosis of the target volume . the baboon model appears to be an excellent method to study the in vivo biological effects of radiosurgery . 
posterior interosseous nerve palsies . one hundred seventy patients with radial nerve disorders were reviewed at the louisiana state university medical center over a 15-year period . of these , 32 had involvement of the posterior interosseous nerve exclusively . findings included weak wrist extension with a radial drift , inability to extend the fingers , paralysis of thumb extension , and weak thumb abduction . causes included entrapment at the arcade of froshe ( 14 patients ) , laceration ( 6 patients ) , fracture ( 6 patients ) , compression or contusion ( 3 patients ) , and loss associated with tumor ( 3 patients ) . the ratio of men to women was 2:1 , and the right arm was involved twice as often as the left . preoperative evaluation included physical examination , electrophysiological testing ( electromyogram/nerve conduction velocity ) , and roentgenograms of the elbow and forearm . of the 30 patients ( 2 patients had bilateral lesions ) , 26 underwent operation . in the operative series , all 28 nerves had a function of grade 3 or more of a possible 5 after 4 years of follow-up . seventeen had achieved grade 4/5 , and 7 had obtained grade 5/5 . at operation , 23 nerves were found to be in continuity . fourteen lesions of nerves in continuity were associated with entrapment and , not unexpectedly , transmitted a nerve action potential with slowed conduction and low amplitude across the lesion . four nerves in continuity that had lesions caused by injury had nerve action potentials and were treated by neurolysis , and another 4 had no nerve action potentials and were treated by graft or suture repair . five injured nerves were not in continuity . two could be repaired by end-to-end suture , and 3 required graft repair . a large ganglion cyst involving the posterior interosseous nerve was also resected . 
ischemic brain damage in a model of acute subdural hematoma . ischemic brain damage is the most important neuropathological finding in humans who die after acute subdural hematoma ; however , its causes are poorly understood . we have produced acute subdural hematoma in the rat by injecting 400 microliters of autologous blood ( approximately 20 % of intracranial volume ) into the subdural space . extensive areas of ischemic damage , involving 14 to 16 % of the volume of the hemisphere , developed in this model at 4 and 24 hours after the lesion . the hematomas were associated with a brief peak in intracranial pressure ( 51 mm hg ) , which remained at three times normal levels ( 14 mm hg ) for 3 hours . in this model , therefore , ischemic damage appears to be due to the local effects of blood overlying the cortex at 4 hours after the ictus , rather than to globally raised intracranial pressure . the implications for the pathophysiology of acute subdural hematomas in humans are discussed . 
traumatic aneurysm of the superior cerebellar artery : case report and review of the literature . less than 10 % of the 250 reported cases of traumatic intracranial aneurysms have involved the posterior circulation . traumatic aneurysms of the superior cerebellar artery are extremely rare , with only three cases previously reported . this is the first report of a traumatic superior cerebellar artery aneurysm in which the diagnosis was suggested by computed tomographic scan . the potential for a good outcome suggests the value of early angiography when the history and diagnostic imaging studies suggest the possibility of a traumatic aneurysm . 
intradural herniation of a thoracic disc presenting as flaccid paraplegia : case report . a case of intradural herniation of a thoracic disc in a patient with a flaccid paraplegia is described . intradural herniation of a thoracic disc is considered a rare event . a review of the relevant patient literature revealed 14 other reports involving 28 patients . no other report has described a patient with an intradural thoracic disc herniation who developed a flaccid paraplegia . 
xenon-enhanced computed tomographic measurement of cerebral blood flow in patients with chronic subdural hematomas . we compared clinical symptoms with extent of brain shift on computed tomographic ( ct ) scans and quantitative and three-dimensional measurements of cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) on xenon-enhanced ct scans in 10 patients with chronic subdural hematomas . five patients had only headache and minimal or no brain shift on a ct scan . the other five had hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance in addition to headache and moderate or severe brain shift on a ct scan . the mean hemispheric cbf decreased about 7 % in patients with headache and about 35 % in patients with hemiparesis and/or mental disturbance . it decreased also on the side without the hematoma . the cbf reduction was always more pronounced in the putamen and thalamus than in the cortex . on the contrary , the cortex cbf was mostly preserved or even elevated in both groups of patients . we speculate that cbf reduction in patients with a chronic subdural hematoma occurs initially in central cerebral areas like the basal ganglia and thalamus , and then extends to the entire hemisphere including the cortex as brain compression and displacement progress . central cerebral area involvement might be more responsible for clinical symptoms than the cortex . 
effect of dosage and timing of administration of naloxone on outcome in the rat ventral compression model of spinal cord injury . the effect of the dosage and timing of administration of naloxone after spinal cord injury in rats via the ventral compression technique is presented . the rat ventral compression technique allows for a ventral compression of the spinal cord without the requirement of a previous laminectomy . it therefore facilitates the creation of an experimental lesion that is similar to that observed in the human clinicopathological situation . the first part of the two-part study presented herein involved the determination of the optimal dose of naloxone , administered intraperitoneally 45 minutes after the creation of the lesion . of the groups studied ( control group through 10.0 mg/kg group ) , 2.0 mg/kg of naloxone proved to be superior to both lesser and greater dosages . the second part of the study involved the administration of a 2.0 mg/kg dose of naloxone at varying intervals ranging from 10 minutes before lesioning to 24 hours after lesioning . a multiphasic response was again demonstrated , with an optimal time of administration occurring 45 minutes after the creation of the lesion . a significant effect was offered by a midrange dose of naloxone ( 2.0 mg/kg ) , administered at 45 minutes after injury ( p less than 0.02 by analysis of variance and duncan 's multiple range test ) . these findings are discussed with respect to recent evidence regarding the effects of narcotic antagonists on both mu and kappa narcotic receptors . past and future experiments must account for these responses to multiphasic dosage and timing of administration . failure to do so may lead to erroneous conclusions . 
subdural hematoma associated with metastatic neoplasms . two cases of subdural hematoma , one acute and the other chronic , associated with cancer metastatic to the dura are reported . various mechanisms of the association of hematomas with cancer are reviewed . 
radiation necrosis of the optic chiasm , optic tract , hypothalamus , and upper pons after radiotherapy for pituitary adenoma , detected by gadolinium-enhanced , t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging : case report . a 26-year-old woman was treated for a prolactin secreting pituitary adenoma by surgery and radiotherapy ( 5860 rads ) . fourteen months later , she developed right hemiparesis and dysarthria . a t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan using gadolinium contrast showed a small , enhanced lesion in the upper pons . seven months later , she had a sudden onset of loss of vision , and radiation optic neuropathy was diagnosed . a t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan showed widespread gadolinium-enhanced lesions in the optic chiasm , optic tract , and hypothalamus . magnetic resonance imaging is indispensable for the early diagnosis of radiation necrosis , which is not visualized by radiography or computed tomography . 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome : a unique association with a tricyclic antidepressant . we report the lst case of neuroleptic malignant syndrome occurring in a patient receiving desipramine , a tricyclic antidepressant , with no exposure to neuroleptics . our case suggests that this syndrome may be caused by a central imbalance between norepinephrine and dopamine , and not by dopamine depletion alone . 
introducing the ' walk-up ' flap . reconstructive oral and maxillofacial surgeons often find the need for additional soft tissue even when a myocutaneous flap has been previously placed . this article introduces the principles , technique , and results of 32 " walk-up " muscle flaps derived from existing myocutaneous flaps . the anastomotic vascular ingrowth at the original myocutaneous flap 's distal end permits its proximal detachment and axial vessel ligation to rotate the proximal two thirds to a tissue-deficient site . in our experience at the university of miami , these flaps have been predictable ( 97 % viable transfer rate ) , have provided vascular soft tissue in deficient areas , and have been skin grafted at their surface to increase oral lining or skin cover , among several other uses . 
replantation : an analysis of 29 teeth . the results of replantation of 29 teeth are described . maxillary incisors constituted 85 % of 27 permanent teeth . the period between avulsion and replantation ranged from within an hour to 86 days , but the actual extraoral period was within 5 hours in all but one case . nineteen of the 27 permanent teeth were functioning for 7 months to 6 years and 7 months postoperatively . root resorption was the cause of tooth loss in five cases . the incidence of root resorption seemed to increase with the increase of the extraoral period , but it was not affected by the period between avulsion and replantation , the condition of supporting tissues , the degree of root formation , and the type and period of splinting , indicating multiple factors involved in determining the prognosis of replanted teeth . in conclusion , every effort should be made to preserve avulsed teeth even in unfavorable conditions . 
leakage of fluid administered epidurally to rats into subcutaneous tissue epidural catheters were implanted in rats under halothane/nitrous oxide anaesthesia . contrast medium ( iopamidol ) was injected via the catheter under fluoroscopic control 24-48 h after implantation . in 15 of 20 rats contrast could be seen leaking out of the epidural space , usually after only 25 microliters was administered . leakage was associated with diminished antinociceptive response to morphine administered via the catheter . both leakage and decreased response to morphine could be largely prevented by applying a drop of supa-glue over the site of entry of the catheter to the epidural space at the time of catheter implantation . investigators using epidurally cannulated rats should document that leakage does not occur or discard results from rats showing evidence of leakage . 
heritability of symptoms in an experimental model of neuropathic pain . male and female rats underwent transection and ligation of the sciatic and saphenous nerves , and the development of autonomy was monitored . the deafferented animals were then interbred , always selecting males and females that expressed relatively high and , alternatively , relatively low levels of autotomy . offspring were similarly operated and interbred . by the sixth generation of selective breeding , lines were achieved in which autotomy was consistently high ( ha ) or consistently low ( la ) . there was no indication of sex linkage . thermal and mechanical nocifensive responsiveness co-selected with propensity to express autotomy following nerve injury : response thresholds were lower in ha than in la rats . f1 hybrids formed by crossing homozygous ha and la animals showed low levels of autotomy , similar to la stock . this indicates recessive inheritance of the autotomy trait . backcrossing f1 hybrids onto the la line yielded a low autotomy phenotype in almost all cases ; backcrossing f1 hybrids onto ha stock yielded about 50 % high autotomy and 50 % low autotomy . these ratios are consistent with simple mendelian inheritance of a single gene . taken together , the data suggest that autotomy is inherited as a single-gene autosomal recessive trait . 
interactions between substance p , calcitonin gene-related peptide , taurine and excitatory amino acids in the spinal cord . using in vivo microdialysis in the dorsal spinal cord of the rat , we have previously observed increases in glutamate and aspartate during exposure to a noxious stimulus . the present investigation was designed to determine whether these increases may be mediated by substance p. infusion of 1 mm of substance p in the dialysis fluid increased the concentrations of glutamate and aspartate , similar to the response seen during noxious stimulation . in addition , substance p also increased the concentrations of the inhibitory amino acids glycine and taurine . calcitonin gene-related peptide , previously shown to enhance substance p-induced biting and scratching behavior , produced no effect on amino acid release by itself but potentiated the apparent release of taurine by substance p. to assess the importance of substance p-induced amino acid release in sensory processing , we examined the influence of taurine and of excitatory amino acid antagonists on the biting and scratching behavior produced by excitatory amino acids and substance p. taurine selectively inhibited only substance p-induced biting and scratching while excitatory amino acid antagonists inhibited only excitatory amino acid-induced behavior . to further explore the ability of taurine to inhibit the substance p-induced behavior , 3 tests of nociception were then used . pretreatment with taurine inhibited the nociceptive-related writhing behavior produced by an intraperitoneal injection of acetic acid in mice but failed to alter the latency of response in the hot plate or tail flick assay . 
children riding in the back of pickup trucks : a neglected safety issue . motor vehicle-related trauma is the leading cause of death in children in the united states . all states have pediatric restraint requirements for passenger vehicles to help prevent these deaths and injuries . only a few states , however , possess safety laws or restrictions for passengers who ride in the back of pickup trucks . a retrospective review of medical records for a 40-month period revealed 40 patients whose injuries were a direct result of being a passenger in the cargo area ( bed ) of a pickup truck . their injuries and other pertinent data are discussed . representatives from the highway safety commission of each state were surveyed about their specific highway safety laws . the responses revealed that all states and the district of columbia have child restraint requirements for passenger automobiles , 34 states have adult restraint laws , but only 17 states have any type of restriction for passengers riding in the back of pickup trucks . seventy-one percent of the states with pickup truck regulations include only the preschool-age child . data from the national highway traffic safety administration concerning pickup trucks and passenger fatality are presented and discussed . 
hair dryer burns in children . three children with burn injuries caused by home hair dryers are described . in one patient the injury was believed to be accidental , and in the other two cases the injuries were deliberately caused by a caretaker . the lack of prior experience with hair dryer burns initially led to suspicion of other causes . the characteristics of each case aided in the final determination of accidental vs nonaccidental injury . these cases prompted testing of home hair dryers to determine their heat output . at the highest heat settings , the dryers rapidly generated temperatures in excess of 110 degrees c. after the dryers were turned off , the protective grills maintained sufficient temperatures to cause full-thickness burns for up to 2 minutes . these cases and the results of testing demonstrate that hair dryers must be added to the list of known causes of accidental and nonaccidental burns in children . 
self-induced urinary tract infection in school-age boys . this study focuses on a consecutive series of 31 boys , aged 5 years 3 months to 14 years 9 months , who had a first diagnosed urinary tract infection . a questionnaire administered after diagnosis revealed that 10 of these boys injected water into their urethra while taking a bath in the few days preceding the onset of infection . neither presenting symptoms nor urine tests can distinguish self-inflicted infections from infections occurring spontaneously . however , no urinary tract malformations were detected among the boys with a history of urethral manipulation whereas one third of the other 21 boys had anomalies . if these data are confirmed by other studies , complete imaging investigation could then be avoided in such cases . it could also become possible to prevent a number of urinary tract infections in school-age boys by warning parents and children of the serious risks of self-instrumentation . 
health assessment of the early adolescent . challenges and clinical issues . although early adolescence spans only 4 years , it is a critical time in the life of a young person in forming opinions and selecting options . specific attention to the growing and changing needs of this population is imperative if their health status is to improve . 
let 's stop the comeback of tuberculosis . best drug regimens for prevention and treatment . tuberculosis has been on the increase in recent years , so physicians need to be aware of it once again . very effective drugs are available to treat the disease . pharmacokinetics , dosing schedule , and adverse reactions of each anti-tuberculous agent need to be considered . a short ( 6-month ) course of therapy is now recommended : isoniazid , rifampin ( rifadin , rimactane ) , and pyrazinamide are given for the initial 2 months , followed by isoniazid and rifampin for 4 months . if drug resistance is a factor , a fourth drug is added to the initial regimen , and therapy may have to be extended . chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid is very important to reduce the incidence of tuberculosis . it should be given to all high-risk persons . 
abdominal trauma in pregnancy . when is fetal monitoring necessary ? the type and duration of observation and monitoring of mother and fetus after abdominal trauma are dependent on gestational age and severity of trauma . fetal monitoring is usually not required when the fetus is not viable ; the primary consideration is the safety of the mother . when the fetus is viable , 24-hour inpatient fetal monitoring is indicated in cases of major trauma , even when no symptoms of injury are obvious . 
simultaneous reconstruction of cervical soft tissue and esophagus with a gastro-omental free flap . a microvascular transfer of gastric tube and omentum was used to simultaneously reconstruct cervical soft-tissue and esophageal defects in five patients . all patients had previous high-dose radiation and multiple flap reconstructions . the largest esophageal and soft-tissue defects were 10 cm and 160 cm2 , respectively . all wounds healed primarily except for one orocutaneous fistula . there was one death from an intraoperative stroke . the gastro-omental flap is useful in cases where the reconstructive surgeon is faced with both esophageal and soft-tissue defects -- particularly in heavily irradiated patients who have few reconstructive options . 
the radial forearm flap for reconstruction of the upper extremity . the radial forearm flap , owing to its good-caliber arteries of long length and equally well distributed venous system , has proved very reliable . it has not only earned its place and recognition in reconstructive hand surgery , but also has emerged as a workhorse for the microvascular surgeon . we have used 14 radial forearm flaps for upper extremity reconstruction , and we present herein our experience . the technique of extracorporeal tissue transfer , which has been published elsewhere , was used in two patients and is detailed . four representative patients are presented . 
calcium carbonate gel therapy for hydrofluoric acid burns of the hand . hydrofluoric acid is used extensively as an industrial cleaning agent for metals and glass . many workers are injured by cutaneous contact of the acid with exposed skin surfaces , particularly hands . hydrofluoric acid burns are characterized by delayed onset of symptomatology with skin ulceration , and severe pain may be of extended duration . treatment of hydrofluoric acid burns traditionally has consisted of local infiltration or intraarterial injections of calcium solutions . these injections are painful and frequently require retreatment . a new treatment utilizing a topical gel of calcium carbonate is described . nine patients have been treated for hydrofluoric acid burns of the hand with calcium carbonate gel applied topically and covered with occlusive glove dressings . a gel slurry is compounded from calcium carbonate tablets and k-y jelly . fingernails of the affected fingers are removed if a subungual burn is obvious . the gel is put into a surgeon 's glove and placed over the burned hand . the patient replaces the glove and slurry every 4 hours for 24 hours . after the first day , the glove is discontinued unless there is resumption of painful symptoms . full range of motion is encouraged during this interval . the calcium carbonate gel technique was successfully utilized in nine patients with no further need for injection therapy . in these patients , pain relief was obtained within 4 hours of treatment , with no further progression of skin ulceration . no reconstructive procedures were required in any patient , and only one patient did not return to full-duty work within 1 week . there were no long-term sequelae from burns treated with this topical therapy , except one patient , who presenting 24 hours after the burn , developed a digital tip neuroma that was excised . 
controlled tissue expansion of a groin flap for upper extremity reconstruction . a large upper extremity defect in an 8-year-old girl was resurfaced with an expanded groin flap . tissue expansion allowed complete coverage of the defect while minimizing the donor deformity . pretransfer expansion of pedicled flaps offers an alternative to free-flap reconstruction of complex upper extremity defects . this is especially valuable in the pediatric patient , in whom donor-site morbidity can be significant . 
improved technique for a one-stage repair of significant defects of the ear . an improved technique for repair of severe acquired partial defects of the auricle in one stage is described . the common postauricular flap with its base on the margin of the auricular defect is usually unable to repair a severe partial auricular defect in one stage because of the limited length of the flap . the authors developed this technique by means of lengthening the flap with a piece of subcutaneous tissue of the scalp , so that the ear framework can be covered completely in one stage . all flaps in this group survived totally . seven patients with severe acquired partial defects of the auricle underwent this procedure , and good results were obtained . 
persistent segmental cutaneous anesthesia after a brown recluse spider bite . patients with brown recluse spider bites commonly suffer from pain , muscular aching , and a variety of local dysesthesias during the acute and resolution phases of toxin-induced injury . this is our first well-documented observation of persistent cutaneous anesthesia caused by a spider bite . the anesthetic area conformed to the distribution of a specific nerve , the transverse cervical cutaneous nerve . the identification of the spider as a brown recluse and the location of the bite over the nerve 's usual pathway strongly suggest that the venom was responsible for this complication . 
acute obstructive jaundice in the multiple trauma patient . the appearance of acute jaundice in the multiple trauma patient may result from obstruction of the common bile duct by clot . management of this problem may be hindered by a delay in diagnosis , especially where alterations in pigment load and hepatic clearance may have produced the jaundice . a high index of suspicion combined with the judicious use of various noninvasive imaging modalities may be helpful in making the diagnosis . the progression of jaundice in a patient suspected of having acute obstructive hemobilia should prompt rapid operative intervention . at laparotomy , cholangiography or common bile duct exploration should be done . persistent bleeding should be managed initially with angiographic localization and transcatheter embolization ; its failure would necessitate surgical control of the source . 
traumatic diaphragmatic hernia and intestinal obstruction due to penetrating trunk wounds . we have reported two cases of intestinal obstruction due to traumatic diaphragmatic hernia , both resulting from apparently trivial knife wounds . when tdh is due to a penetrating injury , it tends to produce symptoms of intestinal obstruction . a high index of suspicion , a chest x-ray film , and barium studies of the gastrointestinal tract are usually needed to make the diagnosis , though ct scans , ultrasonography , laparoscopy , and radionuclide scanning may also be useful . surgeons and emergency physicians should be aware of the potential for tdh when there is a history of a penetrating wound of the chest or abdomen . 
1990 volvo award in clinical sciences . lumbar spinal pathology in cadaveric material in relation to history of back pain , occupation , and physical loading . the occurrence of symmetric disc degeneration , anular ruptures , end-plate defects , vertebral body osteophytosis , and facet joint osteoarthrosis was examined radiographically and osteologically in 86 male cadavers for whom occupational , physical loading , and back pain histories were obtained from the men 's families . history of back pain and the parameters of spinal pathology were related to the highest and lowest degrees of physical loading . in multivariate analyses , history of back injury was related to the occurrence of symmetric disc degeneration , anular ruptures , and vertebral osteophytosis . symmetric disc degeneration was associated with sedentary work , and vertebral osteophytosis was related to heavy work . history of back pain was related to occupational physical loading after control for the effects of the other covariates . the results indicate that the least pathology stemmed from moderate or mixed physical loading , but the least back pain was associated with sedentary work . 
the role of spinal flexibility in back pain complaints within industry . a prospective study . commonly used clinical measurements of spinal flexibility in the sagittal and frontal planes were examined as predictors of future back pain reports within industry . the study sample consisted of 3,020 aircraft manufacturing employees who were examined and tracked for more than 4 years for reports of back pain . modified schober , sit-and-reach , and lateral bending measurements were not significantly associated with risk of future back pain reporting , nor were any trends present . there was a statistically significant relationship between decreased flexibility and reports of current or previous back problems . however , the differences in flexibility between subjects with and without a history of back problems were too small to be of practical significance . 
the loads on the lumbar spine during work at an assembly line . the risks for fatigue injuries of vertebral bodies . this study was performed in an attempt to determine the total spinal compressive load during assembly line work to find a possible association with the many complaints of back pain . a flexion analyzer was used to register trunk movements , and analysis of postures and lifted weights was done from video recordings . the load on the spine at the l3 level was calculated through a biomechanical model , meant for analysis of static , sagittally symmetric postures and lifting tasks . maximum lift tests were performed before and after a full work day . the peak load on the l3-l4 level when lifting corresponded to an average 22 % of the load at the lift test . the mean load during a work cycle was 818 n. it was concluded that the many complaints of back pain could not be attributed to high peak loads , repetitivity of the lifts , or large load doses . monotony , stress , and low job satisfaction are more likely factors of greater importance . 
osteoporosis and back pain in the elderly . a controlled epidemiologic and radiographic study . the incidence of back pain was investigated in hip fracture patients , 50-99 years of age , and in 70 - , 75 - , and 81-year-old controls from the same population . the prevalence of vertebral fractures were evaluated from spinal radiographs . eighty hip fracture patients and 103 controls , all between 70 and 75 years of age , were included in the radiographic study . the incidence of back pain of the controls was twice that of the hip fracture patients , 45-48 % compared with 23-20 % , respectively , for both female and male subjects . conversely , vertebral fractures were radiographically shown in 43 % of the hip fracture patients and in 22 % of the controls . thus , the major explanation for longstanding back pain in the elderly does not appear to be related to spinal osteoporosis . 
traumatic disruptions of the thoracic aorta : treatment and outcome . of 27 patients admitted to our level i trauma center with acute disruption of the thoracic aorta , two patients died of exsanguination before aortic repair . one patient had massive leakage from the aneurysm after aortography and died during surgery . all patients suffered from multiple injuries . eighty-three percent of the patients had major operations in addition to the aortic repair . " clamp and sew " technique was used in 18 patients ( 75 % ) , two of whom had multiple tears of the aortic arch . heparin-coated shunts were used in five patients ( 20.8 % ) , and a cardiopulmonary bypass was performed in one patient who had multiple tears . three postoperative deaths were related to polytrauma , cardiogenic shock , and sepsis . paraplegia developed in three patients , two of whom had multiple aortic lesions necessitating longer ischemia time during the repair . only one patient had complete neurologic deficit at the 1-year follow-up . in our series , neither surgical procedure proved superior . we conclude that the " clamp and sew " technique for repair of the disrupted thoracic aorta may allow for a more favorable outcome . 
gastric outlet obstruction caused by traumatic pseudoaneurysm of superior mesenteric artery . traumatic pseudoaneurysms of the superior mesenteric artery ( sma ) are extremely rare . we describe two cases of posttraumatic proximal sma pseudoaneurysms with symptoms of gastric outlet obstruction . repair was accomplished by aorta-sma bypass with saphenous vein . injuries to the proximal sma are easily missed at laparotomy , especially if intestinal ischemia or hematomas are absent . recognition and repair are stressed to avoid the complications associated with pseudoaneurysm formation . 
focal ischemic damage is reduced by cpp-ene studies in two animal models . we have studied a new high-affinity competitive n-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist , d-cpp-ene ( sdz-eaa 494 ) , in two models of focal cerebral ischemia . in the cat middle cerebral artery occlusion model ( 6 hours ' survival ) , pretreatment with d-cpp-ene reduced infarct size by 64 % ( 15 mg/kg dose ) and 60 % ( 4.5 mg/kg dose ) . there was no reduction in infarct size at a dose of 1.5 mg/kg . treatment 1 hour after the occlusion reduced infarct size slightly , but not significantly . in a new model of subdural hematoma in the rat , the zone of cortical ischemic damage beneath the blood clot was reduced by 54 % with d-cpp-ene pretreatment . neuroprotective efficacy in a gyrencephalic species comparable to that of noncompetitive antagonists thus can be achieved with this agent . these experiments also indicate that competitive n-methyl-d-aspartate antagonists may be clinically useful after traumatic intracranial hematomas . 
the evolving pattern of digoxin intoxication : observations at a large urban hospital from 1980 to 1988 . digoxin intoxication has been reported to be a common adverse drug reaction with an in-hospital incidence of 6 % to 23 % and an associated mortality rate as high as 41 % . a retrospective review was conducted to assess the accuracy of diagnosis , the morbidity and mortality of digoxin intoxication , and its incidence in hospitalized patients with heart failure . we reviewed the medical records of 219 patients discharged with the diagnosis of digoxin intoxication between 1980 and 1988 . patients were classified as follows : ( 1 ) definite intoxication -- patients with symptoms and/or arrhythmias suggestive of digoxin intoxication that resolved after discontinuation of digoxin ; ( 2 ) possible intoxication -- patients with symptoms and/or arrhythmias suggestive of digoxin intoxication in the absence of documented resolution after discontinuation of digoxin , or the presence of other clinical illnesses that could possibly account for those findings ; ( 3 ) no intoxication -- patients whose symptoms or ecg abnormalities were clearly explained by other associated clinical illnesses and persisted after withdrawal of digoxin . we identified only 43 patients ( 20 % ) with definite intoxication . the majority of patients discharged with the diagnosis of digoxin intoxication ( 133 or 60 % ) were classified as possibly digoxin intoxicated , and 43 patients ( 20 % ) had no clinical evidence to support this diagnosis . to estimate the incidence of digoxin intoxication , we also reviewed the medical records of 994 patients admitted in 1987 with heart failure . of these , 563 were receiving digoxin and in 27 the diagnosis of digoxin intoxication was made by their clinicians . our review showed that only four were definitely intoxicated ( 0.8 % ) , and the diagnosis could not be excluded in another 16 ( 4 % ) . 
risk of cardiovascular mortality in alcohol drinkers , ex-drinkers and nondrinkers . lower cardiovascular mortality rates in lighter drinkers ( versus abstainers or heavier drinkers ) in population studies have been substantially due to lower coronary artery disease ( cad ) mortality . controversy about this u-shaped curve focuses on whether alcohol protects against cad or , because of other traits , whether abstainers are at increased risk . inclusion of ex-drinkers among abstainers in some studies has led to speculation that this might be the trait increasing the risk of abstainers . this new prospective study among 123,840 persons with 1,002 cardiovascular ( 600 cad ) deaths showed that ex-drinkers had higher cardiovascular and cad mortality risks than lifelong abstainers in unadjusted analyses , but not in analyses adjusted for age , gender , race , body mass index , marital status and education . use of alcohol was associated with higher risk of mortality from hypertension , hemorrhagic stroke and cardiomyopathy , but with lower risk from cad , occlusive stroke and nonspecific cardiovascular syndromes . subsets free of baseline cardiovascular or cad risk had u-shaped alcohol-cad curves similar to subsets with baseline risk . among ex-drinkers , maximal past intake and reasons for quitting ( medical versus non-medical ) were unrelated to cardiovascular or cad mortality . these data show that : ( 1 ) alcohol has disparate relations to cardiovascular conditions ; ( 2 ) higher cardiovascular mortality rates among ex-drinkers are due to confounding traits related to past alcohol use ; and ( 3 ) the u-shaped alcohol-cad relation is not due to selective abstinence by persons at higher risk . the findings indirectly support a protective effect of lighter drinking against cad . 
chronic ethanol feeding and acute ethanol exposure in vitro : effect on intestinal transport of biotin . this study examined the effects of chronic ethanol feeding and acute ethanol exposure in vitro on biotin transport in rat intestine . transport studies were performed with intestinal everted sacs . ethanol was fed to rats for 6-7 wk . compared with pair-fed controls , ethanol feeding significantly decreased plasma biotin concentrations and transport at physiological concentrations ( 0.01 , 0.1 , and 0.3 mumol/l ) but not at pharmacological concentration ( 100 mumol/l ) . when added to the incubation medium of everted jejunal sacs from dry-food-fed rats , ethanol ( 2 % vol : vol ) significantly inhibited the transport of biotin at a physiological concentration ( 0.1 mumol/l ) but not at a pharmacological concentration ( 100 mumol/l ) . the inhibitory effect of ethanol on the transport of 0.1 mumol biotin/l increased with increasing concentration of ethanol in the incubation medium [ 0.5 % to 5 % ( vol : vol ) ] . acetaldehyde , the major ethanol metabolite , also significantly inhibited biotin transport at 0.2 % ( vol : vol ) . these data demonstrate that chronic ethanol feeding and acute ethanol exposure in vitro inhibit the intestinal transport of biotin by the carrier-mediated process . chronic ethanol feeding is also associated with a significant decrease in plasma biotin concentrations . the ethanol-induced inhibition in intestinal transport of biotin may be a contributing factor in reducing plasma biotin concentrations . 
childhood deaths from toy balloons . we describe four children who died of suffocation by rubber balloons in canada between 1983 and 1988 . in the united states , at least 121 children have died in a similar manner in the 15 years between 1973 and 1988 according to a report by the us consumer product safety commission . although the highest mortality occurred among infants , 30 ( 25 % ) of the 121 deaths occurred in children 6 years of age or older . balloons account for 43 % of the approximately 15 childhood deaths related to children 's products that are documented each year by the consumer product safety commission . toy rubber balloons are thus the leading cause of pediatric choking deaths from children 's products . preventive efforts should be directed toward a ban on this type of balloon and the development of safer alternatives . meanwhile , public information campaigns should alert parents , physicians , and policymakers to the dangers of toy rubber balloons . 
lead poisoning and thalassemia trait or iron deficiency . the value of the red blood cell distribution width . the cause of microcytosis and anemia in lead poisoning was investigated using red blood cell distribution width as a screening parameter in 21 consecutive patients with lead poisoning and seven nonrandomly selected patients with iron deficiency and lead poisoning . of the 21 consecutive patients , 11 had microcytosis as defined by a mean corpuscular volume of less than 72 fl , nine had thalassemia trait ( alpha or beta ) , one had both alpha thalassemia trait and iron deficiency , and one had iron deficiency . the red blood cell distribution width was less than 17.0 in those with thalassemia trait and greater than 17.0 in the iron-deficient subjects . results of our study suggest that microcytosis in children with lead poisoning is due to coexistent iron deficiency or thalassemia trait . the red blood cell distribution width may be of value in the rapid assessment of the cause of microcytosis in children with lead poisoning . 
pediatrician 's knowledge and practices regarding parental use of alcohol . problems with alcohol are common in the united states but are too frequently ignored by physicians , particularly those working with children . we explored pediatricians ' knowledge and practices regarding parental use of alcohol and compared these attributes with those of family practitioners . child health care providers attending three continuing medical education courses in general pediatrics were surveyed using a closed-item questionnaire . one hundred ninety ( 69 % ) of the participants responded , including 90 pediatricians and 39 family practitioners . forty-six percent of responding pediatricians , compared with 90 % of family practitioners , stated that they ask about problems with alcohol in taking a routine family history . thirty-eight percent of pediatricians who knew the frequency of alcoholism , compared with 47 % of those who did not , indicated that they include it in taking a routine family history . forty-six percent of pediatricians who have experienced a problem with alcohol in their own family , compared with 20 % of pediatricians without such personal experience , routinely address the issue of alcohol use with parents and children . similar analyses among the family practitioners revealed no significant differences . we conclude that fewer than half of pediatricians ask about problems with alcohol in taking a family history . the likelihood of asking about such problems was not influenced by the health care provider 's knowledge of alcoholism , but it was influenced by the provider 's personal family history of problems with alcohol . because of the important morbidity associated with alcohol use in families , and because intervention can improve functioning and adaptation of the child , training and continuing medical education courses should address this issue . 
prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in elderly women . to better understand which women use estrogen replacement therapy , we examined the prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in 9704 nonblack women , age greater than or equal to 65 years , who participated in the multicenter prospective study of osteoporotic fractures . overall , 13.7 % of women reported current use of oral estrogen ; 10.9 % took estrogen alone and 2.8 % took estrogen opposed by progestin . four percent currently used parenteral estrogen compounds . current use declined sharply with age from 17 % at age 65 to 4 % at age greater than or equal to 85 . the primary determinant of estrogen replacement therapy was the type of menopause ; the odds of using estrogen replacement therapy in current users compared with never users were approximately five times higher in women with a surgical menopause . estrogen use was more common among women who had higher levels of education and were less obese . furthermore , estrogen replacement therapy users were more likely to drink alcohol and to participate in sports and recreation . a diagnosis of osteoporosis was the major determinant of continued estrogen use , but only 24 % of women with a diagnosis of osteoporosis used estrogen replacement therapy . we conclude that only a small proportion of elderly women in the united states use estrogen replacement therapy . selection factors for use of estrogen are evident and may introduce bias in studies of estrogen and disease . in consideration of the distribution of these selection factors , estrogen users will tend to be at lower risk of coronary disease and possibly breast cancer but at greater risk for hip fractures . 
hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury . hemoperitoneum as a result of coital injury without associated vaginal injury is an extremely rare entity , and evidence by only five cases that have been reported in the medical literature to date . we report five additional cases encountered in two medical centers . two of these were ruptured corpus luteum cysts , one was a laceration of the round ligament , another was a laceration of an ovary , and the fifth was rupture of a serous cystadenoma . this diagnosis should be considered in patients with hemoperitoneum after coitus . 
effects of altering the eicosanoid precursor pool on neovascularization and inflammation in the alkali-burned rabbit cornea . the effects of altering the eicosanoid precursor pool on several aspects of the nonimmunologically mediated inflammatory and angiogenic processes that follow 1n and 4n naoh alkali burning of the rabbit cornea were compared with controls . diets were supplemented with several dosages of oils containing either gamma-linolenic acid ( gla ) ( borage oil ) , eicosapentaenoic acid ( epa ) ( sardine oil ) , or a combination of the two in a dose-response protocol . significant changes in serum fatty acid composition were demonstrated . gamma-linolenic acid proved consistently superior to epa in modulating the neovascular response judged by three neovascular indices . at 14 days , gla significantly reduced the polymorphonuclear leukocyte and macrophage inflammatory infiltrate and epa reduced the macrophage component , both with high dose ; epa also reduced keratocyte proliferation . wound-healing parameters were unaffected . evidence for gla-epa synergism was modest . prolonged neovascular responses and chronic inflammation occurring in the clinically relevant context of severe structural damage can be modulated by nutritional alteration of the eicosanoid precursor pool . 
effects of individually motivating smoking cessation in male blue collar workers . adverse demonstrable health effects linked to the individual 's smoking were shown to 2,689 american workers to motivate cessation during routine examinations to detect asbestosis . this intervention was evaluated six to 25 months later by a mailed questionnaire and by telephone to non-responders . results were compared to yearly quit rates of 2.5 percent to 5 percent for 736 workers who were ex-smokers at the initial examination . of the 504 men who responded by mail , 29.8 percent had quit smoking , 35.9 percent had cut down from a mean of 28 to 13 cigarettes per day , and 34.3 percent were smoking as before . subsequent follow-up at one year showed that 25.6 percent remained quit , and that 23 percent of those who cut down had quit , for an overall quit rate of 34 percent . of 101 non-responders contacted by telephone , 17 percent had quit and 53 percent had reduced smoking . in both samples , those who quit were more likely to have had lower alveolar carbon monoxide ( coa ) levels , to be older , and to have had asbestosis . responders by mail were the same age as non-responders but had smoked longer , had higher prevalences of asbestosis , emphysema , chronic bronchitis and higher coa . demonstration of the adverse personal effects of smoking appear to have contributed to the quit rates or reduced smoking rates in 65 percent of the responding workers . 
garlic-in-oil associated botulism : episode leads to product modification . in february 1989 , three cases of botulism occurred in persons who consumed garlic bread made from a garlic-in-oil product . testing of leftover garlic-in-oil showed it to have a ph of 5.7 and to contain high concentrations of clostridium botulinum organisms and toxin . this was the second episode of botulism associated with a low acid garlic-in-oil product which needs constant refrigeration . in response , the food and drug administration has taken steps to prevent a recurrence by requiring that microbial inhibitors or acidifying agents be added to such products . 
epidemiology of reported cases of aids in lesbians , united states 1980-89 . national surveillance data for reported cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) were used to assess demographic characteristics and behavioral risk factors in lesbians . from june 1 , 1980 through september 30 , 1989 , 79 women with aids reported sex relations only with a female partner ; most of these women ( 95 percent ) were intravenous drug users . prevention of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in the lesbian community will require efforts to prevent and reduce intravenous drug use . 
injury and disability in matched men 's and women 's intercollegiate sports . eight matched men 's and women 's intercollegiate varsity teams were studied prospectively for one academic year to determine the incidence of athletic injury and resulting disability . sports in which both men and women participated in a comparable manner were chosen : basketball , fencing , gymnastics , swimming , tennis , indoor track , outdoor track , and volleyball . men ( 232 ) and women ( 150 ) were injured at comparable rates , 42 percent versus 39 percent . when adjusted for exposure time , seven of the eight sports continued to show similar injury rates . women gymnasts , however , experienced .82 injuries per 100 person-hours of exposure as compared to .21 injuries for the men ( p = .0001 ) . disability was greater in women gymnasts , 7.44 days per 100 person-hours versus 1.15 days for men ( p = .0004 ) . percent of season lost to injury was also greater for women gymnasts . types and sites of injury were similar for men and women , with sprains and strains accounting for over half of all injuries . we found no evidence for gender differences in matched sports except for gymnastics , in which technically diverse events may have accounted for the differences observed . 
coding external causes of injury ( e-codes ) in maryland hospital discharges 1979-88 : a statewide study to explore the uncoded population . we examined the trends in hospital discharge e-coding in maryland over a 10-year period . the overall proportion of e-coded discharges has increased from 40 percent in 1979 to 55 percent in 1988 . e-coding was lower in the severely injured , the elderly , and patients with long hospital stays . our findings demonstrate that e-code reporting varies because of the limited number of data fields available for coding of discharge diagnoses . universal , systematic reporting of e-codes in hospital discharge data is essential if these data are to provide critically needed information about nonfatal injuries . hospital discharge data formats should contain separate fields for e-codes and the use of these codes , we believe , should be mandated . 
benzodiazepine tranquilizers and the risk of accidental injury . to determine whether benzodiazepine tranquilizers increase the risk of accidental injury requiring medical attention , we used pharmacy claims submitted to a large third-party payer to identify 4,554 persons who had been prescribed these agents and a matched control group of 13,662 persons who had been prescribed drugs other than benzodiazepines . we then used diagnoses recorded on claims submitted by medical care providers to identify all accident-related care received by these persons during three months before their first-observed prescription for a benzodiazepine or nonbenzodiazepine agent , respectively , and six months subsequently . we found accident-related care was more likely among persons who had been prescribed benzodiazepines ; among these persons , the probability of an accident-related medical encounter was higher during months in which a prescription for a benzodiazepine had recently been filled compared to other months ; and persons who had filled three or more prescriptions for these agents in the six months following initiation of therapy had a significantly higher risk of an accident-related medical event than those who had filled only one such prescription . approximately two-fold risks of accident-related care were found , after controlling for age , sex , and prior utilization . 
a case-control study of the effectiveness of bicycle safety helmets in preventing facial injury . in a case-control study we sought to assess the potential effectiveness of helmets in preventing facial injuries . our study included 212 bicyclists with facial injuries and 319 controls with injuries to other body areas , who were treated in emergency rooms of five seattle area hospitals over a one-year period . using regression analyses to control for age , sex , education and income , accident severity , and cycling experience we found no definite effect of helmets on the risk of serious facial injury ( odds ratio 0.81 ; 95 percent confidence interval = 0.45 , 1.5 ) , but protection against serious injuries to the upper face ( odds ratio 0.27 ; 95 % ci = 0.1 , 0.8 ) . no protection was found against serious injuries to the lower face . the independent effect of helmet use on facial injury was difficult to isolate due to the association of head and facial injuries . our results suggest that bicycle helmets as presently designed may have some protective effect against serious upper facial injuries . 
overcoming potential pitfalls in the use of medicare data for epidemiologic research . we used medicare data bases and us census data to address two questions critical to the use of medicare files for epidemiologic research . first , we examined the degree to which the population enrolled in the medicare program is similar to the elderly resident population of the united states , as estimated by the us census . we found small differences in the total population estimates but substantial differences by age and race . second , we found that among medicare enrollees , physician claims identify a small proportion of hip fracture cases which are not documented in the hospital discharge files . this proportion varies by age , region , and state within the united states . calculation of rates based on medicare hospital discharge data , and probably other hospital discharge data sets as well , must take these limitations into account . use of all available medicare data files can overcome these limitations . 
hiv seroprevalence among male ivdus in houston , texas . hiv seroprevalence was 8.4 percent in a sample of 921 heterosexual male intravenous drug users in houston , texas who were not in drug treatment at the time of the study . males who were black , injected drugs daily , or had a history of syphilis had greater odds of being hiv positive than participants without those characteristics . 
age , sex , and road-use patterns of motor vehicular trauma in rhode island : a population-based hospital emergency department study . population-based hospital emergency department data on motor vehicle traffic trauma in rhode island , 1984-85 , are analyzed by age , sex , and road-use status . annualized rates of overall and severe trauma were 1,195 cases ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] = 1,164 , 1,225 ) and 102 cases ( 95 % ci = 94 , 111 ) per 100,000 population , respectively . overall and severe rates peaked at ages 15-24 years . male rate excesses were most pronounced for motor-cycle and pedal cycle trauma . 
plasmodium falciparum-infected anopheles stephensi inconsistently transmit malaria to humans . malaria was transmitted to only 5 of 10 volunteers bitten by 1-2 anopheles stephensi carrying sporozoites of the 3d7 clone of the nf54 strain of plasmodium falciparum in their salivary glands . parasites were detectable by culture in blood taken 7-10 days following exposure and by thick blood film 14-16 .5 days after exposure . infectivity did not correlate with the numbers of sporozoites in the salivary glands . 
algorithm for assessing renal dysfunction risk in critically ill trauma patients receiving aminoglycosides . a recent retrospective study proposed that the following screening criteria be used in identifying critically ill trauma patients receiving aminoglycosides who are at significant risk to develop renal dysfunction : ( 1 ) post-admission shock , ( 2 ) minimum serum concentration more than 2 mg/l , and ( 3 ) diagnosis of septicemia . the major purpose of the present study was to validate these criteria and design a corresponding algorithm for clinical use . all patients admitted to a trauma intensive care unit and receiving an aminoglycosides was also studied . all patients studied over a 7-month period . a control group not receiving aminoglycosides was also studied . all patients were evaluated for the presence of renal dysfunction ( i.e. , serum creatinine increase greater than or equal to 0.5 mg/dl ) . univariate and multivariate statistical analyses were used to compare potential associated risk factors . the overall renal dysfunction incidence was 10 % in the treatment patients ( n = 93 ) versus 5 % in the control patients ( n = 199 ) ( p = 0.13 ) . sensitivity and specificity of the screening criteria were 67 % and 92 % , respectively . the predictive values of a positive and negative test relative to correctly labeling patients at high risk or low risk to develop renal dysfunction were 46 % and 96 % , respectively . major risk factors associated with renal dysfunction in the treatment group were post-admission shock , minimum serum concentration more than 2 mg/l , and liver dysfunction . use of three major risk factors has excellent predictive value in identifying severely traumatized patients at low risk for developing renal dysfunction while receiving aminoglycosides . the modest predictive value of a positive test results in conservative management of patients by avoidance of aminoglycosides , i.e. , use of alternative antimicrobial agents . 
hypothermia and acidosis worsen coagulopathy in the patient requiring massive transfusion . massive transfusion may cause abnormalities of electrolytes , clotting factors , ph , and temperature and may occur in a scenario of refractory coagulopathy and irreversible shock . identification of correctable variables to improve survival is complicated by the interplay of this pathophysiology . temperature may be an under-appreciated problem in the genesis of coagulopathy . in vitro studies have demonstrated that platelet function and vascular response are critically temperature-dependent . we reviewed the records of 45 trauma patients without head injury or co-morbid medical illness who required massive transfusions . the mean injury severity score was 55 + / - 6 , a mean of 22.5 + / - 5 units of blood was transfused , and mortality was 33 % . nonsurvivors were more likely to have had penetrating injury ( 88 % versus 55 % ) , received more transfusions ( 26.5 + / - 9 versus 18.6 + / - 1 , p less than 0.05 ) , had lower ph ( ph 7.04 + / - 0.06 versus 7.18 + / - 0.02 , p less than 0.05 ) , had lower core temperature ( 31 + / - 1 degree c versus 34 + / - 1 degree c , p less than 0.01 ) , and had a higher incidence of clinical coagulopathy ( 73 % versus 23 % ) . severe hypothermia ( temperature less than 34 degrees c ) occurred in 80 % of the nonsurvivors and in 36 % of survivors . patients who were hypothermic and acidotic developed clinically significant bleeding despite adequate blood , plasma , and platelet replacement . avoidance or correction of hypothermia may be critical in preventing or correcting coagulopathy in the patient receiving massive transfusion . 
relationship of oxygen dose to angiogenesis induction in irradiated tissue . this study was accomplished in an irradiated rabbit model to assess the angiogenic properties of normobaric oxygen and hyperbaric oxygen as compared with air-breathing controls . results indicated that normobaric oxygen had no angiogenic properties above normal revascularization of irradiated tissue than did air-breathing controls ( p = 0.89 ) . hyperbaric oxygen demonstrated an eight - to ninefold increased vascular density over both normobaric oxygen and air-breathing controls ( p = 0.001 ) . irradiated tissue develops a hypovascular-hypocellular-hypoxic tissue that does not revascularize spontaneously . results failed to demonstrate an angiogenic effect of normobaric oxygen . it is suggested that oxygen in this sense is a drug requiring hyperbaric pressures to generate therapeutic effects on chronically hypovascular irradiated tissue . 
blood contamination of anaesthetic and related staff the incidence of skin contamination of anaesthetic and related staff by patient 's blood and saliva was studied during 270 anaesthetics in cardiff hospitals over seven continuous days in october 1989 . a survey was also made of current hepatitis b immunisation status and glove-wearing habits of 75 anaesthetists . blood from 35 ( 14 % ) patients caused skin contamination of 65 staff during 46 incidents . twenty-eight ( 61 % ) of the contamination incidents occurred during vessel cannulation . five ( 8 % ) of the 65 staff contaminated by blood already had cuts on their hands . there were nine incidents ( 4 % ) of skin contamination by saliva . fifty-three ( 71 % ) anaesthetists were immunised against hepatitis b. only seven ( 9 % ) anaesthetists wear gloves for oral or nasal intubation , six ( 8 % ) for insertion of peripheral venous cannulae , 47 ( 63 % ) for insertion of arterial lines and 67 ( 89 % ) for insertion of central lines . all anaesthetic and associated staff should wear gloves on a routine basis . 
rapid visual colorimetry of peritoneal lavage fluid . study hypothesis : that visual colorimetry can be used to rapidly and precisely estimate the erythrocyte count of 1:5 dilutions of simulated peritoneal lavage fluid . population : fifty-four normal adult human subjects . methods : the automated or chamber rbc count is often used on fluid obtained by peritoneal lavage in patients with abdominal trauma to help determine the need for surgery . unfortunately , this method sometimes results in excessive delay . we designed and built a simple colorimeter that facilitated rapid direct visual comparison of unknown samples with known color standards . a radiograph view box was used as a light source . standards were prepared in 16-mm glass tubes to simulate peritoneal lavage fluid with rbc counts ranging from 0 to 140,000 in 10,000 cell/microl increments ; 1:5 dilutions with water were used throughout to reduce opacity . thimerosal was added to unknowns and standards to stabilize color ; all samples were kept refrigerated at 4 c when not in use . in a double-blind in-vitro study , each subject matched 20 randomly distributed unknowns ranging from 12,000 to 131,000 erythrocytes/microl to the nearest standard . results : the mean absolute error for all 1,080 determinations was 3,560 rbc/microl ( 95 % ci = 4,290-4 ,830 ; sd = 4,560 ; t = 39.6 ; df = 1,079 ; p less than .001 ) . this method correctly predicted the rbc count to within 9,000 cells/microl 95 % of the time . conclusion : visual comparison of 1:5 dilutions of simulated peritoneal lavage fluid with known color standards can be used to rapidly and precisely estimate the erythrocyte count . 
scapular dislocation ( locked scapula ) . we report the case of a 19-year-old woman who presented to the emergency department with pain and inability to move her right shoulder after falling backwards and striking it on a cart . radiographs of the shoulder revealed a dislocated scapula . closed reduction in the ed was successful . this rare case of scapular dislocation serves to emphasize that a heightened awareness for this injury is necessary if it is to be recognized and treated appropriately . its treatment and prognosis are reviewed . 
the validity and reliability of the navicular fat stripe as a screening test for detection of navicular fractures . study objective : the purpose of this study was to determine if the navicular fat stripe ( nfs ) is a valid and reliable screening tool in assessing potential navicular fractures . design : retrospective analysis . setting : minor trauma section of the los angeles county-university of southern california medical center emergency department . type of participants : study population included patients seen for wrist injury between january 1987 and december 1988 . the individuals who interpreted the radiographs included eight observers with varying degrees of radiographic experience . interventions : none measurements and main results : the positive predictive value averaged 12 % or 15 % depending on how we counted a straight nfs , and the negative predictive value averaged 93 % or 95 % , again depending on how we counted a straight nfs . a straight nfs was ten times as likely to occur among normal wrists than among those with navicular fractures . interobserver reliability was found to be high with a hoyt reliability coefficient of .79 . conclusions : an abnormal nfs is a poor predictor of a navicular fracture while both a straight and a normal nfs are good predictors of no navicular fracture . a normal nfs may allow less stringent treatment by the emergency physician . extremes of radiographic experience were found to have no significant effect on nfs interpretation . 
buffered versus plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple laceration repair . study objective : buffered lidocaine was compared with plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic for simple lacerations . design : randomized , double-blind , prospective clinical trial . setting : urban emergency department . type of participants : ninety-one adult patients with simple linear lacerations were enrolled . patients with allergy to lidocaine and patients with an abnormal mental status were excluded . interventions : each wound edge was anesthetized with either plain or buffered lidocaine using a randomized , double-blind protocol . the pain of infiltration was measured with a previously validated visual analog pain scale . measurements and main results : analysis of pooled data and paired data ( using patients as their own controls ) revealed that infiltrating buffered lidocaine was significantly less painful than plain lidocaine ( p = .03 and p = .02 , respectively ) . there was no significant difference in the anesthetic effectiveness of the two agents during suturing . conclusion : buffered lidocaine is preferable to plain lidocaine as a local anesthetic agent for the repair of simple lacerations . 
submersion in the netherlands : prognostic indicators and results of resuscitation . study objectives : to analyze prognostic indicators and the outcome of resuscitation in submersion victims ( drowning and near drowning ) . design : retrospective study . setting : intensive and respiratory care unit . between january 1 , 1979 , and december 31 , 1985 , 87 submersion victims were admitted . the files of 83 victims were available for statistical analysis . there were 66 male victims and 17 female victims ; the average age was 31.4 + / - 25.8 years . there were ten salt water and 73 fresh water submersions . measurements and main results : predictors for better survival potentials were a young age , submersion of less than ten minutes , no signs of aspiration , and a central body temperature of less than 35 c at admission . we did not detect factors that accelerated a decrease in core body temperature at admission and assume that lethal hypoxia had preceded protective hypothermia in our submersion victims . the orlowski score had a predictive value but at the same time we found nonindependent indicators in this score . neurologic outcome in our patients , who were not treated according to a brain protection protocol , was not worse than the outcome published by authors who have used such a protocol . thirty-three percent of the victims with a cardioventilatory arrest ( 15 ) and all victims with a ventilatory arrest ( 11 ) survived resuscitation and were discharged . five nonarrest victims died due to late complications . conclusion : this study shows that no indicator at the rescue site and in the hospital is absolutely reliable with respect to death or survival . 
the lack of full correlation between the injury severity score and the resource needs of injured patients study objective : to determine whether the injury severity score ( iss ) correlates with the resource requirements of severely injured patients by studying the association of the iss with three major interventions ( fluid resuscitation , invasive central nervous system monitoring , and acute operative repair ) trauma centers routinely provide severely injured patients . design : retrospective clinical review . setting : level i trauma center . type of participants : eight hundred fourteen adult injured patients . measurements and main results : when an iss of more than 9 was used as the definition of major trauma , the iss undercorrelated 11 % of the time with the need for any one procedure . when an iss of more than 14 was used as the definition , it undercorrelated 20 % of the time . conclusion : the iss may not be completely correlated with the resource requirements of injured patients and should not be used as the sole means by which to define major injury . 
the trauma triage rule : a new , resource-based approach to the prehospital identification of major trauma victims . study objective : to develop a new trauma decision rule . design : retrospective clinical review . setting : level i trauma center . type of participants : 1,004 injured adults . measurements and main results : a new trauma decision rule was derived from 1,004 injured adult patients using a new operational definition of major trauma . the rule , termed the trauma triage rule , defines a major trauma victim as any injured adult patient whose systolic blood pressure is less than 85 mm hg ; whose motor component of the glasgow coma score is less than 5 ; or who has sustained penetrating trauma of the head , neck , or trunk . using the operational definition of major trauma , the rule had a sensitivity of 92 % and a specificity of 92 % when tested on the 1,004-patient cohort . conclusion : the trauma triage rule may significantly reduce overtriage while only minimally increasing undertriage . this approach must be validated prospectively before it can be used in the prehospital setting . 
geriatric injury : an analysis of prehospital demographics , mechanisms , and patterns . study objective : to evaluate emergency medical services ( ems ) system use , injury mechanisms , and prehospital assessments among elderly victims of trauma . design : we analyzed all prehospital data for injuries among patients 70 years old or older for whom 911 ems dispatch was requested in a medium-sized metropolitan area during a 12-month period . results : a total of 1,154 cases occurred ( women , 65.1 % ) , which represented 30.3 % of all 911 dispatches involving elderly patients . injury mechanisms were fall ( 60.7 % ) , motor vehicle accident ( mva ; 21.5 % ) , fight ( 2.4 % ) , accidental poisoning ( 2.3 % ) , and choking ( 2.1 % ) . persons in their 90s had a lower frequency of mvas ( 3.4 % ) than did younger patients ( 23.0 % ) ( p less than .005 ) . the most frequent injuries determined by prehospital assessment were head or face ( 25.1 % ) , upper extremity ( 17.2 % ) , hip ( 14.5 % ) , lower extremity ( 13.8 % ) , back ( 9.8 % ) , and chest or abdomen ( 5.0 % ) . the frequency of serious neurologic injuries was less for falls or mvas than for other mechanisms ( p less than .005 ) . suspected hip ( p less than .001 ) and pelvic ( p less than .005 ) injuries occurred more frequently during falls than during other mechanisms of injury , whereas back injuries occurred most frequently in mvas ( p less than .001 ) . seventy-one fall victims ( 10.1 % ) had suspected medical causes of their fall . twelve patients ( 1.0 % ) were in cardiac arrest . conclusion : we report injury patterns and mechanisms among elderly victims of trauma presenting to an ems system . a knowledge of these patterns will be useful to emergency physicians and ems administrators . 
chylous drainage from a stab wound to the neck . a 24-year-old man was assaulted and sustained a stab wound to the left lower neck . when he arrived at the emergency department , he was hemodynamically stable . although the wound had penetrated the platysma , on initial evaluation the patient did not appear to have sustained significant injury . closer examination of the wound revealed chylous drainage , indicating injury to the cervical portion of the thoracic duct . the patient was taken to the operating room for exploration of the wound , during which an injury to the left internal jugular vein was identified and repaired . the thoracic duct , which had been severed , was ligated . the remainder of the patient 's hospital course was unremarkable . the consistent association between penetrating injury to the cervical portion of the thoracic duct and injury to neighboring vascular structures is discussed . 
erythromycin failure with subsequent pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis in a cat-bite victim . we report the case of a 75-year-old woman who developed pasteurella multocida meningitis and septic arthritis while being treated for a cat-bite wound infection with erythromycin . review of the literature revealed that erythromycin has poor in vitro activity against this bacterium and has been associated with serious clinical failures . we recommend that erythromycin not be prescribed for empiric therapy of established animal-bite infections . suggestions for optimal empiric therapy of animal-bite infections and the differential diagnosis of severe cat-bite-associated sepsis are discussed . 
pulmonary fibrosis in aluminum oxide workers . investigation of nine workers , with pathologic examination and microanalysis in three of them . epidemiologic surveys have indicated an excess of nonmalignant respiratory disease in workers exposed to aluminum oxide ( al2o3 ) during abrasives production . however , clinical , roentgenographic , histologic , and microanalytic description of these workers are lacking . this is a report of nine al2o3-exposed workers with abnormal chest roentgenograms ( profusion greater than or equal to 1/0 , ilo/uc ) from a plant engaged in the production of al2o3 abrasives from alundum ore . mean duration of exposure was 25 yr , and time since first exposure was 28 yr . in a subgroup of three , the severity of symptoms , reduction in the forced vital capacity ( 67 % predicted ) and diffusing capacity ( 51 % predicted ) , and progressive roentgenographic changes ( profusion greater than or equal to 2/2 ) prompted open lung biopsy . lung tissue was analyzed by scanning electron microscopy and electron microprobe analysis . in each of the three biopsies , interstitial fibrosis with honeycombing was seen on routine section . in one biopsy , silica and asbestos fiber counts were at the low end of the range seen with silicosis and asbestosis ; however , the absence of asbestos bodies and silicotic nodules suggested that the fibrosis was due to another cause . metals occurred in amounts several orders of magnitude above background , and the majority was aluminum as al2o3 and aluminum alloys . the findings in these nine workers suggests a common exposure as the possible cause . the nonspecific pathologic findings , absence of asbestos bodies and silicotic nodules , and the striking number of aluminum-containing particles suggest that al2o3 is that common exposure . the possibility of " mixed dust " fibrosis should also be considered . 
flexible bronchoscopic removal of radioccult polyurethane foam , with pneumonitis in a hyperventilated lobe . an intellectually delayed adult ingested and aspirated a large quantity of polyurethane foam , developing acute respiratory failure in association with partial airway obstruction . the foam was identified by flexible bronchoscopy and successfully removed from the bronchus intermedius and left mainstem bronchus with a retrieval basket . this facilitated normalization of blood gases and eventual recovery . however , the unobstructed right upper lobe became infiltrated radiographically , presumably resulting from regional hyperinflation and/or occult focal aspiration . 
human intestinal tissue antibiotic concentrations . clindamycin , gentamicin , and mezlocillin . an antibiotic , to be effective for prophylaxis in abdominal trauma , should quickly achieve high concentrations in the intestinal wall and at enough inhibitory levels to kill most aerobic and anaerobic bacteria that are potential contaminants at the site of surgical incision . therefore , we studied the intestinal tissue levels of clindamycin , gentamicin , and mezlocillin to see whether the tissue levels achieved by these antibiotics in the intestinal tissue were adequate . a single dose of mezlocillin , 4 grams ; clindamycin , 600 mg and gentamicin , 80 mg ; quickly reached the desired concentrations , i.e. , 52.3 , 9.69 and 6.1 micrograms/gram of intestinal tissue respectively . these levels were high enough to inhibit the growth of most isolates of e. coli and b. fragilis , common pathogens involved in intra-abdominal abscess . 
starch peritonitis . a case report and clinicopathologic review . a case of starch peritonitis is presented with a review of the history of this continuing problem . the syndrome 's presentation , diagnosis , histopathology and treatment are discussed . the rarity of starch peritonitis today may be due to more attention to glove washing by surgeons , fewer impurities in the glove powder or lack of recognition of the syndrome . in order to prevent a resurgence of the starch peritonitis syndrome we must continue to emphasize the importance of washing gloves , maintain the quality control and purity of the powder used , and be cognizant of the signs and symptoms so that such cases may be managed nonoperatively . 
porta hepatis disruption from blunt trauma . extrahepatic porta hepatis injuries from blunt abdominal trauma are exceedingly rare ; all recently reported cases involve disruption of the common bile duct at its intrapancreatic portion . we herein report a patient with lacerations of the proper hepatic artery and bile duct occurring from deceleration/torsion of the porta hepatis after high speed vehicular collision . 
the role of endoscopic retrograde pancreatography ( erp ) in blunt abdominal trauma . the diagnosis of pancreatic injury is often difficult because it lies retroperitoneally in a protected area . delayed diagnosis and treatment of blunt pancreatic trauma can result in significant morbidity and mortality . endoscopic retrograde pancreatography ( erp ) is infrequently used in the diagnosis of pancreatic injury . we reviewed our experience with the use of erp in patients with blunt pancreatic injury . two stable patients with traumatic pancreatitis underwent erp shortly after injury . ct scans revealed a transverse fracture of the distal pancrease in one and fluid accumulation in the other around the pancreas extending to the right kidney and left hepatic lobe . the absence of ductal disruption on erp allowed nonoperative management of the pancreatitis . resolution was documented by the absence of symptoms on regular oral intake , normal serum amylase levels , and normal follow-up ct scans . a third patient with persistent fistulae three months postinjury underwent preoperative erp revealing ductal obstruction . this facilitated the planning of a distal pancreatectomy and subsequently the fistulae healed . a fourth patient underwent an exploratory laparotomy on the basis of clinical and ct scan findings that could have been circumvented with preoperative erp . erp in selected patients allows nonoperative treatment in the absence of ductal injury or earlier operative treatment of ductal injury . it also aids the treatment of late complications by delineating ductal anatomy . 
endoscopic extraction of an entrapped nasogastric tube . inadvertent entrapment of a nasogastric tube within a stapled gastrointestinal anastomosis is a preventable and infrequent surgical complication . we report our experience with this complication and describe a successful endoscopic approach to management . 
risk for occupational transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) associated with clinical exposures . a prospective evaluation objectives : to summarize the results of a 6-year , ongoing , prospective study of the risk for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) transmission among health care workers , and to estimate the magnitude of the risk for hiv-1 infection associated with different types of occupational exposures . design : prospective cohort study ; the median follow-up for employees sustaining parenteral exposures was 30.2 months ( range , 6 to 69 months ) . subjects : health care workers at the clinical center , national institutes of health , including those reporting parenteral and nonparenteral occupational exposures to hiv-1 . measurements and main results : one thousand three hundred and forty-four clinical health care workers reported 179 percutaneous and 346 mucous membrane exposures to fluids from hiv-1-infected patients during a 6-year period . responding to a supplementary questionnaire , 559 of these workers reported 2712 cutaneous exposures to blood from hiv-1-infected patients and more than 10,000 cutaneous exposures to blood from all patients during a 12-month period . occupational transmission of hiv-1 occurred in a single worker after a parenteral exposure to blood from an hiv-1-infected patient . no infections occurred after either mucous membrane or cutaneous exposures to blood from hiv-1-infected patients . use of newer diagnostic technologies ( for example , antigen detection , gene amplification ) has not resulted in the identification of occupationally transmitted seronegative infections . conclusions : combining our results with those of other prospective studies , the risk for hiv-1 transmission associated with a percutaneous exposure to blood from an hiv-1-infected patient is approximately 0.3 % per exposure ( 95 % ci , 0.13 % to 0.70 % ) ; the risks associated with occupational mucous membrane and cutaneous exposures are likely to be substantially smaller . these data support the use of barrier precautions and suggest a need for strategies that change health care providers ' attitudes and behaviors . 
low bone density is an etiologic factor for stress fractures in athletes . objective : to determine whether low bone density and other risk factors for osteoporosis are associated with stress fractures in athletes . design : case-control study . setting : institutional sports injury clinic with primary and secondary care . participants : twenty-five athletes ( nineteen women ) with scintigraphically confirmed stress fractures matched for sex , age , weight , height , and exercise history with 25 control athletes with no history of bone injury . measurements and main results : bone mineral density measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry was significantly lower in athletes with fractures than in control athletes : in the spine , bone mineral density was 1.01 + / - 0.14 g/cm2 in athletes with fractures and 1.11 + / - 0.13 g/cm2 in control athletes ( p = 0.02 ) . in the femoral neck , it was 0.84 + / - 0.09 g/cm2 in athletes with fractures and 0.90 + / - 0.11 g/cm2 in control athletes ( p = 0.005 ) . it was also significantly lower in the ward triangle ( p = 0.01 ) and the greater trochanter ( p = 0.01 ) . eight athletes with fractures and no control athletes had less than 90 % of predicted age-related spine density ( p = 0.01 ) , and three athletes with fractures had bone mineral densities that were 2 sds or more below this predicted level . more athletes with fractures than control athletes had current menstrual irregularity ( amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea ) ( p less than 0.005 ) . fewer athletes with fractures were using oral contraceptives ( p less than 0.05 ) . seven-day diet records indicated similar energy and nutrient intakes , except athletes with fractures had lower calcium intakes ( 697 + / - 242 mg/d compared with 832 + / - 309 mg/d ; p = 0.02 ) . dairy product intake was lower in athletes with fractures since leaving high school ( p less than 0.05 ) . the incidence of a family history of osteoporosis was similar in both groups . conclusions : in athletes with similar training habits , those with stress fractures are more likely to have lower bone density , lower dietary calcium intake , current menstrual irregularity , and lower oral contraceptive use . 
management of tracheobronchial foreign bodies in children : an update . tracheobronchial foreign bodies continue to be a source of morbidity and mortality in the pediatric population . technical advances in anesthesia and equipment have made the removal of these troublesome objects more feasible . diligence must still be exercised and a coordinated team effort must be employed in order to achieve a satisfactory and safe outcome for the patient . the appropriate use of diagnostic studies and management techniques are discussed . 
facial nerve monitoring in otologic surgery : clinical indications and intraoperative technique . while identification of the intratemporal portion of the facial nerve is mandatory in most otologic surgical procedures , inadvertent instrumentation , traction , or thermal injury may still result from inaccurate delineation , purposeful avoidance , or false protection of this critical structure . improved functional preservation of the facial nerve has been achieved in acoustic neuroma surgery through the monitoring of evoked facial electromyographic activity . this technique may also be used during otologic procedures in which facial nerve manipulation is anticipated in the management of recurrent cholesteatoma , temporal bone trauma , congenital deformity , or purposeful access for cochlear implantation . potential indications for using facial nerve monitoring in contemporary otologic surgery are detailed through illustrative case presentations , and necessary instrumentation and techniques are briefly reviewed . intraoperative monitoring can assist the surgeon in isolating the facial nerve when chronic inflammation , traumatic injury , or anomalous development has resulted in distortion or absence of microanatomic landmarks . 
spinal cord compression with paraplegia in xanthomatosis due to normocholesterolemic sitosterolemia . a 48-year-old woman with a 30-year history of tendinous xanthomatosis developed paraplegia . the magnetic resonance image revealed extramedullary tumors . the analysis of her sera and tumors revealed increased amount of plant sterols , especially sitosterol , and the diagnosis of sitosterolemia was made . this is the first reported case of a patient with sitosterolemia who had the neurological complication of spinal cord compression due to extramedullary sitosterolemic xanthomas . 
the acutely affected abdomen in paraplegic spinal cord injury patients . the records of 145 paraplegic or quadriplegic patients were reviewed to identify those factors useful in the correct diagnosis of the acute abdomen in this population . twenty-one patients had 22 episodes of acute or subacute abdominal problems . presenting complaints , physical findings , and laboratory results were useful in various ways . however appropriate radiographic studies led to the correct diagnosis in 77 % of patients . although paraplegic and quadriplegic patients are predisposed to a distinct constellation of medical problems , including urinary tract infection and calculi , they also may present with other abdominal conditions that cause significant morbidity and mortality if not promptly recognized . 
giant chest wall tumor resulting from tissue reaction to foreign bodies . three patients are reported in whom chest wall tumors developed 19 to 28 years after thoracoplasty and increased in size with time . the tumors could be removed operatively with good results . all tumors were composed of hematoma and necrotic material , and in all cases they revealed foreign bodies microscopically . diagnosis and possible etiological factors are discussed . 
thoracic spinal fractures and aortic rupture : a significant and fatal association . we analyzed the frequency of occurrence of traumatic aortic rupture ( tar ) in patients with and without thoracic spinal fractures . among 4,676 blunt chest trauma victims admitted to the hospital between 1972 and 1988 , 148 ( 3.2 % ) suffered one or more thoracic vertebral fractures . there were 73 patients with one or more fractures of the first eight thoracic vertebrae ( t1 to t8 ) ; of these 73 , 4 also suffered tar ( 5.5 % ) . there were 4,603 patients without fractures of t1 to t8 , and 64 of these patients also suffered tar ( 1.4 % ) . this difference was significant by the chi2 and fisher exact tests , p = 0.00378 and p = 0.021003 , respectively . additionally , all 5 patients with tar and thoracic vertebral fractures died . we conclude that patients with one or more fractures of t1 to t8 have a statistically significant increase in the incidence of tar . 
morphological and histopathological aspects of aneurysms after patch aortoplasty for coarctation . repair of coarctation of the aorta by synthetic patch grafting has been complicated by late aneurysm formation . these aneurysms differ macroscopically from atherosclerotic thoracic aortic dilatations . specimens for microscopic examination were taken from 14 of 20 patients undergoing aneurysm resection . histological analysis of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients of the specimens showed medionecrosis in 13 patients ( 93 % ) , foreign body reaction in 11 patients ( 78 % ) , and intimal thickening in 3 patients ( 21 % ) . the three layers of the aortic wall could be identified in the aneurysms . on the basis of these results , we discuss the etiologic factors and pathogenetic mechanisms involved in the development of these aneurysms . 
medical management of acute traumatic rupture of the aorta . surgical reconstruction is the treatment for acute traumatic aortic rupture and should be accomplished immediately in most patients . in patients in whom concomitant injuries or the development of life-threatening complications preclude safe and successful aortic reconstruction , pharmacological intervention to reduce the risk of free aortic rupture may be considered . surgical reconstruction can then be more safely performed under controlled elective circumstances . 
the hippocampus and parahippocampus in schizophrenia , suicide , and control brains [ published erratum appears in arch gen psychiatry 1991 may ; 48 ( 5 ) :422 ] recent postmortem studies in schizophrenia have shown abnormalities in medial temporal lobe structures , including the hippocampus and parahippocampus . we tried to replicate previous studies and to explore the specificity of this finding to schizophrenia . the anterior hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex were evaluated for area and shape in postmortem tissue from 12 schizophrenic , 17 nonschizophrenic suicide , and 10 nonpsychiatric control brains . no significant differences were found in hippocampal area , but the parahippocampal cortex was significantly smaller in the schizophrenic group than in the control group . when parahippocampi from right and left sides were analyzed separately , both the suicide and schizophrenic groups had smaller parahippocampi on the right side than did the controls [ corrected ] . the suicide group exhibited greater parahippocampal areas in the left than in the right tissue samples within the group , while such a difference did not exist in the schizophrenic or control groups . this study demonstrated changes in temporal lobe structures in both schizophrenic and nonschizophrenic suicide groups . 
a new orthosis for central cord syndrome and brachial plexus injuries . proximal upper extremity weakness may develop secondary to central cord syndrome due to spinal cord injury or brachial plexus injury . functional deficits , pain , decreased upper extremity arm swing during gait , and shoulder subluxation are common sequelae of these injuries . this report describes a new orthotic design that can be easily fabricated in two to four hours from readily available materials to compensate for these deficits . this orthosis allows for early participation in activities of daily living for patients with greater proximal than distal upper extremity weakness . the orthosis consists of a figure-eight shoulder harness and unilateral or bilateral forearm cuffs of orthoplast connected to the harness by flexible rubber tubing . the length of the tubing is adjustable through clamps connected to the forearm cuff to allow for variable arm positioning . three patients , aged 14 , 64 , and 68 , two with central cord syndrome and one with injury to the upper portion of the brachial plexus ( erb palsy ) are described . shoulder girdle musculature was less than 2 , biceps less than 2 , triceps less than 4 , and hands less than 5 in all patients . benefits from use of this orthosis may include improved arm swing and balance during ambulation , reduced shoulder pain and subluxation , and increased independence for tasks such as carrying lightweight objects , lower extremity dressing , bathing , light homemaking , and leisure activities such as gardening . 
age effect on prognosis for functional recovery in acute , traumatic central cord syndrome . the purpose of this study was to determine if age is significant in functional recovery in acute , traumatic central cord syndrome ( ccs ) . recovery of ambulation , adl status , and bowel and bladder function were evaluated . a retrospective study tested the hypothesis that functional recovery in 51 consecutive ccs patients was better in younger patients than in older patients . four patients , all more than 50 years , died . ability to ambulate independently at discharge was compared in 30 patients younger than 50 years with 21 patients 50 years or older . results showed that 29 of 30 ( 97 % ) of the younger patients were ambulatory compared to seven of 17 ( 41 % ) of the older patients ( p less than .002 ) . the younger patients were also able to achieve independence in self-care and bowel and bladder function in a significantly greater proportion . the prognosis for functional recovery in acute traumatic ccs should consider the patient 's age . the prognosis is less optimistic in older patients , but it is considerably more favorable in younger patients than previously reported . 
sensory nerve evoked responses in spinal cord injury . previous studies have documented the presence of fibrillations , positive waves , and decreased motor evoked response amplitudes in spinal cord injury ( sci ) subjects . the purpose of this study was to further evaluate sensory nerve status in this population . twenty-eight subjects with sci for at least five months and evidence of spasticity were included . sural sensory and tibial motor evoked response amplitudes were measured . the mean sural sensory amplitude was 8.0 + / - 5.9 microv ( normal = 15.0 + / - 5.3 microv ) . the mean tibial motor amplitude was 5.1 + / - 4.3 mv ( normal = 11.7 + / - 3.8 mv ) . in six subjects with significantly reduced sural sensory amplitudes , more extensive electrodiagnostic testing was performed . these studies showed diffusely decreased lower extremity sensory and motor evoked response amplitudes and diffuse positive waves and fibrillations in no particular distribution . thus , subjects with sci may have sensory as well as motor nerve abnormalities . an intact connection between the second order and primary sensory neuron may be necessary for maintenance of axonal integrity of the primary neuron . 
asymptomatic ulnar neuropathy in carpal tunnel syndrome . quantitative assessment of the vibration threshold of the second and fifth fingertips at 125hz was performed on 28 affected limbs of 17 patients with carpal tunnel syndrome ( cts ) together with a median and ulnar sensory nerve conduction velocity ( sncv ) study . twenty-six limbs of 26 age-matched healthy subjects were used as controls . both the vibration threshold elevation of the second finger and the delay of median sncv were significant in cts patients as compared with controls ( p less than .001 ) . although the ulnar sncvs of all affected limbs were within the normal range , ten affected limbs ( 36 % ) were found to have a concomitant vibration threshold elevation of the fifth finger , and eight of those limbs were found to be exposed to chronic occupational mechanical stimulation at the wrist . these findings appear to support the presence of subclinical traumatic damage to the ulnar nerve at the wrist . in summary , digital vibration measurement can elucidate subclinical ulnar neuropathy in cts which can not be detected by sncv studies . 
aerobic and anaerobic bacteriology of wounds and cutaneous abscesses . the aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic characteristics of 584 wounds and 676 skin or soft-tissue abscesses were studied and correlated with the infection site . in wounds , aerobic or facultative bacteria only were present in 223 specimens ( 38 % ) , anaerobes only in 177 specimens ( 30 % ) , and mixed flora in 184 specimens ( 32 % ) . in total there were 1470 isolates , 558 aerobic and 912 anaerobic , an average of 2.5 isolates per wound ( 1.6 anaerobic and 0.9 aerobic isolates ) . in abscesses , aerobic or facultative bacteria were recovered in 177 specimens ( 26 % ) , anaerobes only in 243 specimens ( 36 % ) , and mixed flora in 256 specimens ( 38 % ) . in total there were 1702 isolates , 602 aerobic and 1100 anaerobic , an average of 2.5 isolates per abscess . the highest rates of anaerobes in wounds were in the inguinal , buttocks , and trunk areas and in abscesses in the perirectal , external genitalia , neck , and inguinal areas . the predominant aerobic organisms were staphylococcus aureus ( 363 isolates ) , group a streptococci ( 98 isolates ) , and escherichia coli ( 97 isolates ) . the predominant anaerobic organisms were bacteroides species ( 986 isolates ) , peptostreptococcus species ( 559 isolates ) , clostridium species ( 153 isolates ) , and fusobacterium species ( 109 isolates ) . the predominance of certain isolates in certain anatomical sites was correlated with their distribution in the normal flora adjacent to the infected site . these data highlight the polymicrobial nature of wounds and cutaneous abscesses . 
a subluxing arthropathy associated with the anti-jo-1 antibody in polymyositis/dermatomyositis . of 180 patients with polymyositis/dermatomyositis ( pm/dm ) seen at the university of pittsburgh and affiliated hospitals since 1975 , 21 of 100 tested positive for the anti-jo-1 antibody . sixteen of the 21 patients were women and 18 were white . fifteen had adult pm , 4 had myositis in overlap with scleroderma , and 2 had adult dm . evidence of interstitial lung disease was found in 12 of 18 anti-jo-1 positive patients ( 67 % ) , but in only 15 of 79 anti-jo-1 negative patients ( 19 % ) ( p less than 0.0002 ) . the 21 anti-jo-1 positive patients were divided into 3 separate groups based on the observed articular findings . four patients had a deforming , predominantly nonerosive arthropathy with subluxations of the distal interphalangeal joints , especially the thumbs . eight patients had a nondeforming arthropathy primarily affecting the small joints of the hands , wrists , shoulders , and knees . those with deformities had a longer duration of arthritis compared with those with nondeforming arthropathy ( mean 14.5 years versus 3.3 years ) . nine anti-jo-1 positive patients had no joint arthropathy . three of 4 patients with deformities have required articular reconstructive surgery for subluxation , with 2 having associated subcutaneous calcinosis . 
medical and dental students ' attitudes about the aids epidemic . this study investigated changes , over a one-year period , in medical and dental students ' attitudes toward various issues related to contact with aids patients . in 1988 and 1989 , the authors surveyed second - and third-year medical and dental students at one medical school both before and after they completed a year of required clinical training . the dental students remained consistently more anxious and more restrictive in their attitudes toward treating patients with aids than did their medical student counterparts , and became more conservative ( fearful ) in their attitudes after working with aids patients , whereas the medical students became more liberal . overall , both groups were more concerned about contracting aids in their professional lives than in their personal lives . over one-third of the medical students and two-thirds of the dental students indicated that they did not wish to train in a specialty or hospital with a high percentage of aids patients , and a substantial minority of the students in both groups did not feel that they were responsible for treating all patients whom they were qualified to treat . these and related results suggest that aids-related anxiety may influence students ' career choices and behaviors and the quality of care patients receive . suggestions for educational strategies to address students ' fears -- both warranted and unwarranted -- and the differences in attitudes between students of different health-care professions are discussed . 
the impact of an aids symposium on attitudes of providers of pediatric health care . following reports of concern among health-care workers regarding the occupational risk of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , a symposium was designed in 1987 to demonstrate to health-care providers at three hospitals in the bronx , new york , the low risk of occupational hiv infection and techniques for avoiding infection . after the symposium , 103 of the health-care providers who had attended it completed a questionnaire assessing the impact of the symposium on their attitudes ; the responses from 100 of these providers were used in this study . twenty-nine of the responding providers reported that the symposium had increased their concerns regarding their risk of hiv infection ; this group was composed of seven of the 15 medical students who responded , 12 of the 36 housestaff , seven of the 28 faculty , and three of the 21 other medical staff . the findings of the present study suggest that a symposium designed to decrease concerns of occupational hiv infection among health-care workers may have the opposite effect on some of those who attend it , especially medical students . education alone may be inadequate to reassure some providers . the authors recommend small-group sessions addressing the emotional aspects of health-care providers ' concerns . 
attitudes of medical school faculty and students toward acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . attitudes of faculty and students will influence the success of educational programs to address acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . in 1988-89 , 170 medical school faculty and 227 students completed needs assessment questionnaires at the university of louisville , and the results were compared to assess the respondents ' attitudes about aids . both the faculty and the students were found to be fearful of infection , had strong negative attitudes toward aids patients , and had low levels of confidence in the current knowledge about aids . both cognitive and affective training strategies are recommended to help learners distinguish unwarranted from warranted fears of infection and to increase their empathy for patients with aids . 
medical and nursing students ' attitudes about aids issues . a 12-item questionnaire was administered in late 1987-early 1988 to 445 medical students , 133 medical school applicants , and 111 nursing students to assess any differences in their attitudes toward medicine-related aids issues . these groups were also given a 31-item test of their knowledge of aids issues . significant differences by levels of knowledge were obtained for eight of the 12 attitude items . for example , the more knowledgeable the student , the less likely he or she was to refuse treatment to an aids patient , to require mandatory aids testing of physicians , or to require medical personnel to wear gloves . the findings strongly suggest that education has an important role in changing attitudes about aids in a direction that fosters better health care for aids patients . 
predictors of medical and nursing students ' levels of hiv-aids knowledge and their resistance to working with aids patients . among health professionals , knowledge about the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is often limited , inaccurate , or both . many health professionals also resist working with aids patients . this 1988 survey examined exaggerated risk estimates for hiv contagion in relationship to hiv-aids knowledge and resistance to working with aids patients among medical and nursing students at a large northwestern teaching hospital . the results indicate that among the respondents , exaggerated risk estimates were associated both with a lack of hiv-aids knowledge and with greater resistance to working with aids patients . results from multiple regression analyses revealed that ( 1 ) a lack of clinical experience with aids patients and ( 2 ) antihomosexual attitudes were significantly associated with the students ' lack of hiv-aids knowledge , even after controlling for the effects of exaggerated risk estimates . the first two variables also were shown to be significantly predictive of the students ' resistance to working with aids patients , as was an intolerance of drug use and drug users , beyond the influence of exaggerated risk estimates . specific approaches of developing effective hiv-aids educational programs for health professionals are proposed . 
willingness of health-professions students to treat patients with aids . this 1988-89 survey of 319 students in the medical , dental , nursing , and allied health-care professions revealed that over one-third had some reservations about treating acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) patients . most were unwilling to perform mouth-to-mouth resuscitation on patients with aids , and most also believed that health-care workers had the right to refuse care to aids patients . unwillingness to treat aids patients was strongly associated with homophobic attitudes and concerns that patients with aids posed a risk to health professionals . aids education for health professionals should emphasize methods for the prevention of hiv infection among health workers , and include teaching strategies designed to deal with the irrational feelings that aids often engenders . 
photodynamic therapy with chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine . to study the vascular effects of a new photosensitizing agent independent of the influence of tumor growth , a cutaneous wound model was used . six-week-old harlan-sprague-dawley " fuzzy " rats were surgically wounded in a standard fashion . the animals were then divided into three groups : the first group received chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine only , the second group was treated with light only , and a third group was treated with both chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine and light . photodynamic therapy with chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine had a direct effect on the neovasculature of a healing wound . the vasodilatation that was seen in the wound neovasculature that occurred 12 hours after the completion of chloroaluminum-sulfonated phthalocyanine-photodynamic therapy may have indicated a therapeutic " window " at which other therapies can be employed to improve clinical efficacy . 
the relative biological effectiveness of fractionated doses of fast neutrons ( 42 mevd ---- be ) for normal tissues in the pig . ii . late effects on cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues . the late effects of irradiation with single and fractionated doses of x rays ( 250 kv ) and fast neutrons ( 42 mevd ---- bc ) , on the cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues of the pig , have been evaluated from measurements of changes in relative field length . these were determined at intervals of 26-104 weeks after irradiation . for fractionated irradiation with x rays the average fractions exponent , n , obtained from a log-log plot of iso-effect dose ( ed50 ) against fraction number was 0.41 . this was independent of the period of assessment , with no significant indication of a time factor . however , the exponent n did vary with the level of effect and was in the range 0.33-0 .51 . it was greatest for a greater than or equal to 10 % reduction in relative field length . assuming the validity of the linear quadratic model of cell survival , the alpha/beta ratio was 1.95 gy . however , this model fitted the data less well for the least severe levels of damage , and for these the alpha/beta ratios were not significantly different from zero . irradiation with fast neutrons showed a small effect of fractionation for doses given in greater than or equal to 6 fractions compared with a single dose . there was no significant increase in iso-effect dose when the dose was given in 30 fractions compared with 6 fractions . the relative biological effectiveness for late cutaneous and subcutaneous damage for the energy of fast neutrons used did not vary with the period of assessment , i.e. 26-52 weeks compared with 65-104 weeks , and was not significantly different from that previously obtained for ischaemic dermal necrosis , seen after higher doses , at 12-20 weeks after irradiation . 
quantitative gamma-ray computed tomography of the radius in normal subjects and osteoporotic patients . a new design of gamma-ray computed tomography ( ct ) scanner was used to measure bone density in 516 normal adults and in 116 female patients with osteoporotic fractures . trabecular bone density ( tbd ) was measured for a core of the ultradistal radius ; cortical bone mass per unit length ( mls ) and mass per unit volume ( mvs ) were computed for the radius shaft . tbd , mls and mvs peaked at the age of about 40 in females and fell by 32 % , 15 % and 24 % , respectively , by the age of 65 . in males , tbd decreased from the third decade and mls and mvs peaked in the fourth decade . the corresponding falls by 65 years were 20 % , 6 % and 7 % . in patients with colles ' fracture tbd and mls were reduced by 13 % and 10 % , respectively , relative to age matched normal female subjects . for patients with vertebral crush fracture the reductions relative to age matched normal females were 36 % , 17 % and 16 % for tbd , mls and mvs . in fracture patients the deficit in tbd was significantly greater than that for cortical bone but tbd was no better at discriminating normal and osteoporotic individuals because of its larger normal range . we conclude that gamma-ray ct may best be used for monitoring changes in bone rather than as a diagnostic screening tool . 
acute opioid physical dependence in humans : effect of varying the morphine-naloxone interval ii . previous studies have demonstrated antagonist-precipitated withdrawal from 45 min to 24 hr after acute opioid administration in nondependent human subjects . the purpose of this study was to examine longer postagonist intervals and to determine the maximum interval between agonist administration and antagonist challenge at which precipitated withdrawal can be observed . during this study 6 nondependent male volunteers who reported using opiates an average of 4 times per week received naloxone challenges ( 10 mg/70 kg i.m. ) at 6 , 12 , 24 , 36 , 48 , 60 , or 72 hr after single i.m. injections of morphine ( 18 mg/70 kg or 30 mg/70 kg ) . each interval was tested independently in random order . naloxone reliably precipitated withdrawal signs and symptoms at 6 and 12 hr postmorphine . withdrawal symptoms were greatly diminished in intensity at 24-hr postmorphine and were not elicited at postmorphine intervals longer than 24 hr . withdrawal precipitation persisted somewhat longer than pupillary constriction because pupils had returned to predrug diameters by 24 hr postmorphine but , generally , there appeared to be correspondence between offset of agonist effects and dissipation of precipitated withdrawal . this study extends observations about the time course of acute physical dependence effects which begin within minutes after acute morphine exposure , dissipate within 36 hr , are associated with the onset and offset of agonist effects and do not require chronic opioid administration . 
precipitated abstinence in orally dosed benzodiazepine-dependent dogs . the ability of graded doses of flumazenil ( 2 , 6 , 18 , 36 and 72 mg/kg ) and a lactose placebo to precipitate abstinence was studied in dogs treated chronically with diazepam , nordiazepam , flunitrazepam , alprazolam , oxazepam , halazepam and lorazepam by oral dosing . a scale comprised of 10 precipitated abstinence signs , the benzodiazepine precipitated abstinence scale , was developed , which yielded linear flumazenil log-dose response lines with significant slopes in dogs dependent on diazepam , nordiazepam and flunitrazepam . the effects of 18 , 36 and 72 mg/kg of flumazenil in otherwise drug naive dogs were studied . in naive dogs , the most prominent effect of flumazenil was to reduce activity . all benzodiazepines studied produced dependence that was characterized by signs of precipitated abstinence ; however , the intensity and quality of abstinence varied from one benzodiazepine to another . precipitated abstinence in dogs treated chronically with diazepam and flunitrazepam was characterized by a dose-related increase in clonic convulsions and benzodiazepine precipitated abstinence scale scores . this pattern differed from that seen in nordiazepam - and alprazolam-dependent dogs , which showed a comparable flumazenil dose-related increase in clonic convulsion but only a modest increase in benzodiazepine precipitated abstinence scale scores . oxazepam and lorazepam produced dependence that was less intense than that seen with the other benzodiazepines . plasma levels of the benzodiazepines and their metabolites were repeatedly determined after single doses and during addiction cycles . nordiazepam accumulated in diazepam - and nordiazepam-dependent dogs and alpha-oh alprazolam accumulated in alprazolam-dependent dogs . other drugs and metabolites did not . these observations suggest that : 1 ) different benzodiazepines or their metabolites produce different types of physical dependence , suggesting that they or their metabolites have different mechanisms and sites of action ; 2 ) plasma cumulation of the benzodiazepines or their active metabolites is an important factor in the genesis of physical dependence ; and 3 ) metabolism of benzodiazepines plays an important role in their dependence-producing capacity , and because of differences in the way species metabolize benzodiazepines , the type of dependence produced in different species may differ . 
pediatric penetrating head and neck trauma . penetrating head and neck trauma in children causes uncommon and potentially life-threatening injuries . we reviewed the charts of 21 patients who sustained penetrating injuries to the face or upper neck . seventeen males and 4 females , aged 32 weeks ' gestation to 19 years ( mean = 10.2 years ) comprised the study population . there were 15 gun-shot wounds , 1 shotgun injury , and 5 stab wounds . significant problems included 7 vascular injuries , 6 central nervous system injuries , 5 ocular injuries , 3 airway compromises , 2 facial nerve injuries , 1 cervical esophageal penetration , and 2 cases of pneumothorax . three deaths occurred , but the majority of the patients survived and sustained minimal permanent disability . included in this review is a unique case of an intrauterine gunshot wound to the face at approximately 32 weeks ' gestation . the treatment protocol , differences from adult patients , and management highlights are reviewed . 
sports-related ocular trauma . a prospective evaluation of all patients presenting with a sports-related ocular injury during a 1-year ( 4-season ) period was conducted . of the 202 patients evaluated , 28 ( 13.8 % ) required hospitalization and 11 ( 5.6 % ) required intraocular surgery . twenty-six patients ( 12.8 % ) sustained permanent ocular sequelae including seven ( 3.5 % ) who suffered visual loss . basketball accounted for 28.7 % , baseball/softball 19.8 % , and racquetball 11.4 % of all injuries . at the time of injury , 5.1 % of patients had worn protective eye wear , whereas on follow-up only 31 % had used eye protection . these results indicate that sports trauma remains a significant cause of ocular morbidity . 
indications and results of relaxing retinotomy . the authors report their results of a consecutive series of 40 eyes undergoing relaxing retinotomy during vitrectomy to achieve retinal reattachment for the following indications : proliferative vitreoretinopathy ( pvr ) , 21 eyes ( 52 % ) ; trauma , 10 eyes ( 25 % ) ; diabetic retinopathy , 6 eyes ( 15 % ) ; and expulsive choroidal hemorrhage , 3 eyes ( 8 % ) . thirty eyes ( 75 % ) had undergone previous vitreoretinal procedures . extended tamponade was achieved in all cases with either silicone oil ( 27 eyes , 68 % ) or long-acting gas ( 13 eyes , 32 % ) . retinotomy size ranged from 45 degrees to 360 degrees . intraoperative retinal attachment was possible in all eyes with 33 ( 83 % ) achieving total or subtotal retinal attachment including the macula for 5 months or more . twenty-seven eyes ( 68 % ) achieved 3/200 visual acuity or better and 10 ( 37 % ) achieved 20/400 or better . thirteen eyes ( 32 % ) failed to achieve 3/200 visual acuity secondary to recurrent detachment ( 18 % ) , corneal decompensation ( 8 % ) , macular dysfunction ( 5 % ) , and glaucoma ( 3 % ) . 
seven hundred medicolegal cases in ophthalmology . seven hundred medicolegal claims in ophthalmology were reviewed by one ophthalmologist who served as an expert for four decades . the ophthalmologist was personally involved in 620 claims . the 700 cases have been categorized and analyzed . the reasons for the claims and some lessons derived from them are presented . familiarity with the claims encountered by others may enable ophthalmologists to avoid similar claims . 
excess injury mortality among children in the united states : comparison of recent international statistics . using data from the national center for health statistics and the world health organization , child injury death rates in the us were compared to those of canada , england and wales , france , netherlands , and norway . except for the 1981 canadian figure , overall us childhood injury mortality was greater than childhood injury mortality rates of all countries studied during each year from 1980 to 1986 . injury mortality steadily declined in most other countries , whereas the us rate appears to be increasing . attention to specific causes reveals that much of the difference is explained by motor vehicle injuries and homicide , but in every childhood age group us death rates due to drowning , firearms , homicide , poisoning , and fire are among the highest . excess us injury mortality is largely attributable to deaths among children younger than 5 and older than 14 years of age , the most vulnerable groups in all countries . especially high rates among us minorities account for little of the observed differences ; for many injuries , the mortality rate of us nonblacks is several times those reported by the comparison nations . behavioral strategies are inadequate to deal with excess death rates of this magnitude . limiting exposure through regulation of handguns , greater use of public transportation , and affordable and accessible day care are among the measures that should be implemented . 
unintended injuries in children : the french situation . the french situation with respect to mortality from unintentional injuries in children is far from satisfactory . international comparison is made difficult by statistical bias , but although excess injury mortality is decreasing in france , rates are higher than in most advanced european countries . many regulations have been enacted during the past 30 years to reduce the economic and social burden of injuries , but political will is insufficient to establish a consolidated national program and enforcement of existing legislation is inadequate . evaluation of preventive and educational programs is less than optimal ; many attempts have not met basic methodologic requirements . the situation is improving , partly because of growing social concern . new regulations are in preparation , but solution of this major public health problem also demands behavioral change , which is much more difficult to effect than other measures . greater commitment to research , proper evaluation of sound programs , and enforcement of existing law doubtless would reduce the excess morbidity and mortality resulting from unintended injuries to children . 
childhood injuries : where we are . in this paper we present the leading causes of fatal childhood injury in the united states . we examine three types of explanations for why injury rates are so high in the united states compared with what they could be and actually are in a number of industrialized european countries . our conclusions are based on what we learn when we look at specific injury problems and apply that knowledge to the field of childhood-injury prevention as a whole . to decrease the number of fatal injuries to children , we should : 1 . recognize injuries as a major public health problem . injuries have been perceived not as problems to be solved but as " accidents " which are determined by fate , not understandable , and consequently not preventable . in addition , injuries have not been addressed in the multidisciplinary fashion that typifies the successful public health approach to other problems . 2 . address intentional injury as part of the problem . intentional injury has been treated as a separate field entirely and not addressed scientifically as a public health problem . one consequence of this is that injuries due to firearms have been addressed most frequently as a problem of " unintentional injury . " as a result , 93 % of all firearm injuries , ie , those which are intentional , have not been studied or addressed adequately . this situation is like studying motor vehicle injuries but excluding drunk driving and speeding as contributing factors , or like studying acquired immunodeficiency syndrome but ignoring anal intercourse or intravenous drug use . 3 . develop and support organizations that can plan and coordinate effectively a national approach to injury control . 
bronchoscopy in critically ill patients . when is it appropriate ? fiberoptic bronchoscopy is a valuable diagnostic and therapeutic tool for use in carefully selected patients with serious pulmonary disease . the authors review the benefits and risks of fiberoptic bronchoscopy and discuss the essentials of nursing care before , during , and after the procedure . 
repetitive strain injuries . how to deal with ' the epidemic of the 1990s ' . occupational trends , especially the mushrooming of computer use in the united states , have brought with them a virtual epidemic of repetitive strain injury of the upper limb . what can you as a primary care physician do to stem the tide ? in this article , the authors fill you in on treatment of the most common injuries as well as remark on the ramifications for business and industry . 
skiing and snowboarding injuries . when schussing is a pain . downhill and cross-country skiing and snowboarding are growing rapidly in popularity . with the ever-increasing number of participants , physicians must be prepared to deal with the injuries specific to these sports . more important , physicians need to use epidemiologic data to advise patients of methods to minimize the risk of injury as they participate in these healthy and vigorous winter sports . 
frostbite . methods to minimize tissue loss . if frostbite is to be treated successfully , direct and indirect effects of injury must be understood . rapid rewarming helps to preserve tissue by limiting the amount of direct cellular injury . selective management of blisters helps protect the subdermal plexus , and application of aloe vera cream ( eg , dermaide aloe cream ) combats the local vasoconstrictive effects of thromboxane . oral administration of ibuprofen decreases systemic levels of thromboxane . 
a randomized prospective study of topical antimicrobial agents on skin grafts after thermal injury . we prospectively studied 52 consecutive patients who were treated by early tangential excision and grafting following thermal injury . the usefulness of two topical antimicrobial agents -- 0.5 % silver nitrate ( ag ) and neomycin ( 1 gm/liter ) plus bacitracin ( 50,000 units/liter ) ( nb ) -- was compared with the effectiveness of ringer 's lactate ( rl ) for prevention of autogenous skin-graft loss due to infection . graft loss of 10 percent or more occurred in 17 patients ( 33 percent ) -- due to infection in 16 . skin-graft loss was a minor problem in patients with less than 20 percent total body surface area ( tbsa ) burn ( ag : 0 of 6 , nb : 1 of 6 , rl : 1 of 5 ) . the use of either antimicrobial ( ag or nb ) resulted in less graft loss ( 1 of 14 ) than rl ( 4 of 6 ; p less than 0.05 ) in the 20 to 40 percent tbsa burn group . large burns ( greater than 40 percent ) had a very high incidence of at least 10 percent graft loss ( 67 percent ) regardless of treatment . infection in the area of graft loss was caused by antibiotic-resistant organisms or yeast in 50 percent of the ringer 's lactate group and the entire neomycin plus bacitracin group . no graft infections were caused by resistant organisms or yeast in the silver nitrate group . this study demonstrates that topical antimicrobial agents reduce infection-related skin-graft loss in patients with medium-sized ( 20 to 40 percent tbsa ) burns and that neomycin plus bacitracin is associated with rapid emergence of drug-resistant organisms whereas silver nitrate is not . 
rigid fixation of internal orbital fractures . when large portions of the internal orbit are destroyed ( two to four walls ) , standard bone-grafting techniques for immediate and late orbital reconstruction may not yield predictable eye position . critical bone support is most often deficient inferomedially . ct analysis of orbital volume in cases where eye position was unsatisfactory reveals that displacement of bone grafts is one mechanism of the unsatisfactory result . other mechanisms include undercorrection and bone-graft resorption . in order to minimize postoperative bone-graft displacement , titanium implants were used to span large defects in the internal orbit to provide a platform for bone-graft support . twenty-six implants were placed in immediate and 12 were placed in late orbital reconstructions . more reliable bone-graft position resulted . two late infections have occurred resulting in implant removal in a 3-year period . 
the lateral arm fascial free flap : its anatomy and use in reconstruction . free fascial transfer has been used for reconstruction of gliding surfaces of the upper and lower extremities or when thin , pliable coverage is required ( hand , heel , nose , and ear ) . in our experience with the lateral arm fasciocutaneous flap , we have found that the fascia alone is an excellent source of tissue for free flap transfer . a thorough investigation of the microscopic , gross , and radiographic anatomy of the lateral arm fascia was undertaken by the study of 25 fresh cadavers . vascular pathways were mapped , their locations were analyzed , and then they were correlated with the elevation , design , and transfer of the flap . the lateral arm has a large fascial component located anterior and posterior to the lateral intermuscular septum , which itself lies between the triceps and the brachialis and brachioradialis muscles . it is perfused by the posterior radial collateral artery ( prca ) , one of the terminal branches of the profunda brachii . this vessel ( prca ) provides at least four fascial branches from 1 to 15 cm proximal to the lateral epicondyle , the largest of which is located an average of 9.7 cm superior to the lateral epicondyle . fascia up to 12 x 9 cm may be used with good axial perfusion . the histologic cross sections demonstrate the complex anatomy of the fascia itself , as well as its relation to the nutrient vessels . we have applied the lateral arm fascial flap in five cases of upper extremity reconstruction . we have also found this flap valuable in preservation of underlying anatomic detail for total reconstruction of the ear and nose when local tissue and more conventional flaps were not available . 
split nails . photographic documentation of successful surgical correction of two major vertical-type and one horizontal-type split nail is presented . the developmental mechanism of the horizontal-type split nail is discussed . treatment of the vertical-type split nail with bipedicled subperiosteal nailbed-matrix flaps is described in detail . 
vicarious contrast material excretion in patients with acute unilateral ureteral obstruction . radiographs of 45 patients with evidence of acute unilateral ureteral obstruction at intravenous urography , obtained at least 24 hours after injection of contrast material , were retrospectively studied . vicarious contrast material excretion ( vcme ) as evidence by gallbladder opacification on delayed radiographs was seen in 19 patients ( 42 % ) , 10 of whom also showed extravasation of contrast material . a total of 15 of the 45 patients developed spontaneous extravasation ; 10 ( 67 % ) showed vcme , while only nine of the 30 patients ( 30 % ) who did not have spontaneous extravasation of contrast material showed vcme . the creatinine level was elevated ( greater than 1.5 mg/dl [ 133 mumol/l ] ) in four patients with vcme and in six patients without . this series indicates that vcme is more common than previously appreciated in patients with acute unilateral ureteral obstruction and occurs with greater frequency when obstruction is associated with contrast material extravasation . 
association of vertebral end plate fracture with pediatric lumbar intervertebral disk herniation : value of ct and mr imaging . a retrospective review of the radiologic findings in 31 patients less than 21 years old who underwent laminotomy for lumbar disk herniation revealed six cases of associated avulsion fracture of the vertebral end plate , a prevalence of 19 % . all fractures were found in the 14-17-year-old subgroup ( six of 19 ) , a prevalence of 32 % . in four patients , plain radiographs did not reveal the fracture . computed tomographic ( ct ) findings were diagnostic in all six cases . magnetic resonance ( mr ) images , obtained in three patients , demonstrated the avulsed cortical fragment and what are assumed to be the attached sharpey fibers . on sagittal mr images , these structures had a configuration with the appearance of a " y " or " 7 " . four of these six patients underwent bilateral laminotomies . the need for more extensive surgical resection may not be apparent at plain radiography or myelography but can be predicted with ct and mr imaging . 
a profile of alcohol and prescription drug abuse in a high-risk community-based elderly population . substance abuse among the elderly is relatively common but often remains undetected or ignored by health and social workers . psychosocial and health factors related to the aging process are the major contributors to alcoholism and other drug abuse . it is estimated that between two and ten percent of individuals over the age of 60 suffer from alcoholism . this article profiles alcohol and prescription drug abuse among the geriatric clientele of elderly services of spokane ( ess ) , a division of the spokane ( washington ) community mental health center . in addition to traditional channels , ess uses a unique gatekeeper network to identify high-risk , community-based elderly . elderly persons referred by gatekeepers are regarded as " hidden " elderly and at highest risk ; notably , 37 percent of ess clients are referred via this mechanism . case management records of 1668 ess clients were reviewed for a history of alcoholism , and a total of 161 persons ( 9.6 percent ) were diagnosed with either primary or secondary alcohol abuse . fifty subjects ( about five percent of the average active ess caseload ) were referred for prescription drug abuse . misused prescription drug classes were sedative-hypnotics , antianxiety agents , and analgesics . diazepam , codeine , meprobamate , and flurazepam were the top four agents , and 92 percent of the subjects were found to have a duration of prescription drug abuse in excess of five years . a 60 percent correlation between prescription drug abuse and previous or active alcoholism was found . additional characteristics of the geriatric study population are discussed in detail , including specific psychosocial factors , source of referral , age , gender , living situation , marital status , psychiatric history , and presence of polypharmacy . 
flumazenil : a benzodiazepine antagonist . although benzodiazepines have been proven safe and effective for the induction and maintenance of sedation , some instances require the reversal of these events prior to the natural process of metabolism and elimination . flumazenil , a 1,4-imidazobenzodiazepine , is an antagonist that can reduce or terminate benzodiazepine effects in a dose-dependent manner . the antagonist acts by the competitive inhibition of benzodiazepines at their central nervous system receptor sites . when administered intravenously in incremental doses , flumazenil allows for optimal patient response on an individual basis . despite its short elimination half-life , small doses of flumazenil are usually effective in producing benzodiazepine reversal . flumazenil 's short duration of activity is due to its rapid hepatic metabolism and elimination . intravenous antagonist doses of 0.2 mg followed by 0.1 mg/min to a total dose of 1 mg have produced significant results in reversing benzodiazepine sedation . as much as 5 mg of flumazenil have been necessary when treating benzodiazepine or mixed-agent intoxications . in such situations , response rarely exceeds a duration of one hour . if resedation occurs , additional doses or an infusion of the antagonist may provide the desired response . flumazenil is well tolerated locally as well as systemically . nausea and vomiting occurring after anesthesia is the most documented adverse effect in both placebo and treatment populations . however , there has been no significant difference in the occurrence of vomiting in placebo compared with flumazenil-treated subjects . careful observation and slow reversal of central nervous system depression is crucial in the avoidance of benzodiazepine withdrawal in those patients dependent upon these agents . flumazenil appears to provide a mechanism for the safe and effective reversal of benzodiazepine-induced sedation . 
treatment of digitalis intoxication with emphasis on the clinical use of digoxin immune fab . many studies and cases of digitalis intoxication have been reported since the time of william withering 's first publication in 1785 . recognition and management of digitalis toxicity is challenging . before digoxin immune fab was commercially available , treatment consisted of managing the signs and symptoms of toxicity until the digitalis was eliminated . digoxin immune fab offers a safe , effective , and specific method of quickly reversing digitalis toxicity . factors that must be considered with the clinical use of this agent include the dosage calculation , administration technique , postdose monitoring , pharmacokinetics , mechanism of action , interference with commercially available digoxin assays , partial neutralizing dosing , rebound of free digoxin , and indications for use . for severe , life-threatening toxicity , digoxin immune fab is the treatment of choice . 
dyskinetic movements , cognitive impairment , and negative symptoms in elderly neuropsychiatric patients . the presence or absence of tardive dyskinesia , cognitive status , and psychopathology were assessed in a group of elderly male psychiatric patients ( n = 49 ) in a nursing home setting . twenty-five patients were found to have tardive dyskinesia , which was associated with a greater degree of cognitive impairment and negative symptoms . this finding was not related to obvious macroscopic organic pathologies , which were less prevalent in the dyskinetic patients . in fact , patients with frontal lesions ( primarily lobotomies ) had a significantly lower prevalence of tardive dyskinesia . 
sudden death from acute cocaine intoxication in virginia in 1988 . a review of medical examiners ' autopsy records revealed that in 1988 , 33 residents of virginia died of acute cocaine intoxication . the subjects were 19 to 45 years old ; most were men , used cocaine intravenously , and used other toxic substances with the lethal dose of cocaine . 
outpatient management of traumatic microhyphemas . traumatic microhyphema is an entity encountered in emergency rooms and general ophthalmology practices . the management of traumatic microhyphema has not been well defined in the literature . we discuss the effectiveness of our treatment regimen and the incidence of rebleed in patients with microhyphema . 
intraocular foreign bodies : results of 27 cases . twenty-seven consecutive cases of various kinds of perforating injuries with foreign bodies , referred to the ophthalmology department of hacettepe medical school between january 1984 and april 1988 , were evaluated retrospectively . whenever technically possible magnetic extraction was the preferred method of removing the foreign body . thirteen ( 48 % ) eyes developed endophthalmitis , 18 ( 66.6 % ) eyes developed traumatic cataract , and eight ( 29.6 % ) eyes developed retinal detachment after the trauma . twelve ( 44.5 % ) eyes had a visual acuity of 1/10 or better after the appropriate medical and surgical treatment . 
endophthalmitis due to sporothrix schenckii after penetrating ocular injury . a 13-year-old boy developed endophthalmitis from traumatic inoculation of vegetable material penetrating his right eye . sporothrix schenckii was morphologically identified from the intraocular fluids . however , repeated attempts to culture the organism proved negative . seventeen sporotrical endophthalmitis cases have so far been reported , and before this report , only one of them was secondary to trauma . this is the sole eye to our knowledge not only to have escaped enucleation after sporotrical endophthalmitis but to have achieved useful ( 20/50 ) vision . 
removal of blunt foreign bodies from the esophagus . historically , removal of blunt foreign bodies from the esophagus by esophagoscopy under general anesthesia has been considered to be relatively safe and effective . in recent years , alternative techniques of blind removal with balloon catheters or bougies have been advocated . this paper reports 246 esophagoscopies performed over a 19-year period to remove blunt esophageal foreign bodies . eighty-one percent of the foreign bodies were coins and 74 % were in children under 3 years of age . there were no deaths , no perforations , and no instances of mediastinitis . the only complications encountered were those due to esophageal erosion and/or respiratory problems secondary to long-standing foreign bodies . in the author 's opinion , esophagoscopy is the best method for removal of all esophageal foreign bodies . there simply does not seem to be a need for alternative methods involving blind removal . 
platysma myocutaneous flap for repair of hypopharyngeal strictures . hypopharyngeal strictures , either isolated or in conjunction with laryngeal and esophageal strictures , can occur following lye ingestion . extensive stricture formation requires reconstruction to create a functional funnel system that empties below the cricoid . esophageal replacement is not a substitute for adequate hypopharyngeal reconstruction . the pectoralis major muscle is often inadequate , because it yields too much bulk and often leads to continued aspiration . the platysma myocutaneous flap for hypopharyngeal reconstruction has not been previously reported . the inferiorly based platysma myocutaneous flap was used in two of our patients with lye burns , and bilateral superiorly based flaps were used in one . all are able to eat normally and have no significant stenosis . the platysma myocutaneous flap is a relatively simple and reliable alternative that is within the capability of every head and neck surgeon . 
decision analysis , public health policy , and isoniazid chemoprophylaxis for young adult tuberculin skin reactors . as part of a plan to eliminate tuberculosis in america , tuberculin skin testing was advised for all us citizens , with isoniazid chemopreventive therapy administered to appropriate positive reactors . implementation of this plan , however , may be limited by concerns over which skin test reactors should receive isoniazid therapy . recent decision analyses suggest that , contrary to american thoracic society guidelines , asymptomatic skin test reactors under age 35 years with normal chest roentgenograms and no predisposing conditions to tuberculosis reactivation will not benefit from isoniazid chemopreventive therapy . repeated analysis of these studies reveals that calculated life expectancy depends on estimates of the probability of certain chance outcomes . if the isoniazid-related hepatitis case-fatality rate is below 1 % , isoniazid chemopreventive therapy appears to be beneficial . a literature review suggests that this rate is indeed this low . if the tuberculosis case-fatality rate is above 6.7 % , also supported by the literature , the advantages of isoniazid therapy are further increased . this repeated analysis should reassure physicians that isoniazid chemoprophylaxis for tuberculin skin test reactors is beneficial to the individual and consonant with public health policies . 
outcome in mania . a 4-year prospective follow-up of 75 patients utilizing survival analysis . a 4-year follow-up of 75 patients was conducted to investigate outcome after recovery from an episode of mania . predictors of an unfavorable outcome included poor occupational status prior to index episode , history of previous episodes , history of alcoholism , psychotic features and symptoms of depression during the index manic episode , male gender , and interepisode affective symptoms at 6 months ' follow-up . the mortality risk during the follow-up period was 4 % . the identification of specific risk factors depended on the definition of outcome and the length of follow-up . 
reappraisal of pancreatic and duodenal injury management based on injury severity . we evaluated the effectiveness of treatment protocols for pancreatic and duodenal injuries according to the severity of injury . of 81 patients , 65 survived initial injury . pancreatic injuries without ductal involvement occurred in 21 patients and were treated by drainage . no late deaths occurred . pancreatic injuries with ductal disruption occurred in 18 patients and were treated by pancreatic resection . abscesses developed in seven ( 39 % ) of the patients , but no late deaths occurred . nineteen patients had duodenal injuries without pancreatic injury , and no duodenal complications occurred . simple closure sufficed for injuries affecting up to 40 % of the duodenal circumference . wounds affecting up to 40 % of the duodenal circumference can be treated by suture closure alone . adjunctive duodenal tube decompression should be reserved for wounds affecting greater than 40 % of the duodenal circumference , closure under tension , and associated injuries to the head of the pancreas . pyloric exclusion was rarely necessary in our patients . 
barotrauma associated with high-frequency jet ventilation for hypoxic salvage . most reports describe reduction in proximal airway pressures with high-frequency jet ventilation . this led us to speculate that high-frequency jet ventilation might reduce barotrauma by providing alveolar ventilation at lower airway pressures . we describe a group of patients in whom a high incidence of barotrauma was observed after institution of high-frequency jet ventilation despite reduction in measured airway pressures . fifteen hypoxic patients who could not be treated with conventional ventilation and who had no roentgenographic evidence of barotrauma were entered into the study . airway pressures were measured during conventional ventilation and at 2 and 24 hours after high-frequency jet ventilation . despite significant reduction in peak inspiratory and mean airway pressures , pneumothorax developed in seven of the 15 patients , an average of 21 hours after initiation of high-frequency jet ventilation . five patients had bilateral pneumothorax and three developed tension pneumothorax . despite reductions in proximal airway pressures , barotrauma is a significant potential complication of high-frequency jet ventilation in patients with noncompliant lungs . we currently place bilateral prophylactic thoracostomy tubes in patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome prior to initiation of high-frequency jet ventilation . 
chronic alcohol ingestion increases aortic lipid levels in rats . we evaluated the effects of alcohol ingestion on aortic lipid concentrations in 15 pair-fed sprague-dawley rats divided into three groups of five animals each . control rats were fed a liquid diet , with 36 % of their energy provided by maltose-dextrin for 28 days , and the remaining two groups of rats were fed an equivalent proportion of their energy as alcohol for 28 days or 18 months . alcohol-fed rats exhaled significantly greater quantities of ethane than did controls at 28 days and 18 months . serum cholesterol levels increased by 40 % and triglyceride levels increased by 80 % , but phospholipid levels remained unchanged in alcohol-fed rats compared with controls . aortic concentrations of cholesterol and phospholipids increased twofold and threefold , respectively , in alcohol-fed rats , with a corresponding alteration of the cholesterol-phospholipid ratio at both time intervals . tissue triglyceride levels were only elevated at 28 days , and no differences in aortic lipid peroxide levels were detected between alcohol-fed rats and controls . the results of the study indicate that alcohol ingestion increases aortic cholesterol , phospholipid , and triglyceride levels at 28 days and cholesterol and phospholipid but not triglyceride levels at 18 months . the mechanisms underlying the accumulation of lipids in aortic tissue need further elucidation . 
eustachian valve endocarditis . m mode and cross sectional echocardiography showed a highly mobile globular pedunculated mass ( 3.0 cm long with a maximum diameter of i. 5 cm ) attached to the eustachian valve in a heroin addict with staphylococcal endocarditis . 
the comportmental learning disabilities of early frontal lobe damage . two adult patients are described who suffered bilateral prefrontal damage early in life and who subsequently came to psychiatric attention because of severely aberrant behaviour . a battery of developmental psychology paradigms ( not previously used to assess neurologically impaired individuals ) showed that social and moral development of these 2 patients was arrested at an immature stage . in comparison with other types of brain damage which disrupt cognitive development , frontal damage acquired early in life appears to provide the neurological substrate for a special type of learning disability in the realms of insight , foresight , social judgement , empathy , and complex reasoning . 
combined modality therapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma . multi-modality treatment consisting of cisplatin , vp-16 , and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy given concomitantly with external beam radiation was used to treat 64 patients with locally advanced stage iii non-small cell lung carcinoma . this regimen was used in a preoperative fashion for four cycles in patients considered surgically resectable and with curative intent for six cycles in the remainder of patients . the clinical response rate for the entire group was 84 % and the overall local control rate was 74 % . the median survival was 13 months with a median follow-up for live patients of 19 months . the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates were 30 % and 23 % , respectively . histologic complete response was 39 % and appeared to predict for survival . the 3-year actuarial survival and disease-free survival rates for 23 resected patients were 69 % and 45 % , respectively , with the complete histologic responders having a disease-free survival of 78 % . the pattern of first recurrence did not appear to differ by histology or presence of lymph nodes in this subset of patients . the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates for inoperable patients receiving six cycles of treatment were 18 % and 23 % , respectively . the local control was 67 % with the majority of these patients having stage iiib disease . the mountain international staging system appeared to predict for operability , local recurrence , and survival . this concomitant treatment regimen is feasible , with the major toxicities being leukopenia , nausea , and vomiting . 
piroxicam decreases postirradiation colonic neoplasia in the rat . this study evaluated the effects of the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agent piroxicam on chronic radiation proctitis in the rat . forty female wistar rats received a 2250-cgy dose of irradiation to the distal 2 cm of the colon . twenty received piroxicam 8.0 mg/kg orally 30 minutes before exposure and 24 hours after exposure ; 20 rats served as irradiated controls . all animals were evaluated by colonoscopy 1 and 3 weeks postexposure and every third week until death or killing at 1 year . at killing , colons were removed for light microscopic examination . one year postirradiation results showed no differences in mortality , vascular changes , acute inflammation , colitis cystica profunda , or rectal stricture between the control and piroxicam-treated groups . however , at 1 year postirradiation the control group demonstrated neoplasia in 15 of 19 animals compared with eight of 20 animals in the piroxicam-treated group . the first endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasm occurred at 15 weeks postirradiation in one control irradiated rat whereas the first evidence of endoscopic neoplasm in the piroxicam-treated group did not occur until 36 weeks postirradiation . histologic examination documented a tendency toward a greater presence of adenocarcinomas in the control group compared with the piroxicam-treated group . the authors conclude that piroxicam treatment significantly decreased the incidence of colonic neoplasia in general as well as delayed the endoscopic appearance of colonic neoplasia in rats after pelvic irradiation . 
dislocation after total hip arthroplasty . causes and prevention . in this prospective study , a technique of positioning the acetabulum by bony landmarks of the pelvis in the standing position was developed using a standing lateral preoperative roentgenogram with the x-ray tube centered over the trochanter . since 1984 , 441 total hip arthroplasties ( thas ) were done through the posterior approach with a 1.14 % dislocation rate through 1988 and no dislocations in 1989 . to prevent impingement and dislocation , it was determined that the safest range for cup position was 30 degrees-50 degrees abduction and 20 degrees-40 degrees flexion from the horizontal . to measure postoperative cup position , a standing true lateral roentgenogram of the operated hip allowed direct measurement of cup flexion and was reproducible within 10 degrees . no special instruments are necessary for this technique , which can be used with any tha system . 
cementless total joint arthroplasty prostheses with titanium-alloy articular surfaces . a human retrieval analysis . surgical implants of titanium alloy ( ti-6al-4v ) have been found to be susceptible to abrasive wear , resulting in the well-known phenomenon of metallosis . in the presence of the acrylic debris generated by loose joint arthroplasty prostheses , this abrasive wear is greatly increased . however , the bone loss seen in these cases has generally been presumed to be due to the osteolytic effects of particulate acrylic , not the alloy debris , which has generally been assumed to be biocompatible . to examine the in vivo effects of titanium-alloy wear without the added presence of acrylic debris , a comprehensive analysis was made of cementless human joint arthroplasty prostheses with ti-6al-4v alloy surfaces articulating on ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene ( uhmwpe ) . specimens , including the prostheses , synovium , pseudocapsule and additional soft tissues , and periarticular bone , were retrieved from 22 hips and two knees . specimens were examined by histologic techniques , energy-dispersive x-ray analysis , and electron microscopy . serial sections of the implants were evaluated for tissue ingrowth . tissues surrounding all joints implanted more than one year showed some degree of discoloration indicative of metallosis , whereas after two years the synovium was hypertrophic and villiform . histologic evaluation showed good fixation by bony ingrowth in the vast majority of cases , although location and extent of ingrowth was dependent on numerous factors . viability of ingrowth bone was established by fluorochrome labeling . however , despite good biologic fixation , cavitary osteolysis of the bone surrounding the implants was frequently identified . these lesions were filled with sheets of aggressive macrophages within a matrix of fibrous tissue and necrotic debris . under polarized light the macrophages were found to be filled with alloy and polyethylene fragments of a characteristic size . osteoblast-mediated remodeling of bone was infrequently observed . instead , the bone was resorbed along a front in contact with the granulomatous tissues filling the cystic lesions . visible burnishing was observed on every articular surface , with a linear relationship between wear and time implanted . by one year the surfaces were covered with a characteristic " scratch and gouge " pattern , similar on all sizes of femoral heads as well as the total knee prostheses . this study demonstrates that the combination of ti-6al-4v alloy and uhmwpe , when used as a bearing surface combination in total joint arthroplasty prostheses , results in excessive wear of both metal and polymer . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
knee function after complex femoral fractures treated with interlocking nails . twenty-three complex femoral fractures were treated with interlocking nails . after fracture healing , knee function was analyzed , including alignment , quadriceps and hamstring strength , thigh atrophy , and range of motion ( rom ) . similar to previous studies in the preinterlocking nail era , knee function was impaired in comparison with the contralateral limb . seventy-three percent of patients had decreased quadriceps strength , and 60 % had decreased hamstring strength . sixty-five percent had thigh atrophy . the rom and alignment were satisfactory . despite the advantages of early rom with femoral fractures treated with interlocking nails , knee function is often unsatisfactory once fracture union has occurred . therefore , a formal knee rehabilitation program is recommended to achieve an optimal result . 
risk factors for the development of osteoarthrosis of the knee . the roles of physical activity ( both work and leisure time ) , obesity , and history of significant knee injury on the development of severe osteoarthrosis ( oa ) of the knee were evaluated . a case-control design compared 46 cases with a history of severe oa of the knee with 46 community controls matched for age and gender . data were gathered with a self-administered questionnaire . the oa cases were 3.5 times more likely than controls to have been obese at 20 years of age , two to three times more likely than controls to have performed heavy work , and almost five times more likely than controls to have had a significant knee injury . in contrast , leisure-time physical activity was not significantly different in cases compared with controls . obesity , significant knee injury , and long-term heavy physical activity are important risk factors for the development of oa of the knee . 
cartilage begets bone versus endochondral myelopoiesis . observations on the cellular events involved in embryonic long-bone formation , ectopic osteogenesis , fracture repair , and the analysis of mesenchymal stem-cell potential provide evidence of the intimate and direct relationship of osteogenesis to angiogenesis and vasculature . the sequence of cellular events is that cartilage is not replaced by bone but , rather , is a target for vascularization and myelopoiesis . with this in mind , it may be necessary to replace the term " endochondral bone formation " with " endochondral myelopoiesis . " . 
bone fragility of the peripheral skeleton during fluoride therapy for osteoporosis . bone fragility during fluoride therapy for osteoporosis was observed in 24 ( 37.5 % ) of 64 patients treated with sodium fluoride , calcium , and vitamin d for 2.5 years who developed episodes of lower-limb pain during treatment . eighteen ( 28 % ) of these patients had clinical and roentgenographic features of 41 stress fractures and 12 new spinal fractures . there were 26 periarticular , six femoral neck , three pubic rami , three tibia and fibula , one greater trochanter , and two subtrochanteric fractures . vertebral fractures appeared first , then periarticular , then femoral neck , and lastly long-bone shaft fractures . all fractures were spontaneous in onset . the peripheral fracture rate during treatment was three times that in untreated osteoporosis . roentgenograms must be repeated at intervals of three to four weeks before the pathognomonic callus becomes visible , and the diagnosis can be made . trabecular stress fractures tend to occur in the first 18 months of treatment , and cortical stress fractures occur after 30 months of therapy . 
the fat embolism syndrome . a review . while fat embolism occurs in most ( more than 90 % ) patients with traumatic injury , the fat embolism syndrome ( fes ) occurs in only 3 % -4 % of patients with long-bone fractures . fes involves multiple organ systems and can cause a devastating clinical deterioration within hours . the major clinical features of fes include hypoxia , pulmonary edema , central nervous system depression , and axillary or subconjunctive petechiae . improvements have been made in supporting the respiratory compromise and adult respiratory distress syndrome that these patients develop . aggressive measures to improve the pulmonary function , i.e. , positive pressure ventilation and effective fluid management , are important and expedite fixation of bone fractures . 
endotracheal tube cuff pressure assessment : pitfalls of finger estimation and need for objective measurement . estimation of endotracheal ( et ) cuff pressure by finger palpation is one of the methods currently used in the clinical setting . we compared the accuracy of this method with instrumental intracuff pressure measurement in tracheal model tests by 20 members of our icu team . four different et tubes at three different pressure levels were examined . accuracy for the estimated method by finger palpation was 69 % for high pressures , 58 % for normal pressures , and 73 % for low pressures . we observed differences in terms of sensitivity , specificity , and positive predictive power between different tubes reflecting differences in tube characteristics and interobserver variability . we conclude that precise intracuff pressure measurement is mandatory to prevent complications of over - or underinflation . 
acute myocardial infarction resulting from the migration of a greenfield filter . a paraplegic patient who underwent the placement of greenfield filters to prevent pulmonary emboli had one of the filters migrate proximally to the junction of the inferior vena cava and right atrium , then into the right atrium a few months later . this resulted in an acute myocardial infarction by apparently causing an intimal dissection of the posterior descending artery . treatment , follow-up and causes of filter migration are discussed . 
human dose-response relationship for decompression and endogenous bubble formation . the dose-response relationship for decompression magnitude and venous gas emboli ( vge ) formation in humans was examined . pressure exposures of 138 , 150 , and 164 kpa ( 12 , 16 , and 20.5 ft of seawater gauge pressure ) were conducted in an underwater habitat for 48 h. the 111 human male volunteer subjects then ascended directly to the surface in less than 5 min and were monitored for vge with a continuous-wave doppler ultrasound device over the precordium or the subclavian veins at regular intervals for a 24-h period . no signs or symptoms consistent with decompression sickness occurred . however , a large incidence of vge detection was noted . these data were combined with those from our previously reported experiments at higher pressures , and the data were fit to a hill dose-response equation with nonlinear least-squares or maximum likelihood routines . highly significant fits of precordial vge incidences were obtained with the hill equation ( saturation depth pressure at which there is a 50 % probability of detectable vge [ d ( vge ) 50 ] = 150 + / - 1.2 kpa ) . subclavian monitoring increased the sensitivity of vge detection and resulted in a leftward shift [ d ( vge ) 50 = 135 + / - 2 kpa ] of the best-fit curve . we conclude that the reduction in pressure necessary to produce bubbles in humans is much less than was previously thought ; 50 % of humans can be expected to generate endogenous bubbles after decompression from a steady-state pressure exposure of only 135 kpa ( 11 ft of seawater ) . this may have significant implications for decompression schedule formulation and for altitude exposures that are currently considered benign . these results also imply that endogenous bubbles arise from preexisting gas collections . 
perichondral grafting for cartilage lesions of the knee . twenty-five patients with 30 chondral lesions of the knee were treated with an autogenous strip of costal perichondrium . the graft was fixed to the subchondral bone with tissucol ( immuno , vienna ) , a human fibrin glue . the leg was then immobilised for two weeks followed by two weeks of continuous passive motion . weight-bearing was permitted after three months . the mean knee score ( ranawat , insall and shine 1976 ) changed from 73 before operation to 90 one year after ; in 14 patients evaluated after two years there was no decrease . in 28 cases the defect was completely filled with tissue resembling articular cartilage . we conclude that in most cases perichondral arthroplasty of cartilage defects of the knee gives excellent results . 
biomechanical strength of non-vascularised and vascularised diaphyseal bone transplants . an experimental study . we studied the healing and torsional strength of non-vascularised ( 28 ) and vascularised ( 28 ) sections of tibial diaphyses in 56 cats . both types of graft achieved fracture union in the same period of time , and at 12 and 16 weeks the non-vascularised grafts were as strong as the vascularised grafts . 
open reduction and fixation of proximal humeral fractures and fracture-dislocations . open reduction and internal fixation was employed in the treatment of 25 severely displaced fractures and fracture-dislocations of the proximal humerus . our aims were accurate reduction and stable fixation to allow early mobilisation and to achieve full functional recovery . in 15 fractures an ao t-plate was used and in 10 a bent semitubular plate was employed as a blade plate . excellent or satisfactory results were obtained in all six patients with two-part fractures involving the surgical neck ; in four of the five patients with three-part fractures involving the surgical neck and tuberosities ; in nine of the 11 patients with fracture-dislocation ; and in two of the three patients with split fractures of the humeral head . overall results were good or satisfactory in 21 of the 25 cases . unsatisfactory results were associated with rotator cuff damage . 
extending intramedullary rods in congenital pseudarthrosis of the tibia . five patients with boyd type ii congenital pseudarthrosis of the tibia underwent excision of the pseudarthrosis and double onlay bone grafting . stability was maintained by extending intramedullary rods . clinical union was achieved in all cases at a mean of 8.6 months ( range six to 11 ) . the rods extended by 15.7 % ( range 2 % to 31.4 % ) as growth occurred . one rod was removed because of infection and a vascularised free fibular graft was subsequently performed . the extending rods provided stability while union occurred and did not require revision as the legs grew . the rods can be removed easily and have not jeopardized further surgical options . 
bone lysis in well-fixed cemented femoral components . we have reviewed 25 cases of focal femoral osteolysis in radiographically stable , cemented femoral implants . in three hips retrieved at post-mortem from two patients , we have been able to make a detailed biomechanical and histological analysis . the interval between arthroplasty and the appearance of focal osteolysis on clinical radiographs ranged from 40 to 168 months , and in over 70 % of the cases this did not appear until after five or more years . few had significant pain and there was no relation to age , sex or original diagnosis . the most common site for osteolysis were gruen zones 2 and 3 on the anteroposterior radiograph and zones 5 and 6 on the lateral radiograph . in 15 cases ( 60 % ) , the area of osteolysis corresponded to either a defect in the cement mantle or an area of very thin cement . the rate of progression of these lesions was variable , but to date only one has progressed to gross loosening of the femoral component . the back-scatter scanning electron microscopic examination of serial sections and biomechanical testing of the post-mortem specimens demonstrated focal cement fracture around implants that were otherwise rigidly fixed . in eight cases from which tissue was available , histology showed a histiocytic reaction with evidence of particulate polymethylmethacrylate . we consider that this local fragmentation was the stimulus for local osteolysis in an otherwise stable cemented femoral component . 
why use drains ? there is no firm published evidence to support the use of closed suction drains . over 20 years ago , large studies by the public health laboratory service and the national research council found that drains were risk factors for wound infection . a prospective randomised study of the use of closed suction drains after surgery for fractured neck of femur in 70 patients failed to show that drains improved wound healing . drained cases had more complications . 
morphine pharmacokinetics during anesthesia and surgery in patients with burns . the plasma clearance , plasma half-life , and apparent volume of distribution of morphine during anesthesia and surgery were determined in seven patients with burns and compared with seven age-matched control subjects . the burn group had a significantly lower clearance , longer terminal half-life , and smaller volume of distribution than the control group . the clearance was 12 + / - 2 ml/min/kg , the half-life was 123 + / - 24 minutes , and the volume of distribution was 2.2 + / - 0.4 l/kg for the subjects with burns compared with 25 + / - 3 ml/min/kg , 89 + / - 18 minutes , and 3.2 + / - 0.8 l/kg for the control subjects ( p less than 0.001 , less than 0.02 , and less than 0.02 , respectively ) . these data contrast with the theory that patients with burns have a tolerance to narcotics and suggest the need for further study of the pharmacologic effects of burn injury and surgery . 
effects of acute ethanol ingestion and burn injury on serum immunoglobulin . previous studies have found that acute ethanol ingestion before burn injury caused further impairment of mitogenic response of b lymphocytes compared with burn injury alone . the principal role of b lymphocytes is immunoglobulin production . this study was designed to determine the effect of acute ethanol ingestion on circulating immunoglobulin levels before injury . serum concentrations of igg , igm , and iga in rats were measured with the use of radial immunodiffusion plates at 4 days after a 30 % burn injury in animals that had received a single ingestion of 3.0 ml ethanol per kilogram of body weight . the immunoglobulin levels were compared with appropriate controls . a 30 % burn injury produced significant decreases in serum igg and iga levels but not in igm levels , whereas acute ethanol ingestion only decreased iga levels . acute ethanol ingestion before injury did not induce any further significant decrease than did burn injury alone . 
comparison of resting energy expenditures and caloric intake in children with severe burns . nutritional support is provided to children after severe burn injuries in amounts derived from empirical formulas or measurements of resting energy expenditure . to scrutinize these methods , indirect calorimetry measurements were performed on 74 survivors of burns ( greater than or equal to 40 % total body surface area ) and compared to their actual caloric intake , percent weight change , and optimal caloric requirements formulated from the curreri and shriners ' equations . these parameters showed that in spite of an initial deficit in actual caloric intake as compared to formulated goals , weight was maintained , whereas resting energy expenditures ranged from 30 % to 40 % below the actual caloric intake . furthermore , a subgroup of patients ( n = 42 ) who met + / - 20 % of their formulated needs were stratified by extent of burn ; this illustrated a significant weight gain in the more severely burned children . in conclusion , nutritional formulas in popular use overestimate caloric requirements in severe burns , whereas resting energy expenditure measurements require an additional factor of 30 % to maintain body weight . 
cyclosporine a for prolonging allograft survival in patients with massive burns . cyclosporine a ( csa ) immunosuppression was used in three patients with massive burns to prolong skin allograft survival . cyclosporine a kinetic studies in patients with burns revealed markedly accelerated blood clearance and high variability in drug absorption when compared with studies in renal transplantation patients . doses required to maintain therapeutic levels varied widely . while patients were receiving adequate maintenance therapy with csa immunosuppression the allograft was tightly adherent without gross or microscopic rejection and was indistinguishable from autograft . ultimately , patients ' wounds were permanently covered with sequential autografts by recropping limited donor sites . there were not unusual septic complications , although prophylaxis for opportunistic infections was used . the disadvantage of allograft use is its early rejection and obligatory replacement until permanent coverage with autograft can be accomplished . cyclosporine a can prolong allograft survival and allow autograft coverage from limited donor sites in a sequential fashion . this may lead to increased survival in patients with massive burns . 
the efficacy of pediatric blood culture sets in the determination of burn bacteremia . a blood culture is an essential laboratory procedure necessary to confirm a septic episode . however , it is important to collect the blood sample at the appropriate time with an acceptable technique . the standard method is to collect at least 5 to 10 ml blood per culture bottle from patients with fevers . however , this volume of blood is an unrealistic amount to take from the frequently febrile pediatric patient . alternatively , the pediatric blood culture bottle allows the collection of 1 ml blood per bottle to perform the same evaluation . we evaluated the two techniques of blood-culture collection over a 9-month period and compared the results between adult and pediatric blood culture bottles . seventy-six patients , from november 1988 through february 1989 , had blood cultures performed with the adult culture bottles , which produced a total of 1314 samples . a total of 113 patients , from march through july 1989 , had blood cultures performed with the pediatric culture bottles , which produced a total of 758 samples . percent recovery for the adult bottles versus the pediatric bottles was 13.95 % versus 22.8 % ( p less than 0.0001 ) . since the amount of blood necessary to isolate an infectious agent is critical not only for laboratory identification but also for the volume of blood of pediatric patients , these data clearly establish the efficacy of pediatric blood culture bottles and the utilization of smaller amounts of blood . not only did this approach significantly enhance organism recovery rate , but it may well be more cost-effective because fewer cultures need to be performed to isolate the infectious organism . 
a survey of wound monitoring and topical antimicrobial therapy practices in the treatment of burn injury . a survey was done to determine how burn wound microbial monitoring is performed and how topical antimicrobial agents are employed . the survey was sent to 90 burn-care facilities , which comprised most of the major burn centers in the united states . the survey contained questions concerning frequency and techniques of wound monitoring , personnel involved in monitoring , as well as questions about how decisions were made to initiate topical antimicrobial therapy , which agents were selected , and how they were administered . sixty of 90 facilities ( 66 % ) responded to the survey . although there were few areas of unanimous agreement , several trends did emerge . most facilities monitored burn wounds for microbes ( 92 % ) . wound monitoring was typically done at least twice weekly by either surface swab or quantitative biopsy . nursing staff played a significant role in specimen collection in 69 % of facilities and were solely responsible for obtaining biopsy specimens in 29 % of facilities that used biopsies exclusively . all responding facilities used topical antimicrobial agents ; silver sulfadiazine was the most popular ( 95 % ) . only 33 % of facilities surveyed had their own laboratory for microbial monitoring . rapid techniques for early diagnosis of wound sepsis were used in 20 % of units , and topical antimicrobial testing was used in 17 % of facilities surveyed . 
cytomegalovirus infection promotes bacterial translocation in thermally injured mice . thermally injured mice that were given intraperitoneal injections of murine cytomegalovirus ( mcmv ) appeared to be clinically septic and to have increased mortality rates . to evaluate the possible role of mcmv infection in promoting bacterial translocation in burned mice , mesenteric lymph nodes were cultured from two strains of mice ( balb/c and cba ) that were given thermal injuries alone , mcmv alone , or both . balb/c mice injected with 5 x 10 ( 5 ) plaque-forming units mcmv following a 15 % to 16 % total body surface area scald injury had increased incidence of positive mesenteric lymph node cultures compared with other groups . no intestinal mucosal histologies , mucosal dry weights , or wet-to-dry weight ratios in any animals were abnormal . differences in cecal bacterial concentrations were not observed . murine cytomegalovirus infection appears to enhance bacterial translocation in this model . 
the use of intestinal antibiotics to delay or prevent infections in patients with burns . bacterial colonization and infection of wounds in seriously burned patients often comes from the patient 's indigenous bowel flora . a prospective randomized clinical trial that involved 30 patients with 20 % or greater total body surface area burns was undertaken to evaluate the use of a standard antibiotic bowel preparation in the delay or prevention of bacterial colonization of the burn wound and sepsis . certain enteric bacteria were seen less frequently in the treated group ( enterobacter organisms ) , but other bacteria appeared more often in the treated group ( proteus organisms and enterococci ) . the average time of colonization of the burn wounds was 6.1 days in the treated group and 6.7 days in the control group . blood cultures were positive for enteric organisms earlier in the treatment group . pseudomonads appeared earlier in the wound and blood cultures of the treated group than in the control group . the effect of antibiotic bowel suppression in patients with burns is varied and unpredictable . the bowel preparation may select certain organisms and lead to earlier colonization of the wounds . overall outcome and survival was not improved by the use of an antibiotic bowel preparation in these patients . 
tissue-expanded radial forearm free flap in neck burn contracture . neck contracture after burn injury can result in severe functional as well as aesthetic deformities . contracture can recur even after wide and complete release and full-thickness skin grafting . recurrence is partly due to the inherent difficulties in both early postoperative immobilization and the required long-term splinting . when adjacent tissues are also burned , adequate local tissue for reconstruction may not be available ; therefore , free-tissue transfer may be necessary . the large surface area that is required after adequate release may be provided by tissue expansion before free-tissue transfer . in the case presented the use of tissue-expanded radial forearm free flap for the reconstruction of a recurrent neck contracture is described . 
gasoline burns : the preventable cause of thermal injury . gasoline related burns are a significant cause of thermal injuries each year in the united states . in this retrospective review of 1858 admissions to our regional burn center from 1979 to 1988 , 270 ( 14.5 % ) were persons with gasoline-related injuries . natural gas and other distillates were excluded . most victims were male ( 228 of 270 ) ; mean age was 27 years ; mean burn size was 25 % total body surface area . there were 299 skin grafts performed on 172 patients , and there were 16 deaths . the mean length of stay decreased from 38 to 17 days ( p less than 0.001 ) between the first and second 5-year time periods , even though there was no significant change in age or mean burn size . the majority ( 59 % ) of gasoline-related burns were the result of inappropriate or unsupervised use of gasoline . the general public is largely unaware of the dangers of gasoline , and further education in this area is needed . 
carburetor burns : preventable injuries associated with high morbidity and frequent litigation . we have identified carburetor burns as a significant cause of preventable morbidity , both from long-term functional and cosmetic standpoints . the epidemiology of carburetor burns and our experience are described . all of our patients were male , with a mean age of 35 years . average burn size was 11.3 % . the anatomic distribution of these burns , most often on the dominant hand and on the face , contributes to the morbidity of these burns . this injury has been associated with increasingly frequent litigation . we believe that an active education campaign and the addition of warning labels to car engine compartments would make an impact in decreasing the incidence of carburetor burns . 
marjolin 's ulcer : a review and reevaluation of a difficult problem . the formation of an epidermoid carcinoma in nonhealing scar tissue , a marjolin 's ulcer , is a well described neoplasm . these lesions are , however , frequently overlooked and often inadequately treated . this paper reviews six cases of scar-tissue carcinoma . all lesions were secondary to various kinds of burns . four of the marjolin 's ulcers were well-differentiated squamous cell carcinomas . one was a moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma , and one was a malignant melanoma . the average age at presentation was 59 years , and the mean interval from time of burn injury to appearance of neoplasm was 36.8 years . the lesions varied in anatomic location and involved the upper extremities , lower extremities , and scalp . in addition to the case studies , this paper reviews the literature and provides a logical treatment plan for a patient with a marjolin 's ulcer . because these lesions can be very aggressive , a well thought-out treatment plan is necessary to optimize care and assure patient survival . 
discharge videotaping : a means of augmenting occupational and physical therapy . regional burn centers commonly receive patients from medical facilities that are geographically distant . logistic problems that may hamper follow-up care in the burn center can lead to a decrease in function as a result of contractures and hypertrophic scar formation . inexperience on the part of therapists at community facilities serves to intensify this problem . discharge videotaping , with respect to physical and occupational therapy programs , is a means of documenting range of motion at the time of discharge and providing visual documentation of the therapy program to be followed on an outpatient basis . the video tapes are forwarded to the outlying community hospital 's therapy department in order to accomplish these goals . 
familial values as factors influencing long-term psychological adjustment of children after severe burn injury . this study replicates earlier findings that children who survive severe burn injury do make positive psychological adjustment . family support and a family value of autonomy were predicted to be critical variables in promotion of psychological adjustment . in addition , the study presents the hypothesis that length of time after burn injury and level of intelligence are contributing factors in psychological adjustment . forty-four adolescents with a mean of 60 % total body surface area ( tbsa ) full-thickness burns were studied . half of the subjects scored within the normal range on a measure of psychological adjustment . familial value patterns were critical in the prediction of psychological adjustment . positive psychological adjustment was predicted by greater family cohesion , independence , and more open expressiveness within the family . level of intelligence did not contribute to adjustment . length of time after injury , if it is important to psychological healing , appears to be a factor only during the initial 2 years after burn injury . 
differences in health status between older and younger homeless adults . the institute of medicine has placed a priority on determining the special health-care needs of elderly homeless persons . as part of a community-based study of 521 homeless adults in two beach communities of los angeles , we compared the demographic characteristics and health of older ( age rangek 50-78 , n = 61 ) and younger ( age range , 18-49 , n = 460 ) homeless individuals . compared with younger adults , older adults were more likely to be white ( 85 % versus 61 % ) , veterans ( 59 % versus 27 % ) , retired ( 36 % versus 3 % ) , and living in a vehicle ( 21 % versus 8 % ) . older adults were more likely to report having a chronic disease ( 69 % versus 49 % ) , functional disabilities , no informal social contacts during the previous month ( 49 % versus 27 % ) , observed high blood pressure ( 42 % versus 22 % ) , elevated creatinine ( 11 % versus 2 % ) , and elevated cholesterol ( 57 % versus 36 % ) . older adults were less likely to have a toothache ( 3 % versus 30 % ) , report psychotic symptoms ( 25 % versus 42 % ) , and to be illegal drug users ( 15 % versus 55 % ) . although they are chronologically younger , the constellation of health and functional problems of older homeless adults resemble those of geriatric persons in the general population . we suggest that geriatricians could play a significant role in training other primary-care providers to evaluate and treat socially isolated older homeless adults in a more comprehensive way than is currently standard in practice ( e.g. , interdisciplinary team care and emphasis on functional status , rehabilitative medicine , and assessment for sensory impairment ) . 
radiological diagnosis of aspirated foreign bodies in children : review of 343 cases . in our series of 400 chinese children with foreign body aspiration ( fba ) , 343 cases were evaluated by fluoroscopy and/or plain chest x-rays before endoscopic removal of the foreign bodies . the majority of the foreign bodies ( fbs ) were organic ( 378/400 , 94.5 per cent ) . the results showed that mainstem bronchial foreign bodies were diagnosed correctly in 68 per cent of cases compared with 65 per cent correct diagnoses with segmental bronchial foreign bodies , but only 22 per cent correct diagnoses with tracheal , and 0 per cent correct diagnosis in those with laryngeal foreign bodies . eighty per cent ( 32/40 ) of the children with laryngotracheal fbs had normal x-ray findings , whereas 67.7 per cent ( 205/303 ) of the children with bronchial fbs had abnormal chest x-ray findings . the most common positive radiological signs in the children with tracheobronchial fbs were obstructive emphysema ( 131/213 , 62 per cent ) and mediastinal shift ( 117/213 , 55 per cent ) . the incidence of major complications was related not only to the size of the foreign body and its location but also the duration since aspiration . the most common types of bronchial obstructions by airway fbs are discussed . 
the effects of cyproheptadine on locomotion and on spasticity in patients with spinal cord injuries . the effects of cyproheptadine , a serotonergic antagonist , were studied in seven patients with spastic paresis of spinal origin . six patients were included in a double blind crossover trial ( maximal dose 24 mg/day ) . the patients were evaluated on both their spasticity and locomotor function . four of the patients also participated in an open trial in which cyproheptadine was administered for a minimum of six months at optimal dose . patients walked on a treadmill at full weight bearing when possible , or with 40 % of their body weight externally supported , as required , by an overhead harness system . cyproheptadine considerably decreased the sustained ankle clonus and episodes of spontaneous spasms observed in all the patients who previously presented these manifestations of spasticity . two patients who required body weight support ( bws ) during locomotion could walk at full weight bearing during cyproheptadine therapy . a more normal timing of emg patterns in these patients during cyproheptadine therapy was associated with temporal distance changes and marked improvement of joint angular displacement . in contrast , the other patients showed marginal changes in the emg and the kinematic pattern but eventually managed to walk at a higher speed . these preliminary results suggest that cyproheptadine can reduce spasticity and enhance locomotor function in spinal cord injured patients . 
laparoscopic tubal sterilization . the potential for thermal bowel injury . one of the most severe complications of laparoscopic tubal sterilization is bowel burns , although they often go undetected at the time of laparoscopy . controversy remains over whether these injuries are caused directly by operator error or indirectly from a hot oviduct 's or instrument 's inadvertently touching and burning the intestine . a study was performed to determine the potential for direct or indirect bowel burns using bipolar electrocoagulation in rabbits . the results indicate that neither a hot tube nor hot ( recently used ) forceps could cause injuries to the serosal surface of the intestine . that was true both of immediate injury and after one to five days of recovery . it was observed that the hot uterine tube caused significant bowel adhesions by five days after the procedure . direct electrocoagulation of the bowel using 40 w for three seconds caused a minor , noticeable blanch on the bowel that was not detectable with gross or histologic means after one day of recovery . a direct bowel injury did result when 80 w was used for three seconds ; the bowel became perforated after one day . these findings indicate that it is unlikely that one can produce a bowel burn indirectly from a hot uterine tube or instrument and that only a direct insult to the bowel appears to cause an injury . however , adhesions could be a complication of the procedure and should be considered . 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis . the lung is constantly exposed to a wide variety of environmental insults . in its defense against these environmental challenges , however , the lung responds through a limited number of pathophysiologic mechanisms . this is well illustrated by a group of diseases which are collectively referred to as hypersensitivity pneumonitis . this syndrome includes a very large number of different diseases . however , in the united states , only farmer 's lung , bird-breeder 's lung , and ventilation hypersensitivity pneumonitis occur with any significant frequency . each of these is characterized by flu-like symptoms , in conjunction with a pneumonitis consisting of lymphocytic granulomatous infiltration of the alveoli and terminal bronchioles . this disease is caused by the inhalation of antigenic material which usually originates from the dusts of organic material . a host of different dusts and antigens have been described in conjunction with hypersensitivity pneumonitis but each leads to the same characteristic clinical syndrome . thus , each of the diseases shares similar clinical features but differs primarily with respect to the nature of the exposure and causative antigens . the clinical features , pathogenesis , course , prognosis , and treatment of these related diseases are reviewed . 
ocular injury induced by methyl ethyl ketone peroxide . methyl ethyl ketone peroxide is a commonly used catalyst in various industries . we studied 19 eyes with a single exposure to methyl ethyl ketone peroxide that developed clinical patterns of mild injury , moderate injury , severe injury , or delayed keratitis . delayed methyl ethyl ketone peroxide keratitis may cause exacerbations and remissions of corneal and limbal disease lasting more than 20 years with palpebral and bulbar hyperemia equal to the initial chemical exposure . with repeat exacerbation , further pannus may occur , which can be associated with a poorer outcome . based on the capability of methyl ethyl ketone peroxide to change dna to a new weak antigen , we suggest possible methods of therapy to prevent or limit delayed methyl ethyl ketone peroxide keratitis . this proposed type of injury has important implications in studying various limbal and corneal diseases . a major factor in the severity of ocular injury was the length of time from exposure to methyl ethyl ketone peroxide to obtaining a topical ocular local anesthetic to perform adequate lavage . 
the corneoscleral limbus in human corneal epithelial wound healing . we studied re-epithelialization of the ocular surface in 17 human eyes ( 14 patients ) with large corneal and conjunctival abrasions . we focused on the healing of the limbal region . during re-epithelialization , cell movement was found to occur circumferentially along the corneoscleral limbus and centripetally from the corneoscleral limbus . in no patient did the central corneal defect close before the corneoscleral limbus had first re-epithelialized completely . normal limbal healing was observed to occur by circumferentially migrating tongue-shaped corneal limbal epithelium . these tongue-shaped projections developed from either side of the remaining intact epithelium and advanced along the corneoscleral limbus until they met . a centripetal movement of cells from the corneoscleral limbus then completed the healing process . in three patients , however , the advancing conjunctival epithelium extended across the corneoscleral limbus before the tongue-shaped projections of corneal limbal epithelium had met . the surface of the cornea covered by conjunctival epithelium was thin and irregular , and later showed peripheral scarring , vascularization , and recurrent erosions . 
covalent binding of oxidative biotransformation intermediates is associated with halothane hepatotoxicity in guinea pigs . in vivo covalent binding of halothane biotransformation-reactive intermediates to hepatic protein and lipid was examined in association with the subsequent development of hepatic necrosis in the guinea pig . oxidative halothane biotransformation was inhibited by the use of deuterated halothane , whereas reductive metabolism was enhanced by low inspired oxygen concentrations . male outbred hartley guinea pigs ( n = 8 ) were exposed to either 1 % ( v/v ) halothane or deuterated halothane -- with a fractional inspired o2 concentration ( fio2 ) of 0.40 or 0.10 -- for 4 h. livers removed from half of the animals immediately after anesthesia were evaluated for organic fluorine bound to protein and lipid . the remaining animals were evaluated for a hepatotoxic response up to 96 h after exposure . only guinea pigs that received 1 % halothane at an fio2 of 0.40 had centrilobular necrosis develop with significantly increased plasma alanine aminotransferase activities . all other treatment conditions significantly reduced oxidative halothane biotransformation , as indicated by decreased plasma trifluoroacetic acid concentrations . these reductions were associated with a significant decrease in organic fluorine bound to hepatic proteins . an fio2 of 0.10 during halothane anesthesia significantly enhanced reductive biotransformation , as indicated by plasma fluoride ion concentrations . this was associated with a significant increase in organic fluoride bound to hepatic lipids . centrilobular necrosis did not develop under these conditions . thus , covalent binding to subcellular proteins by the trifluoroacetyl acid chloride intermediate generated by oxidative halothane biotransformation is implicated as a mechanism of centrilobular necrosis in guinea pigs . binding to lipids by reductive pathway generated free radicals does not appear to be involved in production of the lesion . 
monoscleral fixation for posterior chamber intraocular lenses in cases of posterior capsule rupture . a method for monoscleral fixation of posterior chamber intraocular lenses in posterior capsule rupture is described . five lenses fixated with this technique are reviewed . 
pneumocephalus secondary to a high-pressure water injury to the nose . we report a case of pneumocephalus following a water jet injury to the nose incurred during a water-skiing fall . pneumocephalus due to this type of injury has not been previously reported , to our knowledge . since this unusual injury may be associated with serious complications , it must be promptly recognized and treated . 
the population mean predicts the number of deviant individuals objective -- to examine the relation between the prevalence of deviation and the mean for the whole population in characteristics such as blood pressure and consumption of alcohol . design -- re-examination of standardised data from the intersalt study , an international , multicentre study on the determinants of blood pressure . setting and subjects -- samples of adults representing 52 populations in 32 countries . main outcome measures -- the relations , expressed as correlation coefficients , between the mean population values for blood pressure , body mass index , alcohol consumption , and sodium intake and the prevalence of , respectively , hypertension ( greater than or equal to 140 mm hg ) , obesity ( body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2 ) , high alcohol intake ( greater than or equal to 300 ml/week ) , and high sodium intake ( greater than or equal to 250 mmol/day ) . results -- there were close and independent associations between the population mean and the prevalence of deviance for each of the variables examined : correlation coefficients were 0.85 for blood pressure , 0.94 for body mass index , 0.97 for alcohol intake , and 0.78 for sodium intake . conclusions -- these findings imply that distributions of health related characteristics move up and down as a whole : the frequency of " cases " can be understood only in the context of a population 's characteristics . the population thus carries a collective responsibility for its own health and well being , including that of its deviants . 
foley catheter balloon puncture and the risk of free fragment formation . the incidence of free fragment formation following balloon puncture or spontaneous bursting was examined in 294 foley catheters immersed for 48 h in urine . the catheters were divided into 3 groups : 100 were inflated to the manufacturer 's recommended volume , 100 to twice the volume and 94 to 3 times the recommended volume . the catheter balloons were punctured by pricking with a hypodermic needle . the overall incidence of free fragment formation was 27.3 % . for both types of catheter examined , increasing balloon volume was not associated with an increased risk of free fragment formation following puncture . however , increasing volume was associated with increased free fragment formation when the balloon burst spontaneously . in view of the high risk of free fragment formation , cystoscopy should be performed in all cases of spontaneous catheter balloon rupture or after percutaneous balloon puncture . 
blunt renal trauma in childhood . features indicating severe injury . the clinical presentation of children with blunt renal trauma may differ from that of adults . the clinical features at presentation of 50 consecutive children ( 20 severe injuries , no pedicle injuries ) admitted over a period of almost 8 years were reviewed to determine if there were clinical clues to major renal trauma in childhood . gross haematuria and low haematocrit were the most helpful factors at the time of presentation and correlated well with severe renal injury . hypotension was seen in 4 patients and only 1 had severe renal trauma . suspicion of a major renal injury should be high when there is gross haematuria or a low haematocrit . in this study only 1 of 20 patients with major renal injury demonstrated clinical signs of shock . unlike adults , hypotension does not appear to be a reliable indicator of the severity of renal injury in children and diagnostic evaluation should not be reserved only for those in shock . 
recovery of morphine from a controlled-release preparation . a source of opioid abuse . ms-contin ( purdue-fredrick , norwalk , ct ) is a controlled-release preparation of morphine sulfate that has demonstrated efficacy in the management of chronic cancer pain problems . it has recently come to the attention of the authors that ms-contin represents a potential source of opioid abuse through the extraction and intravenous injection of the morphine from this preparation . the authors describe a simple aqueous extraction method that was used to quantitatively determine the extent to which morphine could be obtained from ms-contin tablets . 
effects of acute and chronic ethanol administration and its withdrawal on the level and binding of somatostatin in rat brain . 1 . acute ethanol administration resulted in an increase in the total number of specific somatostatin receptors in rat frontoparietal cortex and hippocampus , and a decrease in the level of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity in the hippocampus but not in the frontoparietal cortex . 2 . chronic administration of ethanol caused a decrease in the number of somatostatin receptors in the frontoparietal cortex but not in the hippocampus , although the level of somatostatin-like immunoreactivity was unchanged in both brain areas . 3 . a week after suppressing ethanol the value for specific binding of tracer to somatostatin receptors in the frontoparietal cortex was not significantly different from that of the control rats , although the actual number of receptors was slightly lower . 4 . these results suggest a possible role for somatostatin in the nervous system during alcoholism and the post-withdrawal reaction . 
carcinogen hemoglobin adducts , urinary mutagenicity , and metabolic phenotype in active and passive cigarette smokers . in 100 healthy volunteers , we have studied the relationship between the type ( air - or flue-cured ) and number of cigarettes smoked and different biomarkers relevant to the risk of bladder cancer , including the levels of 4-aminobiphenyl ( abp ) hemoglobin adduct ( a marker of internal dose ) , urinary mutagenicity in salmonella typhimurium ta98 , and the n-acetylation phenotype ( a marker of susceptibility ) . abp is a potent bladder carcinogen that is n-acetylated as an overall detoxification step . levels of the abp hemoglobin adduct were higher in smokers of black tobacco ( air-cured ) than in smokers of blond tobacco ( flue-cured ) , confirming our earlier study . in addition , " slow " acetylators had higher levels of the abp hemoglobin adduct for the same type and quantity of cigarettes smoked . urinary mutagenicity was also associated with quantity of cigarettes but not with the acetylation phenotype . convex dose-response relationships were found between the amount smoked and abp hemoglobin adduct levels or urinary mutagenicity . in 15 nonsmokers who reported exposure to environmental tobacco smoke , abp hemoglobin adduct levels , unlike urinary mutagenicity , were found to be an aspecific exposure indicator . 
ocular trauma caused by exploding glass bottles containing dry ice and water . we treated three patients with severe ocular injuries caused by exploding glass bottles containing a mixture of dry ice chips and water . one patient had a corneal laceration and traumatic cataract with several retained intraocular glass fragments . the second had a scleral laceration without corneal or lenticular involvement . the third suffered a corneal-scleral laceration , with a total retinal detachment . following surgery , two patients recovered 20/20 vision ; the third patient regained only light perception . 
treatment of reflex sympathetic dystrophy with topical capsaicin . case report . a 31-year-old woman with intractable reflex sympathetic dystrophy experienced nearly complete , though temporary , resolution of pain following 3 weeks of topical capsaicin . we propose that capsaicin may be a useful treatment for reflex sympathetic dystrophy , either by depleting substance p from primary afferent neurons that mediate allodynia , or by modulating sympathetic efferent activity . 
effects of lesions in the anterolateral columns and dorsolateral funiculi on self-mutilation behavior in rats . the possible role of the anterolateral columns ( alcs ) and dorsolateral funiculi ( dlf ) in pain mechanisms was examined from the effects of lesions in these tracts ( alone or combined ) on tests for chronic deafferentation pain ( autotomy ) in rats . spinal lesions alone ( i.e. , without denervation ) in either alc or dlf or combined dlf-alc did not lead to any form of self-mutilation behavior . cervical surgery , without spinal lesion , followed by limb denervation ( sham ) resulted in similar autotomy characteristics to those observed following limb denervation alone ( control ) . both results were considered as one set of controls . alc lesions simultaneous with , or 1-2 weeks prior to limb denervation ( ipsilaterally or contralaterally ) produced significant delay in onset of autotomy and decrease in percentage of rats showing this behavior . dlf lesions followed by limb denervation produced significant acceleration of onset of autotomy and increase in percentage of rats showing this behavior . combined dlf-alc lesions with limb denervation produced intermediate effects between those observed following either alc or dlf lesions alone . these results give further support to the concept that autotomy is related to rostral transmission of nociceptive information and that a spino-bulbo-spinal inhibitory loop involving the dlf and alc is triggered by chronic deafferentation pain . 
efficacy of tetracaine-adrenaline-cocaine topical anesthetic without tetracaine for facial laceration repair in children [ published erratum appears in pediatrics 1991 feb ; 87 ( 2 ) :185 ] to determine whether the tetracaine component traditionally used in tetracaine-adrenaline-cocaine ( tac ) is necessary to obtain effective topical anesthesia , a prospective study was performed to compare tac and adrenaline-cocaine preparations for the repair of facial lacerations in children . physicians were " blind " to which preparation was being used . of 55 patients studied , 24 received tac ( 103 sutures placed ) and 31 received adrenaline-cocaine ( 151 sutures placed ) . the anesthetic efficacy of each preparation was approximately 95 % ; there were no adverse reactions related to administration of either medication or complications of wound healing noted in either group . the tetracaine component of tac is superfluous for obtaining topical anesthesia of minor dermal lacerations of the face in children . the tac formulation can be simplified by omitting tetracaine without compromising anesthetic efficacy . 
accidental poisoning with a superwarfarin compound ( brodifacoum ) in a child . the " superwarfarin " compounds are 4-hydroxy derivatives of coumarin that have increased activity and a longer duration of action than the parent compound . the superwarfarins are used widely in the united states as rodenticides and are effective against warfarin-resistant strains of rats . a chronic accidental ingestion of one of these products , brodifacoum , by a 7-year-old child who had bleeding and laboratory evidence suggestive of a vitamin k-related coagulopathy is reported . the bleeding manifestations were severe and prolonged , requiring 13 months for normalization of coagulation times . with a negative history of ingestion and despite clinical suspicion , documentation of superwarfarin poisoning was hampered by the lack of readily available assays for these compounds , even from the manufacturers . brodifacoum was also identified in rat feces from the family home . this finding raises the concern of poisoning not only from ingestion of brodifacoum particles themselves , but also from a fecal-oral route . a review of the literature is presented and the implications of this case for the practicing physician are discussed . 
cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in normal and neurosurgical patients : a clinical study and literature review . endothelins are a family of structurally related , potent , long-lasting vasoconstrictor peptides . there are no established normal human levels of endothelin-1 or endothelin-3 in the cerebrospinal fluid . we measured cerebrospinal fluid endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 levels in five groups of patients : normal controls , patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebral vasospasm , patients with severe head injuries , patients undergoing temporal lobectomy for intractable epilepsy , and a patient with a gunshot injury to the thoracic spine . endothelin-3 levels were significantly elevated in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and may participate in cerebral vasospasm and subsequent neurologic deterioration . 
two cases of fatal atlantoaxial distraction injury without fracture or rotation . atlantoaxial injuries , regardless of mechanism , typically result in bony injury . we present two unusual cases of fatal traumatic c-1-c-2 distraction without associated fracture or rotation . the ligamentous anatomy , common underlying structural/medical predispositions , and the possible mechanism of injury are discussed . 
the course of the hiv epidemic among intravenous drug users in amsterdam , the netherlands . to determine if behavioral changes in intravenous drug users in amsterdam have retarded the hiv ( human immunodeficiency virus ) epidemic in this group in recent years , we report that : hiv-antibody seroprevalence in annual samples of injectors has been constant over the years 1986-89 ; hiv-antibody incidence in a cohort of injectors appears to have decreased from 1986 to 1987 and stabilized after that until 1989 ; acute hepatitis b incidence in all drug users in amsterdam declined rapidly between 1985-89 . it is concluded that changes in drug use behavior so far appear to have resulted in a stabilization of the epidemic among injectors , at a level with a still disturbingly high incidence rate of 5-6 per 100 person-years . 
reporting of occupational injury and illness in the semiconductor manufacturing industry . in the united states , occupational illness and injury cases meeting specific reporting criteria are recorded on company occupational safety and health administration ( osha ) 200 logs ; case description data are submitted to participating state agencies for coding and entry in the national supplementary data system ( sds ) . we evaluated completeness of reporting ( the percentage of reportable cases that were recorded in the company osha 200 log ) in the semiconductor manufacturing industry by reviewing company health clinic records for 1984 of 10 manufacturing sites of member companies of a national semiconductor manufacturing industry trade association . of 416 randomly selected work-related cases , 101 met osha reporting criteria . reporting completeness was 60 percent and was lowest for occupational illnesses ( 44 percent ) . case-description data from 150 reported cases were submitted twice to state coding personnel to evaluate coding reliability . reliability was high ( kappa 0.82-0 .93 ) for " nature , " " affected body part , " " source , " and " type " variables . coding for the sds appears reliable ; reporting completeness may be improved by use of a stepwise approach by company personnel responsible for reporting decisions . 
reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament using allogeneic tendon . long-term followup . eighty-four patients who underwent acl reconstruction with fresh-frozen allogeneic tendon were reviewed and evaluated with subjective and functional rating scales , physical examinations , instrumented anterior drawer tests , isokinetic testing , and arthroscopy . the average followup was 57 months ( range , 36 to 90 months ) and the average age at operation was 22 years ( range , 16 to 37 years ) . the subjective and functional results were rated as excellent in 48 patients ( 57 % ) , good in 31 ( 37 % ) , and fair in 2 ( 2 % ) . three patients ( 3 % ) experienced a retear of the acl . physical examinations and instrumented anterior drawer tests showed that satisfactory anterior stability was restored in 88 % of the patients . isokinetic evaluations demonstrated that the extension torque of the involved knee recovered to a slightly lower level than that of the controls , although the flexion torque recovered to a level equivalent to that of the controls . arthroscopic evaluations revealed that the allografts were elaborately remodeled , viable , and taut . there was no sign of immunologic rejection at any time postoperatively . additional extraarticular procedures , consisting of both pes anserinus transfer on the medial side and iliotibial band reinforcement on the lateral side , had no effect on the results . 
pathologic synovial plica of the knee . results of conservative treatment . observations of 136 cases of pathologic synovial plica of the knee were analyzed with regard to etiology , symptoms , and the results of conservative treatment . the results obtained with conservative treatment were good in 40 % of cases , average in 20 % , and poor in 40 % . in our opinion , these results justify the treatment of this condition with physical therapy before proceeding with surgical correction . the objective of physical therapy was to decrease the compressive forces in the anterior compartment of the knee by increasing the structural flexibility of the flexor and extensor muscles . this increase in flexibility was obtained by instituting stretching exercises for the hamstrings , gastrocnemius , and quadriceps . 
surgical correction of the snapping iliopsoas tendon . eighteen patients with 20 symptomatic hips underwent lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon for persistent painful snapping of this " internal " variety of snapping hip . we referred to the pathologic , painful snapping of the iliopsoas in the deep anterior groin as the " internal " snapping hip . this is in contrast to the more common and better-known " external " snapping that involves the greater trochanter and its overlying soft tissues . the results of our iliopsoas lengthening procedure are presented here . lengthening of the iliopsoas tendon was accomplished by step cutting of the tendinous portion of the iliopsoas . the pathoanatomy of this poorly understood symptom complex was described in 1984 paper from this institution and is reviewed here . iliopsoas bursography demonstrated a sudden jerking movement of the iliopsoas tendon between the anterior inferior iliac spine and iliopectineal eminence , synchronous with the patient 's pain and often accompanied by an audible snap . the average preoperative duration of symptoms was 2.9 years , and the average length of postoperative followup was 25 months . all patients , except one , had a marked reduction in the frequency of snapping after tendon lengthening , and 14 of 20 hips had no snapping postoperatively . of the six patients who had recurrence of snapping , all but one stated that this occurred much less frequently and was much less painful compared to the preoperative state . two hips required reoperation . postoperatively , only three patients complained of subjective weakness , and most patients were unlimited in physical activity with return to activities such as competitive football , pole vaulting , and long-distance running . 
secondary damage to the knee after isolated injury of the anterior cruciate ligament . between 1978 and 1984 , we examined and performed arthroscopy on 1000 consecutive patients . ninety-eight of the 1000 had isolated acl damage . these cases do not include patients with initial acl injuries combined with other intraarticular damage . diagnosis was by physical and arthroscopic examination . examination took place an average 13.6 months after injury . of the 98 isolated acl injuries , 56 were complete ruptures and 42 were partial ruptures . in most cases of partial rupture , the clinical diagnosis was wrong . " meniscal damage " was the usual diagnosis in these cases ; the true diagnosis was made only by arthroscopic examination . thirty-four of the 98 patients with isolated acl injuries ( 30 men and 4 women ) developed further intraarticular damage . of these 34 , 20 had complete acl rupture and 14 had partial acl rupture . treatment after primary injury included physiotherapy in all patients and bracing in those whose knee was unstable during daily activities . reconstructive surgical procedures were not performed in those patients . the time lapse from the primary to the secondary injury varied from 1 month to 20 years , with an average of 28 months . the secondary damage was caused by a secondary injury that was mild ( 22 cases ) or developed insidiously ( 12 cases ) . five types of secondary damage were observed : partial acl tears that became complete -- 11 cases ; meniscal tear -- 8 cases ; loosening and subluxation of the anterior horn of the medial meniscus -- 14 cases ; and fracture or damage to the articular condylar cartilage , with or without bone involvement -- 11 cases . it should be emphasized that the secondary damages were at times combined . 
shoulder arthroscopy : its role in evaluating shoulder disorders in the athlete . we retrospectively reviewed 100 initial shoulder arthroscopies from a general sports medicine orthopaedic practice to determine if arthroscopy is helpful diagnostically and to see if specific lesions correlate well with specific diagnoses . seventy-two percent of the patients in the review had glenoid labral tears . ninety-two percent of patients who had a diagnosis of either recurrent anterior dislocation or recurrent anterior subluxation demonstrated a tear of the anterior inferior margin of the glenoid labrum . sixty-eight percent of patients with a diagnosis of impingement demonstrated tears at the superior margin of the labrum . there was a significant difference between throwing and nonthrowing athletes . partial rotator cuff tears were noted in 18 patients , the majority occurring in throwing athletes . other abnormalities , such as degenerative joint changes and biceps tendon lesions , were also noted at the time of arthroscopy . a large number of glenoid labral tears found at the time of arthroscopy appeared to be associated with conditions other than instability , which may or may not affect the throwing athlete . there also appeared to be a high correlation between tears in the anterior inferior glenoid labrum and anterior instability . arthroscopy enabled us to identify other significant information about the status of the biceps tendon or the undersurface of the rotator cuff . these are areas in which problems might otherwise have been missed . degenerative changes of the articular surface , not apparent on plain radiographs , may also be better evaluated arthroscopically . 
anterior cruciate ligament injury : evaluation of intraarticular reconstruction of acute tears without repair . two to seven year followup of 155 athletes to evaluate the effectiveness of our treatment regimen , we retrospectively studied the surgically treated knees of 155 athletes , aged 15 to 42 years , who had sustained acute acl tears . all were treated with ligament excision and intraarticular bone-patellar tendon-bone reconstruction followed by early motion with emphasis on full extension . the follow-up period ranged from 2 to 7 years . of the 155 patients , 140 were available for final followup at a minimum of 2 years after reconstruction . the patients were evaluated by objective measures ( kt-1000 , cybex , lachman test , range of motion , and postoperative competition level ) and subjective assessment scores ( pain , swelling , stability , activity level , walking , stair climbing , running , jumping , or twisting ) . the subjective scores were tabulated for stability level , total score , and activity level . after the patients achieved full range of motion , the kt-1000 measurements at a 20 pound force revealed an average difference of 1.3 mm between the injured and noninjured knees . all but 3 of the 140 patients had a firm endpoint on the lachman test , and the cybex tests showed a mean hamstring strength of 98 % and mean quadriceps strength of 90 % . sixty of the 69 varsity athletes who were eligible to play returned to preinjury competition level the following season . one had reconstruction failure and eight chose not to continue competition for academic reasons . the questionnaire score average was 92.7 ( maximum , 100 points , normal athletic knee score 93.5 ) . we concluded that the surgical procedure , with emphasis on early full extension postoperatively , achieved excellent results and provided a stable knee . 
comparison of support provided by a semirigid orthosis and adhesive ankle taping before , during , and after exercise . the purpose of this study was to compare the relative effectiveness of athletic taping and a semirigid orthosis in providing inversion-eversion range restriction before , during , and after a 3 hour volleyball practice . the effect of each support method on the subjects ' vertical jumping ability was also assessed . fourteen ankles were treated with both methods of support . passive inversion-eversion range of motion was measured on an ankle stability test instrument during five testing sessions : 1 ) before support , 2 ) before exercise , 3 ) 20 minutes during exercise , 4 ) 60 minutes during exercise , and 5 ) after exercise . the two-way analysis of variance and posthoc comparisons revealed maximal losses in taping restriction for both inversion and eversion at 20 minutes into exercise . the orthosis demonstrated no mechanical restrictive failure until before and after exercise comparisons were made , and then only eversion range of motion was compromised . neither support system affected subjects ' vertical jumping ability . these results suggest that the semirigid orthosis may be more effective than taping in providing initial ankle protection and in guarding against ligamentous reinjury . 
living with artificial grass : a knowledge update . part 2 : epidemiology . part 2 of our study evaluated the effect of artificial grass on the athletes that play on it . in this section we have reviewed the epidemiological studies that have evaluated the influence that artificial grass has on the frequency and site of injury to american football players . from this review we have concluded that play and practice on an artificial surface is probably responsible for an increase in the relative risk of injury to the lower extremity of the participants . however , it is evident that more well controlled studies are necessary to completely clarify this issue . 
arterial abnormalities of the shoulder in athletes . vascular lesions of the shoulder may be misinterpreted as one of the more familiar shoulder abnormalities by a treating physician . we are reporting on 13 athletes who were found to have symptoms related to compression of the subclavian or axillary artery or their tributaries . nine were amateur or professional baseball pitchers . severe arm fatigue or finger ischemia , secondary to embolization , were presenting symptoms . arm fatigue was noted in all pitchers . after complete history and physical examination , including auscultation for bruits in functional positions , all athletes were evaluated by noninvasive tests ( doppler and duplex scanning ) . arteriography was performed with positional testing , recreating overhead activity , and complete radiographic visualization of the dye to the digital arteries . two patients were found to have subclavian artery aneurysm . the remaining athletes were found to have compression of the subclavian artery beneath the anterior scalene muscle ( five patients ) , the axillary artery beneath the pectoralis minor ( two patients ) , both arterial segments ( two patients ) , and one was found to have arterial compromise at the level of the humeral head . branch artery compression was also noted . one pitcher occluded the posterior circumflex humeral artery with embolization to the digit . the two patients with subclavian aneurysms underwent saphenous vein bypass with cervical rib resection . all of the other athletes except one underwent resection of a 2 to 3 cm segment of the anterior scalene muscle or pectoralis minor muscles . all returned to their previous level of activity except one patient who developed impingement type symptoms and required acromioplasty . he is currently undergoing rehabilitation . proper recognition of vascular compromise in the upper extremity of athletes is essential to avoid the catastropic complications of arterial thrombosis . 
arterial abnormalities of the hand in athletes . vascular lesions of the hand may be seen in athletes exposed to repetitive blunt trauma . thirteen athletes seen from 1983 to 1988 experienced symptoms related to hand ischemia . nine were professional baseball catchers . the majority of patients complained of chronic symptoms , including cold hypersensitivity ( four patients ) , finger numbness ( one ) , finger coolness ( three ) , and finger blanching ( three ) . two patients had acute symptoms with sudden posttraumatic hand ischemia with finger and palmar pain . diagnosis was established by history and physical examination and confirmed by noninvasive testing . testing included use of doppler examination and cold tolerance examination with thermistors . two athletes required angiographic evaluation because of severe ischemia and continuous pain . all patients in this group were managed nonoperatively . those with chronic complaints were counseled regarding cold avoidance and instructed to increase their glove padding . the two patients with acute symptoms required vasodilator ( papaverine chloride ) infusion , followed by intravenous heparin and dextran . all baseball catchers returned to their sport with dissipation of symptoms . 
stress fractures of the femoral neck in athletes . the consequence of a delay in diagnosis . twenty-three patients with stress fractures of the femoral neck were followed up at an average of 6.5 years after the injury . there were 16 recreational athletes and seven elite athletes . most injuries ( n = 15 ) occurred during running . the diagnosis was confirmed within 3 to 104 weeks ( mean , 14 weeks ) after the initial onset of symptoms . sixteen of the patients were treated with internal fixation , the remaining seven were treated conservatively . seven patients ( 30 % ) developed complications requiring major surgery . five of these patients had type 3 fractures ( displaced ) and four had been treated with internal fixation initially . the remaining two patients had type 1 fractures ( endosteal or periosteal callus without an overt fracture line ) ; one was treated operatively and the other conservatively . three patients developed avascular necrosis and two were treated by hip replacement . the third patient was treated with arthrodesis . three refractures and one pseudarthrosis were treated by osteotomy . at followup , all elite athletes stated that they had to end their career as a result of the injury . results were rated by the ability of the athlete to return to sports . there were 9 bad or fair results , 13 good , and 1 excellent result . no difference in activity level or subjective rating was observed between the surgically and conservatively treated group either preinjury or postinjury . the most important factor influencing the complication rate seems to be the type of fracture . the high incidence of displaced fractures ( type 3 ) could speculatively be caused by undiagnosed tension side stress fractures . if so , the delay in correct diagnosis may be disastrous . however , we could only objectively observe this in one of our cases . 
injury patterns in scottish heavy athletics . as interest and participation in the athletics of scottish-american highland games has increased throughout the united states , the aim of this study was to define injury patterns and risk factors . field events of modern track and field evolved in part from the seven events of the " heavy athletics . " a retrospective and prospective study of 170 athletes with at least 3 years of experience was carried out over 10 years . there were 729 injuries , 60 % of which involved the upper extremities and back . the incidence of injury was 42.9 % ; there was an injury exposure rate of 0.3 per 40 hours of competition or training . with appropriate instruction , a consistent weight program , and exercise , few injuries were serious . 
early detection of myocardial contusion and its complications in patients with blunt trauma . myocardial contusion remains an elusive clinical entity , which consumes a disproportionate amount of scarce and expensive critical care resources for the purpose of cardiac monitoring . this study attempts to define a group of patients at high risk who can be identified from the available data present at the time of admission . all patients admitted with the suspicion of a myocardial contusion over a 3-year period were retrospectively studied . the records were examined for history , physical findings , electrocardiographic ( ecg ) results , creatine kinase levels , injury severity score ( iss ) , and echocardiographic findings . a diagnosis of a myocardial contusion was made if patients had an ecg consistent with acute injury , increased creatine kinase-mb , or an abnormal echocardiogram consistent with acute injury . patients were stratified into two groups : group 1 patients satisfied the criteria for a myocardial contusion and group 2 patients lacked sufficient evidence to substantiate this diagnosis . the records were then examined for the presence of factors available in the emergency room that might be predictive of a myocardial contusion or its complications . a total of 88 patients were evaluated ; 27 of these were found to have a myocardial contusion ( group 1 ) with 61 patients placed in group 2 ( no myocardial contusion ) . group 1 patients had an abnormal admission ecg ( p less than 0.05 ) , and an iss greater than or equal to 10 ( p less than 0.05 ) . multivariate analysis identified two factors predictive of a myocardial contusion : an abnormal ecg and an iss greater than 10 . when these two predictors were absent , the probability of a myocardial contusion was 1 % . no predictors of a complication of a myocardial contusion were identified . these data suggest that a combination of easily obtained variables in the emergency department can be used to select a patient population at high risk for myocardial contusion . prospective evaluation of these variables is necessary . 
balloon catheter tamponade in cardiovascular wounds . from 1980 to 1990 , operative balloon catheter tamponade was used in 12 patients with cardiac or vascular injuries from penetrating wounds . in nine patients , a balloon catheter was passed into a bleeding site through a bullet track or proximal artery and inflated with saline or radiologic dye . in two of these patients , the proximal balloon catheter was folded on itself , tied in that position , and left in the patient permanently . in the other seven patients in this group , the balloon catheter was attached to a three-way stopcock and left temporarily inflated postoperatively . these patients were then observed in the intensive care unit for 3 to 4 days , at which time the balloon was withdrawn . eight of nine patients survived without recurrent hemorrhage after removal of the balloon catheter , while one patient with a fogarty balloon placed in the carotid siphon died of a cerebral infarction . balloon catheter tamponade was also used on a temporary basis in one patient with a posterior cardiac wound and in one patient with an anterior stab wound of the inferior vena cava at the renal veins , whereas in two patients with high cervical arteriovenous fistulas , one had permanent placement of the balloon catheter while the other had temporary placement . one of the latter patients also had acute hemorrhage . although all four patients survived , one of the patients with a fistula developed a recurrence and another required two separate operative procedures for correct placement of the balloon to cure the fistula . 
trend toward nonoperative management of splenic injuries . treatment of splenic injuries has evolved over the past decade to reflect more effort to conserve function of the spleen . records of 169 patients admitted over a 6-year period were identified as documenting the treatment of splenic injuries . we collected data regarding patient age , gender , degree of hemodynamic stability , number of units of blood required , severity of splenic injury , injury severity score , and results of treatment . there were 143 adults ( age greater than 16 years ) and 26 pediatric patients ( age less than 17 years ) , with mean age in the 2 groups of 31.6 and 11.4 years , respectively . males comprised 72 % of the group , and blunt injury occurred in 154 of the 169 patients . in the adults , splenectomy , splenorrhaphy , laparotomy without operative treatment of the spleen , and nonoperative management were observed 48 % , 30 % , 14 % , and 8 % of the time and in the pediatric group 31 % , 27 % , 19 % , and 23 % of the time , respectively . by using operative splenic repair techniques and increased use of nonoperative management , the splenic salvage rate has increased in the last 6 years from 41 % to 61 % without an increase in morbidity and mortality . incidence of spleen salvage correlated with severity of spleen and overall injury and cardiovascular stability . 
open versus closed diagnostic peritoneal lavage in the evaluation of abdominal trauma . two hundred forty-two patients underwent diagnostic peritoneal lavage ( dpl ) over a 12-month period . one hundred sixteen patients ( 48 % ) were randomized to an open lavage technique and 126 ( 52 % ) to a percutaneous ( closed ) guide wire procedure . the closed procedure required an average of 16 minutes to complete with one operator , whereas the open method required two operators and an average time of 26 minutes ( p less than 0.001 ) . technical complications occurred in 31 patients undergoing closed lavage ( 25 % ) and 4 patients undergoing open lavage ( 3 % ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . fifty-eight percent of the closed lavage complications were related to fluid return and 42 % to guide wire placement . all the open lavage complications were caused by inadequate fluid return . these data do not support the initial use of percutaneous lavage . the open technique is favored and certainly used when the closed method fails or when direct visualization of the peritoneal cavity is indicated . physicians involved in the management of abdominal trauma must be familiar with both methods of dpl . 
the asymptomatic patient with suspected myocardial contusion . diagnostic criteria and guidelines for hospital admission for suspected myocardial contusion ( mcc ) remain unclear . this study defines and examines the clinical sequelae of patients admitted with a suspicion of mcc . criteria for observation following isolated , minor blunt chest trauma are suggested . hospital and trauma registry records of patients admitted over a 33-month period with suspected mcc were reviewed . conventional evaluation criteria , cardiac-related complications , and associated injuries were analyzed for 524 patients . twenty-eight cardiac-related complications occurred in 27 of 524 patients ( 5 % ) . these complications included 23 dysrhythmias , 3 infarctions , and 2 pericardial effusions . there were 23 patients with abnormal admission electrocardiograms and 4 with normal ones . of the latter , one patient developed dysrhythmia 4 hours after admission , and three had other major multi-system injuries requiring admission to the intensive care unit . the overall incidence of cardiac-related complications in minimally injured patients was 0.1 % . there were no complications in patients with isolated chest wall contusions , a normal admission electrocardiogram , and a normal rhythm at 4 hours . there was no significant association between creatine phosphokinase isoenzymes or echocardiogram and cardiac-related complications . the complete absence of significant cardiac sequelae in patients with isolated chest wall contusion , normal admission and 4-hour electrocardiograms , and no other associated major injuries suggests that these patients need not be admitted . 
tertiary trauma care in a rural state . trauma patients in rural areas usually have no access to regional trauma systems or designated trauma centers . efforts to provide quality trauma care in small hospitals may seriously overextend local capabilities . the urban trauma center retains an important role in trauma care even when the initial care must be provided at the local level . twenty-five trauma patients were transferred to university hospital between 1985 and 1988 after definitive care was initiated in community hospitals . during the same time period , a total of 147 trauma patients were transferred to the trauma service . no information was available on the total incidence of trauma . medical records were reviewed to determine the reasons for transfer . major reasons included the need for further complex surgery , better critical care support , and inadequate blood banks . trauma centers serving rural areas provide a valuable resource well beyond the initial 24 hours . 
improved trauma care in a rural hospital after establishing a level ii trauma center . a study of motor vehicle accident deaths occurring in napa county , california , from 1979 through 1983 showed that there was a preventable death rate of 42 % for deaths that were not related to central nervous system injuries . after developing a level ii trauma center at our hospital , the preventable death rate decreased to 14 % . this was statistically significant ( total chi-square , 0.01 less than p less than 0.025 ) . there was a significant increase in the average injury severity score ( 34 versus 45 , p less than 0.005 ) as well as significant improvements in the surgeon 's response time ( 32 minutes versus 11 minutes , p less than 0.005 ) and in the time from hospital arrival to the start of surgery ( 3.6 hours versus 1.9 hours , 0.01 less than p less than 0.025 ) . we conclude that these changes are indicative of improved trauma care and reflect favorably upon the effectiveness of a rural trauma center that meets level ii trauma center guidelines established by the american college of surgeons committee on trauma . 
nitrobenzene poisoning and spurious pulse oximetry . the successful management of nitrobenzene poisoning in a 21-year-old patient is presented . we report our experience of ventilatory care with additional intravenous methylene blue and ascorbic acid therapy . pulse oximeters available at present are not useful in patients treated with methylene blue and should be used cautiously in the presence of cyanosis of unknown aetiology . 
the use of diazepam in chloroquine poisoning . a 39-year-old patient was found to be unconscious after having taken 2.5 g of chloroquine . treatment consisted mainly of gastric lavage and diazepam . experimental and clinical evidence is presented to show that diazepam in varying doses significantly decreases the mortality rate . 
radiologic detection of pleural thickening . the purpose of this study was to investigate four aspects of the radiologic detection of pleural thickening : the specificity of chest x-rays read by b readers , the effects of threshold definitions of positivity , the extent of variability among different x-ray readers , and the effect of film quality . a series of 421 chest x-rays corresponding to consecutive autopsies was reviewed by six b readers working independently and using modified international labour organization forms . the prevalence of true pleural thickening was approximately 6 % . using a strict definition of positivity , the average specificity was 0.85 . specificity decreased when a more liberal definition was used . ( the average sensitivity was 0.32 , which appeared to increase with a more liberal definition of positivity ; because of small numbers of true positives , the sensitivity estimates were unstable . ) kappa statistics for interreader agreement ranged from 0.06 to 0.40 , suggesting considerable interreader variability . decreasing film quality was associated with decreasing sensitivity , but specificity was not affected by film quality . because the chest x-ray has suboptimal test characteristics in the diagnosis of pleural thickening and because there is considerable interreader variability , we conclude that caution is required in interpreting radiologic detection of pleural thickening using ilo procedures . 
mineralogic parameters related to amosite asbestos-induced fibrosis in humans . we have previously shown that in the lungs of a group of chrysotile miners and millers , grade of interstitial fibrosis ( asbestosis ) is directly proportional to tremolite fiber or chrysotile fiber concentration but is inversely proportional to mean fiber length and length-related parameters . to compare the effects of the commercial amphibole asbestos amosite on parenchymal fibrosis , we histologically graded fibrosis in four different sites in the lungs of 20 shipyard and insulation workers with heavy amosite exposure and measured by analytic electron microscopy fiber concentration and size in corresponding portions of lung tissue . fibrosis grade was found to be strongly positively correlated with amosite concentration and negatively correlated with mean fiber size parameters , including fiber length , width , surface area , and mass . a comparison of our present results with our data on the chrysotile miners and millers showed that the regression lines of fibrosis grade versus concentration for amosite , chrysotile , and tremolite were statistically different . these findings indicate that amosite concentration , like chrysotile and tremolite concentration , is closely and directly related to fibrosis at the local lung level . furthermore , these observations again raise the possibility that short fibers may be more important than is commonly believed in the genesis of fibrosis in man . last , the concentration comparison data indicate that , fiber for fiber , amosite is more fibrogenic than is chrysotile or tremolite , and indirectly suggest that tremolite is more fibrogenic than is chrysotile . 
prevalence of occupational asthma and immunologic sensitization to psyllium among health personnel in chronic care hospitals . psyllium is a high molecular weight laxative that can cause occupational asthma among health care workers who prepare this product for chronically ill patients . the prevalence of immunologic sensitization and occupational asthma to psyllium is unknown . we investigated the personnel of four chronic care hospitals , including two where four cases of occupational asthma had been confirmed the year preceding the trial . a questionnaire and skin prick tests with psyllium and various inhalants were administered to 193 of 248 ( 78 % ) of the workers who agreed to participate . seventy-five subjects ( 39 % ) had a history of respiratory symptoms in normal life and/or respiratory symptoms and/or rhinoconjunctivitis after handling psyllium . six ( 3 % ) showed skin reactivity to psyllium . increased specific ige antibodies were found in 20 of 162 of the sera that were tested ( 12 % ) . in the second part of the study , a histamine inhalation challenge was performed on 70 of 75 ( 93 % ) of the subjects with a history suggestive of asthma and/or occupational asthma and/or skin reactivity to psyllium . twenty ( 29 % ) had significant bronchial hyperresponsiveness . the six subjects with a history suggestive of occupational asthma ( n = 3 ) and/or asthma ( n = 6 ) and/or positive skin test results to psyllium ( n = 6 ) had significant bronchial hyperresponsiveness and increased specific ige levels . they all underwent specific inhalation challenges with psyllium in the laboratory . four developed bronchospastic reactions ( two immediate and two dual reactions ) . we conclude that by including the initial four cases reported in the year preceding the initiation of this trial , the prevalence of ige sensitization to psyllium was between 5 ( skin testing ) and 12 % ( increased specific ige levels ) . 
inhalation injury to tracheal epithelium in an ovine model of cotton smoke exposure . early phase ( 30 minutes ) . the purpose of this study was to evaluate lung cell injury during the acute phase of smoke inhalation injury . a group of 10 sheep were anesthetized with halothane and pancuronium followed by endotracheal intubation . in the first experiment 5 sheep were given air ( sham group ) and 5 were insufflated with cooled cotton smoke with a modified bee smoker . in the second part of our study ( experiment 2 ) the animals were insufflated with the following number of smoke breaths : 1 x 12 ( n = 3 ) ; 2 x 12 ( n = 4 ) ; 3 x 12 ( n = 4 ) 4 x 12 ( n = 4 ) ; and sham control ( n = 1 ) . after 30 min the animals were killed with kcl and the trachea prepared for scanning , transmission electron , and light microscopy . our initial observation with scanning electron microscopy revealed a large amount of mucus on the surface of the epithelia . numerous ciliated cells had been sloughed from the epithelium and were observed on the surface of the remaining ciliated cells . the sloughed cells were intact , and the cilia remained on the apical cell surface . light and transmission electron microscopy revealed that most goblet cells were in the process of extruding mucus . the cytoplasm of goblet and basal cells appeared normal . ciliated cells had a slightly vesiculated cytoplasm , and many were in the process of being sloughed from the epithelial surface . in these cells desmosomal attachment had been separated . the light microscope evaluation of the tracheal epithelium showed there was no dose-dependent effect between the four treatment groups . 
bilateral intrapulmonary hematomas . a 67-yr-old man , known to have chronic obstructive lung disease , developed bilateral localized pulmonary densities on chest radiographs after cardiopulmonary resuscitation . an autopsy disclosed bilateral intrapulmonary hematomas without communication with bronchi , pulmonary arteries , or pleural cavities . we suggest blunt pulmonary injury is the most probable cause of the hematomas and discuss its pathogenic mechanism . intrapulmonary hematomas should be considered in the differential diagnosis of pulmonary densities developing after a vigorous resuscitation . 
a national study of aids and residency training : experiences , concerns , and consequences objective : to examine residents ' experiences in the care of patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , and to examine factors that may influence their attitudes about such care . design : cross-sectional , self-administered questionnaire survey conducted in 1989 . participants : all senior internal medicine and family medicine residents in ten geographically representative states who were identified through the 1986 national residency matching program . measurements and main results : seventy-four percent of residents reported that patients with aids accounted for 5 % or more of general medicine admissions , and 50 % of residents reported that they were currently following one or more human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients in their continuity clinics . among residents who had provided ambulatory care to patients with aids , 77 % felt that it was an excellent educational experience , and among those who planned to do general primary care in their future practices , 74 % planned on providing primary care to patients with aids . however , 61 % expressed concerns about the adequacy of their training in aids ambulatory care . a greater amount of contact with outpatients who had aids , but not with inpatients who had aids , was associated with residents ' intending to provide aids primary care in their future practices . among all residents , 23 % reported that , if given a choice , they would not provide care to any patients with aids , and 23 % reported that they would not work in an area with a high prevalence of aids because of concern about contracting the syndrome . nine percent of residents reported that they had been exposed to a blood-contaminated needlestick from an hiv-seropositive patient . conclusions : although most residents have substantial contact with inpatients and outpatients with aids , most still find their education in aids ambulatory care to be deficient . a minority of residents would prefer not to care for patients with aids . residency curricula should include training and experience in ambulatory aids care , explicitly address negative attitudes toward caring for patients with aids , and include programs to reduce needlestick exposures . 
motor unit numbers and contractile properties after spinal cord injury . the number of motor units in the thenar muscle group was estimated in 11 patients with cervical spinal cord injuries . the surface electromyogram and twitch force , in response to maximal stimulation of the median nerve was divided by the average surface electromyogram and twitch of single units . the average single unit size was obtained by intramuscular microstimulation of motor nerve branches and by graded whole nerve stimulation , which provided three independent estimates , two based on the electromyogram and one based on force . the motor unit estimates from the patients covered a wide range . some had essentially normal motor units both in numbers and contractile properties , while others had varying reductions in numbers of units . those patients who showed a large reduction in motor unit numbers also had greatly enlarged units , which produced an average of up to sixfold the normal force . these enlarged units summed to produce maximal compound action potentials and twitches that were sometimes indistinguishable from normal . magnetic resonance imaging scans of the cervical spine obtained from some patients provided independent evidence that patients with low motor unit counts had sustained direct injury to the anterior aspect of the spinal cord at the relevant segmental levels . some patients showed a normal number of motor units long after the injury . no evidence of transneuronal degeneration could be demonstrated in the thenar group in these patients with the current techniques . 
detection of hiv in fetal central nervous system tissue . neurological disease is a common finding in children with aids and in others without signs of disease but with evidence of congenital hiv-1 infection . to investigate the possibility that hiv-1 can infect fetal central nervous system ( cns ) tissue and therefore possibly serve as the substrate for the abnormal neurodevelopment characteristic of pediatric aids , eight abortus cns samples ( one set of twins ) from seven hiv-1-seropositive intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) and eight control abortus cns samples from eight hiv-1-seronegative ivdus were analyzed for hiv-1 infection . hiv-1 nucleic acid was detected only after the use of polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) in three of eight cns samples from hiv-seropositive ivdus but not in samples from seronegative subjects . in situ hybridization confirmed that hiv-1 dna sequences were in cells in the cns parenchyma of two of the three positive samples . this study demonstrates that hiv-1 can infect human fetal cns tissue in vivo , but that the use of pcr may be necessary for its detection . 
biomaterial calcification without direct material-cell interaction . this report summarizes 1 ) features of the local redistribution of calcium ions and formation of complexes with calcium ( ca ) in the presence of polymer samples ; 2 ) the adsorption of ca ions and ca containing complexes onto biomaterial surfaces ; 3 ) the character and composition of ca containing deposits ; and 4 ) the role of cellular and humoral factors in calcification . all experiments were done with three types of medical grade polymer material ( from ussr ) : silicone rubber ( sr ) , polyurethane " vitur " ( pu ) , and polyethylene ( pe ) . biochemical , radioisotopic , sem , and edax methods were used in in vitro and in vivo experiments . the diffusion chamber model was used in animal experiments . sr was shown to induce greater changes in complex formation processes and to adsorb more ca containing complexes than pe or pu . in addition to the degree of sr calcification seen after 21 days , implantation accentuated these findings . the possibility of calcification of polymer materials without direct contact of material and cells was observed . combining the in vitro and in vivo experimental data , the authors propose a hypothetical scheme of biomaterial calcification . 
protection of the small intestine against irradiation by means of a removable prosthesis . in radiation therapy of tumors , several techniques are used to prevent injury of the intestinal loops . their purpose is to drive the intestine out of the external beam . understanding the disadvantages they present , a temporary prosthesis which effectively protects the small bowel , and is easy to remove , has been developed . the device is a 600 to 1,000 ml , silicone rubber , expandable balloon . when implanted in the pelvis or retroperitoneal cavity , and filled , this balloon displaces the intestinal loops out of the pelvic irradiation field . it may remain either filled or empty between each irradiation session . due to its particular elliptical shape , once empty , the balloon can be removed through a 3 cm incision under local or peridural anesthesia at the completion of radiotherapy . eleven patients with recurrent ( 8 ) or primary ( 3 ) cancer have been implanted . the protective effect has been evaluated on successive biologic tests , performed during treatment . no problem related to the prosthesis , no alteration of the biologic tests , nor bowel injury have been observed after several months follow-up . this device is suitable for preventing intestinal complications during therapy , allowing a higher dose of radiations in some cases . 
lack of late skin necrosis in man after high-dose irradiation using small field sizes : experiences of grid therapy . out of a total of 437 patients with superior vena caval syndrome or advanced malignancy , given single-dose grid radiotherapy , four survived to 7 years . the dose to the skin under each of the 77 holes in the grid was approximately 58 gy . the lack of skin necrosis in the total of 308 skin circles of 1 cm diameter among these survivors , compared with known necrosis rates in larger irradiated areas , implies that there is a marked field-size effect for late necrosis in small areas of irradiated skin . 
the relative biological effectiveness of fractionated doses of fast neutrons ( 42 mevd ---- be ) for normal tissues . iii . effects on lung function . the effect of single and fractionated doses of fast neutrons ( 42 mevd ---- be ) on the early and late radiation responses of the pig lung have been assessed by the measurement of changes in lung function using a 133xe washout technique . the results obtained for irradiation schedules with fast neutrons have been compared with those after photon irradiation . there was no statistically significant difference between the values for the relative biological effectiveness ( rbe ) for the early and late radiation response of the lung . the rbe of the neutron beam increased with decreasing size of dose/fraction with an upper limit value of 4.39 + / - 0.94 for infinitely small x-ray doses per fraction . 
prediction of outcome in acute pancreatitis : a comparative study of apache ii , clinical assessment and multiple factor scoring systems . the apache ii severity of disease classification system has been examined prospectively in 160 patients with acute pancreatitis . using clinical and simple laboratory data apache ii was able to provide useful discrimination between uncomplicated , complicated and fatal attacks within a few hours of admission . peak apache ii scores ( recorded during the first 3 days ) had a prognostic accuracy similar to the multiple factor scoring systems , but then incurred a similar delay . patients could be graded according to their risk of death or of developing a major complication ; no deaths occurred in patients with a peak apache ii score less than 10 . apache ii can be repeated daily , uncomplicated attacks demonstrating falling scores in association with clinical improvement , in contrast to the rising scores associated with clinical deterioration in those dying early . apache ii appears to reflect any continuing disease activity and may prove a useful means of monitoring the course of the illness and response to therapy . 
crico-tracheal disruption and common carotid artery occlusion : a case of blunt trauma . a case of blunt trauma to the neck is presented . while driving an all terrain vehicle ( atv ) , a 20-yr-old male was struck across the anterior neck by a cord suspended between two poles . initial findings were suggestive of an isolated laryngeal injury ; 48 hours later , however , a dense left hemiplegia became manifest . a ct scan demonstrated a large right frontoparietal cerebral infarct , and an angiogram confirmed occlusion of the right common carotid artery . intractable cerebral oedema developed , and the patient died five days after the initial insult . such injuries should alert the clinician to the possibility of major vascular injury , and if suspected , angiography is warranted . 
lead . this article reviews historical and current uses of lead and sources of absorbed lead , such as water , lead-based paint , cookware , and bullet wounds . the means of absorption , collection of specimens , quantification methods , and effects of lead toxicity are discussed . 
tardive dyskinesia : managing a common neuroleptic side effect . neuroleptics are useful medications for the treatment of psychosis and severe behavioral disturbances in the elderly . unfortunately , older patients are at a high risk of developing deleterious side effects from these medications , especially persistent tardive dyskinesia ( td ) . diagnosis , risk factors , and cause and treatment of td are discussed . it is important to do a careful assessment as to the indications for neuroleptic use , monitor closely for the development of td and other side effects , and work closely with the patient and family in making decisions about neuroleptic use . 
open fractures of the tibia in children . forty-one children who had forty-two open fractures of the tibial metaphysis or diaphysis were studied retrospectively . twelve fractures were type i ; eighteen , type ii ; six , type iiia ; four , type iiib ; and two , type iiic , according to the classification of gustilo et al . all fractures were irrigated and debrided , and antibiotics were given for a minimum of forty-eight hours after the injury . twenty fractures were initially treated with external fixation and twenty-two , with immobilization in a plaster cast . three patients had an early infection of the wound , one of which was associated with osteomyelitis ; all were successfully treated . the average time to healing of the fracture was five months ( range , two to twenty-one months ) . the time to union was related to the severity of the soft-tissue injury , the pattern of the fracture , the amount of segmental bone loss , the occurrence of infection , and the use of external fixation . there were six delayed unions . four patients had an angular malunion of more than 10 degrees , which spontaneously corrected in three . one patient who had a proximal metaphyseal-diaphyseal segmental fracture had a progressive valgus deformity . four patients who had a severe fracture that was treated with external fixation had more than one centimeter of tibial over-growth . there were no amputations . the incidences of compartment syndrome , vascular injury , infection , and delayed union were similar to those reported for open tibial fractures in adults . 
subtle injuries of the lisfranc joint . in fifteen patients , a subtle injury of the lisfranc joint ( tarsometatarsal articulation ) was found . the lesion was defined as a diastasis of two to five millimeters between the bases of the first and second metatarsals , as seen on anteroposterior radiographs . there often was a long delay between injury and diagnosis . eight patients were treated with a below-the-knee cast only , three had treatment with a cast and then tarsometatarsal arthrodesis , two had no initial treatment but later had arthrodesis , and two had open reduction and internal fixation . the duration of follow-up ranged from two to thirteen years after the diagnosis . there was no correlation between the severity of the diastasis and the patient 's functional result . marked disability and pain persisted in seven patients , and six of them had flattening of the longitudinal arch . maintenance of the longitudinal arch usually was associated with a better functional outcome . when a patient has a subtle injury of the lisfranc joint , weight-bearing lateral radiographs of both feet are needed to identify flattening of the longitudinal arch . such radiographs should be made routinely in the evaluation of all injuries of the foot that may involve the lisfranc joint . 
shielding of the patient 's gonads during intramedullary interlocking femoral nailing . levels of exposure to radiation were recorded at sixty sites in fifteen patients during intramedullary interlocking femoral nailing . radiation film dosimeters were placed at four gonadal sites on each subject . a standard male-gonad cup or a pelvic drape of 0.5-millimeter-thick lead-equivalent was put in place to shield the gonads . a second set of four dosimeters was placed external to the shield to approximate unprotected exposure . the total duration of the fluoroscopy averaged five minutes ( range , thirty seconds to fourteen minutes ) . the total exposure to radiation external to the shield was 35 + / - 34 millirems at the male gonadal sites and 17 + / - 11 millirems at the female gonadal sites . with use of the gonadal shield , exposure to radiation was not measurable in thirteen of the fifteen patients . the differences between the exposures of the shielded and unshielded sites to radiation were statistically significant ( p less than 0.001 ) . the highest level of gonadal exposure was found with the treatment of proximal femoral fractures and with the use of statically locked nails . regardless of the conditions , and for all types of fractures and locations , our results demonstrated that gonadal shielding is justified . 
toxic epidermal necrolysis after bone marrow transplantation : study of nine cases . acute graft-versus-host reaction after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation has been reported to induce toxic epidermal necrolysis . to assess the respective role of acute graft-versus-host disease and of drug reaction in this setting , we retrospectively reviewed nine cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis that occurred in a series of 152 allogenic bone marrow recipients . in five cases visceral involvement was suggestive of acute graft-versus-host disease without any drug more than " doubtfully " suspected . in four cases extracutaneous symptoms were absent or mild and suspect drugs ( mainly sulfonamides ) had been administered with a timing suggestive of " possible " causality . all nine patients died , mainly from infection possibly aggravated by high doses of corticosteroids . we conclude that toxic epidermal necrolysis may be more frequent than generally thought after bone marrow transplantation and has a poor prognosis . it seems to be related to a drug reaction to sulfonamides as often as to acute graft-versus-host disease . 
injuries in an elderly inner-city population . even though injuries are a leading cause of morbidity and mortality among the elderly in the united states , no comprehensive population-based study of nonfatal and fatal injuries has been carried out in an elderly minority inner-city population . to study injuries in this population , we developed an active surveillance system as part of a large injury prevention program in a poor urban black community . we report 577 cases of nonfatal and fatal injuries in a community of 12,139 persons 65 years of age and older that resulted in emergency room treatment or death between march 1 , 1987 , and february 29 , 1988 . nearly 5 % of the elderly population was treated at an emergency room for , or died as a result of , an injury during the study period ; the overall injury rate was 48 injuries per 1,000 persons . injury rates for older women exceeded those for older men and increased with advancing age in both sexes . fall injuries accounted for 312 ( 54 % ) of all injuries and 75 % of all hospitalizations for injury . motor vehicle incidents and violence were the second and third most common injuries , accounting for 13 % and 7 % of injuries , respectively . given the predominance of falls relative to other injuries , prevention of falls should receive major emphasis in injury prevention efforts in inner-city minority populations . 
effects of nonparticipation in trauma center system on emergency department utilization . the university of illinois hospital ( uih ) serves an inner-city urban population in one of the highest crime rate districts in chicago . on may 20 , 1986 , the city 's level i trauma ordinance took effect with the university of illinois hospital declining to participate . to measure the impact of the ordinance on a nonparticipating hospital , we undertook a retrospective analysis of our trauma patient utilization statistics . consecutive monthly patient census data of 71 months was compiled with emphasis on patient presenting complaints and related subspecialty evaluation . we observed significant decreases of patients presenting with head injuries , fractures , and animal bites as well as with major trauma , minor trauma , and general surgery hospital admission . the final disposition of the patients arriving by ambulance was consistent with the observed decrease in major traumatic conditions and in minor traumatic conditions . however , the mean number of patient presentations per day ( ppd ) admitted to regular medical or surgical beds decreased from 2.70 ppd to 2.30 ppd while the mean number of ppd sent home increased from 2.64 ppd to 3.49 ppd . these data suggest that loss of trauma center status designation has a profound effect on utilization of emergency departments not participating in the trauma system . nonparticipation appears to be associated with a significant decrease in utilization rates for major and minor trauma patients and a significant increase in the number of patients discharged who had arrived by the chicago fire department paramedic system ( cfd ) . this effect on the emergency department extends to utilization of inpatient services . 
changes affecting the initial evaluation and care of the pregnant trauma victim . pregnant women in american society today are at significant risk of injury during a period when physiologic responses to trauma , as well as expected findings of physical examination and laboratory evaluation are altered by the on-going pregnancy . changes in anatomy , hemodynamics , respiratory function , gastrointestinal function , and hematologic and hemostatic parameters impact upon the approach to the evaluation and management of injured pregnant women . maternal outcome is dependent on the nature and extent of injury and on the delivery of appropriate care . fetal outcome relates to the magnitude of direct injury and the maternal physiologic response . it is imperative that all physicians involved in clinical evaluation and management of injured pregnant women understand the changes engendered by pregnancy and their effects upon the mother , the fetus , and the decision-making process . the best way to secure a favorable outcome for both mother and fetus is a standardized planned approach to care provided by a team cognizant of these changes . 
case report : severe ethylene glycol intoxication with normal osmolal gap -- " a chilling thought " . this is a case of a 23-year-old male presenting with altered sensorium , vomiting , and right flank pain . despite a normal osmolal gap , he was found to be suffering from ethylene glycol intoxication . this little-described presentation can result in the clinician failing to consider ethylene glycol as a causative agent . 
the electrocardiographic manifestations of cyclic antidepressant therapy and overdose : a review . cyclic antidepressants may cause changes in the electrocardiogram at therapeutic or toxic serum levels . the most serious complications of cyclic antidepressant toxicity are dysrhythmias , hypotension , and seizures . it is predominantly the cardiotoxic effects that cause mortality . once cardiotoxicity is evident , the treatment of choice is serum alkalinization , preferably by sodium bicarbonate therapy . in order to predict which overdose patients are at high risk for complications , electrocardiographic criteria have been identified as reliable screens . for " first generation " tricyclic antidepressants , qrs prolongation ( particularly greater than 100 msec ) and a terminal 40-ms frontal plane axis greater than 120 degrees are the most sensitive . this article reviews antidepressant pharmacology , electrocardiographic manifestations of antidepressant cardiotoxicity , and approaches to treatment of antidepressant-induced conduction disturbances and dysrhythmias . 
blunt trauma to the heart : the pathophysiology of injury . blunt injuries to the heart are common and potentially lethal . these injuries often go undetected while more obvious problems are treated . a cardiac injury should be suspected in any patient who sustains severe chest trauma . the spectrum of cardiac trauma ranges from injuries with no actual cellular damage ( myocardial concussion ) to cardiac chamber rupture . the pathophysiology , diagnosis , and treatment of these injuries are discussed . 
the scapular manipulation technique for the reduction of acute anterior shoulder dislocations . anterior shoulder dislocations are a common occurrence in busy emergency departments . numerous techniques for treating this problem have been reported . the majority of these techniques use traction and leverage of the humerus , often requiring considerable force and causing significant patient discomfort . we report a simple , relatively painless , and atraumatic method of shoulder reduction involving manipulation of the scapula as well as the humerus . this technique has been used in our emergency department with considerable success and no complications . 
orthostatic hypotension in human immunodeficiency virus infection may be the result of generalized autonomic nervous system dysfunction . we used an autonomic nervous system ( ans ) testing battery to determine if generalized ans dysfunction was present in five human immunodeficiency virus-positive ( hiv + ) patients presenting with severe orthostatic hypotension ( oh ) . all five patients had abnormal ans testing , which demonstrated both sympathetic and parasympathetic defects , i.e. , generalized ans dysfunction . treatment with fludrocortisone effectively reversed the oh in four of the five patients . the oh was transient in these four patients . we believe it is important to recognize that oh may be the result of generalized ans dysfunction in hiv-positive patients and that it can be effectively treated . 
assessing nutritional needs for the burned patient . assessment of nutritional needs following thermal injury remains an important adjunct to providing dietary therapy designed to minimize the detrimental effects of hypermetabolism and subsequent catabolism . most anthropometric measurements , frequently utilized in nonburned patients , have relatively little usefulness in assessing burned individuals . energy expenditure can be adequately estimated for most patients by direct calorimetry , indirect calorimetry , or formulae . direct calorimetry is the most expensive and complicated method , while use of a formula is the most inexpensive and least complicated . all yield good results in the clinical setting . differences in estimated energy expenditure by the multiple formulae may be statistically significant , but rarely are clinically significant . therefore selection of a formula should be based on simplicity . estimations by formula require readjustment at intervals of 1 to 2 weeks . in general , enteral feedings remain superior to parenteral delivery of nutrients . finally , current animal research suggests significant differences in metabolic and immunologic effects of the diet depending on qualitative make-up of dietary fat sources . 
effect of early feeding on the postburn hypermetabolic response in rats . the effect of early enteral feeding on the hypermetabolic response following burn injury in a rat burn model has been investigated . the rates of heat production and partitioned heat loss were determined on the fourteenth postburn day for five treatment groups : i ) burn , fed rat chow ad libitum starting 2 hours postburn ; ii ) burn , fed by gastrostomy beginning 2 hours postburn ; iii ) burn , fed by gastrostomy , delayed until 72 hours postburn ; iv ) controls , fed by gastrostomy 2 hours post anesthesia ; and v ) controls , fed rat chow ad libitum 2 hours post anesthesia . gastrostomy feedings delivered 175 kcal/kg . day . the mean rates of heat production and heat loss for the three burn groups did not differ significantly whether rats were fed chow ad libitum , or by gastrostomy early or late . contrary to previous studies using a guinea pig model , method and timing of feeding in this burned rat model had no significant effect on the postburn increment in the rate of heat loss and the corresponding increment in the rate of heat production . 
antibiotics and the postburn hypermetabolic response . severe burn injury has been documented to significantly increase resting metabolic energy expenditure . this increase in metabolic rate appears to be possibly correlated with the degree of burn wound colonization and infection with bacteria . prevention of such colonization and infection through the use of topical antimicrobial agents appears to decrease the metabolic alterations resulting from burn injury . these findings indicate that appropriate use of topical antibacterial agents may decrease the metabolic demands seen in burned patients . burn-induced translocation of intestinal bacteria has also been hypothesized to contribute to the postburn hypermetabolic response . attempts at preventing this entity in a burned guinea pig model through the use of selective decontamination of the digestive tract by the administration of enteral antibiotics have failed to demonstrate any measurable effect . 
pulmonary circulation and burns and trauma . the lung is a critical organ in victims of thermal injury or multiple trauma since the blood that drains injured organs circulates through the pulmonary circulation before passing through any other organ . the lung therefore will receive the first volley of cytotoxins released postinjury . in addition to being a target of injury , the lung may also contribute to the injury of systemic organs . this injury may be the result of a reduced delivery of oxygenated blood or the direct release of cytotoxins into the systemic circulation . the injury to the lung may be to the pulmonary microvasculature or the airway . the bronchial circulation responds to injury by a marked elevation in its blood flow and microvascular permeability . these latter effects may be important in mediating the changes which occur in the lung parenchyma . 
evaluation and management of patients with inhalation injury . inhalation injury , present in approximately one third of burned patients treated at burn centers , increases mortality by a maximum of 20 % in relation to age and extent of burn . the development of animal models of inhalation injury has made possible the identification of both the airway and vascular responses evoked by smoke inhalation . inflammatory occlusion of terminal bronchioles and necrosis of the endobronchial mucosa render the airway and pulmonary parenchyma susceptible to infection and the resulting pneumonitis further increases mortality . early diagnosis , best achieved by endoscopic bronchoscopy and 133xeon ventilation perfusion scan , permits timely application of high-frequency ventilation that appears to reduce the incidence of pneumonia and to decrease mortality . pharmacologic agents give promise of ameliorating the deleterious changes of the vasculature . the recent advances in understanding inhalation injury have identified the research needed to further improve patient salvage . 
pathophysiologic events related to thermal injury of skin . acute thermal injury of skin equivalent to second-degree injury and involving approximately 25 % of total body surface results in a series of pathophysiologic events which lead to both local and distant tissue/organ injury . the distant effects involve intravascular hemolysis and acute lung injury , both of which can be attributed to complement activation and intravascular stimulation of neutrophils , resulting in oxygen radical production , which results in injury of red cells and pulmonary vascular endothelial cells . at the local site of thermal injury , the progressive increase in vascular permeability is linked to complement activation and histamine release , the outcome of which is interaction of histamine with xanthine oxidase , resulting in enhanced catalytic activity of the enzyme . toxic oxygen products of xanthine oxidase , including h2o2 and its conversion product , the hydroxyl radical , appear to be linked to the damage of dermal vascular endothelial cells , resulting in progressive vascular permeability . the increased vascular permeability can be greatly attenuated by the use of inhibitors of xanthine oxidase , the inhibitor of histamine release ( cromolyn ) , catalase , an iron chelator ( deferoxamine ) , or scavengers of the hydroxyl radical . interestingly , neutrophils appear to play little if any role in dermal vascular injury in this animal model of thermal trauma . those studies suggest that pathophysiologic events following local thermal trauma are complex and involve a variety of mediator pathways . 
neutrophil disorders in burn injury : complement , cytokines , and organ injury . because of the association of burn injury with subsequent bacterial infection , numerous studies have been performed characterizing neutrophil function in burn injury . these studies provide a picture of intravascular complement activation , neutrophil-c5a interactions , and consequent disordered cellular function . neutrophil dysfunction includes suppressed random and c5a-directed migration and hyperresponsiveness to oxidative stimuli . these observations do not explain the histologic and functional involvement of neutrophils in ards and perhaps other organ failure states . circumstantial and extrapolated information suggests that macrophage-lineage cells function as regulators of neutrophil function within matrix environments in burn injury . elevated endotoxin levels have been found in burned patients , which would support the notion of endotoxin-stimulated monocytes/macrophages as inducing neutrophil migration into connective tissue matrices ( ltb4 and il-8 ) , inducing prolonged oxidant production ( tnf-alpha , gm-csf ) , and inducing neutrophil release of regulatory substances from neutrophils ( g-csf ) . this information suggests a variety of experimental approaches to testing this hypothesis . 
aberrations in post-trauma monocyte ( mo ) subpopulation : role in septic shock syndrome . appearance of increased proportions of monocytes bearing the 72kd ( fcri ) receptor for igg correlated to aberrant monocyte ( mo ) functions , depressed immune functions , and poor clinical outcome . the trauma patients ' fcri + mo subpopulation produced the majority of their elevated il-6 , tnf alpha , tgf beta , and pge2 . igg stimulation of patients ' mo through fcri not only stimulated tnf alpha , il-6 , and pge2 levels , but also greatly augmented the levels of these monokines produced after subsequent bacterial challenge . post-trauma increased il-6 levels can lead to polyclonal b-cell activation and high levels of circulating , nonspecific igg as seen in trauma patients . this nonspecific igg triggers the fcri on the increased numbers of fcri + mo leading to ever-increasing monokine levels . il-4 was found to downregulate patients ' fcri + mo production of mediators . the cycle of altered cytokine levels , increased fcri + mo numbers , elevated igg , and augmented triggering of fcri + mo may be broken by addition of il-4 . 
substance abuse-related spontaneous bladder rupture : report of 2 cases and review of the literature . spontaneous rupture of the normal bladder associated with alcohol abuse is rare , with only 20 cases reported in the english literature to which we add 2 cases . heavy alcohol ingestion predisposes the bladder to rupture by the large volume of fluid intake , its diuretic effect and the mental obtusion it produces , clouding sensory cues to void . alpha-sympathomimetic drugs , such as cocaine and methamphetamine , increase the resistance at the urethral sphincter and exacerbate the effects of alcohol . cystography will be diagnostic , and prompt operative repair of intraperitoneal rupture is mandatory . complete evaluation of the bladder , including urodynamic study , is important to eliminate underlying bladder pathological conditions . substance abuse-related rupture demonstrates a typical constellation of clinical features that necessitate considering it a syndrome separate from other causes of spontaneous bladder rupture . 
