salivary gland cancer . a case-control investigation of risk factors . unlike most upper aerodigestive tract cancers , salivary gland cancers are relatively infrequent , are characterized by a diversity of histologic subtypes , and have never been etiologically associated with tobacco exposure . we present the results of a case-control study of risk factors for these cancers , with risk estimates derived from self-administered comprehensive risk-factor questionnaires distributed to patients at the university of texas m. d. anderson cancer center , houston . cases were 64 patients with histologically confirmed salivary gland cancer . control subjects , randomly selected from the same patient population excluding patients with cancer of the head and neck or nonmelanoma skin cancer , were frequency-matched to the cases by age , sex , and ethnicity to achieve a 2:1 control subjects/cases ratio . on multivariate analysis , prior radiotherapy was a significant risk factor for both men ( odds ratio [ or ] = 2.1 ) and women ( or = 2.3 ) . among women , higher educational attainment ( or = 2.4 ) , alcohol use ( or = 2.0 ) , and hairdye use ( or = 2.5 ) were also significantly associated with risk . there were no significant differences between cases and control subjects with respect to tobacco exposure or specific occupational or leisure-time exposures . there is biological plausibility for associations with hairdye use and alcohol exposure . 
periodontal disease and niddm in pima indians . the goal of this study was to determine the prevalence and incidence of periodontal disease and its relationship with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . two thousand two hundred seventy-three pima indians ( 949 men , 1324 women ) aged greater than or equal to 15 yr from the gila river indian community in arizona were examined between 1983 and 1989 . periodontal disease was diagnosed by tooth loss and by percentage of interproximal crestal alveolar bone loss ascertained from panoramic radiography . subjects with little or no evidence of periodontal disease were classified as nondiseased . thus , the incidence of advanced periodontal disease was determined . the age - and sex-adjusted prevalence of periodontal disease at first dental examination was 60 % in subjects with niddm and 36 % in those without . twenty-two new cases developed in a subset of 701 subjects ( 272 men , 429 women ) aged 15-54 yr who initially had little or no evidence of periodontal disease and had at least one additional dental examination . the incidence of periodontal disease in this group was similar in men and women ( incidence-rate ratio 1.0 , 95 % confidence interval [ cl ] 0.5-1 .9 , controlled for age and diabetes ) . higher age predicted a greater incidence of periodontal disease ( chi 2 = 30.6 , df = 3 , p less than 0.001 , controlled for sex and diabetes ) . the rate of periodontal disease in subjects with diabetes was 2.6 times ( 95 % cl 1.0-6 .6 , controlled for age and sex ) that observed in those without . although periodontal disease was common in nondiabetic pima indians , in whom most of the incident cases occurred , diabetes clearly conferred a substantially increased risk . thus , periodontal disease should be considered a nonspecific complication of niddm . 
cutaneous lesions of disseminated histoplasmosis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . disseminated histoplasmosis is being diagnosed more frequently in persons infected with the human immunodeficiency virus and is often the initial manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . disease-related cutaneous features of hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis are defined as mucocutaneous lesions from which fungal organisms were either cultured or demonstrated histopathologically . we report four hiv-seropositive patients with disseminated histoplasmosis who had culture-positive skin or oral lesions of histoplasmosis and review the specific cutaneous manifestations of hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis . including our patients , disease-related skin and/or mucosal lesions were present in 11 % of patients ( 26 % of 239 ) with hiv-associated disseminated histoplasmosis . the possibility of disseminated histoplasmosis should be considered in all hiv-infected persons and in persons with aids risk factors who have fever , weight loss , hepatosplenomegaly , and new cutaneous lesions . an early skin or mucosal biopsy specimen for crushed tissue preparation , histologic evaluation , and fungal culture is a simple , rapid diagnostic procedure . 
treatment of aggressive keratoacanthomas by radiotherapy . keratoacanthomas infrequently are treated by radiotherapy . however , keratoacanthomas that are recurrent after surgical excision or whose resection would result in cosmetic deformity may benefit from radiotherapy . between january 1970 and june 1988 , 29 such keratoacanthomas in 18 patients were irradiated . doses ranged from 3500 cgy in 15 fractions to 5600 cgy in 28 fractions . measured end points of therapy were ( 1 ) initial response , ( 2 ) freedom from recurrence , and ( 3 ) quality of the subsequent cosmetic appearance ( scored as good , fair , or poor ) . no lesion progressed and all eventually regressed completely . cosmetic results generally were considered good by both the patient and the referring dermatologist ; none of the results was considered poor . our results demonstrate that radiation is an effective means of treating keratoacanthomas . 
multiple oral and skin lesions occurring after treatment with penicillin . a case of erythema multiforme has been presented . erythema multiforme may be a self-limiting or chronic disease , of varying severity . the disease is of significance to dental practitioners who may be called on to establish a diagnosis and provide appropriate referral or treatment , especially when lesions are limited to the mouth . the prognosis is generally good , although recurrence is common . 
diagnosing periodontal diseases . at present , the diagnosis of periodontal disease requires a clinical evaluation of the patient including visual findings , the use of the periodontal probe , and radiographs . no test is available to evaluate disease activity . in specific cases , adjunctive procedures may also be useful . the identification of pathogenic microorganisms may aid in evaluating the periodontal status of special patients . however , these are not required for an adequate diagnosis of the common adult form of chronic periodontitis . 
reviewing nonsurgical periodontal therapy . selection of the appropriate case and clinical competency in treatment modalities results in success in nonsurgical periodontal therapy . the patient with early periodontitis with significant local factors in the form of professionally accessible plaque and calculus is the most receptive to nonsurgical periodontal treatment . the clinician must make decisions centering around the important question , " can the patient , or moreover , can the therapist delivering the debridement , gain access to the microbial subgingival plaque on a frequent basis below the host defense threshold of the respective patient ? " if the answer is " yes , " nonsurgical periodontal therapy will be rewarding . if the answer is " no , " other modalities such as periodontal surgery must be instituted . 
surgical pocket reduction . it is not possible within the scope of this paper to describe in any detail each of the aforementioned procedures . these can be found in the various textbooks and journals on clinical periodontology . instead , the objectives of treatment , the spectrum of techniques available , and the rationale for their use have been described . periodontal surgery should be performed only under certain conditions : the patient must be physically and mentally competent to undergo any type of surgery , and should understand and agree to the procedure and to postoperative management . finally , periodontal surgery should only be considered when nonsurgical therapy will not accomplish the desired result . when periodontal surgery for pocket elimination is performed for selected defects that have been properly evaluated after a debridement and healing period , and is executed with technical competence and proper postoperative care , it can preserve the dentition affected by periodontal disease . 
using periodontal plastic surgery techniques . in the 1980s , mucogingival surgery evolved into periodontal plastic surgery with various techniques designed to produce root coverage in areas of marginal tissue recession , to augment deficient ridges , and to lengthen crowns in cases of excessive gingival display . periodontal plastic surgery not only enables the dentist to reconstruct but also to regenerate lost tissues . 
maintaining periodontal treatment . dental maintenance , or supportive periodontal treatment ( spt ) , can keep the periodontium and peri-implant tissues healthy after active therapy . patients who comply to suggested spt fare better periodontally and keep their teeth longer . data should be gathered by examinations , talking with patients , and reviewing personal oral hygiene . then sub - and supra-gingival deposits should be removed . the average spt visit should last 1 hour and should be scheduled every 3 months . supportive periodontal treatment for patients with more advanced periodontal or peri-implant destruction should be the responsibility of the periodontist . 
regenerating bone in clinical periodontics . bone autografts and allografts , various alloplastic materials , and guided tissue regeneration are used to reconstruct lost periodontal tissues . this paper focuses on controversies related to these therapeutic modalities as well as their role in periodontal regeneration . 
dental implants used for periodontal patients . for those performing implant treatment , continued research and reports of long-term successful results are essential to evaluating the validity of implants , especially when variables such as design and surface treatment are introduced . the dental profession has enthusiastically embraced the clinical results of implant treatment and its benefits to the patient . however , just as patients who undergo periodontal and restorative treatment must continue a regular long-term routine of maintenance therapy to ensure their dental health , so must those patients who receive dental implants . both the periodontist who places the implants and the dentist who fabricates the prosthetic replacement must work cooperatively to deliver a healthy restoration that will function for many years . 
premolarization of a fractured maxillary first molar : a multidisciplinary treatment . the diagnosis and treatment of a fractured maxillary first molar are described in this case report of a 28-year-old male . successful treatment of the retained palatal root of the fractured molar , referred to as premolarization , ensued from integration of endodontic , orthodontic , periodontic , and fixed prosthodontic care . 
an esthetic approach to vertical root extrusion in a patient with an anterior open bite : report of case . a previous attempt to locate the root canal system in the maxillary left central incisor with a bur created a perforating root defect at the level of the alveolar crest . the patient received root canal therapy . next , vertical root extrusion was chosen to expose sound tooth structure apical to the defect so that a crown could be constructed . with an anterior open bite , the natural crown was left intact and it was possible to position the anchor bar in an incisal and lingual position , maintaining esthetics for the patient during both the extrusive and stabilization phases of treatment . 
type 2 diabetes mellitus and periodontal disease . the relationship between type 2 diabetes mellitus and periodontal disease was evaluated in 2,878 pima indians of the southwestern united states . two independent measures of periodontal disease , probing attachment loss and radiographic bone loss , were used to compare prevalence and severity of periodontal disease in diabetic and nondiabetic subjects . in all age groups studied , subjects with diabetes had a higher prevalence of periodontal disease , indicating that diabetes may be a risk factor for periodontal disease . 
proliferative mass found in the gingiva . the clinical course of peripheral ossifying fibroma is slow and the growth of most lesions is limited in size , usually up to 1.5 cm . complaints are rare unless the surface becomes ulcerated , or the lesion compromises oral function or esthetic appearance . treatment is surgical excision with close postoperative follow-up . tooth extraction is seldom necessary . proper surgical intervention , which includes excision of reactive tissue down to periosteum , affords a low recurrence rate of 14 % to 16 % . 
needle aspiration biopsy in salivary gland lesions . the value of needle aspiration biopsy in the evaluation and management of salivary gland pathology is controversial . the major reasons for this controversy are the difficulty in cytologic evaluation and the fact that the extent of surgery can be easily defined based on clinical judgement . however , a preoperative diagnosis is helpful in discussions with patients regarding the extent and type of surgery . apart from the fact that needle biopsy can distinguish benign from malignant conditions , it is also very useful in distinguishing between salivary and other nonsalivary pathology . over the past 7 1/2 years , we have performed 160 needle aspirations of parotid , submandibular , and submucosal lesions . adequate specimens for cytologic evaluation were obtained in 155 patients ( 97 % ) . a total of 84 parotid lesions , 70 submandibular lumps , and 6 submucosal abnormalities were detected . a cytologic diagnosis of benign pathology was made in 120 patients . twelve patients had lymphoma and the diagnosis was suspected based on needle aspiration . there were 10 patients with tuberculosis and 30 patients with hyperplastic lymph nodes or benign lymphoepithelial disease of the parotid . there were three false-positive and two false-negative reports . no complications such as hematoma , nerve injury , or infection developed . the major difficulty was in distinguishing between malignancy and obstructive sialadenitis in the submandibular region . needle aspiration was helpful in evaluating lesions in the tail of the parotid and submandibular area . the cytologic distinction between salivary and nonsalivary pathology was useful in planning the appropriate surgery and the extent of surgical resection . from a clinical standpoint , the distinction between benign and malignant salivary and nonsalivary pathology was very helpful . preoperative diagnosis of warthin 's tumor , lymphoma , or benign lymphoepithelial disease was essential to the correct management of these patients . 
whole organ sectioning of mixed parotid tumors . a pathologic study involving 15 standard formal parotidectomy specimens was carried out using the whole organ sectioning technique . histopathologic characteristics noted included the presence of exposed capsule , breaks of the capsule , capsular incompleteness , tumor ingrowth and thickness , cellularity , and lymphocytic infiltration . tracings of histopathology slides were used to reconstruct the three-dimensional configuration of each tumor as viewed from different angles . no tumor had a smooth surface . at the extreme , two tumor lumps were connected by just a narrow waist . separated tumors were not seen . in only one specimen did a lymph node contain an additional tumor in the form of an adenolymphoma . all tumors showed some exposed capsule or " bare area " to a degree affected mainly by the position of the tumor . capsular damage was occasionally seen and was usually minor . capsular incompleteness and tumor ingrowth make global capsular dissection unsafe . it is concluded that formal parotidectomy remains the operation of choice for pleomorphic adenoma of the parotid gland , although capsular dissection ( otherwise termed enucleation ) can not be entirely avoided during the procedure . 
early facial reanimation following radical parotid and temporal bone tumor resections . a retrospective study of 35 patients who underwent early facial reanimation following extirpative parotid and temporal bone surgery requiring facial nerve sacrifice was performed . regional facial reanimation performed immediately or within several days included 16 patients who underwent temporalis muscle transposition and 27 who underwent gold weight or eyespring lid reanimation with lower lid tightening . simultaneous nerve grafts or nerve crossover procedures were performed in 22 patients . the authors ' favored approaches to facial reanimation are discussed , with an emphasis on the value of early reanimation using properly selected techniques . 
reconstruction of mandibular defects in irradiated patients . in this prospective study , mandibular reconstruction using titanium plates was evaluated in 31 patients treated between july 1988 and january 1990 . sixteen patients had prior surgery ; 13 had prior radiotherapy . in 11 patients , prior radiation and surgery had failed . sixteen patients received postoperative radiotherapy either in standard or accelerated fractions . twelve patients had complications of either intraoral ( 8 ) , extraoral ( 5 ) , or combined ( 1 ) plate exposure or fistula formation ( 2 ) . factors significantly related to complications were poor nutrition , accelerated radiation , and recurrence . sixty-one percent of all patients healed uneventfully . when patients with complications secondary to recurrence who subsequently died were excluded , the success rate was 73 % . only one patient had an unacceptable result that produced a cosmetic and functional deformity despite secondary repair . 
long-term fate of the vascularized iliac crest bone graft for mandibular reconstruction . vascularized bone grafts , such as the iliac crest , have become a major tool for mandibular reconstruction . due to the growing trend toward immediate bone replacement followed by implant osseointegration and dental rehabilitation , further understanding of the long-term characteristics of these grafts is essential . early postoperative bone scans demonstrate increased activity within the vascularized graft relative to surrounding bone . this study addressed the use of bone spect ( single photon emission computed tomography ) scintigraphy as a long-term method of evaluating the integrity of vascularized bone grafts . 
sequential connection of flaps : a logical approach to customized mandibular reconstruction . microsurgery has improved the success rate for reconstruction of composite defects in the head and neck . restoration of mandibular continuity alone is not adequate for reconstruction . replacement of the oral lining with thin tissue is necessary to improve tongue mobility and to set the stage for later dental restoration . there is currently no ideal osteocutaneous free flap that provides unlimited length of bone , can undergo multiple osteotomies to produce the proper curve to the reconstructed mandible , and provides thin skin for oral lining . combining free flaps can take advantage of the strengths of the individual donor sites and eliminate some of the problems with current osteocutaneous flaps . in six patients , a fibular osseous free flap was combined with either a radial forearm flap or a lateral arm flap to provide bone and oral lining in reconstruction of mandibular composite defects . in these selected patients , the fibula provided the blood supply for the second free flap , which was placed sequentially . the distal peroneal vessels were used to anastomose to the radial forearm vessels or the lateral arm pedicle . this approach allows the surgeon to customize the defect by improving both the functional and aesthetic aspects of reconstruction and is of use in cases where vascular access is limited , such as following head and neck surgery and radiation . 
treatment selection for carcinoma of the base of the tongue . between 1974 and 1984 , 173 patients were treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue base . fifty-four patients had t1 or t2 primaries , while 115 patients had t3 or t4 tumors ( 4 were not staged ) . lymph node metastasis was present in 120 patients . early primary tumors treated with surgery or radiotherapy had a control rate of 83 % ( 5 of 6 tumors ) and 89 % ( 40 of 45 tumors ) , respectively . for advanced primary tumors , definitive radiotherapy produced a local control rate of 55 % ( 42 of 76 tumors ) , compared with 79 % ( 23 of 29 tumors ) for surgery and postoperative radiotherapy . if primary control was obtained , the regional failure rate was less than 10 % . tumor growth patterns were predictive of the response to radiotherapy . the primary control rate at 2 years for 21 patients with exophytic tumors was 84 % as opposed to 58 % for 62 patients with ulcerative-infiltrative tumors ( p = 0.04 ) . radiotherapy is effective for early stage or exophytic tumors , whereas for advanced or deeply invasive tumors combined therapy enhances local control . 
histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms : i. mucoepidermoid carcinomas . histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms has been done with various degrees of success and hence various degrees of acceptance among pathologists and otolaryngologists-head and neck surgeons . given their histopathologic diversity , three carcinomas -- mucoepidermoid , adenoid cystic , and acinic cell -- would seem to be suitable candidates for grading . in this , the first of a three-part series , the authors present a three-level grading scheme for mucoepidermoid carcinomas . it combines histocytologic and growth features of the carcinomas that independently or together , in other grading proposals , have shown prognostic value . 
intravenous pulse cyclophosphamide therapy in myositis and sjogren 's syndrome . we describe a patient with primary sjogren 's syndrome who developed myositis . the results of muscle pathologic analysis before and after treatment with monthly pulses of cyclophosphamide ( intravenously ) , are presented . 
characterization of a macrophage-tropic hiv strain that does not alter macrophage cytokine production yet protects macrophages from superinfection by vesicular stomatitis virus . macrophages , unlike cd4 + t cells , can be productively infected by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) without prior cellular activation . cytopathic infection ensues without the induction of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) , interleukin 1 beta ( il-1 beta ) , interleukin 6 ( il-6 ) , or tissue factor genes . in detailed studies on tnf alpha , hiv infection did not affect the regulation of tnf alpha in response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide . in an effort to examine the interferon responsiveness of hiv-infected macrophages , the cells were challenged with vesicular stomatitis virus ( vsv ) with or without interferon pretreatment . surprisingly , hiv-infected macrophages were completely resistant to vsv-induced lysis even in the absence of interferon ; however , no interferon was detected in the supernatants of these infected cells . the resistance of hiv-infected macrophages to superinfection with vsv indicates a previously undescribed effect of hiv upon macrophage cellular metabolism . 
expression of major histocompatibility complex class ii antigens and interleukin-1 by epithelial cells of warthin 's tumor . the immunoreactivity for class ii antigens of the major histocompatibility complex and interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) in warthin 's tumor ( wt ) cells was studied . in addition to macrophages , dendritic cells , and capillary endothelia , the luminal tumor cells and some keratinocytes in the metaplastic squamous foci exhibited immunoreactivity for both class ii antigens and il-1 . the distribution of the class ii antigens in the luminal tumor cells was limited to their basolateral membrane . these data , together with previous findings , strongly suggest that the luminal tumor cells of wt introduce the luminal antigen to the underlying lymphoid tissue and , thus , act as an antigen-presenting cell . 
intraoral adenoid cystic carcinoma . the presence of perineural spread in relation to site , size , local extension , and metastatic spread in 22 cases . twenty-two patients with an intraoral adenoid cystic carcinoma ( acc ) , initially treated by surgery with or without postoperative radiotherapy , were examined for the presence of perineural spread in relation to primary site , size , local extension , histologic status of the surgical margins , and metastatic spread of the tumor . there seems to be no correlation between perineural spread and the primary site or size of the tumor . however , perineural spread occurred more often in tumors with local extension and in cases with surgical margins with positive results . there seems to be no statistically significant correlation between perineural invasion and distant metastatic disease . 
repair of salivary fistulae after laryngectomy . a new surgical technique is described for the repair of salivary fistulae . it has been used in three patients . the fistulae occurred after laryngectomy and had been unsuccessfully treated with local and regional flaps . the principle of the technique is to use a bipedicled jejunal patch as a free microvascular transfer . one patch is used for reconstruction of the pharynx and after excising the mucosa the skin defect is closed with the other patch . the mucosa is excised to expose the muscle and to create a recipient site for a split skin graft . 
balancing dental service requirements and supplies : epidemiologic and demographic evidence . as a counterpoint to negative interpretations of recent trends , this article presents a positive picture of dentistry in the 1990s and 21st century . reported trends show large increases in older dentate adults who are retaining more of their natural dentition , new diagnosis and treatment technologies , increased incidence of dental caries in older adults , increased awareness of periodontal diseases , greater interest in esthetic dentistry , and generally higher expectations for health and fitness in our society . all of these factors point to a greater need for adult dental services . therefore , in the next 30 years , the dental profession should be prepared to provide increased amounts of diagnostic , preventive , adult operative , fixed prosthodontic , and endodontic and orthodontic services . declines in need should be expected in children 's operative dentistry , extractions , and complete dentures . 
life-threatening hemorrhage after placement of an endosseous implant : report of case this article reports an unusual but dangerous complication of implant surgery . minimal perforations of the lingual plate and inferior border of the mandible had been considered previously to be benign occurrences . this report demonstrates the importance of managing acute airway problems resulting from perforations . 
evaluating tooth eruption on sealant efficacy . for patients aged 5 to 9 and 11 to 14 , 100 occlusal surfaces on newly erupting permanent molars were treated with a self-curing pit and fissure sealant . all teeth were categorized according to stage of eruption and sealant thickness of the coating applied . after 36 months , 75 surfaces were examined for a final evaluation ; 52 surfaces ( 70 % ) did not need retreatment . of the 23 surfaces retreated as a result of sealant loss or marginal deterioration , 18 were retreated only once in the six recall evaluations . those molars treated originally with the operculum covering the distal marginal ridge of the occlusal surface had twice the probability for retreatment as teeth not treated until the entire marginal ridge was exposed . the thickness of the sealant coating did not affect the early signs of sealant failure . 
the prevalence of periodontitis in a military treatment population . a group of 1,984 males and females ( age range 13 to 84 ) at a military dental clinic were given oral examinations with full-mouth circumferential periodontal probing . diagnoses were made both for individual quadrants and for the entire mouth using clearly defined diagnostic criteria . the results showed 37 % of the subjects had gingivitis only , 33 % had early periodontitis , 14 % had moderate periodontitis , 15 % had advanced periodontitis , 0.5 % had juvenile periodontitis , and 0.5 % had necrotizing gingivitis . the prevalence of periodontitis increased with age to a peak in the 45 - to 50-year-age group . the proportion of periodontitis-affected quadrants , although initially lagging behind the overall case diagnoses , also increased with age . 
periodontics in general practice : professional plaque control traditionally the primary emphasis of preventive periodontics was daily patient performed plaque control . recent studies indicate that frequent professional subgingival toothcleaning is a mandatory treatment for prevention of recurrent periodontitis . pathogenic subgingival bacterial complexes are disrupted by frequent cleaning and require time to reestablish . disease progression is prevented if the recall interval does not exceed the time required for reestablishment of a pathogenic plaque . legally , patients have acquired the duty to comply with the prescribed recall interval . both the patient and the practitioner will benefit from a preventive program that includes frequent professional subgingival toothcleaning . 
lip paresthesia associated with a jaw mass . a case is reported in which mandibular swelling and lower lip numbness were the first signs of a metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung . the development of paresthesia , with or without other oral symptoms , requires that a diagnosis of malignancy be considered until confirmed or ruled out by tissue biopsy . a thorough head and neck examination in all patients , especially in those whose history or habits may indicate increased risk of malignancy is necessary . 
rhinosporidiosis associated with squamous cell carcinoma in the tongue . the peritumoural region of a squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue when examined with light and electron microscope showed nodular bodies in the submucosa with all the distinctive features of ' sporangium and ' spores ' of rhinosporidiosis . the occurrence of rhinosporidiosis in the tongue along with malignancy has not been reported hitherto . some interesting observations and causal relationships are discussed . 
malignant adenolymphoma of the parotid gland : report of carcinomatous transformation . malignant transformation of an adenolymphoma ( warthin 's tumour ) is a rare event . this paper presents a case of carcinoma arising in an adenolymphoma of the parotid gland . 
benign parotid tumour enucleation -- a reliable operation in selected cases . the method of surgical treatment for benign tumours of the parotid gland had not yet been rationalized , but many authors recommend parotidectomy as the most appropriate procedure . a series of 289 operations for parotid swelling is reported ; the majority of mixed and warthin 's tumours underwent enucleation without either complications or recurrence . the rationale of parotidectomy versus enucleation is discussed but in fast growing , deeply infiltrating and recurrent tumours , parotidectomy appears to be the best choice . in the other group of more commonly occurring tumours , enucleation represents a reliable time saving option . 
unusual lymphoproliferative oropharyngeal lesions in heart and heart-lung transplant recipients . three unusual cases of oropharyngeal lympho-proliferative lesions were seen in recipients of heart and heart-lung transplants . two caused acute upper respiratory obstruction necessitating urgent ent intervention . all patients were receiving immunosuppressive drugs including cyclosporin . the two obstructive cases were adenotonsillar enlargement in a 6-year-old , and a tumour of the tonsil and tongue base with cervical lymph node enlargement in a 32-year-old male . both were caused by epstein-barr virus-associated lymphoproliferative disorder . the third patient , a 32-year-old female , had a presumed low grade t-cell lymphoma that regressed spontaneously . histopathological diagnosis of these lympho-proliferative disorders after transplantation usually requires immunocytochemistry to distinguish polyclonal proliferative disorders from true lymphoma . polyclonal lymphoproliferative disorders after transplantation do not usually require aggressive cytoreductive therapy , but respond to simple measures such as the reduction of immunosuppression . 
the problem of the bifid mandibular condyle . in a survey of 1,882 prehistoric and historic skulls with 2,077 condyles , 7 double ( bifid ) mandibular condyles were found . one mandible with bilaterally bifid condyles is presented in detail . possible causes and consequences of the anomaly are discussed . it is assumed that bifid mandibular condyles with anteroposteriorly situated heads are caused by early childhood fractures , whereas those with mediolaterally situated heads are caused by the persistence of connective tissue septa . 
speech , velopharyngeal function , and hearing before and after orthognathic surgery . articulation , voice , resonance , hearing sensitivity , and middle ear function were examined in 34 patients before and 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 months after orthognathic surgery . thirty of the 34 patients had articulation errors before surgery . errors on the sibilants / s / and / z / occurred most frequently , followed by those on / j , zh , ch / and / sh / . errors were predominantly distortions with both visual and acoustic components . after surgery , articulation improved spontaneously in the absence of intervention . most of the preoperative articulation errors were eliminated by 3 months postoperative , but , thereafter , a gradual decline was noted so that by 12 months , errors occurred on / s / and / z / . voice , resonance , velopharyngeal port area , and hearing sensitivity were not altered by surgery . this study suggests that severe skeletal malocclusions requiring surgical correction have deleterious effects on the patients ' articulation of consonants and that surgical alteration leads to the correction of most of these errors . 
pedunculated soft-tissue mass on the alveolar gingiva [ clinical conference ] a case of peripheral ameloblastoma , a rare intraoral neoplasm , has been presented . the lesion appears most commonly as a mass on the mandibular lingual gingiva of patients in their fifth and sixth decades of life . the peripheral ameloblastoma does not share the aggressive nature of the intraosseous variant . the lesion has been overtreated in the past and warrants only a local supraperiosteal excision . 
central adenoid cystic carcinoma of the mandible . a patient with adenoid cystic carcinoma arising centrally within the mandible , a rare location for this malignant salivary gland tumor , is described . current concepts regarding the etiology , diagnosis , histology , and treatment of central intramandibular salivary gland tumors are discussed and the literature is reviewed . 
parotid gland and facial nerve trauma : a retrospective review . included in this study are all patients with trauma to the parotid region seen at our center from 1979 to 1989 . there was a total of five patients with injury to the parotid area : two patients with isolated facial nerve injury ; one with isolated parotid duct injury ; two with combined duct and nerve injury . there were four males and one female , with a mean age of 34 years ( range , 16 to 62 years ) . the three patients with parotid duct injury required other procedures for associated trauma . a total of eight nerve branches were severed in four patients . seven of the eight nerve branches ( 82.5 % ) were primarily repaired , with excellent functional results . two of the three ductal injuries were repaired primarily over a stent , and one was ligated . no complications resulted from either treatment . based on our clinical experience and review of the literature , we suggest that the treatment of parotid region injuries should include : 1 ) a complete initial assessment ; 2 ) primary repair of parotid duct transection within 24 hours when possible ; 3 ) primary repair of all facial nerve injuries , although delayed nerve repair remains a viable alternative ; and 4 ) nonsurgical treatment of sialoceles and fistulae . 
association of group c beta-hemolytic streptococci with endemic pharyngitis among college students throat cultures were performed throughout 2 school years to determine whether non-group a beta-hemolytic streptococci ( nga bhs ) could be isolated more frequently in 232 college students who had symptomatic pharyngitis than from 198 age-matched controls with noninfectious problems . duplicate throat swabs were inoculated onto plates that contained sheep blood agar , one plate being incubated in a 5 % co2 atmosphere and the other in an anaerobic environment . the bhs were grouped using latex agglutination . among the nga bhs , only those from group c were isolated significantly more often among the patients compared with the controls ( 26 % vs 11 % ) . quantitative colony counts of isolates of group c bhs were generally higher among patients than controls . patients with group c bhs had fever , exudative tonsillitis , and anterior cervical adenopathy significantly more frequently than did patients who had throat cultures that were negative for group c bhs . group c bhs were epidemiologically associated with endemic pharyngitis in this college student population . 
angioedema from angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors : a cause of upper airway obstruction . angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors have several side effects of concern to the otolaryngologist . angioedema is a rare , but potentially lethal adverse effect when associated with upper airway obstruction . four cases of ace-inhibitor-induced angioedema , three with significant upper airway obstruction , are reported . angioedema secondary to ace inhibition appears to be mechanism based . the probable link is the potentiation of bradykinin , which results in vasodilation , increased vascular permeability , and angioedema . since angioedema can progress to upper airway obstruction , otolaryngologists must be aware of this association . the differential diagnosis and treatment of this adverse effect is discussed , as well as a review of ace inhibitors and other causes of angioedema . 
a study of the comparative efficacy of four common analgesics in the control of postsurgical dental pain . four common oral analgesics were tested in a single-blind trial to determine their relative efficacy in the management of postsurgical pain in 103 patients who had their impacted third molars surgically removed under general anesthesia . the analgesics tested were acetylsalicylic acid ( 26 patients ) , ibuprofen ( 26 patients ) , a paracetamol/codeine/caffeine combination ( solpadeine ) ( 25 patients ) , and dihydrocodeine ( 26 patients ) . the paracetamol/codeine/caffeine combination , ibuprofen , and acetylsalicylic acid preparations produced equally effective analgesia . dihydrocodeine was found to be a poor analgesic in this pain model . there were no adverse reactions to any of the preparations . 
comprehensive dental care and general anesthetic management of hereditary epidermolysis bullosa . a review of fourteen cases . dental management of persons with epidermolysis bullosa remains challenging because of the severe hard and soft tissue manifestations of these diseases . this study reviews the dental treatment of 14 cases requiring 24 general anesthetics . twenty-three of the cases were managed with oral tracheal intubation to accomplish full-mouth dental rehabilitation . dental therapy consisted of preventive , restorative , and surgical procedures , with extractions and stainless steel crowns being the most common treatment modalities . there were no serious postoperative complications , and no airway problems were experienced . although extensive intraoral mucosal blistering did occur in several cases , postoperative healing progressed normally . soft tissue trauma may be lessened through the use of small suction tips , flat tissue retractors , and extensive lubrication of all tissues requiring manipulation . this study provides further evidence that even the most severely affected patients with epidermolysis bullosa can receive comprehensive dental treatment directed at maintaining a functional dentition . 
the myelodysplastic syndromes . case report and review . the myelodysplastic syndromes are a heterogenous group of hematologic disorders of myeloid progenitor cells . oral manifestations may be among the first signs and often reflect degrees of neutropenia or neutrophil dysfunction . a patient with persistent herpes labialis and severe oral mucosal ulceration in myelodysplastic syndrome is reported . the features of myelodysplasia are reviewed and their oral manifestations and significance to dental management outlined . 
propolis allergy : a cause of oral mucositis with ulceration . propolis has been used since ancient times in folk medicine for its alleged beneficial effects . it is a potent sensitizer and is well recognized as a cause of occupational allergic eczematous contact dermatitis in apiarists . recently , there has been an increase in allergic eczematous contact dermatitis because of nonoccupational exposure to propolis in " natural products " and biocosmetics . this report describes a patient who had acute oral mucositis with ulceration as a result of using propolis-containing lozenges . 
multiple myeloma and bullous lichenoid lesions : an unusual association . many associations of lichenoid reactions have been described but this case appears to be a previously unreported association -- with multiple myeloma . this case also demonstrates the necessity of a mucosal biopsy with adequate hematologic and serologic investigations to obtain a definitive diagnosis . 
nitrendipine-induced gingival hyperplasia . first case report . drug-induced gingival hyperplasia is well documented within the literature . it has been associated with phenytoin , cyclosporine , and calcium channel blocking agents . nitrendipine is an experimental calcium channel blocking agent that also appears to cause the side effect of drug-induced gingival hyperplasia . the clinical and histologic presentation of this side effect and possible biochemical mechanisms of pathogenesis are discussed . 
thermally induced ' nicotine ' stomatitis . a case report . a palatal lesion resembling " nicotine " stomatitis was found in a woman who did not smoke . however , the patient frequently drank extremely hot beverages . after she was instructed to reduce the temperature of the beverages , the lesion almost completely resolved . this suggests that heat was the primary cause of this lesion and also implicates heat as the major cause of nicotine stomatitis . 
diagnosis of oral hairy leukoplakia by ultrastructural examination of exfoliative cytologic specimens . lingual exfoliative cytologic specimens ( scrapings ) were obtained from 18 patients positive for human immunodeficiency virus with clinical oral hairy leukoplakia . buccal mucosal scrapings were obtained from 12 of these patients . the specimens were processed for examination by transmission electron microscopy ( tem ) . sixteen ( 89 % ) of the lingual specimens revealed infection of keratinocytes by herpes-type virus . there was no evidence of virus infection in the 12 buccal mucosal scrapings . fungal hyphae were seen by tem in 14 ( 78 % ) of the lingual scrapings and two ( 17 % ) of the buccal scrapings . one exfoliative specimen and two biopsy specimens were stained for epstein-barr virus dna with a dna probe . the demonstration of herpes-type virions by tem in keratinocytes from a lesion clinically suspected to be hairy leukoplakia provides direct , objective diagnosis . furthermore , use of exfoliative cytologic specimens provides a clinically simple , noninvasive technique . 
the cellular composition of basal cell adenoma of the parotid gland : an immunohistochemical analysis . four cases of basal cell adenoma of the parotid gland were examined immunohistochemically to characterize their cellular composition . in all cases epithelial membrane antigen and keratin were detected in the inner luminal cells ; some cells also showed positive staining for secretory functional markers , indicating their differentiation toward secretory epithelium . in tubular and trabecular types the outer cells consistently displayed an intense staining for vimentin and some were also positive for actin , indicating their myoepithelial nature . in the solid type , most tumor cells resembled the ductal cells or basal cells of larger ducts in normal gland with regard to their immunoreactivity . our results may suggest that the proportion and arrangement of heterogeneous tumor cells are responsible for different histologic patterns of the salivary basal cell adenoma . 
primary malignant melanoma in the parotid gland . reports of primary malignant melanoma arising from the parotid salivary gland are extremely rare and , to date , have been sporadic . we report a pertinent case , and tabulate and correlate the clinical findings of the 13 cases reported thus far in the literature . the most common symptom is a progressively enlarging , asymptomatic , firm , and fixed mass . total excision has been the established treatment of choice . the contribution of radiotherapy , chemotherapy , and immunotherapy remains unclear , and it is not possible at present to predict the outcome of treatment in individual patients . although rare , primary malignant melanoma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of parotid tumors . the clinical significance of establishing the diagnosis of primary malignant melanoma of the parotid gland is emphasized . 
oral histoplasmosis as a presenting disease in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ published erratum appears in oral surg oral med oral pathol 1991 jan ; 71 ( 1 ) :76 ] a 43-year-old homosexual man visited his dentist with painful , nodular , ulcerated lesions on the soft palate , right buccal mucosa , and right posterior maxillary gingiva . serologic studies for exposure to human immunodeficiency virus , performed before biopsy , were positive . biopsy of the maxillary gingiva demonstrated sheets of histiocytes containing small intracellular yeasts , which on culture were identified as histoplasma capsulatum . bilateral leukoplakic lesions with some vertical furrowing involving the lateral borders of the tongue were also noted . histologically , hyperkeratosis and fungal hyphae were identified . the patient was treated for histoplasmosis with amphotericin b , which resulted in significant improvement of the oral lesions . he was subsequently hospitalized for fatigue and dyspnea and was found to have pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . pulmonary status deteriorated within a 3-week period , and the patient died . autopsy findings were negative for histoplasmosis but positive for necrotizing and cavitary p. carinii pneumonia , pulmonary and hepatic herpes simplex infections , and pulmonary and intestinal cytomegalovirus infection . 
epithelial rests ' function in replantation : is splinting necessary in replantation ? the problem of resorption during replantation in relationship to the epithelial rests and a lack of splinting was studied . ten mongrel dogs were used . two dogs served as control subjects , while eight had their mandibular incisors intentionally replanted and studied histologically . it was observed that where rests of malassez were present we did not see resorption , and the lack of splinting did not result in resorption or loss of teeth . it appears we can stain epithelial rests of malassez with immunofluorescent antibodies and use this technique for further study of this tissue . 
replantation : an analysis of 29 teeth . the results of replantation of 29 teeth are described . maxillary incisors constituted 85 % of 27 permanent teeth . the period between avulsion and replantation ranged from within an hour to 86 days , but the actual extraoral period was within 5 hours in all but one case . nineteen of the 27 permanent teeth were functioning for 7 months to 6 years and 7 months postoperatively . root resorption was the cause of tooth loss in five cases . the incidence of root resorption seemed to increase with the increase of the extraoral period , but it was not affected by the period between avulsion and replantation , the condition of supporting tissues , the degree of root formation , and the type and period of splinting , indicating multiple factors involved in determining the prognosis of replanted teeth . in conclusion , every effort should be made to preserve avulsed teeth even in unfavorable conditions . 
apical closure of mature molar roots with the use of calcium hydroxide . calcium hydroxide may induce apical root closure in affected mature teeth as well as in immature teeth . once an apical hard tissue barrier is formed , a permanent root canal filling can be safely condensed . two cases are described in which calcium hydroxide induced apical root closure in mature molar teeth where the apical constriction was lost because of chronic inflammatory process . 
when a patient with a bleeding disorder needs dental work . how you can work with the dentist to prevent a crisis patients with bleeding disorders need close cooperation between their physician and their dental practitioner to receive safe , comprehensive dental care . when indicated , physicians must advise a compromised treatment plan to avoid deep injections or surgical procedures that may initiate a bleeding crisis in patients at risk . the conditions most commonly seen that require special consideration are long-term use of antithrombotic agents , platelet dysfunction caused by chronic renal failure , and congenital clotting factor deficiencies . even these patients may undergo a high-risk procedure , such as periodontal surgery , with adequate precautions and preparation . 
improved primary surgical and dental treatment of clefts . the improved combination of surgical and dental teamwork in the primary treatment of clefts presented here is consistent with principles . in fact , this is a staged design for correction of classic clefts of the lip and palate that , based on biological principles , facilitates the continuance of the failed embryonic " migrations " toward a normal end point . positioning of the alveolar segments , dissection of mucoperiosteum out of the cleft , and union of mucoperiosteum across the alveolar and anterior hard palate cleft make it possible to create a periosteal tunnel across the bony gap and set up a condition conducive to bone formation and eventual tooth eruption in the cleft area . lip closure by adhesion reduces the tension of the primary lip closure and allows gentle molding until solidification of the arch occurs . thus a complete cleft has been rendered an incomplete cleft . with a balanced , stabilized maxillary platform , the definitive lip and nose corrections can be carried to completion early ( by 2 to 4 years of age ) . these planned actions bypass a persistent cleft , fistulas , raw areas , malposition of alveolar segments , and probably the necessity for later bone grafting . the only question not totally answered is the effect of this approach on final growth . although most reports seem to indicate that growth has and will proceed within normal limits , another 10 years of careful follow-up is indicated and , in fact , is in progress . 
experience with the functional cleft lip repair . the first 12 functional cleft lip repairs performed on unselected consecutive patients immediately following the completion of training by the author are presented . previous reports on this cleft lip repair have shown excellent results but have always been based on patients operated on by the originator of the procedure . this report gives credence to the ease with which a cleft lip repair that gives reproducible good results can be taught and learned even by plastic surgeons with limited experience . it reviews the technical steps of the procedure , which emphasizes wide undermining and release of the orbicularis oris muscle on the lateral side of the cleft to allow redraping and lengthening of the lip skin , step-by-step layered closure of the mucosa , muscle , and skin , and further vertical lengthening of the lip with a z-plasty skin closure . three elements that are difficult to achieve or restore with cleft lip revision are evaluated : ( 1 ) achievement of a good skin scar , ( 2 ) maintenance of the alar-facial groove , and ( 3 ) achievement of adequate lip height without sacrificing horizontal lip length . ten of the 12 patients had a satisfactory scar , 9 patients had a good alar-facial groove , and all patients had a normal-appearing horizontal lip length . nine patients required secondary surgery ; however , in six patients , this included correction of the nasal deformity that was not corrected at the time of cleft lip repair . 
primary repair of the bilateral cleft lip nose : a 15-year review and a new treatment plan . for 15 years a forked flap has been used for columella reconstruction in primary repair of the bilateral cleft lip nose . with the adolescent growth spurt , three unfavorable features have become apparent : ( 1 ) the columella may grow too long and the nostrils too large , ( 2 ) often the nasal tip remains broad , and ( 3 ) there is a drift of the columellar base and the lip-columellar angle is transgressed by scar . this procedure has therefore been discontinued . a new treatment plan is presented in which the columella is reconstructed from tissues in the splayed-out nasal tip . 
secondary correction of the unilateral cleft lip nose using a conchal composite graft . the secondary deformity of the unilateral cleft lip nose has many components . one is the dorsal dislocation of the lateral crus of the alar cartilage . we used a conchal composite graft positioned between the piriform aperture and the lateral crus and the upper lateral cartilage to correct this dislocation in nine patients . we believe that this graft is effective because it elevates the lateral crus of the alar cartilage off the depressed piriform aperture . this technique is very simple to perform , and it is easy to achieve nasal symmetry . our results have been quite satisfactory , with no recurrence of dorsal dislocation . the donor site was covered by a subcutaneous pedicled flap from the cephaloauricular sulcus , leaving an inconspicuous deformity . 
arteriovenous malformation of the tongue . polyvinyl alcohol particles used to embolize an arteriovenous malformation of the tongue were only temporarily successful . additional embolization therapy was necessary and was complicated by ischemic ulcers of the tongue . we conclude that embolization therapy can be used , but the efficacy of this therapy in the longer term remains to be determined . 
nasolaryngoscopy for family physicians . nasolaryngoscopy is easy to learn and safe and convenient to perform . it is readily accepted by patients and is a rich source of clinical information . the flexible nasolaryngoscope allows the physician to directly observe the anatomy of the nasal passages , pharynx and larynx . the procedure is helpful for identifying the etiology of chronic nasal complaints and hoarseness . other possible indications for nasolaryngoscopy include suspected nasal foreign body , recurrent nasal or pharyngeal bleeding , and epiglottitis . with the use of this instrument , treatment of otolaryngologic conditions may be more specific , thereby reducing unnecessary referral or delay in treatment . 
toxic streptococcal syndrome . the streptococcal toxic shocklike syndrome is a recently recognized , multisystem disorder that shares many of the features of staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome , but is caused by toxins elaborated by group a beta-hemolytic streptococcus . we describe a patient who fulfilled the major criteria for the clinical diagnosis of toxic shock syndrome ( fever , hypotension , multisystem dysfunction , and diffuse macular erythroderma followed by desquamation ) and who demonstrated serologic evidence suggesting streptococcal infection . in patients presenting with clinical findings consistent with a toxic shocklike syndrome , the emergency physician should consider streptococcal infection as a potential etiology . 
occipital condyle fracture presenting as retropharyngeal hematoma . reported is the case of a 30-year-old male motorcycle accident victim who was found on plain cervical-spine radiography to have prevertebral soft-tissue swelling . although subsequent computed tomography demonstrated no cervical-spine fracture , it did reveal a fracture of one occipital condyle . the mechanism , diagnosis , and treatment of occipital condyle fractures are reviewed , as is the ligamentous and fascial anatomy of the cervicocranium . dissection of fracture hematoma inferiorly along vertically oriented tissue planes is hypothesized as the pathogenesis of our patient 's retropharyngeal hematoma . in addition to being a sign of potential cervical-spine injury , post-traumatic prevertebral soft-tissue swelling may also indicate occipital condyle fracture . to avoid overlooking such fractures , computed tomography undertaken to investigate upper cervical-spine prevertebral soft-tissue swelling should always include slices up to the level of the basal skull so as to visualize the condyles . 
histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms : ii . acinic cell carcinomas . acinic cell carcinomas display varied cytoarchitectural patterns of growth that should allow for formulation of histopathologic grading . grading of these carcinomas may serve to identify subsets whose biologic behavior is more aggressive than the usually accepted low-grade behavior of acinic cell carcinomas as a group . to that end , a three-level histopathologic grading scheme is presented . 
activation of t cell subsets in the peripheral blood of patients with sjogren 's syndrome . multicolor flow cytometric analysis . using 3-color flow cytometry , we determined the proportions of activated t cells ( dr + ) , including cd4 + cells , cd8 + cells , and their subsets , in the peripheral blood of 17 patients with sjogren 's syndrome ( ss ) . activated t cells were significantly increased in cd4 + cells , cd8 + cells , and t suppressor inducer ( cd4 + , leu-8 + ) , t helper ( cd4 + , leu-8 - ) , and t cytotoxic ( cd8 + , cd11 - ) subsets , but not the t suppressor/natural killer subset ( cd8 + , cd11 + ) , in patients with ss as compared with the controls . furthermore , the proportions of activated t cells in the cd4 + , leu-8 - subset , the cd8 + subset , or the cd8 + , cd11 - subset showed a positive correlation with serum gamma globulin levels in the ss patients . our findings suggest that a certain immunoregulatory balance between t helper and t suppressor activities is maintained in ss patients , although this balance seems to occur at highly activated levels , and that quantitative changes of some lymphocyte subsets are important factors in maintaining this balance . we discuss the possibility that cd4 + , leu-8 + cells recirculate into peripheral lymph nodes , while cd4 + , leu-8 - cells migrate into inflammatory tissues such as salivary glands , since the leu-8 antigen is reported to be a homing receptor in peripheral lymph nodes . this process might be accelerated in ss , and each t cell subset may further participate in immunologic activation in the lymph nodes or target tissues . 
association of labial salivary gland histopathology with clinical and serologic features of connective tissue diseases . focal sialadenitis is now widely accepted as an objective criterion for the oral component of sjogren 's syndrome ( xerostomia ) . we investigated the association between labial salivary gland histopathologic changes and the clinical and serologic features of 192 patients with suspected connective tissue disorders . a retrospective review of the medical records of all patients was performed , and historical , physical , laboratory , histologic , and roentgenographic data were abstracted . each patient had undergone labial salivary gland biopsy as part of a rheumatologic evaluation . there were significant associations between positive findings on lip biopsy and the presence of keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( p = 0.013 ) , positive antinuclear antibodies ( titer greater than or equal to 1:80 ) ( p = 2 x 10 ( -8 ) ) , and positive ro antibodies ( p = 1 x 10 ( -8 ) ) . however , sicca symptoms and glandular enlargement were not statistically associated with positive findings on lip biopsy . features predictive of a positive lip biopsy included ro antibodies ( p = 0.914 ) , keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( p = 0.700 ) , and positive antinuclear antibodies ( p = 0.590 ) . 
family cancer syndrome : a study of the kindred of a man with osteogenic sarcoma of the mandible . several familial cancer syndromes have been identified . the syndrome of sarcomas , breast cancer and other neoplasms , known as li-fraumeni syndrome , is characterized by several different neoplasms presenting at young ages with autosomal dominant transmission and a high incidence of second primaries . in this paper , we studied six generations ( 51 people ) of the family of a 24-year-old man with osteogenic sarcoma of the mandible . twelve malignancies in 11 people , including several rare tumors , were revealed . mean age of presentation was 24 years old . nine of the 11 patients died of disease . one developed a second primary . two tumors presented in the head and neck . transmission was autosomal dominant . the karyotypes of two family members were normal . identification of li-fraumeni syndrome in a family is important in determining appropriate follow-up for the patient and family . such families are models for studying carcinogenesis . 
the surgical management of chronic parotitis . chronic parotitis is a disorder characterized by recurrent painful swelling of the gland with purulent sialorrhea . occasionally , the condition fails to respond to medical management and definitive surgical therapy is necessary . sialolithiasis is the usual etiology in cases of parotitis , although occasionally severe recurrent parotid infections are superimposed on underlying sjogren 's disease . total parotidectomy with facial nerve dissection has been used in such cases in our department and has proved to be an excellent way to manage this disease . a summary of our results indicate that the recurring infections were eradicated and that the complication rate is tolerable , considering the magnitude of the problem . we feel that it is better to use surgical management early rather than wait for the formation of fistulae or abscesses . 
calvarial sutural abnormalities : metopic synostosis and coronal deformation -- an anatomic , three-dimensional radiographic , and pathologic study . the purposes of this study were ( 1 ) to evaluate the histologic differences between synostotic versus deformational suture abnormalities and ( 2 ) to correlate these histologic findings with anatomic and three-dimensional computed tomographic ( ct ) scans . we examined three infants with premature metopic synostosis ; one infant also had microcephaly trisomy 13 and curious overriding of the coronal sutures . the three-dimensional ct scans demonstrated obliteration of the metopic suture inferiorly . histologic sections of this suture showed complete bony stenosis . the same pattern was found in all three infants , including the two infants with trigonocephaly who did not have trisomy 13 or microcephaly . in the trisomy 13 infant , the overlapped inferior coronal suture was obliterated on ct examination . however , histologic sections in this region showed a merging of bone ; there was no synostosis . in summary , three-dimensional ct re-formation correlated with metopic suture histology . " stenotic " fusion existed in all infants with trigonocephaly , those with normal and abnormal karyotypes , with and without microcephaly . however , three-dimensional ct re-formation of the trisomic infant showed opacification of the coronal suture in the areas of greatest overlap , whereas histology revealed a curious bone remodeling pattern , possibly a precursor to " deformational " craniosynostosis . 
parotid gland : plain and gadolinium-enhanced mr imaging . the purpose of this study was to show the typical appearance of lesions of the parotid gland with plain mr imaging and mr imaging enhanced with gadopentetate dimeglumine . seventeen patients with inflammatory changes and 43 with benign and malignant tumors were studied . the examinations were carried out with plain t1-weighted sequences with a repetition time ( tr ) of 500 msec and an echo time ( te ) of 25 msec ( tr/te = 500/25 ) , t2-weighted sequences ( 1,600 / 90 ) , and gadolinium-enhanced t1-weighted sequences in axial , coronal , and sagittal orientations . for identifying normal anatomic structures such as the facial nerve and the main duct , the administration of gadopentetate dimeglumine was helpful . in inflammatory changes , gadolinium-enhanced images showed no diagnostic advantages . gadopentetate dimeglumine proved helpful in delineating tumorous lesions and in differentiating benign and malignant lesions . however , an exact differentiation of the different histologic types was not possible . post-operative fibrosis could be differentiated from recurrent tumors after administration of gadolinium . if a question regarding infiltration or definition of the boundaries of a lesion can not be answered with non-enhanced mr imaging , gadopentetate dimeglumine administration is advised . however , for routine imaging of the parotid gland , its use is not recommended . 
controversies in the treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis an increasing number of cases of sore throat caused by group a beta-hemolytic streptococci occur with concomitant colonization by organisms that may " protect " the streptococci through beta-lactamase inactivation of penicillin at the site of infection . the failure of penicillin to eradicate many of these bacteria , which include staphylococcus aureus , haemophilus influenzae , moraxella ( branhamella ) catarrhalis and a multitude of pharyngeal anaerobes , may help to explain why penicillin is sometimes ineffective for acute and recurrent group a streptococcal infections . therapeutic alternatives currently include cephalosporins , erythromycin , rifampin combined with penicillin , amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium and others . 
myofibroblastoma of the tongue . an immunohistochemical , ultrastructural , and flow cytometric study . a case of myofibroblastoma arising in the tongue of a 77-year-old man is described . the patient presented with a submucosal tongue mass without other associated symptoms . the tumor was 2 cm in diameter , well circumscribed , and composed of uniform spindle cells arranged in fascicles . electron microscopic examination and immunohistochemistry demonstrated a myofibroblastic origin for the tumor cells . dna flow cytometric analysis showed a diploid dna content of this tumor . to the authors ' knowledge , this is the first report of myofibroblastoma occurring in the tongue . 
histopathologic grading of salivary gland neoplasms : iii . adenoid cystic carcinomas . histopathologic grading of adenoid cystic carcinomas can provide valuable prognostic information , particularly when the presence or absence of a solid growth architecture is noted . other growth patterns , exemplified by a tubuloductal or cribriform-cylindromatous differentiation , are associated with a more protracted biologic course and less rapid mortality . a three-tiered grading system based on the three growth patterns of the carcinoma is presented . 
histologic study of eustachian tube cartilage with and without congenital anomalies : a preliminary study . we investigated histopathologically the development of the eustachian tube ( et ) cartilage at a cellular level in individuals with and without congenital anomalies . fourteen specimens were obtained from 14 individuals ranging in age from 24 weeks ' gestation to 3 years who had cleft palate or trisomy 21 ( down ) syndrome ; the 49 specimens in the nonanomaly ( control ) group were from 49 individuals ranging from 26 weeks ' gestation to 85 years of age . all temporal bone specimens included the et and its accessory structures , and all were processed and stained with hematoxylin and eosin for histologic study in a routine manner . the number of cartilage cells in the midcartilaginous portion of the et was determined by light microscopy . in all groups , cartilage cell density of the et decreased with increasing age . however , cell density tended to be higher at all ages for individuals with cleft palate and microtia versus controls , and tended to be lower at all ages for individuals with down syndrome . 
lymphomatoid granulomatosis presenting as ulcerodestructive gastrointestinal tract lesions in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection . a new association . we describe cases of severe odynophagia , extensive oral ulcerations , and bowel perforation in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection that were caused by lymphomatoid granulomatosis . such presentations in human immunodeficiency virus-infected individuals are usually ascribed to other causes and may be incorrectly treated on an empiric basis . in addition , deep tissue specimens obtained at the margin of ulcerative lesions are often necessary for definitive diagnosis . we review our limited treatment experience with zidovudine , interferon alfa , and h2 blockers in our patients . based on the markedly increased frequency in which lymphomatoid granulomatosis is being diagnosed at our institution in the post-human immunodeficiency virus era , we postulated an association between these two entities . 
the role of herpes simplex virus in the development of oral mucositis in bone marrow transplant recipients . herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) has been implicated as a major etiologic factor in the development of ulcerative mucositis in bone marrow transplant ( bmt ) recipients . in this study , 60 patients who received bmts were evaluated for at least 30 days post-transplant for ulcerative mucositis and the presence of culturable hsv . fifty-nine patients received prophylactic acyclovir . forty-six patients developed ulcerative lesions and 45 of these were culture negative for hsv . neither the source of transplant ( autologous versus allogenic ) nor the hsv antibody status of the patient affected the frequency of mucositis . the conditioning regimen appeared to be the most significant factor contributing to the severity of ulcerative mucositis . while the majority of ulcers occurred on movable nonkeratinized mucosa in bmt recipients , the usual sites of reactivation of intraoral hsv are nonmovable , keratinized mucosa . we conclude that hsv is probably not a major etiologic agent of mucositis in bmt recipients and that acyclovir is an effective agent in preventing hsv reactivation . 
complete spontaneous regression of multiple basal cell carcinomas in the basal cell nevus syndrome : the possible role of transepithelial elimination . a 36-year-old latin american man with the basal cell nevus syndrome had multiple , soft , hairless , depressed scars of the face , scalp , neck , and back , ranging in size from 0.3 x 0.5 cm to 3.5 x 3.9 cm . these areas had never been treated and previously were sites of basal cell carcinomas that underwent complete spontaneous regression 4-5 years from the date of onset . pathology of these spontaneously regressed sites was consistent with the criteria established by curson and weedon ( 1979 ) . type iii transepithelial elimination was demonstrated for a basal cell carcinoma . type iii transepithelial elimination may play a role in the spontaneous regression of basal cell carcinomas . 
new primary basal cell carcinomas arising in skin flaps following mohs micrographic surgery for primary and recurrent basal cell carcinoma . two patients developed new primary basal cell carcinomas ( bccs ) in skin flaps used to reconstruct wounds that followed an earlier primary bcc and a recurrent bcc treated by mohs micrographic surgery . criteria for distinguishing a new primary bcc arising in a skin flap or full-thickness skin graft at a previous treatment site for bcc from a truly recurrent bcc are presented . the distinction between a new primary bcc and true tumor recurrence is important for accurate clinical assessment and may have a dramatic impact on the type of subsequent treatment . in addition , there may be less medicolegal liability in the case of a new primary bcc arising at the site of a previously treated bcc than for a bcc that is determined to be recurrent . 
the association of xerostomia and inadequate intake in older adults . recent studies indicate that nearly one in five older adults has xerostomia ( dry mouth ) . salivary gland dysfunction and/or inadequate saliva increases the difficulty of these older adults in obtaining proper nutrition . problems in lubricating , masticating , tolerating , tasting , and swallowing food contribute notably to the complex physiological and psychological manifestations of aging . to our knowledge , the literature has not demonstrated an association between xerostomia and malnutrition in the elderly . we randomly selected 67 older adults from institutionalized and free-living geriatric populations . nutritional intake analysis was performed on both groups of study subjects , who were found to have xerostomia by use of sialometry , and on control subjects matched for age , sex , and physical status . intake of total energy , protein , dietary fiber , total fat , saturated fat , cholesterol , sodium , potassium , vitamin a , vitamin c , thiamin , riboflavin , vitamin b-6 , calcium , iron , and zinc was compared with the 1989 recommended dietary allowances . subjects ' intakes were also compared with that of a control group . medical systemic information and number and types of medications were compared among the groups . statistical analysis of the data indicated significant ( p less than .001 ) inadequacies in the nutritional intake patterns of institutionalized and free-living older adults with xerostomia . subjects with xerostomia ( more than 75 % of the free-living and institutionalized seniors ) had significant deficiencies of fiber , potassium , vitamin b-6 , iron , calcium , and zinc . taste and food perception were significantly reduced in the elders with xerostomia . our study indicates the potential contribution of xerostomia to the high prevalence of geriatric malnutrition in the united states . 
oral diseases in older adults [ clinical conference ] in the case presented , a 65-year-old man with multiple dental , medical , and social problems benefited from interdisciplinary assessment and treatment . despite his poor oral-health status and oral-health behaviors upon admission , patient education and dental therapy resulted in improved daily oral hygiene , elimination of oral diseases , and improved oral function . the overall quality of life of any individual , particularly an older one , can be enhanced through oral-disease prevention , health promotion , and , when indicated , dental therapy . this patient was treated in a hospital environment with a well-established team approach to geriatric care . however , regardless of the care setting , the physician can play a key role in improving the oral health status and quality of life of older adults by including an oral screening examination as part of the periodic comprehensive geriatric assessment , recognizing oral pathology , requesting dental consultations and encouraging appropriate dental service utilization . 
mapping of epitopes on the la ( ss-b ) autoantigen of primary sjogren 's syndrome : identification of a cross-reactive epitope . autoepitopes on the ribonucleoprotein la ( ss-b ) were identified by using recombinant la ( ss-b ) polypeptides and sera from 166 patients with the antinuclear autoantibody anti-la ( ss-b ) . the la ( ss-b ) polypeptides were encoded by polymerase chain reaction-derived overlapping or nonoverlapping fragments of the la ( ss-b ) gene , which encodes a protein of 408 amino acids ( aa ) . of the 166 sera tested , 99 % reacted with a fusion protein comprising the first 107 n-terminal aa ( laa ) ; 91 % reacted with a fusion protein comprising aa 111 to 242 ( lac ) , and 91 % reacted with a fusion protein comprising aa 346 to 408 ( lal2/3 ) at the c terminus of la ( ss-b ) . the order of immunodominance as assessed by the number of sera reacting with each epitope and the strength of the reactivity was laa ( aa 1 to 107 ) greater than lac ( aa ) 111 to 242 ) much greater than lal2/3 ( aa 346 to 408 ) . cross-reactivity was observed between antibodies eluted from lac ( aa 111 to 242 ) and lal2/3 ( aa 346 to 408 ) , but there was no significant primary sequence homology between the two regions . the lac region contained at least two epitopes , one encompassing a putative rna-binding motif ( aa 112 to 187 ) which was recognized by 83 % of patient sera . serial serum samples from three patients showed that the antibody response to la ( ss-b ) was initially directed to the n terminus ( laa , aa 1 to 107 ) , but over a period of time all three major epitopes , including that encompassing the putative rna-binding motif , were recognized . this result suggests that the primary immune response to la ( ss-b ) is restricted to an immunodominant epitope . as the specificity of the autoantibody response broadens , it includes the rna-binding motif , which may have important implications for the expression of disease . 
monomorphic adenomas of the major salivary glands : clinicopathological study of 44 cases . we report 44 cases of monomorphic adenoma ( ma ) of the major salivary glands observed during the years 1979-1989 . all of these tumours were reviewed and classified on the basis of the world health organisation ( who ) criteria . histological type , site , sex and age were considered . 34 cases of adenolymphoma were observed , all of them located in the parotid glands ; 10 ma without lymphoid stroma were located in both parotid and submandibular glands . distinctive histological and clinico-pathological features of the latter group of tumours are discussed , as well as the diagnostic criteria in distinguishing these tumours from pleomorphic adenoma and adenoid-cystic carcinoma . 
giant enterocystoma within an infant 's tongue . a rare developmental cyst within the tongue and submandibular triangle of a male infant containing heterotopic gastric and intestinal epithelium ( enterocystoma ) is described and its derivation discussed . this cyst was of such a size as to cause feeding difficulties and partial airway obstruction during sleep . following c.t. scanning , total obstruction necessitated an emergency tracheostomy . successful enucleation via a median labiomandibulotomy was performed without further complication and two years later there is no sign of recurrence . 
temporal arteritis presenting as a submandibular swelling . temporal arteritis ( giant cell arteritis ) is a disease of protean manifestation . a case which presented as a submandibular swelling is reported . 
parapharyngeal abscess and torticollis . the combination of a parapharyngeal abscess and torticollis in an adult , due to a spastic contraction of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is an extremely rare condition . we have recently been exposed to such case , in which it was very difficult to make the diagnosis and where ct of the neck gave us the answers without any difficulty . the indication for ct at an early stage in unexplained neck infections is stressed . 
parotid duct communicating with a labial pit and ectopic salivary cyst . labial pits are usually described as blind epidermal invaginations of lip mucosa with occasional drainage of minor salivary gland secretions . a case of an aberrant parotid duct in communication with both a unilateral , commissural labial pit and an interposed salivary cyst is presented . a 7-year-old boy who had experienced lifelong clear drainage from a congenital pit at his right oral commissure developed fever , pain , and a submucosal mass of the right cheek over a 6-week period . a preoperative sialogram through the pit demonstrated a communication between the oral commissure fistula , an intervening salivary cyst , and a proximal tract from the cyst to the parotid gland . an en bloc resection of the pit , fistula tract , and cyst was performed through a transoral approach . the dissection was medial to the buccinator muscle . there has been no recurrence of the cyst after 1 year follow-up . a description of labial pits and parotid duct anomalies is presented ; however , to our knowledge , this combination of anomalies has not been previously described . 
radiobiological studies in the naevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome . the naevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome is described in a 43-year-old male . the response of dividing fibroblasts from this patient to the lethal effects of ionizing radiation was indistinguishable from that of a normal control : mean inactivation dose ( d ) = 1.74 gy and 1.68 gy , respectively . however , these cells were defective in the repair of potentially lethal damage ( d = 2.36 gy and 3.26 gy , respectively ) . the response to radiation of go t lymphocytes derived from the patient was similar to that of the control . the frequency of mutant circulating t lymphocytes resistant to 6-thioguanine was 17 x 10 ( -6 ) which was elevated when compared with age-matched controls . these results suggest an abnormality in the response of the fibroblasts to ionizing radiation damage . 
oxybutynin hydrochloride ( 3 mg ) in the treatment of women with idiopathic detrusor instability . oxybutynin hydrochloride ( 3 mg ) was compared with placebo by randomised , double-blind crossover trial in 53 females with idiopathic detrusor instability . symptoms were cured or markedly improved in 60 % of patients on oxybutynin and 2.3 % on placebo . during the first treatment period , oxybutynin reduced the frequency of voiding by 35 % , compared with 9 % for placebo . oxybutynin gave a significantly greater improvement than placebo in volume at the first desire to void ( 70 ml increase versus 7.7 ml ) , maximum filling-phase detrusor pressure ( 17 cm h2o reduction versus no benefit ) and cystometric capacity ( 104 ml increase versus 7.0 ml ) . a marked oxybutynin carry-over effect was seen during the second treatment period . side effects from the 3 mg dose of oxybutynin caused 7.5 % of subjects to discontinue therapy . 
dentofacial development in long-term survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukemia . a comparison of three treatment modalities . ninety-seven children who were diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia before 10 years of age and treated with chemotherapy alone , chemotherapy plus 1800-cgy cranial irradiation ( rt ) , or chemotherapy plus 2400-cgy rt were evaluated for effects of therapy on dentofacial development . all patients were seen at least 5 years postdiagnosis . dental abnormalities were determined from panoramic radiographs , and craniofacial evaluations were made from lateral cephalometric radiographs . ninety-one ( 94 % ) of all patients and 41 ( 100 % ) of patients younger than 5 years of age at diagnosis had abnormal dental development . the severity of these abnormalities was greater in children who received treatment before 5 years of age and in those who received rt . observed dental abnormalities included tooth agenesis , arrested root development , microdontia , and enamel dysplasias . craniofacial abnormalities occurred in 18 of 20 ( 90 % ) of those patients who received chemotherapy plus 2400-cgy rt before 5 years of age . mean cephalometric values of this group showed significant deficient mandibular development . the results of this study suggest that the severity of dentofacial-developmental abnormalities secondary to antileukemia therapy are related to the age of the patient at the initiation of treatment and the use of cranial rt . 
causes , diagnosis , and treatment of pharyngitis . pharyngitis is a common disease of the respiratory tract that can be caused by several different viruses and bacterial organisms . clinically speaking , the most important causative agent is group a streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogenes ) . although rare , postpharyngitis complications arise as a result of disease caused almost exclusively by group a streptococcus . because group a streptococcal pharyngitis usually responds well to antimicrobial treatment , it is important to diagnose it . penicillin , erythromycin , and peroral first-generation cephalosporins have been documented to be effective . in addition to group a streptococcus , c. pneumoniae and m. pneumoniae have also been detected in patients with pharyngitis . the possibility of diagnosing these organisms is limited at the present . clinical surveys are still needed , moreover , to evaluate the effect of antimicrobial treatment on the disease caused by these organisms . although routine viral diagnostic methods do not help primary care physicians in treating patients with pharyngitis , information on bacteria and viruses in the immediate environment could prove to be of great help in daily clinical work . 
detection of a human intracisternal a-type retroviral particle antigenically related to hiv . sjogren 's syndrome is an autoimmune disease that is characterized by dryness of the mouth and eyes . the loss of salivary and lacrimal gland function is accompanied by lymphocytic infiltration . because similar symptoms and glandular pathology are observed in certain persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , a search was initiated for a possible retroviral etiology in this syndrome . a human intracisternal a-type retroviral particle that is antigenically related to hiv was detected in lymphoblastoid cells exposed to homogenates of salivary tissue from patients with sjogren 's syndrome . comparison of this retroviral particle to hiv indicates that they are distinguishable by several ultrastructural , physical , and enzymatic criteria . 
postoperative sore throat : topical hydrocortisone forty patients undergoing tracheal intubation and controlled ventilation of the lungs for elective surgical procedures were studied . they were allocated randomly into one of two groups . the tracheal tubes used for group a patients were lubricated before insertion with water-soluble 1 % hydrocortisone cream . those for group b patients were lubricated with ky jelly . the incidence of postoperative sore throat was found to be significantly greater in group a. topical 1 % hydrocortisone cream is therefore ineffective in the prevention of postoperative sore throat . 
basis for defective proliferation of peripheral blood t cells to anti-cd2 antibodies in primary sjogren 's syndrome . anti-cd2-induced t cell proliferation was analyzed in the peripheral blood samples of 31 primary and 8 secondary untreated sjogren 's syndrome patients . anti-cd2-stimulated pbmc proliferation was very low in about one-third of primary sjogren 's syndrome samples , despite the number of cd2 + cells being similar in primary and secondary sjogren 's syndrome and normal pbmc samples . the depressed response to anti-cd2 was mainly found in anti-ro + / la + patients . experiments on purified t cells demonstrated that a defect at the t cell level was responsible for the anti-cd2 unresponsiveness . cell proliferation failure was associated with poor il-2 and il-2 receptor mrna expression and , consequently , il-2 and il-2 receptor synthesis . since defective anti-cd2-induced mitogenesis could be reversed by phorbol myristate acetate , but not calcium ionophore a23187 , it is probably correlated with impaired protein kinase c activation . comparison of anti-cd2-triggered pbmc proliferation in treated and untreated patients and a long-term study of nine patients showed that the defect is a stable characteristic in primary sjogren 's syndrome patients , but that it can be reversed by pharmacological immunosuppression . 
sialolithiasis : case studies and review . three cases of sialolithiasis are presented , each representative of acute and chronic presentations of this problem . the evaluation and treatment of salivary gland and duct stones are outlined . the primary axiom is , " treat the gland , not the stone , " and the essential aspects of emergency medical management are antibiotics , sialogogues , warm compresses , mechanical stimulation , and appropriate referral to an otolaryngologist . 
