ocular complications of rheumatic diseases of childhood . the association between inflammatory ocular and articular disease is a strong one , although the pathogenesis of this relationship is obscure . for the physician or surgeon caring for children with chronic arthritis , awareness of the risk of chronic asymptomatic anterior uveitis is essential if early diagnosis , treatment , and prevention of visual impairment are to be accomplished . this is particularly true for children with pauciarticular-onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis . acute symptomatic anterior uveitis is characteristic of disorders such as ankylosing spondylitis . whereas this disease is initially more unpleasant for the child , it has a good long-term prognosis . 
cytomegalovirus-induced osteomyelitis in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a 43-year-old man with aids had a periodontal abscess , no fever , and normal findings on funduscopic examination . three months later , the abscess area was debrided , and histologic examination of the tissue revealed osteomyelitis of the mandible . within the area of osteomyelitis were numerous cells with inclusions typical of cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infected cells . funduscopic examination at that time revealed extensive cmv retinitis . osteomyelitis should be added to the list of infections caused by cmv in patients with aids . 
cavernous-carotid thrombosis and ocular motor paresis a 64-year-old man presented with the acute onset of unilateral blindness and ipsilateral ocular motor paresis . occlusion of the central retinal artery associated with thrombosis of the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus was demonstrated by angiography and magnetic resonance imaging . cases of carotid thrombosis associated with ipsilateral ocular motor paresis are rare . the pathophysiology of intracavernous carotid thrombosis is discussed in connection with blood supply of the cranial nerves in the cavernous sinus . 
retinal infarction during sleep and wakefulness . brain and retinal infarctions during sleep have been attributed to focal hypoperfusion caused by systemic hypotension combined with underlying arterial stenosis , rather than to embolism . because some retinal emboli may be visualized on ophthalmoscopy , we studied 24 consecutive patients ( 18 men and six women ) aged 26-78 ( mean 58 ) years with recent retinal infarction and determined whether the infarction had occurred during sleep or wakefulness . all patients underwent dilated ophthalmoscopy and a carotid artery study ( arteriography in 20 , duplex ultrasound in the remaining four ) , and 12 had echocardiography . retinal infarction occurred during sleep at an unexpectedly rate ( 14 of 24 observed compared with eight of 24 expected , p = 0.02 ) . retinal cholesterol emboli were seen in one half of the patients regardless of whether the retinal infarction had occurred during sleep or wakefulness . carotid artery disease was found in seven of the 14 patients in whom infarction had occurred during sleep and in eight of the 10 patients in whom infarction had occurred during wakefulness ( p = 0.21 ) . cerebrovascular occlusive disease was not found in the five patients aged less than 50 years . our findings suggest that embolism is a common mechanism of retinal infarction during sleep or wakefulness , that in patients aged greater than 50 years extracranial carotid artery disease is a common source of retinal emboli , and that the retina may be especially susceptible to infarction during sleep . 
toxoplasmic chorioretinitis and hepatic granulomas . a 71-yr-old male presented with a 2-month history of fever , malaise , and weight loss . physical exam revealed chorioretinitis . laboratory studies were notable for elevated levels of alkaline phosphatase , gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase , aspartate transaminase , and alanine transaminase . immunoglobulin g antibody to toxoplasma gondii was positive to a dilution of 1:4096 , whereas serologic studies for hepatitis a virus , hepatitis b virus , cytomegalovirus , epstein-barr virus , human immunodeficiency virus , brucella , and tularemia were negative . a percutaneous biopsy of the liver revealed hepatic granulomas . culture of the biopsy specimen was negative for growth of mycobacteria or fungi . spontaneous improvement in clinical and laboratory parameters occurred over a 4-month period . 
linkage relationship of x-linked juvenile retinoschisis with xp22.1-p22 .3 probes . linkage analysis was performed to evaluate the relationship between the locus for x-linked juvenile retinoschisis ( rs ) and five x-chromosomal markers-rc8 ( dxs9 ) , se3 .2 l ( dxs16 ) , 99-6 ( dxs41 ) , d2 ( dxs43 ) , and 782 ( dxs85 ) - all mapped to the interval xp22.1-p22 .3 . seven u.s. families with 56 affected males were studied . no recombinants were found between rs and dxs9 with a maximum lod score ( z ) of 4.93 at a recombination fraction of zero . obligate recombinants were found for rs with dxs16 , dxs41 , dxs43 , and dxs85 . multipoint linkage analysis and consideration of recombination events within pedigrees suggest that dxs41 and dxs43 , and also dxs41 and dxs16 , flank rs and that dxs85 lies outside the interval dxs41-dxs43 . our pedigrees provide no evidence for genetic heterogeneity of rs , with five of our families individually showing evidence of linkage . ( z greater than 2.0 ) to the least one of these probes from xp22.1-p22 .3 . 
rapidly progressive outer retinal necrosis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome two patients , both seropositive for the human immunodeficiency virus , developed rapidly progressive retinal necrosis associated with a systemic herpes zoster infection . the retinitis in these patients was characterized by primary involvement of the outer retina , with sparing of the inner retina and retinal vasculature until late in the disease process ; a rapidly progressive course ; poor response to intravenous acyclovir ; and development of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment . in one of the patients , the retinitis was initially multifocal . electron microscopy of a retinal biopsy specimen from one of the patients demonstrated virus particles consistent with a herpesvirus , and polymerase chain reaction disclosed herpesvirus in a retinal biopsy specimen of the other patient . this entity may represent a distinct form of acute retinal necrosis that is seen in immunocompromised individuals . 
crohn 's disease and retinal vascular disease . patients with crohn 's disease may manifest extraintestinal findings including ocular involvement . we treated two patients with crohn 's disease who manifested retinal vascular disease that may have been related to the immune nature of the underlying disease or possibly to changes in the vasculature or coagulation system . one patient had a central retinal vein occlusion and the other had retinal vasculitis involving retinal arteries and veins with an apparent branch retinal artery occlusion . both patients were in excellent health except for crohn 's disease , which was confirmed by a biopsy specimen . in one patient , the diagnosis of retinal vasculitis preceded the clinical diagnosis of crohn 's disease , whereas for the second patient the symptomatology of the intestinal disease preceded the ocular manifestations . we suggest that inflammatory bowel disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis of retinal vascular occlusive disease , especially in a young patient . 
vitrectomy retinotomy aspiration biopsy of choroidal tumors we used an investigational technique for the biopsy of intraocular tumors to aid in the diagnosis of three choroidal tumors . a three-port trans-pars plana vitrectomy was performed in conjunction with retinotomy , tumor biopsy , endophotocoagulation , and air-fluid exchange . vitrectomy was used to decrease the amount of traction secondary to retained vitreous after intraocular surgery . retinotomy sites were chosen under microscopic control to avoid large caliber retinal vessels . then a modified tumor-aspiration technique , together with endophotocoagulation and aspiration of intraoperative vitreous hemorrhages , provided an opportunity to sample tumor tissue continually at varied depths . we have added standard vitreous surgery concepts , techniques , and instrumentation to produce vitrectomy retinotomy aspiration biopsy of choroidal tumors . 
magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of vitreoretinal disease in eyes with intraocular silicone oil . media opacification in eyes filled with silicone oil makes the evaluation of recurrent retinal detachment difficult . ultrasonography through silicone oil is subject to significant imaging artifacts . we performed magnetic resonance imaging on six patients with unilateral intravitreal silicone oil to determine if the technique would detect detached retina and subretinal oil . all patients had undergone pars plana vitrectomy with silicone oil injection for proliferative vitreoretinopathy ; five patients had encircling solid silicone scleral buckles . in five patients the media were clear , and ophthalmoscopic findings were correlated with magnetic resonance findings . four patients had recurrence of inferior retinal detachment ; magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated subretinal oil in three of these patients . one patient had a concentric , shallow , anterior retinal detachment ; magnetic resonance scanning demonstrated a globular hyperintensity suggestive of subretinal oil . in the sixth patient , who had an opaque cornea , magnetic resonance imaging suggested that the retina was attached preoperatively ; this was confirmed at subsequent surgery . a chemical shift artifact was helpful in defining the contour of retinal detachments and the presence of subretinal oil by outlining the silicone oil within the eye . 
histopathologic study of the molteno glaucoma implant in three patients . three eyes with the molteno glaucoma implant ( one eye with epithelial downgrowth , one eye with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome , and one eye with aphakia and glaucoma ) were enucleated two to six years after implantation . histopathologic examinations disclosed no evidence of erosion of sclera or conjunctiva of the eye by the glaucoma implant device . in the outer layers of the bleb wall , few and mostly degenerated inflammatory cells were present , which represented a minimal inflammatory reaction . scanning electron microscopy of the tubes in these three patients showed that the tube was intact , patent , and without signs of degradation . the tube entering into the anterior chamber caused no appreciable inflammation and maintained its patency even when downgrowth epithelial cells lined the anterior chamber . the molteno plate induced little or no inflammatory reaction . therefore , the molteno glaucoma implant is a useful device for patients with high risk for failure after surgery for glaucoma . 
correlations of acoustic tissue typing of malignant melanoma and histopathologic features as a predictor of death . forty-six eyes with uveal melanoma were scanned with a computerized diagnostic ultrasound system before enucleation , and light microscope sections were obtained . tumors were characterized by ultrasonically measured dimensions and power spectrum analysis , which provided information not available in conventional a - or b-scan ultrasonography . histopathologic features , including cell clustering pattern , cell type , pigmentation , vascularity , and necrosis , were quantified . statistically significant correlations were found between parameters derived from the power spectrum and histologic characteristics . patients were followed up for up to ten years with 14 deaths occurring because of metastases . using a cox relative risk model with histopathologic data , a risk model comprising pigmentation and cell type ( p less than .0001 ) was obtained . using ultrasonic characteristics , a model comprising tumor volume and scatterer concentration ( p = .0062 ) was obtained . the results suggest that ultrasonic tissue characterization and three-dimensional biometry may provide improved in vivo prognostic indicators for uveal melanoma . 
successful medical management of acanthamoeba keratitis seven patients with documented acanthamoeba keratitis were treated with prolonged and intensive triple antiamoebic therapy consisting of topical neomycin-polymyxin b-gramicidin , propamidine isethionate 0.1 % , and miconazole nitrate 1 % . additionally , five patients were treated with topical corticosteroids . six of seven patients were cured of acanthamoeba keratitis with medical therapy alone , one patient required therapeutic penetrating keratoplasty to eradicate the infection . two patients underwent penetrating keratoplasty to improve their vision after medical therapy . our series differs from previous reports in that triple antiamoebic therapy was used in all seven patients and was successful in both early and advanced cases of acanthamoeba keratitis . prolonged and intensive topical therapy with these three antiamoebic drugs may be an effective mode of therapy for acanthamoeba keratitis . 
successful treatment of recurrent corneal erosion with nd : yag anterior stromal puncture i used a new technique to create anterior corneal stromal punctures for the treatment of traumatic recurrent corneal erosions that had not responded to conventional therapy . three patients with such erosions within the visual axis were successfully treated by using multiple applications of the nd : yag laser set at energy levels between 1.8 and 2.2 mj . one of these patients had previous stromal puncture with a bent 25-gauge needle . the erosions of all patients healed without complications and have remained symptom-free for four to six months . compared with needle puncture , the laser punctures were more reproducible , shallow , and translucent . 
a clinical triad to diagnose paraneoplastic retinopathy . two elderly men developed photosensitivity and light-induced glare , transient visual symptoms , and progressive visual loss several months before small cell carcinoma of the lung was discovered . both patients had impaired visual acuity and color vision , ring scotomas , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber . electroretinography demonstrated abnormal cone and rod-mediated responses . antiretinal antibodies were identified in their serum . their visual sensory function improved following therapy with immunosuppressive agents . the triad of photosensitivity , ring scotomatous visual field loss , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber should alert one to a paraneoplastic disorder affecting the retina . 
vision screening in a primary care setting . a missed opportunity ? to determine the effectiveness of vision screening in a primary care setting , we administered a questionnaire and a vision test to 458 patients from a general medical clinic . subjects were referred for complete ophthalmologic evaluation if they failed the vision test or met other " high-risk " criteria based on information contained in the questionnaire . patient-initiated requests for eye examinations were also honored . a total of 169 patients were scheduled for eye examinations , and 148 actually underwent ophthalmologic evaluation . one hundred one of those examined were referred on the basis of the study criteria . " serious eye disease " ( cataract , glaucoma , diabetic retinopathy , or age-related macular degeneration ) was diagnosed in 96 ( 95 % ) of these patients . prompt surgical intervention was recommended in 27 ( 27 % ) , and medical treatment was begun in 21 ( 21 % ) . of those with serious eye disease , 59 % met the criteria by failing the vision test , while 69 % met the high-risk criteria determined by the questionnaire . of the 148 subjects who received ophthalmologic evaluations , 47 requested them . serious eye disease was diagnosed in 23 ( 50 % ) of the 47 patients . none of these individuals required immediate surgery , and medical treatment for glaucoma was begun in eight ( 17 % ) . these data suggest that screening for serious eye disease in a primary care setting is an efficient mechanism to use for the identification of patients with undetected ocular disorders that require follow-up or treatment . 
multicenter trial of cryotherapy for retinopathy of prematurity . one-year outcome -- structure and function . cryotherapy for retinopathy of prematurity cooperative group . this study of the safety and efficacy of cryotherapy in treating severe retinopathy of prematurity registered 9751 infants with birth weights less than 1251 g at 23 study centers . two hundred ninety-one infants developed a defined threshold retinopathy of prematurity , and cryotherapy was performed in approximately half of the eyes through a randomization protocol . twelve months after randomization , results of masked grading of fundus photographs of the posterior pole were similar to results obtained 3 months after randomization , and indicated an unfavorable outcome in 25.7 % of the eyes that received cryotherapy compared with 47.4 % of the control eyes ( p less than .0001 ) . for the first time , masked teller acuity card assessment of grating acuity was performed in this study group and indicated an unfavorable functional outcome in 35.0 % of the treated eyes compared with 56.3 % of the control eyes ( p less than .0001 ) . these results indicate that cryotherapy reduces the risk of unfavorable retinal and functional outcome from threshold retinopathy of prematurity . 
echographic features of the vogt-koyanagi-harada syndrome . vogt-koyanagi-harada ( vkh ) syndrome represents a spectrum of bilateral panuveitis with associated central nervous system and dermatologic manifestations . the diagnosis is based on clinical and angiographic findings , but some of the characteristic features may be either absent or difficult to visualize in the presence of opaque media . with the use of standardized echography ( standardized a-scan and contact b-scan echography ) , we examined nine patients with clear media and clinical evidence of vkh syndrome . consistent echographic findings included ( 1 ) diffuse , low to medium reflective thickening of the choroid posteriorly ; ( 2 ) serous retinal detachment , located inferiorly or in the posterior pole ; ( 3 ) mild vitreous opacities with no posterior vitreous detachment ; and ( 4 ) thickening of the sclera and/or episclera posteriorly . resolution of these findings occurred with systemic corticosteroid therapy . standardized echography should be considered an important diagnostic tool in vkh syndrome , especially when visualization of the fundus is poor or when clinical presentation is atypical . 
clinical and morphometric results of penetrating keratoplasty with one-piece anterior-chamber or suture-fixated posterior-chamber lenses in the absence of lens capsule . the clinical records and serial corneal endothelial images of 25 acapsular , pseudophakic eyes with kelman-style , one-piece , anterior-chamber intraocular lenses and 24 acapsular , pseudophakic eyes with suture-fixated , posterior-chamber intraocular lenses following penetrating keratoplasty were reviewed to determine clinical success and endothelial survival after 1 year . twenty-two ( 88 % ) of 25 grafts in the anterior-chamber intraocular lens group and 23 ( 96 % ) of 24 grafts in the sutured posterior-chamber intraocular lens group were clear after 1 year ; best corrected visual acuity of 20/40 or better was noted in 25 % of the eyes in the anterior-chamber intraocular lens group and 29 % of the eyes in the sutured posterior-chamber intraocular lens group . the mean intraocular pressure for the anterior-chamber intraocular lens group was significantly lower than for the sutured posterior-chamber intraocular lens group at 3 months ( 17 + / - 4 vs 21 + / - 7 mm hg ) and at 6 months ( 17 + / - 3 vs 20 + / - 5 mm hg ) ; but did not differ at 1 year . the mean percent of endothelial cell loss after 1 year did not differ between the anterior-chamber intraocular lens group ( 32 % + / - 26 % ) and the sutured posterior-chamber intraocular lens group ( 27 % + / - 26 % ) . no clinical or endothelial morphometric advantages were noted after 1 year for the suture-fixated , posterior-chamber intraocular lens over the kelman-style , one-piece anterior chamber , intraocular lens following pseudophakic penetrating keratoplasty ; however , a long-term , prospective , randomized study of these two intraocular lens types is recommended . 
botulinum vs adjustable suture surgery in the treatment of horizontal misalignment in adult patients lacking fusion . thirty patients were treated with either botulinum toxin or adjustable suture surgery in a prospective , randomized clinical trial . all patients had horizontal deviations greater than 10 prism diopters and absent fusion . seventeen patients were assigned to toxin treatment , and 13 were assigned to surgical treatment . follow-up at 6 months after either procedure indicated that surgery was superior , with patient alignment showing a 92.7 % average net change , compared with a 50.50 % net change in the botulinum-treated group . there was no difference in response between those patients with a starting deviation of 20 pd or less and greater than 20 pd in the surgery group . however , in the botulinum-treated group , those patients with a starting deviation of 20 pd or less seemed to show better responses than those patients with greater than 20 pd . patients with esotropia showed an 88.89 % change with surgery and a 51.55 % change with toxin treatment . patients with exotropia had a 95.83 % change with surgery but a 50.3 % change with toxin treatment . since we had 20 patients with exotropia and 10 patients with esotropia , a more formal comparison would require larger numbers . 
relationship of drusen and abnormalities of the retinal pigment epithelium to the prognosis of neovascular macular degeneration . the macular photocoagulation study group . we graded macular features of 127 fellow eyes of participants in the macular photocoagulation study who had an extrafoveal choroidal neovascular membrane secondary to age-related macular degeneration in the first eye and no initial evidence of the neovascular form of age-related macular degeneration in the fellow eye . our aims were to determine the relationship of drusen characteristics and retinal pigment epithelial abnormalities to the risk of subsequent development of neovascularization in the fellow eye and the risk of subsequent development of recurrent neovascular membranes after photocoagulation in the first eye . regression analysis demonstrated that the presence of large drusen and focal hyperpigmentation of the retinal pigment epithelium were independent risk factors for the subsequent development of neovascularization in the fellow eye ( relative risk , 2.4 and 2.5 , respectively ) . only 10 % of eyes with no large drusen or any retinal pigment epithelial hyperpigmentation compared with 58 % of eyes with both large drusen and retinal pigment epithelial hyperpigmentation developed neovascularization in the fellow eye within 5 years . using multivariate cox regression analysis , we noted that the risk of developing recurrent neovascular membranes in the first eye was significantly increased when large drusen ( relative risk , 2.8 ) were noted in the fellow eye at the time of laser treatment in the first eye . fundus features in the fellow eye appear to help identify patients at high risk of developing visual loss from recurrent neovascular membranes following laser treatment in the first eye and from development of a neovascular membrane in the fellow eye . 
metastatic carcinoma to the retina . clinicopathologic findings in two cases . two cases of metastatic carcinoma to the neuroretina are reported . one patient had an oat cell carcinoma of the lung that was metastatic to the brain and retina ; this was confirmed postmortem . the other patient had metastatic breast carcinoma with seeding of tumor cells into the vitreous from a focus of retinal embolism . the diagnosis was confirmed from a vitrectomy specimen . 
human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis , psoriatic arthritis , and reiter 's syndrome : a disease continuum ? the presence of peripheral arthritis and hla-a , b , c , dr , and dq antigens was evaluated prospectively in 18 caucasian men with human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis . an asymmetric polyarthritis occurred in 32 % of the patients and correlated with the presence of hla-b27 . extensive clinical overlap between psoriatic arthritis , psoriasis , and reiter 's syndrome was noted . no significant excess of the hla antigens previously found to be associated with psoriasis was seen , which suggests that human immunodeficiency virus-associated psoriasis per se may instead constitute another form of spondylarthropathy that is more closely related to reiter 's syndrome . 
fluorosilicone oil in the treatment of retinal detachment . we evaluated the use of a heavier-than-water fluorinated silicone oil in the treatment of 30 selected cases of complicated retinal detachment from january 1988 to july 1989 . proliferative vitreoretinopathy grade c-2 or greater accounted for 19 cases , proliferative diabetic retinopathy with traction detachment for two cases , giant retinal tears five , ruptured globe with retinal detachment two , massive choroidal effusion with retinal detachment one , and acute retinal necrosis with retinal detachment one . initial retinal reattachment was achieved in all cases . complications included redetachment seven ( 23 % ) , cataract six ( 75 % of phakic patients ) , raised intraocular pressure four ( 13 % ) , hypotony four ( 13 % ) , keratopathy three ( 10 % ) , uveitis-synechia formation three ( 10 % ) , phthisis two ( 3 % ) , choroidal haemorrhage one ( 3 % ) , and vitreous haemorrhage one ( 3 % ) . postoperative visual acuities with at least six months ' follow-up range from no light perception to 20/50 , with seven patients ( 23 % ) 20/400 or better . 
a survey of the initial referral of children to an ophthalmology department . we report on a survey of the referral of 525 children making their first visit to an ophthalmology department . information was gathered by interviewing the parents and reviewing the case notes . parents and relatives initiated the referrals in 223 cases ( 42 % ) and health visitors initiated a further 123 cases ( 23 % ) . general practitioners were rarely the first to notice a condition , though they played a major part in the subsequent referral process . of 556 reasons for referral squint was the most important ( 319 cases , 57 % ) , followed by poor vision ( 106 cases , 19 % ) . there were 44 confirmed cases of amblyopia , of which 15 ( 34 % ) were not detected until the child was aged 5 years or over . the overall accuracy of referral was 66 % ( 367 reasons for referral confirmed ) . in 109 cases ( 21 % ) the child was found to be normal . parents and relatives first noticed 54 % of cases of confirmed squint but only 15 % of the cases of poor vision . health professionals , especially health visitors , were of great importance in first detecting poor vision . 
aqueous humour and serum zinc and copper concentrations of patients with glaucoma and cataract . serum and aqueous humour zinc and copper concentrations of 44 patients with glaucoma and cataract were determined . serum values were found within normal ranges . the highest mean copper concentration was seen in the glaucoma group . in addition there was a significant negative correlation between the aqueous humour levels of zinc and copper in patients with glaucoma . it was concluded that an increased copper value together with a low zinc value might be of importance in patients with glaucoma . 
topical timolol and serum lipoproteins . oral timolol taken for the treatment of systemic hypertension has been shown to affect adversely serum lipoprotein levels . in a 15-week study on 19 patients topical timolol therapy for raised intraocular pressure was found to have no significant adverse effect on serum lipoprotein levels . this is reassuring in view of the large number of patients on this form of long term therapy , and selection of the type of beta blocker to use should not be influenced by lipid changes associated with the oral form of the drug . 
cytopathology of adenovirus keratitis by replica technique . corneal replicas were made from the severely affected eyes of 12 patients presenting with typical signs and symptoms of epidemic keratoconjunctivitis . adenovirus was isolated from the eyes . histopathological study of the replicas and cytology of diseased cells removed with the replica showed diffuse mild oedema of the epithelium , with scattered moderately swollen and deformed cells . the clinically observed punctate lesions histologically consisted of markedly swollen cells that had become oval or rounded . fusion of these cells led to small syncytial formations , and the development of pseudopodia-like processes was occasionally observed . loss of cell contents resulted in the formation of plicae on the surface of many cells . two types of inclusion bodies were detected in the epithelial cells . the first type , intranuclear vacuolar inclusions , contained homogeneous material . the second type of inclusions were round , dense bodies , that developed in the homogeneous material of intranuclear vacuolar inclusions . the dense bodies contained the replicating and maturing virus particles . after cell degeneration the dense bodies become extracellular . making a corneal replica had a beneficial effect on the clinical course of adenovirus keratitis . 
pupillary responses in amblyopia . relative afferent pupillary defects ( rapd ) were detected in 32.3 % of patients with amblyopia by a modification of the swinging flashlight test and the synoptophore . after consideration of various clinical investigations the significant factors identified in patients showing a rapd were : anisometropia , early age of onset where strabismus was present , level of visual acuity following treatment , longer period of occlusion therapy . these points bear similarities to the results of pattern electroretinograms ( perg ) in amblyopes , and the possibility of the causative defect being at ganglion cell level is discussed . the effect of occlusion treatment can not be predicted from the presence or absence of a rapd . 
multifocal posterior uveitis : clinical and pathological findings . a pathological study was performed on the necropsy eyes of a 59-year old-woman who had suffered for nine years from multifocal posterior uveitis . the disease had been controlled by steroid therapy with good preservation of visual function . extensive investigation did not reveal the aetiology . on macroscopic examination numerous focal lesions with various degrees of pigmentation were observed scattered across the fundi . these lesions were studied by light and electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry . there was ongoing chorioretinal inflammation in the foci , producing destruction of bruch 's membrane , the retinal pigment epithelium ( rpe ) , and the outer retina . the focal scars showed migration of rpe and glial cells and neovascularisation . capillary and venule endothelial cells were swollen at the inflammatory sites . attempts to establish a cause for this condition were unsuccessful . 
linear scleroderma associated with ptosis and motility disorders . a case is reported in which an 11-year-old girl developed progressive ptosis and a subsequent motility disorder of the right eye . the diagnosis linear scleroderma en coup de sabre was established . atrophy of the upper levator palpebral and superior rectus muscle could be shown on ct scan . 
homocystinuria presenting as central retinal artery occlusion and longstanding thromboembolic disease . a case of central retinal artery occlusion in a patient with a 10-year history of unexplained thromboembolic disease due to a secondary hypercoagulable state is presented . ophthalmological examination led to the final diagnosis . 
chickenpox chorioretinitis . chickenpox infection in an adult was complicated by peripheral chorioretinitis and treated with oral acyclovir . similarities of this case to the recently proposed mild type of acute retinal necrosis syndrome are discussed . 
choroidal osteoma ( osseous choristoma ) : an atypical case . a case of choroidal osteoma presenting in a 22-year-old girl is reported . the tumour , unilateral and in a juxtapapillary site , appeared markedly elevated on the retinal plane , not flat or slightly elevated as in previous reports . visual acuity was not affected , and there was a complete absence of subjective symptoms . echography , fluorangiography , computerised tomography , and visual field tests were performed . echography is the best method for identifying and differentiating this lesion from a malignant tumour . 
abnormal redox status without increased lipid peroxidation in sugar cataract . in conflict with a previous report , we find that phenolic inhibitors of lipid peroxidation ( butylated hydroxytoluene [ bht ] and butylated hydroxyanisole [ bha ] ) do not have significant inhibitory effect on galactosemic cataract formation . this is consistent with the lack of enhancement of stable products of lipid peroxidation ( measured by the thiobarbituric acid assay ) in the lenses of galactosemic rats . this does not imply that oxidative stress plays no role in galactosemic cataract formation ( indeed , we find that galactosemic lens homogenates contain increased amounts of an fe2 + oxidant , possibly a peroxide ) , but rather that bht - and bha-inhibitable lipid peroxidation specifically has no role to play . in instances where drugs appear to inhibit galactosemic cataract formation , other effects caused by the drugs , e.g. , inhibition of feeding or induction of general detoxification pathways , must be considered . 
traumatic asphyxia . traumatic asphyxia is a distinctive clinical syndrome characterized by cervicofacial cyanosis and edema , multiple petechiae , and subconjunctival hemorrhage after a severe crush injury of the thorax or of the upper part of the abdomen . a case of traumatic asphyxia is reported , and its clinical and pathophysiologic features are discussed . 
immunotherapy abrogates the generation of eosinophil and neutrophil chemotactic activity during pollen season . in a group of 40 birch pollen-allergic patients with a history of rhinoconjunctivitis and wheezing during the pollen season , 20 were immunotherapy ( it ) treated preseasonally with birch-pollen extract ( pharmacia , uppsala , sweden ) . blood samples for determination of the levels of heat-labile eosinophil chemotactic activity ( hl-eca ) , heat-labile neutrophil chemotactic activity ( hl-nca ) , and heat-stable neutrophil chemotactic activity were collected before the season , at the beginning of the study , at the start of the season , at the peak , at the end , and after the birch-pollen season . the symptoms from rhinoconjunctivitis and airways , peak expiratory flow , and use of medication were recorded throughout the season . significant increases of hl-eca and hl-nca were observed in untreated compared with it-treated patients at the start of the season ( p less than 0.0001 for both activities ) and at the peak of the birch-pollen season ( p less than 0.0005 and p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . at the end of the season , hl-eca levels were not significantly different between the patient groups , whereas hl-nca levels were still higher in untreated patients ( p less than 0.005 ) . we conclude that it completely abrogates the generation of hl-eca and hl-nca during a pollen season . 
glaucoma screening : too little , too late ? screening for glaucoma , usually by measuring intraocular pressure , has been popular , but repeated analysis indicates poor sensitivity and specificity . more extensive testing is required . such testing should be focused on high-risk groups , including blacks and the elderly . regular comprehensive eye examinations , on a schedule adjusted for these and other risk factors , are probably the most cost-efficient means of identifying patients with glaucoma . the primary care provider has a pivotal role : to encourage patients to undergo such examinations when warranted ; and to encourage those on intraocular-pressure-lowering medications to comply with their medication use . 
nonrandom chromosomal abnormalities in primary uveal melanoma . we report on 14 cases of clonal chromosomal anomalies in patients with primary uveal melanoma . an increased dosage of chromosome 8 or of parts of the long arm of chromosome 8 ( 8q ) were detected in eight patients ( 57 % ) . the smallest multiplied area of 8q appeared to be the region 8q2 .1 ---- qter . monosomy of chromosome 3 was seen in six patients ( 43 % ) , five of which were associated with anomalies of chromosome 8 . increased dosage of parts of chromosome 8q and loss of heterozygosity of chromosome 3 , or the combination of both , seemed to be nonrandom for uveal melanoma and may distinguish it genetically from cutaneous malignant melanoma . anomalies of chromosome 6 , mostly resulting in additional material of 6p or a deletion of 6q , were found in six patients ( 43 % ) . these anomalies , which seem to be common features of cutaneous malignant melanoma , were considered secondary rather than primary changes in uveal melanoma , since they were present only in subclones in most cases . loss of the y chromosome , restricted to tumor cells , was detected in four male patients , and loss of one x chromosome was detected in a female patient . 
visual impairment in a rural appalachian community . prevalence and causes . a population-based survey of 1136 subjects aged 40 years and older was conducted in a rural valley of kentucky to determine the nature and extent of visual disability in an underserved area of rural america . data on corrected visual acuity and ocular history , along with demographic , socioeconomic , and health care utilization parameters , were gathered . those subjects with an acuity below 20/60 in either eye underwent a comprehensive ophthalmologic examination . the prevalence of binocular blindness ( acuity worse than 20/400 in the better eye ) was 0.44 % and of monocular blindness ( acuity worse than 20/400 in one eye ) was 3.3 % , approximately twice the national rates . the chief cause of bilateral visual impairment was macular degeneration among men and cataract among women . cataract , trauma , and amblyopia were the major causes of monocular visual impairment in both sexes . risk factor analysis revealed younger age , higher education , active employment , access to a health care facility , and comprehensive health insurance coverage to be inversely associated with visual impairment . 
extrapulmonary pneumocystosis : clinical features in human immunodeficiency virus infection . pneumocystis carinii infection is reported with increasing frequency as a cause of disease outside of the respiratory tract in patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . extrapulmonary pneumocystosis is not limited to patients in any discrete risk group for hiv infection . patients with hiv infection who develop extrapulmonary pneumocystosis frequently do not have concurrent p. carinii pneumonia . signs and symptoms of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis are nonspecific but when present are frequently referable to the tissues or organs involved . extrapulmonary pneumocystosis can be diagnosed by examination of tissue biopsies from affected sites using standard histologic techniques . therapy with antimicrobial agents used to treat p. carinii pneumonia has been effective in some patients . an association between use of aerosolized pentamidine for prevention of p. carinii pneumonia and development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis has been suggested but remains unconfirmed . other factors such as the use of zidovudine and duration of immunodeficiency may also be important to the pathogenesis of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis . further studies are needed to better identify risk factors that may predispose patients to the development of extrapulmonary pneumocystosis . 
whither short-course chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis ? short-course chemotherapy is well established for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis but not for extrapulmonary disease . we present a series of 35 cases in which chemotherapy for tuberculous meningitis was given for a period of less than 2 years . short-term therapy was associated with recrudescence of tuberculous meningitis and , in some cases , with the development of deep cerebral infarcts and permanent neurological deficits . we think short-term chemotherapy for tuberculosis of the central nervous system is inadequate . 
chronic lyme disease with an expansive granulomatous lesion in the cerebellopontine angle . expansive granulomatous lesions in the posterior cranial fossa are rare and have not been reported in conjunction with lyme disease . we report a patient with verified borrelia burgdorferi infection who developed a tumor in the cerebellopontine angle . rapid growth of the tumor led to signs of cerebral compression and to hydrocephalus . surgical intervention was required despite florid meningitis . the histological examination showed inflammatory , nonspecific granulation tissue . the origin of this tissue is almost certainly causally related to the b. burgdorferi infection . signs of inflammation resolved rapidly after subtotal resection . the clinical , radiological , and biochemical course is documented . this is the first report of an expansive cerebral lesion in the chronic phase of lyme disease . 
overnight admission of outpatient strabismus patients . the trend to outpatient strabismus surgery prompted us to determine the frequency of , and the reasons for , postoperative overnight hospital admission following such surgery . in one year , 303 outpatient strabotomies were performed at the jules stein eye institute on patients over 15 months old . twenty-four ( 7.9 % ) were admitted overnight postoperatively . compared with controls , those admitted were older ( 37 vs 20.5 years ) , and had a longer duration of anesthesia ( 145 vs 116 minutes ) and surgery ( 104 vs 75 minutes ) ( p less than .01 for each ) . the time that surgery commenced and the use of perioperative medications were not significant factors . the most frequent reasons for overnight admission were nausea ( 38 % ) despite prophylaxis and the use of bilateral patches ( 16 % ) . to minimize postoperative admissions , better strategies should be developed to decrease the frequency of significant postoperative nausea , the duration of surgery and anesthesia , and , if possible , the use of bilateral patches . 
vitreous changes and macular edema in central retinal vein occlusion . the condition of the posterior vitreous was determined in 56 eyes with central retinal vein occlusion ( crvo ) . using a life-table analysis , it was studied in 56 eyes . the incidence of posterior vitreous detachment ( pvd ) in the crvo eyes at the first vitreous examination did not differ significantly from that in 64 age-matched control eyes . however , the incidence of pvd in crvo eyes increased from 39.3 % at the first vitreous examination to 58.5 % after 6 months , and to 69.6 % 1 year from the examination . the incidence of pvd in crvo eyes during follow-up was statistically higher than that of the controls ( p = .009 ) . the incidence of pvd after the first vitreous examination was significantly higher in eyes with hemorrhagic retinopathy than in eyes with venous stasis retinopathy ( p = .04 ) . in the 34 eyes with macular edema , the edema lasted significantly longer in those with vitreomacular attachment ( vma ) at the first examination than in those without vma at this time ( p = .02 ) . vma may play an important role in the pathogenesis and chronicity of macular edema in crvo . 
management of macular puckers associated with retinal angiomas . monocular visual loss in four patients was caused by epiretinal macular membranes associated with peripheral retinal capillary angiomas or angioma-like lesions . three patients had solitary vascular lesions and one had two discrete vascular lesions . all patients were in good health , with no evidence of the von hippel-lindau syndrome . in three patients , spontaneous peeling of the macular membranes and visual improvement occurred 2 to 6 months after obliteration of the angioma-like lesions with cryotherapy ( two patients ) , or cryotherapy combined with argon laser ( one patient ) . the fourth patient underwent a vitrectomy 8 months after the macular pucker had failed to respond to treatment of the vascular lesion . 
experience with photocoagulation in behcet 's disease . between 1973 and 1987 we examined both eyes of 300 patients with the uveoretinitis-type lesions characteristic of behcet 's disease . of the 556 eyes whose fundus could be examined , 38 eyes ( 6.8 % ) in 33 patients ( 11 % ) had developed retinal capillary nonperfusion , branch retinal vein occlusion , or retinal or disc neovascularization . these eyes were treated by photocoagulation , primarily to forestall vitreous hemorrhage and the development of neovascular glaucoma , as well as to decrease the macular edema resulting from vein occlusion . the treatment , which was well tolerated , was successful in closing retinal capillary nonperfusion areas and eliminating retinal neovascularization . disc neovascularization was resolved completely in some cases , and partially in others . 
increase of neuroretinal rim area after surgical intraocular pressure reduction . the optic nerve head analyzer was used to measure the optic disc structure of 18 eyes ( 13 adult glaucoma patients ) before and after surgical intraocular pressure reduction . neuroretinal rim area markedly increased ( from +0.15 mm2 to +0.45 mm2 ) in eight eyes , but changed either very little ( less than + / - 0.1 mm2 ) or not at all in the remaining 10 eyes . the mean increase was from 0.75 + / - 0.26 mm2 to 0.92 + / - 0.36 mm2 . the increased neuroretinal rim area found at this time remained in all eyes reexamined 1 to 3 years after surgery . our data support previous findings that glaucomatous disc cupping may be reversed even in adult eyes , perhaps as the result of adequate pressure reduction . 
evaluation of visual fields by ophthalmologists and by octosmart program . the introduction of goldmann perimetry standardized measuring conditions as much as possible . in spite of this , it had been possible for the perimetrist to influence the results of perimeter measurements . the introduction of computer-controlled perimetry , however , has largely eliminated the influence of the investigator on perimetry results . nevertheless , the interpretation of a perimetric result in the everyday clinical situation is still extensively subjectively coloured and is liable to vary , depending on the doctor carrying it out . the octopus program g1 was introduced a few years ago and used above all for glaucoma . this program greatly simplified visual field assessment thanks to its visual field indices . the indices make it possible to compare visual field results with those of a normal population . the present introduction of the octosmart program represents a further step forward . this program analyses measured visual fields with the aid of standardized , statistical criteria based on a large , normal value study . this analysis standardizes and thereby simplifies the interpretation of visual field results . this study compares the outcome of the octosmart program with visual field interpretations by eye doctors . 
fluorescein angiography in ciliary body melanomas . we retrospectively studied the value of iris fluorescein angiography in predicitng benignity or malignancy in 10 cases of ciliary body melanoma with iris extension . no correlation between fluorescein-angiographic appearance and histopathologic features was observed . fluorescein angiography adds little to the management of ciliary body melanomas with iris extension . 
unusual exudative retinal detachment 9 months after scleral buckling surgery . a 49-year-old man developed exudative retinal detachment 9 months after uncomplicated scleral buckling surgery in the left eye . the subretinal exudates were strictly localized along the buckle and showed remarkable response to steroid . the cause would be noninfectious inflammation like posterior scleritis , triggered by the buckle itself or its associated factors . it is important to note that subretinal exudates long after scleral buckling can occur in consequence of steroid-responsive inflammation as well as insidious bacterial or fungal infection described previously . 
comparative study of different techniques of intraocular gas tamponade in the treatment of retinal detachment due to macular hole . the injection of sulfur hexafluoride ( sf6 ) or perfluoropropane ( c3f8 ) was used as a method of internal tamponade in 43 eyes affected by retinal detachment due to macular hole . the technique of ocular hypotension prior to gas injection varied according to the characteristics of each case , using vitrectomy and sf6 30 % in 8 cases ( group 1 ) , fluid-gas ( sf6 ) exchange through the pars plana in 10 cases ( group 2 ) , paracentesis of the anterior chamber prior to injection of sf6 in 12 cases ( group 3 ) and injection of c3f8 without drainage in 13 cases ( group 4 ) . retinal reattachment was initially achieved in 87 ( group 1 ) , 83.3 ( group 2 ) , 100 ( group 3 ) and 92.3 % ( group 4 ) , but 4 recurrences yielded a 6-month follow-up cure of 75 ( group 1 ) , 75 ( group 2 ) , 91 ( group 3 ) and 84 % ( group 4 ) . postoperative complications included proliferative vitreoretinopathy ( 7 % ) , endophthalmitis ( 2.3 % ) and subretinal hemorrhage ( 2.3 % ) . the use of intraocular gas tamponade appears to be a procedure with an acceptable complication rate in the treatment of retinal detachment due to macular hole . this study suggests the use of paracentesis and sf6 in phakic eyes , c3f8 in aphakic eyes and vitrectomy plus 30 % sf6 in eyes with proliferative vitreoretinopathy or vitreoretinal traction adjacent to the macular hole . 
intraoperative massive suprachoroidal hemorrhage during pars plana vitrectomy . seven eyes ( 7 patients ) developed massive suprachoroidal hemorrhage ( msch ) during pars plana vitrectomy ( ppv ) for complicated retinal detachments . the msch developed late in the procedure following ppv , air fluid exchange , endolaser , cryopexy , and scleral buckling in five of seven eyes . in two eyes , mild hemorrhagic choroidal detachments noted intraoperatively progressed to msch within 72 hours postoperatively . diagnosis of msch was confirmed by echography and ct scan . multiple scleral buckling surgeries , high myopia , aphakia , and intraocular inflammation were the main risk factors . placement of a broad posterior scleral buckle with intraoperative hypotony and cryopexy were important precipitating factors . visual results were poor , with six of seven eyes showing no light perception . the mean follow-up time was 12.8 months . once acute msch is recognized intraoperatively , surgical decompression at that time should be avoided as msch itself may tamponade the choroidal bleed . details of prevention and management are discussed . 
autosomal dominant neovascular inflammatory vitreoretinopathy . twenty-eight of 61 members of a six-generation family are affected by an autosomal dominant eye disease which has not been described previously . affected patients are asymptomatic in early adulthood , but have vitreous cells and the selective loss of the b-wave on the electroretinogram . later , peripheral retinal scarring and pigmentation , peripheral arteriolar closure , and neovascularization of the peripheral retina at the ora serrata or occasionally neovascularization of the optic disc develop . cystoid macular edema , vitreous hemorrhage , tractional retinal detachment , and neovascular glaucoma can cause profound visual loss . vitrectomy reduces traction on the retina and allows for retinal reattachment . the role of argon laser photocoagulation or cryopexy in reducing the neovascular complications remains uncertain . 
hla associations and ancestry in vogt-koyanagi-harada disease and sympathetic ophthalmia . a strong association with hla antigens dr4 , drw53 , and bw54 has previously been reported among japanese patients with vogt-koyanagi-harada disease ( vkh ) and sympathetic ophthalmia ( so ) . in the united states , no firm association between hla-a or - b loci and vkh has been found previously ; testing for hla-dr loci has not been performed to date . the authors performed hla typing of 23 american patients with vkh and 8 patients with so . when vkh patients were compared with racially matched controls without disease and patients with other types of uveitis , strong associations with hla-dr4 and hla-drw53 were found . the strongest associations observed in this sample were with hla-dqw3 , an antigen which is in positive linkage disequilibrium with dr4 , and with the hla-dr4 / dqw3 haplotype . the small number of patients with so precluded statistical analysis ; however , similar hla associations were noted . the patients also were questioned regarding their ancestry . the anecdotal association of vkh with american indian ancestry was confirmed . it appears that the ethnoracial association may be explained by hla type . one possible explanation for identical hla associations in two diseases with different precipitating events yet similar ocular manifestations is development of an altered immune response to exogenous microbial antigen with subsequent autoimmunity . further definition of the genetic susceptibility to vkh and so may help define the pathophysiology of both diseases and allow the prediction of which patients are at increased risk for so . 
acquired retinal arteriovenous communications in occlusive disease of the carotid artery . retinal arteriovenous communications proximal to extensive areas of complete vascular closure developed in three patients with occlusive disease of the carotid arteries . in one case , the authors document the development of the arteriovenous communications through successive enlargement of small retinal vessels after progressive signs of retinal ischemia in the form of narrowed retinal arteries , venous dilation and beading , microaneurysms , retinal dot and blot hemorrhages , cotton-wool spots , and capillary nonperfusion . the development of arteriovenous communications in carotid occlusive disease has not been described previously . 
clinical spectrum of leber 's congenital amaurosis in the second to fourth decades of life . leber 's congenital amaurosis is a type of congenital retinitis pigmentosa in which the fundus abnormalities are extremely variable and to some extent age dependent . most cases are seen in infancy . the retinal , electroretinogram , and fluorescein angiographic findings are described in ten patients with leber 's congenital amaurosis who ranged in age from 13 to 36 years when first seen . all of the patients were from honduras and were unrelated except for one pair ( a brother and sister ) . the polymorphic appearance of the fundus is emphasized and is particularly striking in the siblings . a macular lesion ( a bull 's - eye maculopathy ) not previously associated with leber 's congenital amaurosis is reported as a variant fundus appearance in this entity . 
crystalline cataract and uncombable hair . ultrastructural and biochemical findings . a 7-year-old girl was found to have a progressive axial crystalline cataract located in the embryonal , fetal , and infantile nucleus . she also had the unknown association of crystalline cataract with uncombable hair . samples of the aspirate after extracapsular cataract extraction ( ecce ) showed elongated , trigonal crystals on scanning electron microscopy . on transmission electron microscopy , the crystals were surrounded by a membrane sometimes consisting of up to 30 concentric layers . the crystals were found to contain carbon , oxygen , nitrogen , sulfur , and disulfide bonds . the findings suggest that a major constituent of the crystals was a sulfur-containing aminoacid , probably cystine . protein analysis of the remaining lens material showed elevated alpha - , beta 2 - , and gamma 2 - crystallin levels . analysis of the hair root status showed hair loss in the resting phase of the hair cycle with abnormal sheathing in most hairs that were in the growth phase . 
bilateral keloid-like myofibroblastic proliferations of the cornea in children . two 6-month-old white boys developed localized multifocal white nodules of the anterior corneal stroma without evidence of antecedent trauma , inflammatory disease , or familial occurrence . the first patient had bilateral lesions initially ; the second patient initially had unilateral involvement followed by a corneal nodule in the second eye at 11 years of age . light and electron microscopic studies of the lesions in both patients were similar and disclosed stromal nodules composed of proliferating myofibroblasts , activated fibroblasts , and haphazardly arranged fascicles of collagen . immunohistochemical studies revealed that the spindle cells within the nodules expressed immunoreactivity for vimentin and alpha-smooth muscle actin . management options for these slowly progressive corneal lesions include lamellar versus penetrating keratoplasty and topical corticosteroids . 
glaucomatous optic nerve atrophy in small discs with low cup-to-disc ratios glaucomatous optic nerve damage has generally been associated with high cup-to-disc ratios . fifteen eyes of nine patients with increased intraocular pressure and glaucomatous visual field loss but low cup-to-disc ratios are reported . the optic disc area was significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) smaller than in 429 normal subjects and 556 glaucoma patients with high cup-to-disc ratios . parapapillary chorioretinal atrophy was significantly larger and retinal nerve fiber bundles were significantly less visible than in the normal group . the latter two parameters were not significantly different in the glaucoma groups with low and high cup-to-disc ratios when the groups were matched for mean perimetric loss . the authors conclude that in eyes with small optic discs , glaucomatous optic nerve damage may be indicated more sensitively by parapapillary changes than by cup-to-disc ratios . glaucomatous eyes with small optic nerve heads can have misleadingly low cup-to-disc ratios . 
unilateral mydriasis caused by transdermal scopolamine . contamination of the eye after handling of a transdermal scopolamine patch may cause accidental mydriasis . a simple office test is discussed to identify this pharmacologic blockade and thereby avoid an extensive neurologic workup . 
assessing acquired ocular diseases . when assessing a patient 's ocular complaint , one must listen carefully to the description of the symptoms . a decrease in vision is most frequently the symptom that prompts a person to seek attention . pain in and around the eye is the next most frequent symptom complained about . discomfort is often tolerated for long periods before professional attention is obtained . visual acuity must be checked , for this is the vital sign by which exacerbation or improvement of many conditions is measured . we all take our eyes for granted until we suddenly can not see , then the world takes on a completely different complexity , for loss of vision may mean loss of livelihood and independence . 
the use of conchal cartilage graft in involutional entropion . a simple and stable technique for repairing involutional entropion is described . through a transconjunctival incision between the lower border of tarsus and the lower lid retractor , the eyelid is divided between the tarsus and the orbicularis oculi muscle into external and internal layers . the internal layer is moved upward until the eyelashes turn outward , and then through-and-through sutures are placed to fix it in this corrected state . the resultant defect between the lower end of the tarsus and the retractor is filled with a conchal cartilage graft . the raw surface of the cartilage is epithelialized from the surrounding mucosa within 1 to 2 weeks without shrinkage . this technique is more stable than any other technique that we have performed . 
long-term results following 131i treatment for graves ' disease in hong kong chinese -- discriminant factors predicting hypothyroidism . the clinical outcome of 1028 hong kong chinese patients with graves ' disease treated with radioiodine therapy and followed for a mean of 9.85 + / - 4.84 years ( range 2-20 ) was analysed . retreatment was required by 413 patients ( 40.2 per cent ) , with 134 patients ( 13.0 per cent ) requiring more than two 131i doses . one hundred and eighty-nine patients received carbimazole after 131i until euthyroidism was achieved . the cumulative incidence of hypothyroidism at one , five , 10 and 15 years was 9.6 per cent , 31.4 per cent , 53.8 per cent and 65.8 per cent , respectively . the average incidence of hypothyroidism after the first two years was 3.3 per cent per annum . stepwise logistic regression analysis of pretreatment variables suggested that a combination of adjunctive carbimazole therapy , absence of ophthalmopathy and longer effective half-lives of 131i were of value in predicting which patients were less likely to develop permanent hypothyroidism . however , the probability of accurately predicting permanent hypothyroidism based on the present model was only 60 per cent . we believe that no single pretreatment variable , or combination of variables , predicts long-term hypothyroidism with sufficient confidence to justify the use of a ' formula ' approach for prescribing 131i therapy for graves ' disease . 
primary meningococcal conjunctivitis : report of 21 patients and review . neisseria meningitidis is an uncommon cause of acute bacterial conjunctivitis . twenty-one cases of primary meningococcal conjunctivitis ( pmc ) are reported herein and 63 cases published in the literature since 1899 are reviewed . in the 84 cases of pmc available for analysis , the male-to-female ratio was 1.76:1 ; nine of the patients were neonates , 55 were children , and 20 were adults . conjunctivitis was unilateral in 66.3 % of the patients . gram stain of conjunctival exudate disclosed gram-negative diplococci in all cases in which it was done . culture of the conjunctival exudate yielded n. meningitidis in all cases , and 44 % of the isolated meningococci belonged to serogroup b. ocular complications , which occurred in 15.5 % of the patients , most frequently were corneal ulcers . systemic meningococcal disease developed in 17.8 % of the patients ; the overall mortality was 13.3 % for patients with pmc complicated by systemic disease . development of systemic disease was significantly more frequent in patients receiving only topical therapy than in those treated with systemic therapy ( 31.71 % vs. 2.38 % ; p = .001 ) . gram-negative diplococci observed in conjunctival exudate are an indication for systemic antibiotic therapy because of the risk of systemic complications associated with the use of topical therapy alone . when properly treated , patients with pmc have a favorable prognosis . 
a mouse model of the aniridia-wilms tumor deletion syndrome . deletion of chromosome 11p13 in humans produces the wagr syndrome , consisting of aniridia ( an absence or malformation of the iris ) , wilms tumor ( nephroblastoma ) , genitourinary malformations , and mental retardation . an interspecies backcross between mus musculus/domesticus and mus spretus was made in order to map the homologous chromosomal region in the mouse genome and to define an animal model of this syndrome . nine evolutionarily conserved dna clones from proximal human 11p were localized on mouse chromosome 2 near small-eyes ( sey ) , a semidominant mutation that is phenotypically similar to aniridia . analysis of dickie 's small-eye ( seydey ) , a poorly viable allele that has pleiotropic effects , revealed the deletion of three clones , f3 , f8 , and k13 , which encompass the aniridia ( an2 ) and wilms tumor susceptibility genes in man . unlike their human counterparts , seydey / + mice do not develop nephroblastomas . these findings suggest that the small-eye defect is genetically equivalent to human aniridia , but that loss of the murine homolog of the wilms tumor gene is not sufficient for tumor initiation . a comparison among sey alleles suggests that the an2 gene product is required for induction of the lens and nasal placodes . 
cataract extraction in uveitis patients . cataracts are known to develop at an accelerated rate in many forms of uveitis . until recently , cataract surgery in such eyes was regarded as a hazardous procedure that yielded unpredictable and often discouraging results . recent evidence from a number of reports suggests that newer surgical techniques and careful medical management allow a significant number of patients with uveitis to undergo cataract extraction successfully . intraocular lens implantation using in-the-bag posterior chamber lens technique has been successful in selected cases . careful patient selection , coupled with the use of an appropriate surgical technique , appear to be of major importance . herein we review the current literature on cataract extraction in uveitis and provide guidelines for patient and technique selection based on the type of inflammation present . the management of common surgical problems and complications is discussed , as is the role of the intraocular lens . specific surgical techniques useful in the management of eyes with cataract and uveitis are discussed . 
ocular disease associated with epstein-barr virus infection . epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) is a ubiquitous dna virus of the herpesvirus genus with a high prevalence rate for antibody ( about 90 % ) in the adult population . it is the most common causative agent of infectious mononucleosis syndrome . during recent years an increasing number of ocular disease entities have been reported to be linked to ebv infection . these entities include oculoglandular syndrome , conjunctivitis , dry eye , keratitis , uveitis , choroiditis , retinitis , papillitis and ophthalmoplegia . while ebv-specific serologic tests can now document recent and past primary infection with ebv and also identify patients manifesting atypical immunologic reactions to ebv , the lack of an animal model , the absence of clear-cut response to therapy and the paucity of documentation by culture render the pathogenesis uncertain or the association questionable in many of these cases . 
antibodies in human tears during and after infection . the tear content of antibodies specific for various infectious agents has recently begun to be investigated . important parameters of tear analysis with respect to antibody content are the method of tear collection and the laboratory techniques used to detect specific antibodies in the lacrimal fluid . normal tears contain antibodies directed against both bacteria and viruses , and the antibody response in lacrimal fluid during immunization of animals and humans has been studied to some extent . this response has also been analyzed in humans during and after natural infection with certain viral and bacterial pathogens . it has become clear that local antibody synthesis takes place in the lacrimal gland , but at least some of these antibodies appear in tears because of lymphocyte sensitization in the common mucosal immune system . a certain degree of transudation of serum antibodies to tears is also often encountered , especially in severely inflamed eyes . much of the data currently available needs to be confirmed , and more extensive studies need to be carried out for many pathogens . potential benefits of such studies include development of new diagnostic techniques as well as a better understanding of when and how antibodies confer protection or may be potentially damaging . 
disc swelling in an adult diabetic patient [ clinical conference ] a patient with insulin dependent adult onset diabetes presented with bilateral disc edema and minimal visual dysfunction . initial work-up excluded an intracranial lesion , and a lumbar puncture revealed a normal opening pressure . the patient developed proliferative retinopathy , for which she received photocoagulation therapy . she subsequently developed an exacerbation and change of her disc swelling , associated with raised intracranial pressure . the differential diagnosis of diabetic papillopathy and papilledema is discussed . 
caspar stromayr : sixteenth century ophthalmologist . caspar stromayr , ophthalmologist and hernia surgeon , is credited with writing the first german ophthalmic work of known authorship . written in about 1559 as an appendix to practica copiosa , a larger work on hernia surgery , the ophthalmic chapters describe stromayr 's thoughts on the etiology and treatment of cataract . stromayr , a master craftsman , also expresses his hostility to the shams and ignorance of the charlatan eye surgeons of his day . this interesting historical article provides a biographical sketch of stromayr , a description of his book , and a translation of two chapters , " on cataract of the eye : how they take their beginning and whence they come " and " how you recognize the cataract , when it is ripe to recline or to be taken away . " . 
pseudoexfoliative fibrillopathy in the skin of patients with ocular pseudoexfoliation . in addition to its occurrence within the eye , pseudoexfoliative fibrillopathy has been reported in the conjunctiva and around a posterior ciliary artery . to determine whether it has a more diffuse extraocular distribution , we studied skin biopsy specimens ultrastructurally from one to three areas in 13 patients with classic pseudoexfoliation . a fibrillopathy closely resembling that in the eye was found in 11 of the 13 patients . only one of the 13 control subjects , a 78-year-old man with advanced low-tension glaucoma , had a similar fibrillopathy . in the patients with pseudoexfoliation who were more than 70 years of age , the accompanying dermal elastosis made evaluation difficult , because the pseudoexfoliative nodules in the skin occur primarily along elastic fibers , and their morphologic characteristics appeared to be influenced by the elastotic process . these results suggest that pseudoexfoliation is a systemic process related closely to elastosis , and that further search for pseudoexfoliative fibers should be made in the elastic system of the deep tissues and internal organs . 
cholesterol localization in ultrathin frozen sections in schnyder 's corneal crystalline dystrophy . we examined a 57-year-old woman who had bilateral corneal crystalline deposits associated with xanthelasma . the patient 's son had bilateral stromal haze . plasma cholesterol and apolipoprotein a-i and b levels were normal . histopathologic examination disclosed lipid deposits , particularly in the superficial stroma and bowman 's layer . these deposits stained with oil red o and filipin , a fluorescent probe that specifically detects unesterified cholesterol . cryoultramicrotomy disclosed more specific ultrastructural localization of unesterified cholesterol with an array of crystals resembling multiple plates in extracellular corneal tissue . 
traumatic enucleation for posterior uveal melanoma . two features of eyes enucleated for posterior uveal melanoma that may serve as indicators for traumatic enucleation and relate to dissemination of tumor cells at the time of enucleation are myelin artifact of the optic nerve head and acute hemorrhage within the tumor . myelin artifact occurs when crushed optic nerve tissue is squeezed into the eye at the time of enucleation . intralesional hemorrhage may occur during surgery and may be correlated with fluctuations in intraocular pressure . we reviewed 519 cases of posterior uveal melanoma treated by enucleation between 1950 and 1970 . without knowledge of the follow-up data , we examined histologic sections for myelin artifact , intralesional hemorrhage , subretinal hemorrhage , callender cell type , size of tumor , necrosis , and scleral or orbital invasion . neither myelin artifact nor intralesional hemorrhage were independent prognostic risk factors . these findings do not support or refute the hypothesis that excessive trauma during enucleation results in a worse prognosis . 
a randomized study of methanol-extraction residue of bacille calmette-guerin as postsurgical adjuvant therapy of uveal melanoma . a randomized controlled clinical trial of methanol-extracted residue of bacille calmette-guerin adjuvant treatment of posterior uveal melanoma was undertaken . of 113 patients , 34 patients received adjuvant immunotherapy and 79 patients received no treatment . no difference in survival was observed between the adjuvant-treated group and the control group of patients . this study found that the size of the tumor was a highly significant risk factor for death caused by metastasis of uveal melanomas . the standard deviation of the nucleolar area of the neoplastic cells was a significant risk factor , even though patients with tumors composed of callender 's spindle-type cells were not included in the study . 
the value of nucleolar organizer regions in uveal melanoma . the collaborative ocular melanoma study group . silver staining of nucleolar organizer regions is an objective method for evaluating the malignancy of a variety of tumors . we studied 126 ciliochoroidal melanomas , three coincidental nevi that occurred in eyes with melanomas , and one magnocellular nevus collected from the collaborative ocular melanoma study to determine the effectiveness of the silver-stained nucleolar organizer region technique in assessing the malignant potential of these tumors . malignant lesions demonstrated higher mean silver-stained nucleolar organizer region counts ( 4.347 ) than benign nevi ( 1.855 ) ( p less than or equal to .0001 ) . among malignant melanomas , mixed-cell melanomas had slightly higher counts than spindle-cell melanomas ( p less than or equal to .0001 ) , but this difference was not important clinically . results were also compared to other histopathologic variables , which disclosed correlation of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions with mitoses and tumor size . comparison with computerized cytomorphometric analyses of prognosis also disclosed significant correlation . this technique may prove to be a useful adjunct in the assessment of malignancy and treatment response of uveal melanomas . 
orbital intramuscular schwannoma . in an 8-year-old girl with asymptomatic proptosis , computed tomographic scans showed a large medial orbital mass that contoured the globe anteriorly , bowed the optic nerve laterally , and extended posteriorly to the orbital apex . t1-weighted coronal magnetic resonance images showed the mass to be a diffusely enlarged medial rectus muscle . histopathologic examination of a medial rectus muscle biopsy specimen disclosed a multinodular , intramuscular schwannoma , separating and infiltrating normal skeletal muscle fibers . the intramuscular location and multinodular configuration of this tumor , together with its occurrence in a child , distinguish it from previous orbital schwannomas . 
immunohistologic properties of benign and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland . we studied the immunohistopathologic features of normal lacrimal gland , benign mixed tumor , and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland . primary antisera were to keratin , muscle-specific actin , vimentin , and glial fibrillary acid protein . keratin stained in occasional myoepithelial cells in normal gland , ductal epithelium in normal gland and the tumors , and occasional stromal epithelioid cells in the tumors . muscle-specific actin stained in myoepithelium and vascular smooth muscle in normal gland and the tumors , and occasional spindle-shaped and clusters of stromal cells in the tumors . vimentin staining was nonspecific . glial fibrillary acid protein stained in occasional myoepithelial cells in normal gland and polyhedral stromal cells in benign mixed tumor . our findings indicate that ductal epithelium develops into the epithelial component , and some cells in the stroma and myoepithelium develop into some cells in the stroma of benign and malignant mixed tumor of the lacrimal gland . 
south american blastomycosis : ophthalmic and oculomotor nerve lesions . a case of south american blastomycosis began with an oropharyngeal lesion which was followed by a granulomatous uveitis . the patient was treated with amphotericin b and showed a clinical regression . four months later , he developed a right 3rd cranial nerve palsy , aggravating the clinical aspect with a severe generalized involvement of the central nervous system and death . necropsy showed blastomycotic meningoencephalitis . 
thyrotoxicosis induced by topical iodine application . we describe an elderly man who was admitted with congestive cardiac failure and found to have thyrotoxicosis . he did not have goiter , and he had normal radioiodine uptake in his neck . serum iodine levels were elevated , explaining the lack of increase in radioiodine uptake in the thyroid gland . he had multiple pressure sores , which were treated with povidone-iodine ( betadine ) soaks . biochemical data were consistent with graves ' disease unmasked by topical iodine application . povidone-iodine soaks are commonly used in decubitus ulcer care and warrant special attention in patients with preexisting thyroid disorders . we have reviewed the literature on this unusual complication . 
association of labial salivary gland histopathology with clinical and serologic features of connective tissue diseases . focal sialadenitis is now widely accepted as an objective criterion for the oral component of sjogren 's syndrome ( xerostomia ) . we investigated the association between labial salivary gland histopathologic changes and the clinical and serologic features of 192 patients with suspected connective tissue disorders . a retrospective review of the medical records of all patients was performed , and historical , physical , laboratory , histologic , and roentgenographic data were abstracted . each patient had undergone labial salivary gland biopsy as part of a rheumatologic evaluation . there were significant associations between positive findings on lip biopsy and the presence of keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( p = 0.013 ) , positive antinuclear antibodies ( titer greater than or equal to 1:80 ) ( p = 2 x 10 ( -8 ) ) , and positive ro antibodies ( p = 1 x 10 ( -8 ) ) . however , sicca symptoms and glandular enlargement were not statistically associated with positive findings on lip biopsy . features predictive of a positive lip biopsy included ro antibodies ( p = 0.914 ) , keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( p = 0.700 ) , and positive antinuclear antibodies ( p = 0.590 ) . 
prophylaxis of aphakic cystoid macular edema without corticosteroids . a paired-comparison , placebo-controlled double-masked study . prior investigations have reported that topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) therapy prevents the development of postoperative angiographic signs of angiographic cystoid macular edema ( cme ) . however , these studies include concurrent use of corticosteroids . the current study reports therapeutic efficacy for ketorolac ophthalmic solution ( an nsaid ) in the prophylaxis of angiographic aphakic cme ( acme ) after cataract surgery without concurrent corticosteroids for the first time . fifty patients with bilateral cataracts were enrolled in this placebo-controlled , paired-comparison , double-masked study . eleven patients had evidence of angiographic acme on postoperative day 40 . two of these patients demonstrated bilateral acme , one patient had acme in the nsaid-treated eye , and eight patients demonstrated acme in the placebo-treated eye . this is a statistically significant difference favoring drug treatment . the signs of anterior ocular inflammation were greater in the eyes with acme . this study suggests prophylactic treatment of acme may be possible without the risks of concurrent corticosteroid toxicity . in addition , a higher incidence of acme in black patients ( 22 % ) is observed in this study than has been recognized previously . 
sports-related ocular trauma . a prospective evaluation of all patients presenting with a sports-related ocular injury during a 1-year ( 4-season ) period was conducted . of the 202 patients evaluated , 28 ( 13.8 % ) required hospitalization and 11 ( 5.6 % ) required intraocular surgery . twenty-six patients ( 12.8 % ) sustained permanent ocular sequelae including seven ( 3.5 % ) who suffered visual loss . basketball accounted for 28.7 % , baseball/softball 19.8 % , and racquetball 11.4 % of all injuries . at the time of injury , 5.1 % of patients had worn protective eye wear , whereas on follow-up only 31 % had used eye protection . these results indicate that sports trauma remains a significant cause of ocular morbidity . 
ki-67 immunostaining in uveal melanoma . the effect of pre-enucleation radiotherapy . the reactivity of 33 choroidal and ciliary body melanomas with monoclonal antibody ki-67 , which recognizes a proliferation associated nuclear antigen , has been assessed and compared with clinicopathologic parameters . in 23 cases , 8 gy irradiation was given 2 days before enucleation . nonirradiated melanomas had a significantly higher proliferation rate as defined by staining with monoclonal antibody ki-67 as compared with irradiated tumors ( p = 0.007 ) . similarly , a strong relationship was found between pre-enucleation irradiation and low mitotic activity ( p = 0.001 ) . there was no significant correlation between the presence of ki-67-positive nuclei and histologic classification , largest tumor diameter , localization of the tumor , age , sex , scleral invasion , pigmentation , and lymphocytic infiltration . the relevance of ki-67 immunohistochemistry for the assessment of the life prognosis of patients with uveal melanoma has to be studied prospectively . 
ocular syphilis . the ability of syphilis to mimic different ocular disorders can lead to misdiagnosis and delay in appropriate antimicrobial therapy . the authors describe their experience over the past 5 years with the ocular manifestations of syphilis in 25 patients who comprised 2.45 % of 1020 new patients . uveitis was the most common ocular manifestation seen . all patients had positive results from fta-abs tests , whereas only 68 % had reactive serum vdrls . two of five patients tested for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) antibody were reactive . the authors recommend routine fta-abs and vdrl screening in patients with uveitis or unexplained ocular inflammation . they also recommend testing for hiv antibody in luetics and aggressive treatment with high-dose aqueous penicillin for syphilis . 
acute syphilitic posterior placoid chorioretinitis . six patients with evidence of secondary syphilis presented with visual loss in both eyes caused by large , placoid , yellowish lesions with faded centers at the level of the pigment epithelium in the macula and juxtapapillary areas . all eyes had vitreitis . all of the lesions showed a similar fluorescein angiographic pattern of early hypofluorescence and late staining . five patients had mucocutaneous lesions typical of secondary syphilis . all five patients treated with antibiotics had prompt improvement in visual function and resolution of the fundus lesions . the ophthalmoscopic and angiographic appearance of these posterior fundus lesions was sufficiently characteristic to suggest a diagnosis of secondary syphilis . modification of the host response to syphilis by human immune deficiency virus ( hiv ) infection may be partly responsible for this peculiar fundus picture . three of the four patients tested positive for hiv . 
indications and results of relaxing retinotomy . the authors report their results of a consecutive series of 40 eyes undergoing relaxing retinotomy during vitrectomy to achieve retinal reattachment for the following indications : proliferative vitreoretinopathy ( pvr ) , 21 eyes ( 52 % ) ; trauma , 10 eyes ( 25 % ) ; diabetic retinopathy , 6 eyes ( 15 % ) ; and expulsive choroidal hemorrhage , 3 eyes ( 8 % ) . thirty eyes ( 75 % ) had undergone previous vitreoretinal procedures . extended tamponade was achieved in all cases with either silicone oil ( 27 eyes , 68 % ) or long-acting gas ( 13 eyes , 32 % ) . retinotomy size ranged from 45 degrees to 360 degrees . intraoperative retinal attachment was possible in all eyes with 33 ( 83 % ) achieving total or subtotal retinal attachment including the macula for 5 months or more . twenty-seven eyes ( 68 % ) achieved 3/200 visual acuity or better and 10 ( 37 % ) achieved 20/400 or better . thirteen eyes ( 32 % ) failed to achieve 3/200 visual acuity secondary to recurrent detachment ( 18 % ) , corneal decompensation ( 8 % ) , macular dysfunction ( 5 % ) , and glaucoma ( 3 % ) . 
extensive peripheral retinectomy combined with posterior 360 degrees retinotomy for retinal reattachment in advanced proliferative vitreoretinopathy cases . posterior 360 degrees retinotomy in conjunction with extensive peripheral retinectomy was necessary for retinal reattachment in 18 eyes . a visual acuity of 20/400 or better was achieved in 22 % of the patients ; in patients with rubeosis , regression was found in 89 % . of the hypotonus eyes , preoperatively 78 % were normotensive postoperatively after removal of anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy ( pvr ) covering ciliary epithelium . the major intraoperative complication was hemorrhage , which could be readily controlled . recurrent retinal detachment ( rd ) occurred in 39 % and reproliferation in 50 % of the patients . 
experimental retinal branch vein occlusion in miniature pigs induces local tissue hypoxia and vasoproliferative microangiopathy . in miniature pigs , retinal veins were experimentally occluded using argon laser coagulation . microvascular modifications leading to retinal hemorrhages and retinal edema were observed some hours after the occlusion . these lesions resolved progressively within 3 weeks after the occlusion , but in most cases ischemic retinal territories persisted . preretinal partial pressure of oxygen ( po2 ) measurements , using double barrelled o2-sensitive microelectrodes , showed that all the ischemic areas were indeed hypoxic . in half of the experiments , preretinal and intravitreal new vessels grew on the ischemic territories . tissue hypoxia appears to be a key step in triggering neovascularization . however , the critical level of hypoxia was not determined . 
longitudinal study of lesions of the posterior segment in onchocerciasis . onchocerciasis is a major cause of blindness , and much of the blindness due to onchocerciasis is caused by chorioretinitis . little is known about the progression of lesions in the posterior segment in either untreated or treated disease . the authors studied the progression of onchocercal chorioretinitis in 57 patients from 1 to 3 years . changes were documented from detailed ocular examinations , fundus photographs , and fluorescein angiograms , and included live intraretinal microfilariae , intraretinal hemorrhages , cotton-wool opacities , intraretinal pigment , white and shiny intraretinal deposits , retinal pigment epithelial window defects , and atrophy . depigmentation at the edge of chorioretinal scarring progressed at a rate of up to 200 microns per year . ivermectin or mebendazole treatment did not appear to alter the progress of depigmentation at the edge of chorioretinal scars . these observations suggest that onchocercal chorioretinitis is associated with early changes in the retina and retinal pigment epithelium , and that disease in the posterior segment may progress rapidly . 
toxoplasma gondii retinochoroiditis and optic neuritis in acquired immune deficiency syndrome . report of a case . a 29-year-old man with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) was found to have a retinochoroiditis and optic neuritis of his left eye . results of fundus examination showed inflammatory and hemorrhagic retinal lesions consistent with retinitis due to cytomegalovirus infection . a computed tomographic ( ct ) scan demonstrated enlargement of the optic nerve . the eye was enucleated and results of histopathologic examination showed retinal necrosis with underlying choroiditis and an optic neuritis . numerous encysted toxoplasma gondii organisms were present in the retina and tachyzoites were present in the optic nerve . to the authors ' knowledge this is the second histologically documented case of toxoplasma optic neuritis in a patient with aids . 
computed tomography in the assessment of the postenucleation socket syndrome . to gain a deeper insight into the cause of the postenucleation socket syndrome , high-resolution computed tomography ( ct ) was performed in 22 anophthalmic patients before insertion of an intraorbital implant . the anatomy of the normal and the anophthalmic orbits was compared . computed tomographic scans were made either in the sagittal and the coronal plane or in the sagittal and transverse plane . the authors discovered a sagging and retraction of the superior muscle complex and a downward and forward redistribution of orbital fat . finally , an upward displacement of the distal end together with a retraction of the inferior rectus muscle was found . these phenomena were measured and appear to cause a rotatory displacement of orbital contents from superior to posterior and from posterior to inferior which is best demonstrated in the sagittal plane . this redistribution of orbital contents can explain the sequelae of the anophthalmic orbit . no signs of orbital fat atrophy could be demonstrated . with this knowledge , the proper treatment of patients with a postenucleation socket syndrome is ascertained . 
lateral wall advancement in orbital decompression . treatment of dysthyroid orbitopathy can be enhanced with a modified craniofacial approach using a lateral wall osteotomy , and anterolateral advancement and osteosynthesis in conjunction with medial and inferior wall orbital decompression . the technique of lateral wall advancement is described , and the results are discussed . while the authors advocate orbital decompression for dysthyroid optic neuropathy , advancement of the lateral orbital wall can easily be performed as an adjunct to the two - or three-wall decompression procedure . advancement appears to increase the overall decompressive effect by providing a potential space where lateral expansion can occur and by enlarging the bony orbital volume . it also appears to lessen lid retraction and facilitates ( and in some cases , obviates ) the need for further lid retraction surgery . 
assessment of tear drainage after canalicular obstruction using fluorescein dye disappearance . assessment of tear drainage impairment after monocanalicular obstruction can be difficult . the authors used fluorescein dye disappearance to evaluate tear drainage after experimental obstruction of upper , lower , neither , or both canaliculi in 20 subjects . marked impairment was noted in all subjects when both canaliculi were occluded ( p less than 0.004 ) . monocanalicular obstruction ( either upper or lower ) generally resulted in minimal or no impairment , though 10 % of subjects showed marked impairment . fluorescein dye disappearance proved a reliable , rapid method for assessing tear drainage and detecting lacrimal obstruction . 
seven hundred medicolegal cases in ophthalmology . seven hundred medicolegal claims in ophthalmology were reviewed by one ophthalmologist who served as an expert for four decades . the ophthalmologist was personally involved in 620 claims . the 700 cases have been categorized and analyzed . the reasons for the claims and some lessons derived from them are presented . familiarity with the claims encountered by others may enable ophthalmologists to avoid similar claims . 
graves orbitopathy : correlation of ct and clinical findings . the clinical and high-resolution computed tomographic ( ct ) findings in 71 patients ( 142 orbits ) with graves orbitopathy and 20 healthy patients ( 40 orbits ) were retrospectively reviewed . the orbits with orbitopathy were subgrouped at clinical examination into those with ( n = 18 ) and those without ( n = 124 ) optic neuropathy . mean extraocular muscle diameters and the calculated muscle diameter index were significantly increased in all orbits with ophthalmopathy , particularly in those with optic neuropathy . graves orbitopathy affected the superior muscle group ( 63.4 % ) more than the medial ( 61.3 % ) or inferior ( 57 % ) recti . the most common pattern of muscle involvement involved all five measured extraocular muscles . solitary muscle involvement most frequently involved the superior muscle group ( 6.3 % ) . significant enlargements of the retrobulbar optic nerve sheath and superior ophthalmic vein were noted only in orbits with optic neuropathy . anterior displacement of the lacrimal gland at ct correlated with clinical palpability and occurred more frequently in patients with optic neuropathy . severe apical crowding was the most sensitive indication of optic neuropathy at ct . 
epiphora : treatment by means of dacryocystoplasty with balloon dilation of the nasolacrimal drainage apparatus a new interventional radiologic procedure was developed for treatment of epiphora . a small-bore , soft-tipped guide wire was introduced through the superior canaliculus and guided under fluoroscopic control through the nasolacrimal drainage system for retrieval through the nasal aperture . a small-bore angioplasty catheter was then introduced in a retrograde direction into the nasolacrimal drainage apparatus and dilated under fluoroscopic control . the procedure was attempted in 18 eyes of 17 patients with moderate to severe epiphora and was technically completed in 16 ; 13 of these cases demonstrated improvement , with 11 patients showing complete resolution of symptoms . in the three patients whose epiphora did not improve , no worsening of symptoms occurred . these results are preliminary ; follow-up ranged from 7 weeks to 6 months . the authors believe that this technique may hold promise in the treatment of epiphora and may obviate the use of more invasive procedures . 
outpatient management of traumatic microhyphemas . traumatic microhyphema is an entity encountered in emergency rooms and general ophthalmology practices . the management of traumatic microhyphema has not been well defined in the literature . we discuss the effectiveness of our treatment regimen and the incidence of rebleed in patients with microhyphema . 
ocular atopy and mycotic keratitis . in a retrospective analysis , we studied the association between ocular atopy and keratomycosis . forty-one ( 26.3 % ) of 156 patients with fungal corneal ulcers were found to have preexisting allergic conjunctivitis . all patients had been using a combination of antibiotics and corticosteroids before developing the corneal ulcer . fungus isolation on sabouraud 's agar medium was obtained in 74.8 % ( 31/42 ) ulcers . the most common fungi isolated were fusarium ( 32.3 % ) and aspergillus ( 29 % ) . one percent silver sulfadiazine was used as an antifungal agent in these patients . overall efficacy of this drug was found to be 77.8 % , with fusarium being the most sensitive ( 87.5 % ) . 
intraocular foreign bodies : results of 27 cases . twenty-seven consecutive cases of various kinds of perforating injuries with foreign bodies , referred to the ophthalmology department of hacettepe medical school between january 1984 and april 1988 , were evaluated retrospectively . whenever technically possible magnetic extraction was the preferred method of removing the foreign body . thirteen ( 48 % ) eyes developed endophthalmitis , 18 ( 66.6 % ) eyes developed traumatic cataract , and eight ( 29.6 % ) eyes developed retinal detachment after the trauma . twelve ( 44.5 % ) eyes had a visual acuity of 1/10 or better after the appropriate medical and surgical treatment . 
intraocular lens complications . the authors implanted intraocular lenses ( iol ) in 780 eyes and considered complications of this surgery , dividing the complications into intraoperative and postoperative , the latter early and late . the most frequent intraoperative complications were : hyphema , vitreous injury , pupil deformation with an iol in the anterior chamber ( ac ) , and hyphema and corneal lesions with an iol in the posterior chamber ( pc ) . among the early postoperative complications of an iol in the ac the authors noticed striate keratopathy and uveal flare and postoperative transitory ocular hypertension and striate keratitis with an iol in the pc . moreover , in late postoperative complications in ac implantation they observed : cystoid macular edema , bullous keratitis , retinal detachment , late uveitis , opacification of posterior capsule , eccentric displacement of the iol , and less frequently , cystoid macular edema in pc implantations . the authors prefer iol implantation in the pc after extracapsular cataract extraction , since this surgery causes less problems in the cornea , vitreous , and retina . 
endophthalmitis due to sporothrix schenckii after penetrating ocular injury . a 13-year-old boy developed endophthalmitis from traumatic inoculation of vegetable material penetrating his right eye . sporothrix schenckii was morphologically identified from the intraocular fluids . however , repeated attempts to culture the organism proved negative . seventeen sporotrical endophthalmitis cases have so far been reported , and before this report , only one of them was secondary to trauma . this is the sole eye to our knowledge not only to have escaped enucleation after sporotrical endophthalmitis but to have achieved useful ( 20/50 ) vision . 
effect of local anesthesia and ocular massage on central corneal curvature . using a standard javal keratometer , we obtained central corneal curvature measurements in 19 patients before and after the administration of local anesthesia . we noted flattening of mean average keratometry which approached statistical significance , along with an increase in overall astigmatism . decreased intraocular pressure was not found to be a factor . 
the influence of prior therapy on the success of trabeculectomy . the role of early surgery in the management of primary open angle glaucoma is under debate . to determine whether previous medical therapy influences the outcome of subsequent trabeculectomy , we retrospectively reviewed the results of surgery in two groups of patients . the first group underwent primary trabeculectomy , having had an average of 2 weeks of preoperative medical therapy , and this group was compared with a group of patients who had received at least 1 year of topical glaucoma therapy before undergoing trabeculectomy ( the multiple-treatment group ) . the two groups were similar in terms of a number of variables , including race , age , sex , presenting intraocular pressures , and presenting visual fields , and they differed only in the known duration of their disease . the success rate of trabeculectomy was significantly higher in the primary trabeculectomy group as compared with that in the multiple-treatment group ( p less than .001 ) . we discuss the possible reasons for this difference and its implications for the future management of primary open angle glaucoma . 
early intraocular pressure rise after trabeculectomy . intraocular pressure ( iop ) was measured 4 to 6 hours after surgery and on the first postoperative day in 35 eyes of 35 consecutive patients undergoing initial trabeculectomy . in 27 eyes , the anterior chamber was re-formed at the completion of surgery with balanced salt solution , and in eight eyes it was reformed with hyaluronate sodium . a total of six eyes ( 17 % ) had an iop of 40 mm hg or greater 4 to 6 hours after surgery . patients who received hyaluronate to maintain the depth of the anterior chamber had a significantly greater chance of experiencing a marked postoperative iop rise , both at 4 to 6 hours ( p = .005 ) and on the first postoperative day ( p = .0038 ) . there was no correlation between the postoperative iop rise and the patient 's age , sex , glaucoma diagnosis , preoperative iop , use of 5-fluorouracil , or the number of sutures used to close the scleral flap . hyaluronate may contribute to an early increase in iop that could result in further visual field loss in eyes with severe glaucomatous damage . we recommend early monitoring of iop after trabeculectomy and avoiding the routine use of hyaluronate . 
serous retinal detachment following glaucoma filtering surgery . we report the occurrence of serous retinal detachment in association with choroidal effusion and hypotony in six eyes that had undergone glaucoma filtering surgery . hypotony with choroidal effusion was documented in five patients before the onset of serous retinal detachment . while one patient underwent vitrectomy , treatment was conservative in the other patients . serous retinal detachment and choroidal effusions resolved spontaneously as the intraocular pressure normalized . although one patient regained preoperative visual acuity , all other patients lost at least one line of snellen acuity . 
the macular photostress test in diabetic retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration . we propose the macular photostress test for the evaluation of macular function in the office setting . eighty eyes were tested and divided into four diagnostic categories : background diabetic retinopathy , diabetic macular edema , age-related macular degeneration , and normal . the recovery times for the eyes with age-related macular degeneration were longer than for eyes with macular edema ( p = .03 ) . age-matched patients with age-related macular degeneration had longer recovery times than did those without age-related macular degeneration ( p = .0001 ) . a possible explanation is that the prolonged recovery time in the eyes with age-related macular degeneration reflects that the anatomic lesion is located in the retinal pigment epithelium-photoreceptor complex . in comparison , the eyes with macular edema , whose lesion is in the inner retina and not the retinal pigment epithelium , show a less-prolonged recovery time than the eyes with age-related macular degeneration . 
surgical techniques and reattachment rates in retinal detachment due to macular hole . we evaluated reattachment rates of the transvitreal and transscleral techniques for treating 250 eyes with retinal detachment due to macular hole . the initial success rate of the transvitreal approach was 56 % ( 53/94 ) . there was no difference between the results of gas tamponade alone and vitrectomy and gas tamponade . the initial success rate of the transscleral approach was 83 % ( 130/156 ) . macular diathermy and macular buckling showed a higher reattachment rate than macular diathermy alone . the final success rates were the same ( 95 % ) , regardless of which approach was selected as an initial technique . the patients whose initial transvitreal reattachment failed and who underwent additional transvitreal procedures ( including macular laser photocoagulation ) showed a success rate of 93 % . we believe that gas tamponade , which has possibility of better visual prognosis , should be selected as an initial technique because the final success rate was found to be the same regardless of the initial surgical techniques . 
graves ' ophthalmopathy . correlation of saccadic eye movements with age , presence of optic neuropathy , and extraocular muscle volume . quantitative infrared oculography was used to record saccadic eye movements of 49 patients with graves ' ophthalmopathy . peak saccadic velocities were decreased in those patients who developed or presented with optic neuropathy . this effect was more pronounced for larger eye movements . peak saccadic velocity also decreased as total extraocular muscle volume and limitation of ocular motility increased . for any given extraocular muscle volume , peak saccadic velocity was 40 degrees/s slower in patients 40 years or older than in younger patients . the relationship between velocity and motility limitation was most pronounced for intermediate muscle volumes ( 8 % to 15 % of total orbital volume ) . saccadic velocities in those patients with optic nerve compression often improved following treatment . this study demonstrated that eye movement recording was a useful adjunct in evaluation of patients with graves ' ophthalmopathy . furthermore , age-related lowering of peak saccadic velocities implicated changes of extraocular muscle structure as a factor in the development of optic neuropathy . 
antibodies to epstein-barr virus in iridocorneal endothelial syndrome . antibody titers to epstein-barr virus were determined in 13 patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and in 13 healthy race - , age - , and sex-matched controls . both the geometric mean titer of igg antibodies to the epstein-barr virus capsid antigen and the proportion with high titers of igg antibodies to the epstein-barr virus capsid antigen ( greater than or equal to 1:640 ) were significantly higher in 12 seropositive patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome than in 12 seropositive controls ( 1/761 :1 / 202 , p = .001 ; 83.3 % :8.3 % , p less than .001 ) . ten of 12 seropositive patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and five of 12 seropositive controls had antibodies to epstein-barr virus-induced early antigens ( greater than or equal to 1:10 ) ( fisher 's exact test , p less than .05 ) , while four seropositive patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and one seropositive control had low to undetectable levels of antibodies to epstein-barr virus-associated nuclear antigen ( less than or equal to 1:5 ) ( p greater than .1 ) . antibody levels to cytomegalovirus or measles virus were not different between patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome and controls . additional studies showed no evidence of humoral immune disorder or collagen vascular disease in the patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome . the serologic profiles suggest that the patients with iridocorneal endothelial syndrome examined had a cellular immune abnormality sufficient to permit reactivation of latent epstein-barr virus infection and imply , but do not establish , a role for epstein-barr virus infection in the pathogenesis of some cases of the iridocorneal endothelial syndrome . 
vitreous amyloidosis associated with homozygosity for the transthyretin methionine-30 gene . familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy is an autosomal dominant inherited disorder . biochemical studies have revealed that the amyloid protein in familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy of japanese , swedish , and portuguese origin mainly consists of a variant transthyretin with one amino acid substitution of methionine for valine at position 30 , termed ttr met-30 . in five swedish patients with familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy we diagnosed homozygosity for the ttr met-30 gene using restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis . the homozygous individuals did not show more severe systemic symptoms or earlier onset than heterozygotes for the ttr met-30 gene . the only clinical difference was the presence of vitreous opacities in all homozygous patients . 
metastatic ciliary body carcinoid tumor . a 50-year-old man with a history of systemic carcinoid had decreased right eye vision and a darkly pigmented cilio-choroidal mass . results of ultrasonographic and fluorescein angiographic examinations were consistent with a malignant melanoma . fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the lesion identified it as a carcinoid metastasis . the patient refused both radiation and enucleation ; complete excision with a cyclochoroidectomy was performed . histopathologic examination showed a carcinoid neoplasm covered by marked hyperplasia of the retinal pigment epithelium that produced the pigmented appearance of the lesion . 
hydrogen peroxide localization in experimental optic neuritis . the association of reactive oxygen species to altered permeability of the blood-brain barrier in acute experimental encephalomyelitis was investigated by ultrastructural cytochemical localization of hydrogen peroxide ( h2o2 ) to sites in the optic nerve previously identified by extravasation of intravascular horseradish peroxidase . using a modified cerium method , we found electron-dense cerium-derived h2o2 reaction product was localized to the perivascular space at the lamina retinalis , lamina choroidalis , and lamina scleralis . in the optic nerve head , electron-dense reaction product was observed in the presence of intravascular leukocytes , although adjacent perivascular and interstitial inflammatory cells at this site were scant . in the myelinated retrobulbar optic nerve , cerium-derived h2o2 reaction product was seen in the intravascular space of blood vessels and surrounding perivascular and interstitial foci of inflammatory cells . reaction product was also observed in the extracellular space adjacent to the plasmalemma of axons and glial cells in the optic nerve head and retrobulbar nerve . the perivascular and intravascular distribution of cerium-derived reaction product suggests that h2o2 may play a role in the pathogenesis of altered vascular permeability in experimental optic neuritis and supports our previous observations of suppression of blood-brain barrier permeability by detoxification of h2o2 with the exogenous administration of antioxidant enzymes . 
whitnall 's sling for poor function ptosis . severe unilateral ptosis with poor levator function has previously been treated with maximal levator muscle resection or bilateral or unilateral frontalis suspension . one of us ( r.l.a. ) has developed a technique called " whitnall 's sling , " where only the levator aponeurosis is resected , preserving whitnall 's ligament and its attachments . whitnall 's ligament and the underlying resected levator muscle are sutured to the superior portion of the tarsal plate . this surgery preserves levator muscle , muller 's muscle , and whitnall 's ligament without altering the structures that produce the three-layer tear film . in 69 eyelids operated on between july 1976 and july 1986 , in which a minimum of 1 year of follow-up by one of use was obtained , results have been satisfactory and directly related to levator function . we believe this technique to be anatomically and physiologically superior to " maximal levator resection " with similar long-term results . more recent results have shown that the addition of a 5-mm superior tarsectomy provides an additional elevation of 1 to 1.5 mm . whitnall 's sling is best suited for cases where the opposite fissure height is 9 mm or less and levator function of the ptotic eyelid is 3 to 5 mm . 
congenital myasthenia associated with facial malformations in iraqi and iranian jews . a new genetic syndrome . fourteen jewish patients from 10 families of either iraqi or iranian origin with congenital myasthenia had associated facial malformations which included an elongated face , mandibular prognathism with class iii malocclusion and a high-arched palate . other common features were muscle weakness restricted predominantly to ptosis , weakness of facial and masticatory muscles , and fatigable speech ; mild and nonprogressive course ; response to cholinesterase inhibitors ; absence of antibodies to acetylcholine receptor ; decremental response on repetitive stimulation at 3 hz but no repetitive compound muscle action potential in response to a single nerve stimulus . this newly recognized form of congenital myasthenia with distinctive ethnic clustering and associated facial malformations is transmitted as an autosomal recessive disorder . the facial abnormalities may be secondary to the neuromuscular defect or may be primary and unrelated . further studies are needed to elucidate the defect in neuromuscular transmission responsible for the pathogenesis of this syndrome . 
the anatomical basis of the caecocentral scotoma . new observations and a review . it is shown that the ' papillomacular bundle ' of optic nerve fibres , although a concept discussed frequently in the clinical literature , lacks a clear anatomical definition . it is suggested that the explanation for this is that the ' bundle ' was originally described in autopsy studies of toxic amblyopia , not normal anatomy . the optic nerve fibre projection and vascular architecture of the caecocentral region of the retina is described . these anatomical features are discussed in relation to a number of possible anatomical explanations for the fact that a caecocentral scotoma is the characteristic field defect found in toxic amblyopia . we have been unable to identify a distinct anatomical feature which might explain this vulnerability but suggest that the problem has not as yet been clearly addressed by anatomists . 
echocardiographic evaluation of patients with clinically suspected arterial emboli . 153 patients ( mean age 42 years , range 16-60 ) who had arterial embolic events were examined prospectively by transthoracic and transoesophageal echocardiography . patients older than 60 years and those with evidence of extracranial carotid artery occlusive disease were excluded . 84 patients had a cerebral ischaemic event , 50 patients had embolic events in an abdominal organ or limb , and 19 patients had acute retinal ischaemia . the transthoracic echocardiographic examination was normal in 92 patients ( 60 % ) , whereas only 65 patients ( 42 % ) had normal findings after both transthoracic and transoesophageal examination ( p less than 0.005 ) . intracardiac masses , including valvular vegetations , were found in 39 patients ( 25 % ) , including 27 % of patients with cerebral embolism and 32 % of these with peripheral embolism , but in none of the patients with retinal ischaemia ( p less than 0.001 ) . 47 patients ( 31 % ) had valvular disease , 10 ( 7 % ) had wall motion abnormalities , 23 ( 15 % ) had abnormalities of the interatrial septum , and 9 patients ( 6 % ) had diseases of the thoracic aorta . cardiovascular abnormalities were frequently found by echocardiography in patients with arterial emboli . the transesophageal technique significantly increased the chance of detecting such abnormalities , especially intracardiac masses . 
sensory visual testing in idiopathic intracranial hypertension : measures sensitive to change . management decisions in idiopathic intracranial hypertension ( iih ; pseudotumor cerebri ) are based on the presence and change of visual loss . to study this change , we evaluated tests of sensory visual function over time . we used the results of the right eye of 19 patients whose clinical status improved ( decrease in papilledema grade ) , and compared the outcome measures of the initial and final examinations . contrast sensitivity testing showed significant improvement in the middle and high spatial frequency targets . snellen acuity and color tests did not change significantly over the same period . both goldmann and automated visual field grade significantly improved from the initial to the final visit , while the presence of a defect on confrontation visual fields did not . numerical analyses of automated perimetry thresholds also showed significant improvement . generalized loss , most pronounced on the nasal side of the visual field , was present on the initial examination . generalized improvement followed , least in the central and inferior paracentral areas . patients with iih should be followed with contrast sensitivity testing and perimetry using a disease-specific strategy . 
immunohistologic study of epiretinal membranes in proliferative vitreoretinopathy . we performed an immunohistologic study on 11 specimens of epiretinal membranes surgically obtained from patients who had rhegmatogenous retinal detachment with proliferative vitreoretinopathy . immunostaining procedures were used to identify immunoglobulin and complement deposits , to visualize class ii antigen expression by proliferating cells , and to determine eventual infiltration by cells of the immune system . diffuse deposits of igg , iga , ige , c1q , c3c , and c3d were found in epiretinal membranes , whereas numerous cells , including glial or pigmented epithelial cells , expressed hla-dr and hla-dq antigens . some macrophages and b or t8 lymphocytes were identified . these results suggest activation of the immune system during the course of proliferative vitreoretinopathy . class ii antigen expression could be dependent upon growth-promoting factors and interferon gamma and could play a crucial role in this immune reaction , which resulted in immunoglobulin deposition and activation of complement . however , the eventual role of immune phenomena in the extension of proliferative processes remains to be determined . 
identification of toxoplasma gondii in paraffin-embedded sections by the polymerase chain reaction . we used the polymerase chain reaction to amplify dna fragments specific to toxoplasma gondii . the sensitivity of the technique allowed for the detection of as few as ten cultured t. gondii tachyzoites . we applied the same amplification technique to deparaffinized ocular sections from two cases of ocular toxoplasmosis . although toxoplasmic cysts could only be seen in one eye by optical microscopy , polymerase chain reaction allowed the identification of the parasite in both cases . our study indicates the feasibility of a sensitive dna-based assay to complement pathologic studies of an ocular parasitic disease . 
epiretinal membrane contracture associated with macular prolapse . we treated two patients with annular epiretinal membranes that produced unusual macular morphologic characteristics . contracture of the membranes caused herniation of macular tissue through a hole in the center of the membrane . the membranes were removed surgically , and ultrastructural analysis disclosed cells with properties resembling myofibroblasts and apparent new vitreous collagen . contracture of the cellular components probably produced tangential traction on the retina , which caused prolapse of the retinal tissue through a central defect in the membrane . 
experimental endoretinal biopsy . we performed transvitreal endoretinal biopsy in rabbit eyes to develop a reliable and safe technique to obtain retinal specimens from attached retina . pars plana vitrectomy without lensectomy was followed by injection of ringer 's solution into the subretinal space to produce a focal retinal detachment . the apex of the focal detachment was excised by intraocular scissors and removed from the eye by pneumohydraulic expulsion . a fluid-air exchange reattached the retina . the biopsy sites were evaluated clinically and by light and electron microscopy at regular intervals up to 20 weeks postoperatively . the initial five procedures were performed without heparin in the infusion fluid , and they were complicated by severe fibrin reaction and early retinal detachment . of the remaining 17 eyes , 15 were without intraoperative complication and maintained attached retinas . the biopsy site developed an early ring of hyperpigmentation along the border , and the biopsy bed became increasingly hyperpigmented because of cytoplasmic hyperplasia and hypertrophy of the pigment epithelium . epiretinal membranes and subretinal neovascularization were observed histologically . retinal biopsy specimens were reproducible and suitable for diagnostic studies . 
acanthamoeba keratitis associated with disposable contact lenses . two patients developed acanthamoeba keratitis associated with the use of disposable extended-wear hydrogel contact lenses . both patients removed , irrigated , and reinserted the contact lenses without disinfecting them . one patient wore the lenses on a daily basis , rinsed the lenses in tap water , stored them overnight , and discarded them weekly . both infections were treated successfully . in a third patient , acanthamoeba species was cultured from two pairs of disposable lenses that had been stored in cases rinsed with well water . potential benefits from disposable contact lens wear are negated when patients do not comply with a continuous wearing schedule . 
ocular injury induced by methyl ethyl ketone peroxide . methyl ethyl ketone peroxide is a commonly used catalyst in various industries . we studied 19 eyes with a single exposure to methyl ethyl ketone peroxide that developed clinical patterns of mild injury , moderate injury , severe injury , or delayed keratitis . delayed methyl ethyl ketone peroxide keratitis may cause exacerbations and remissions of corneal and limbal disease lasting more than 20 years with palpebral and bulbar hyperemia equal to the initial chemical exposure . with repeat exacerbation , further pannus may occur , which can be associated with a poorer outcome . based on the capability of methyl ethyl ketone peroxide to change dna to a new weak antigen , we suggest possible methods of therapy to prevent or limit delayed methyl ethyl ketone peroxide keratitis . this proposed type of injury has important implications in studying various limbal and corneal diseases . a major factor in the severity of ocular injury was the length of time from exposure to methyl ethyl ketone peroxide to obtaining a topical ocular local anesthetic to perform adequate lavage . 
topical use of cyclosporine in the treatment of vernal keratoconjunctivitis . we treated 11 patients with vernal keratoconjunctivitis for four to nine months with topical cyclosporine as a 2 % dilution in castor oil . no significant side effects occurred , except for mild and transient burning upon administration . within the first 15 days , both symptoms and signs of the condition improved significantly , and these results were maintained throughout the entire treatment . relapses of the disease occurred two to four months after the end of the therapy . a double-masked clinical trial of nine patients ( 2 % cyclosporine in castor oil vs castor oil alone ) confirmed the results . treated eyes improved significantly for both signs and symptoms as compared to control eyes . topical cyclosporine may , therefore , be considered an effective substitute for corticosteroids , with an excellent anti-inflammatory activity in patients with both corticosteroid-dependent and corticosteroid-resistant vernal keratoconjunctivitis . 
anisocoria in the pigmentary dispersion syndrome we studied four patients with anisocoria and the pigmentary dispersion syndrome . in all patients , the larger pupil was on the side of the greater iris transillumination . the amount of anisocoria was between 0.5 and 1.5 mm and was the same in both the light and dark . there was no blepharoptosis , and all pupils dilated normally with cocaine . all of the patients were young men with myopia , and one patient had increased intraocular pressure . 
glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency and cataract of patients in northern sardinia . we determined the activity level of glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase in 467 patients with cataract from northern sardinia . of 226 men , 18 ( 8 % ) had glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency . of 241 women , 30 ( 12 % ) were heterozygous and two ( 1 % ) were homozygous for glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency . these prevalences were not significantly different from those expected in the general population . we concluded that patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency do not have a higher risk of developing cataract . 
laser placement in noncontact nd : yag cyclophotocoagulation . we treated 40 eyes of 40 patients by using noncontact transscleral nd : yag cyclophotocoagulation to determine whether treatment 1.5 or 3.0 mm posterior to the corneoscleral lumbus was preferable . patients were randomly assigned to one of the treatment groups , and all other variables , including power , number , and distribution of laser applications , were kept constant . six months postoperatively , those treated 1.5 mm posterior to the corneoscleral limbus had a lower intraocular pressure ( p = .0047 ) than those treated 3.0 mm from the corneoscleral limbus . the 1.5-mm group also required fewer retreatment ( p = .017 ) and had a slightly lower occurrence of visual acuity loss after this procedure . we believe it may be advantageous to locate the laser application approximately 1.5 mm posterior to the corneoscleral limbus , rather than further posteriorly , when performing noncontact transscleral nd : yag cyclophotocoagulation . 
ocular movements in essential blepharospasm . in essential blepharospasm histopathologic and electrophysiologic evidence supports the existence of lesions in proximity to brainstem nuclei controlling ocular movements . we studied horizontal ocular movements in eight patients who had been treated previously with surgery or botulinum toxin injection to control essential blepharospasm ( mean age , 58 years ) and compared these with seven control subjects who did not have blepharospasm ( mean age , 68 years ) . we examined fixation stability , saccades , the vestibulo-ocular reflex , visual enhancement and suppression of the vestibulo-ocular reflex , optokinetic nystagmus , and pursuit by using digitally sampled , direct current electro-oculography . patients with blepharospasm exhibited no ocular movement abnormalities . since quantitative aspects of ocular movements are sensitive to nonspecific brainstem lesions , the absence of abnormal ocular movements suggests that the lesion in blepharospasm is specifically limited to neurons regulating the facial muscles . 
antibiotic therapy for bacillus species infections . we reviewed 36 cases of culture-proven bacillus species ocular infections occurring between september 1974 and december 1989 . kirby-bauer disk sensitivities were available in 34 of the 36 cases ( 95 % ) . all bacillus species isolates were sensitive to the aminoglycoside antibiotics ( n = 34 ) and to vancomycin hydrochloride ( n = 32 ) ; resistance to clindamycin was found in four of 18 ( 22 % ) of tested isolates . although b. cereus was uniformly sensitive to these antibiotics , resistance to clindamycin occurred in four cases in the non-b . cereus group . the microbroth dilution technique confirmed the kirby-bauer data . the aminoglycosides were uniformly effective , but the cephalosporins ( first , second , and third generation drugs ) were consistently ineffective against b. cereus and varied from sensitive to moderately sensitive for the non-b . cereus isolates . our microbiologic laboratory findings suggest that vancomycin hydrochloride in combination with an aminoglycoside ensures more consistent antibiotic coverage of bacillus species ocular infections . 
extraorbital use of a disinserted superior oblique as a sling in third nerve palsy : a new single-stage surgical technique . the management of third cranial nerve palsy is surgical . the usual technique is to correct alignment of the eyes in the first stage , followed by ptosis correction by a sling operation in the second stage . a new single-stage surgical technique involved the disinsertion of superior oblique muscle to bring the eye in a midline position . simultaneously it is used extraorbitally as a sling to raise the ptotic upper eyelid . postoperatively a fairly good cosmetic effect was achieved , but the upper eyelid showed a paradoxic aberrant elevation on eso-depression . 
anterior segment ischemia : a complication of retinal detachment repair in a patient with sickle cell trait . anterior segment ischemia ( asi ) is a dreaded complication of retinal detachment surgery particularly in patients with predisposing factors such as sickle cell disease . we report a case of asi after scleral buckling in an otherwise healthy black patient with sickle cell trait . conditions of relative hypoxia intraoperatively from either anesthesia or surgical manipulation may precipitate vasoocclusive phenomena in these normally asymptomatic patients . since the incidence of sickle cell trait in the black population in the united states is 8.5 % , we recommend these patients have a preoperative sickle test followed by hemoglobin electrophoresis with quantification if positive . the presence of sickle cell trait should alert the surgeon to the risk of asi , and factors predisposing to hypoxia should be minimized when possible . 
central retinal artery obstruction in herpes zoster ophthalmicus and cerebral vasculopathy . we present a case of acute central retinal artery obstruction in association with herpes zoster ophthalmicus and delayed cerebral vasculopathy . retinal vascular obstruction is rare in zoster , and its occurrence during postherpetic cerebral vasculopathy has not been reported previously to our knowledge . the syndrome of delayed cerebral vasculopathy is discussed as is its possible relationship to central retinal artery obstruction . 
nylon suture toxicity after vitrectomy surgery . a patient underwent an uneventful pars plana vitrectomy with superior sclerotomies closed with 8-0 nylon suture . four months later , the patient had a suture reaction presumably related to allergy to the suture itself . the signs and symptoms resolved after removal of the suture . although similar cases have been reported after nylon sutures in cataract wound closure , this is the first reported occurrence of this phenomenon in vitrectomy surgery to our knowledge . 
contact transscleral laser cyclocoagulation in glaucoma . a new way to treat glaucoma by laser coagulation of the ciliary body was developed . the laser beam is channeled to the eye through the fiberoptic system . the tip of the fiberoptic probe is placed in direct contact with the surface of the eye to be treated . the technical equipment developed for contact transscleral laser cyclocoagulation is simple , practical , and easy to use . the method was investigated experimentally ( on animals and on human eyes to be enucleated ) and tried in clinical practice . only patients facing glaucoma surgery ( on whom all other methods of conservative therapy failed ) were selected for this kind of treatment . the immediate hypotensive effect was approximately 13 mmhg during the first 24 hours ; then there was a gradual elevation of the tension , reducing the initial effect on average by 30 % . this method has definite advantages over surgical cyclocoagulation as far as safety and simplicity are concerned . the use of contact fiberoptic systems may open up new possibilities in other fields of laser treatment of glaucoma , including techniques to channel the laser beam to the structures of the anterior chamber angle . 
conjunctival involvement in pemphigus vulgaris : a clinical , histopathological and immunofluorescence study . eleven patients with pemphigus vulgaris and with eye complaints had histopathological and direct immunofluorescence ( dif ) studies on biopsies of their conjunctivae . in eight of the patients the ocular symptoms preceded the other manifestations of pemphigus . none of the 11 patients had any detectable conjunctival blisters or erosions . the conjunctivitis in three of the patients proved on histopathology and dif to be a manifestation of pemphigus vulgaris . in the remaining patients , conjunctival hyperaemia with or without a mucoid discharge was observed , but there were no specific histopathological features , although one of them had a positive dif . 
a miniaturized vitrectomy system for vitreous and retinal biopsy . the author has developed a miniaturized vitrectomy system and its accessories with the size of a 23-gauge needle . the hand-piece can be inserted inside the eye through a ziegler knife track . this instrument can be used for " atraumatic " removal of vitreous biopsy specimens and for removal of small pieces of retina . the system also seems to have application in vitreous surgery in premature infants ' eyes . 
lens opacity as a predictor of visual field impairment due to cataract . the contribution of cataract to the decrease of visual field in patients with glaucoma is difficult to ascertain . to attempt to quantitate the change in visual field due to cataract , we examined 27 eyes of 26 patients before and after cataract extraction . the examination consisted of measurement of best refraction with visual acuity , visual field testing with the pupil dilated , measurement of lens opacity , determination of the intraocular pressure , and evaluation of the character of the cataract before surgery and of the posterior capsule after surgery . the results reaffirmed the detrimental effect that cataract may have on the visual field but also showed that the heterogeneity of cataracts limits the usefulness of the lens opacity meter in quantitating the extent of visual field loss due to cataract . 
orbital compartment syndrome . direct measurement of orbital tissue pressure : 1 . technique . many disorders of the orbit produce an increase in intraorbital pressure , which may result in the development of an orbital compartment syndrome and visual loss . traditionally , orbital tension is assessed clinically by indirect means based on retrodisplacement of the globe . the authors describe their experience with the " slit-catheter " technique for direct tissue pressure measurement as applied to the orbit . the preliminary results indicate that normal orbital pressure ranges from 3.0 to 6.0 mm hg . in patients with graves ' orbitopathy the values ranged from 7.0 to 15.0 mm hg . the results suggest that the technique may have many exciting possibilities as a clinical research tool in orbital disease , and its use will result in better understanding of orbital compartment syndromes . 
possible significance of cilioretinal arteries in low-tension glaucoma . cilioretinal arteries arise from the short posterior ciliary artery circulation or directly from the choroidal circulation . the presence of a cilioretinal artery may in compromised discs steal flow from the peripapillary circulation and account for worsening glaucoma damage . we reviewed the records of 33 patients with unilateral cilioretinal arteries admitted for investigation of low-tension glaucoma . we looked for absolute difference between the affected and unaffected eyes as well as percent difference relative to the mean value for the two eyes and to the value for the unaffected eye in the following variables : mean defect , corrected loss variance or corrected pattern standard deviation , and adjusted neuroretinal rim area . no statistically significant differences were found . the mean disc area for the eyes with cilioretinal arteries was significantly larger than that previously reported for normal eyes . the results suggest that if vascular steal exists because of the presence of this artery , it is not of major clinical importance . 
recession of the superior oblique tendon in a-pattern strabismus . we performed 9 to 12 mm of recession of the superior oblique tendon for a-pattern strabismus in 10 patients . the average preoperative a-pattern measured 29.4 prism dioptres ( pd ) , and the average pattern correction was 29.3 pd . all patients had a residual pattern of 6 pd or less ( average 2.3 pd ) . no patient experienced significant underaction of the superior oblique , and other surgical complications , such as ptosis , brown 's syndrome , and laceration of the vortex vein or superior rectus , did not occur . the procedure corrected 14 to 40 pd of a-pattern . the amount of pattern corrected was correlated with the size of the preoperative a-pattern but not with the total amount of recession done . no significant shift in esodeviation in primary position was noted in the patients who underwent only superior oblique recession . the procedure appears to be of particular value in patients with moderate superior oblique overaction . the advantages of recession of the superior oblique tendon include the potential for reversibility and reoperation , low risk of induced superior oblique palsy , allowance for asymmetric surgery and potential for adjustable suture technique . 
angle-closure glaucoma as initial presentation of myelodysplastic syndrome . a 57-year-old man presented with proptosis of the right eye and findings consistent with bilateral angle-closure glaucoma . subsequent evaluation revealed severe bilateral uveal effusions and associated nonrhegmatogenous retinal detachments , which were felt to be related to orbital pseudotumour and associated scleritis . hematologic studies were consistent with a diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndrome . although myelodysplastic syndrome has been reported in one patient with orbital inflammation and myositis , to our knowledge ciliochoroidal effusion and secondary angle closure have not previously been reported in myelodysplastic syndrome . 
nonpigmented congenital iris stromal cyst . a nonpigmented iris stromal cyst was observed in the right eye of a 6-week-old girl . there was no past history of trauma or use of topical miotics , and the remainder of the ocular examination was normal . the pathophysiology and management of this rare developmental anomaly are controversial . 
matched group study of surgical resection versus cobalt-60 plaque radiotherapy for primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma . we report the results of a nonrandomized , matched-group , survival and visual preservation study of patients with a choroidal or ciliary body melanoma managed by microsurgical resection of the tumor versus cobalt-60 episcleral plaque radiotherapy . each treatment group consisted of 30 patients . all patients were matched on a case-by-case basis in terms of tumor size ( largest linear tumor dimension ) , location of the anterior tumor margin relative to the ora serrata , location of the posterior tumor margin relative to the equator , and age at the time of treatment . although the estimated actuarial 5-year survival probability was slightly greater in the resection group ( 85.2 % ) than in the cobalt plaque group ( 81.8 % ) , this difference was neither clinically impressive nor statistically significant . in contrast , there was a substantially higher rate of early posttreatment severe visual loss in the resection group ( p = .0008 , mantel-haenszel test ) . 
glaucoma secondary to epithelial downgrowth and 5-fluorouracil . since epithelial downgrowth involves an actively proliferating intraocular tissue , it is possible that the antimetabolite 5-fluorouracil may inhibit it . we report a case of secondary glaucoma caused by epithelial downgrowth in which filtration surgery was performed with adjunctive use of subconjunctival 5-fluorouracil . on cessation of the injections , the retrocorneal membrane grew rapidly to involve the entire posterior cornea . the eye eventually became blind and painful and was enucleated . the use of 5-fluorouracil given in the usual manner appears to have been a failure . 
use of a symblepharon ring for treatment of over-filtration and leaking blebs after glaucoma filtration surgery . we report the use of a symblepharon ring in the treatment of seven cases of flat anterior chamber ( six cases of total iridocorneal touch , and one of corneallens touch ) secondary to overfiltration or to bleb leak . in all cases , the anterior chamber reformed within 24 hours after the symblepharon ring was used . advantages of using the ring are : ( a ) it permits testing of visual acuity , tonometry , and intraocular examination without removing it ; ( b ) it does not require suturing to the conjunctiva ; ( c ) it does not disturb the corneal epithelium ; ( d ) it may be available at institutions lacking other shells ; and ( e ) it is cost-effective . 
hemihang-back recession : description of the technique and review of the literature . we describe a modification of the hang-back and loop techniques that we call the hemihang-back recession , in which the muscle is reattached to the sclera posterior to the original insertion with a single , absorbable suture . we recommend it for difficult strabismus cases , specifically when recessions of 7 mm or more are required . 
scleral buckle revision to treat recurrent rhegmatogenous retinal detachment . recurrent rhegmatogenous retinal detachment sometimes occurs following scleral buckling surgery in the absence of advanced proliferative vitreoretinopathy ( grade c-2 or greater ) . such detachments can occur because : 1 ) the scleral buckle is not properly positioned beneath the original break ; 2 ) the buckle is not high enough ; 3 ) the break is elevated off the buckle due to progressive vitreous traction ; 4 ) there are new breaks ; and 5 ) chorioretinal adhesion is insufficient . techniques that may be useful for reattaching the retina in these cases include : 1 ) adding scleral buckling material to augment the original buckle ; 2 ) modifying the existing buckle without adding new material ; 3 ) replacing the original buckle with other material ; 4 ) re-treating inadequately closed breaks ; and 5 ) combinations of these four techniques . vitrectomy may be avoided in many cases . 
posterior horizontal and vertical tightening to treat combined punctal ectropion with medial canthal tendon laxity . the classical operations to treat either medial canthal tendon laxity or punctal aversion occurring alone possess drawbacks if they are used to treat these conditions when they occur simultaneously . a simplified procedure is described whereby tissue is removed via a posterior eyelid approach so that the eyelid may be tightened both horizontally and vertically , thus inverting the punctum and fixating it in the lacrimal lake . this procedure is quite easy to perform and can be done under local anesthesia in the office . 
learning curve for radial keratotomy . i prospectively evaluated my own learning curve for radial keratotomy ( rk ) by comparing the results achieved in two groups : 20 consecutive eyes on which i performed rk without having had previous experience with the procedure ( group 1 ) ; and 20 other eyes , matched for age , sex , and preoperative refractive error , on which i performed rk after i had performed the procedure 250 times ( group 2 ) . although there were nine microperforations in group 1 and none in group 2 , the postoperative refractions and uncorrected visual acuities were similar in both groups . since the microperforations had no adverse effect on the visual results , it is reasonable to conclude that there was , in effect , no learning curve involved in my experience with rk . 
endophthalmitis after placement of a molteno implant . i report a case of early postoperative endophthalmitis following placement of a molteno implant . excellent results were obtained by immediate removal of the implant and surgical management of the infection , followed by replacement of the implant . 
role of communities in decision-making eye care programs . the concept of primary health care involves educating people to live their lives in ways beneficial to their health . communities as a whole must participate in the decision-making that is involved in such education , be it promotive , preventive , curative , or rehabilitative . i refer to this participation as " participatory communication . " it is based on two fundamental tenets : 1 ) everyone in a community has some special knowledge to contribute to the development of the health of that community ; and 2 ) no person is superior to another . subsequent to sociological and anthropological studies of communities in the southern sudan by the norwegian church aid , the norwegian association of the blind and partially-sighted conducted village workshops based on this concept . 
visual results and complications of transsclerally sutured intraocular lenses in penetrating keratoplasty . we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 56 consecutive patients who had undergone penetrating keratoplasty with transscleral fixation of a posterior chamber intraocular lens . follow-up ranged from 3 to 28 months ( mean , 11.1 months ) . postoperative visual acuity improved in 46 patients ( 82 % ) , remained the same in eight ( 14 % ) , and worsened in two ( 3.6 % ) . in 32 patients with at least 10 months ' follow-up , best corrected visual acuity as measured with a pinhole or hard contact lens was 20/40 or better in 12 ( 38 % ) , 20/50 to 20/10 in 10 ( 31 % ) , and 20/200 or worse in 10 ( 31 % ) . problems with lens decentration , tilt , or scleral suture-related infections were minimal . glaucoma was the msot common cause of decreased vision in patients with 10 or more months ' follow-up . three patients ( 5.4 % ) developed rhegmatogenous retinal detachments early in the postoperative course . 
ocular trauma caused by exploding glass bottles containing dry ice and water . we treated three patients with severe ocular injuries caused by exploding glass bottles containing a mixture of dry ice chips and water . one patient had a corneal laceration and traumatic cataract with several retained intraocular glass fragments . the second had a scleral laceration without corneal or lenticular involvement . the third suffered a corneal-scleral laceration , with a total retinal detachment . following surgery , two patients recovered 20/20 vision ; the third patient regained only light perception . 
techniques of adjustable suture strabismus surgery . adjustable sutures allow eye muscle positions to be changed following strabismus surgery , when the patient is awake and able to cooperate in muscle balance testing . bow-tie-knot and sliding-handle sutures can be adjusted within 24 hours after surgery . scleral traction sutures , which can be used to fix the globe to periorbital tissues during postoperative healing , can be adjusted for up to 14 days after surgery . we describe these techniques as well as an adjustable loop suture for conjunctival closure . 
severe anterior segment inflammation following corneal surgery for keratoconus . we present three keratoconus patients who experienced severe anterior segment inflammation , two following penetrating keratoplasty , and one following epikeratoplasty . a favorable response to indomethacin therapy in the second eyes of these patients suggests that the inflammation in the first ones was prostaglandin mediated . 
a new ophthalmic microtrephine . we present a new instrument designed to facilitate the microtrephination of tissues required in various ophthalmic procedures . this microtrephine is a 21-gauge stainless steel tube , 0.81 mm in diameter and 16 mm long , with a sharpened cutting end and a plastic finger-grip area to facilitate micro-rotation . a standard plastic luer hub allows the trephine to be used with a syringe , either a standard type or one with a spring-assisted plunger . scar tissue , biopsy specimens , or abnormal inflammatory fluids can be suctioned into the syringe for subsequent pathologic examination . 
the viscous fluid pump . we describe a device useful for injection of viscoelastic material into the vitreous cavity for internal tamponade . the instrument has proven to be reliable and " user friendly " in a clinical setting . 
the south karelia air pollution study . the effects of malodorous sulfur compounds from pulp mills on respiratory and other symptoms . the paper mills in south karelia , the southeast part of finland , are responsible for releasing a substantial amount of malodorous sulfur compounds such as hydrogen sulfide ( h2s ) , methyl mercaptan ( ch3sh ) , and methyl sulfides [ ( ch3 ) 2s and ( ch3 ) 2s2 ] , into ambient air . in the most polluted residential area the annual mean concentrations of hydrogen sulfide and methyl mercaptan are estimated to be 8 and 2 to 5 micrograms/m3 and the highest daily average concentration 100 and 50 micrograms/m3 . the annual mean and highest daily concentrations of sulfur dioxide ( so2 ) are very low . we studied the effects of malodorous sulfur compounds on eye , nasal and respiratory symptoms , and headache in adults . a cross-sectional self-administered questionnaire was distributed in february 1987 and responded to by 488 adults living in a severely ( n = 198 ) , a moderately ( n = 204 ) , and a nonpolluted community ( n = 86 ) . this included questions about occurrence of the symptoms of interest during the previous 4 wk and 12 months and individual , behavioral , and other environmental determinants of the symptoms . the response rate was 83 % . the odds ratios ( or ) for symptoms experienced often or constantly in severely versus nonpolluted and moderately versus nonpolluted communities were estimated in logistic regression analysis controlling potential confounders . the odds ratios for eye ( moderate exposure or 11.70 , cl95 % 2.33 to 58.65 ; severe exposure or 11.78 , cl95 % 2.35 to 59.09 ) and nasal symptoms ( or 2.01 , cl95 % 0.97 to 4.15 ; or 2.19 , cl95 % 1.06 to 4.55 ) and cough ( or 1.89 , cl95 % 0.61 to 5.86 ; or 3.06 , cl95 % 1.02 to 9.29 ) during the previous 12 months were increased , with a dose-response pattern . 
sudden death associated with undiagnosed graves ' disease . hyperthyroidism may result in multiple symptoms attributable to an excess of thyroid hormone . we report a case of graves ' disease in association with sudden death in a previously healthy , undiagnosed young female . this case illustrates an unusual initial presentation of graves ' disease . 
parasympathetic nervous system activity in hypothyroidism determined by r-r interval variations on electrocardiogram . little is known about the relationship between hypothyroidism and the parasympathetic nervous system . r-r interval variations revealed by electrocardiogram ( ecg ) are known to be a useful clinical indicator of abnormalities of parasympathetic nervous system activity . studies were conducted in hypothyroid patients , and significant reductions in r-r interval variations were observed in patients with primary severe hypothyroidism due to hashimoto 's thyroiditis , and in patients with graves ' disease who became severely hypothyroid during antithyroid drug therapy . r-r interval variations were restored to normal levels in both groups of patients after treatment . the present investigation suggests that in marked hypothyroidism there are hypofunctional abnormalities in the parasympathetic nervous system in association with a reduction in the levels of serum t4 and t3 . 
the spondyloarthropathies in zimbabwe : a clinical and immunogenetic profile . spondyloarthropathies are rare in africa and there is little data regarding hla association . we prospectively studied 19 patients with spondyloarthropathy , recording clinical details and performing tissue typing ( abc loci ) . there were 9 patients with ankylosing spondylitis ( 8 males ) , all had severe spinal disease but none had ocular or cardiac involvement and hla-b27 antigen was not found in any of the 7 patients tested ; only one patient possessed a b7 crossreacting antigen . the 10 patients with reiter 's syndrome ( 8 males ) had typical clinical features but again the hla-b27 tissue type was not found . b7-creg antigen was found in 7 of the 10 patients with reiter 's syndrome . 
