flow cytometric dna-ploidy analysis of synchronously occurring multiple malignant tumors of the female genital tract . in this study the authors applied flow cytometric dna-ploidy analysis to multiple female genital tract malignant tumors in 43 patients , most of whom ( n = 37 ) had bilateral ovarian cancer . an algorithm was developed for calculation of the likelihood ratio of the probabilities that measured dna index differences between multiple tumor localizations within the same patient could be attributed to measurement variation or to true biologic dna content differences . the results of this statistical analysis show that in 72 % of the cases ( 31 of 43 ) this probability ratio exceeded 1 . because the probability that two independent tumors will have a near-identical aneuploid dna content is very low , this finding supports a metastatic process rather than the occurrence of multiple primary tumors in these patients . thus , flow cytometric dna-ploidy analysis can be helpful in the identification of metastatic disease in patients with multiple female genital tract malignant tumors . 
epidural analgesia for a parturient with herpes gestationis . a 23-yr-old parturient with herpes gestationis spontaneously delivered a normal healthy infant under epidural analgesia . she received five injections of bupivacaine 0.5 per cent over a ten-hour period . there was no infection at the lumbar region , even though her body was covered with vesicles and bullae including the face and neck . eight months after delivery the patient still has a vesicular eruption which occurs mainly during her menses . 
epidural anaesthesia for labour and caesarean section in a parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries . we describe a case of a 29-year-old parturient with a single ventricle and transposition of the great arteries who had lumbar epidural analgesia/anaesthesia with a local anaesthetic for labour , emergency caesarean section and postoperative pain . her outcome and that of her baby was successful . the anaesthetic techniques used in other parturients with similar congenital cardiac anomalies are reviewed . 
crohn 's disease and pregnancy . seventy-eight pregnancies in 50 patients were reviewed to evaluate the effects of crohn 's disease on the outcome of pregnancy and the influence of the pregnancy on the course of crohn 's disease . overall , 21 pregnancies ( 27 percent ) had abnormal outcomes including spontaneous abortions ( 9 ) , infants small for gestational age ( 6 ) , premature infants ( 5 ) , and infants who developed respiratory distress ( 1 ) . eight ( 50 percent ) patients with active disease compared with 13 ( 21 percent ) patients with inactive disease at conception had abnormal outcomes ( p less than 0.05 ) . during pregnancy 15 ( 55 percent ) with active disease and 6 ( 12 percent ) with inactive disease had an abnormal outcome ( p less than 0.001 ) . neither medical nor surgical treatment , independent of disease activity , appeared to affect the outcome adversely . eighteen of 73 ( 25 percent ) patients with quiescent or mild disease relapsed , and seven of 16 patients with some disease activity improved ( 44 percent ) . of 34 patients on medication , nine relapsed ( 27 percent ) , and of 39 patients not on medication , nine relapsed ( 24 percent ) ( p = n.s. ) . these results suggest that the outcome of pregnancy is not adversely affected by crohn 's disease . however , patients with active disease at conception and/or during the pregnancy have poorer outcomes independent of the use of medication or requirement of surgery . neither pregnancy nor medications taken affect the course of the disease . 
irritable bowel syndrome in women having diagnostic laparoscopy or hysterectomy . relation to gynecologic features and outcome . we identified irritable bowel syndrome ( ibs ) in 47.7 % of 86 women having diagnostic laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain , 39.5 % of 172 women having elective hysterectomy , and 32.0 % of 172 controls age-matched for the hysterectomy group ( p = ns ) . constipation and pain subtype ibs were more common in hysterectomy patients than controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . in laparoscopy patients , dyspareunia was more common in those with ibs than in those without it ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the hysterectomy group , more ibs patients had chronic pelvic pain ( p less than 0.005 ) , and abnormal menses ( p less than 0.01 ) . chronic pelvic pain was more frequently the only prehysterectomy diagnosis in ibs patients ( p less than 0.05 ) , and ibs was present more often when pain was a reason for hysterectomy ( p less than 0.01 ) . one year after laparoscopy , ibs patients gave lower overall status ratings ( p less than 0.01 ) and lower pain improvement ratings ( p less than 0.05 ) than non-ibs patients . in women who had a hysterectomy for pain , there was less pain improvement one year later in those with the pain subtype of ibs than in non-ibs patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . ibs is associated with gynecologic symptoms and affects the symptomatic outcome of diagnostic laparoscopy and hysterectomy . 
fertility after contraception or abortion . there is a very small correlation , if any , between the prior use of ocs and congenital malformations , including down 's syndrome . there are few , if any , recent reports on masculinization of a female fetus born to a mother who took an oc containing 1 mg of a progestogen during early pregnancy . however , patients suspected of being pregnant and who are desirous of continuing that pregnancy should not continue to take ocs , nor should progestogen withdrawal pregnancy tests be used . concern still exists regarding the occurrence of congenital abnormalities in babies born to such women . the incidence of postoperative infection after first trimester therapeutic abortion in this country is low . however , increasing numbers of women are undergoing repeated pregnancy terminations , and their risk for subsequent pelvic infections may be multiplied with each succeeding abortion . the incidence of prematurity due to cervical incompetence or surgical infertility after first trimester pregnancy terminations is not increased significantly . asherman 's syndrome may occur after septic therapeutic abortion . the pregnancy rate after treatment of this syndrome is low . the return of menses and the achievement of a pregnancy may be slightly delayed after ocs are discontinued , but the fertility rate is within the normal range by 1 year . the incidence of postpill amenorrhea of greater than 6 months ' duration is probably less than 1 % . the occurrence of the syndrome does not seem to be related to length of use or type of pill . patients with prior normal menses as well as those with menstrual abnormalities before use of ocs may develop this syndrome . patients with normal estrogen and gonadotropin levels usually respond with return of menses and ovulation when treated with clomiphene . the rate for achievement of pregnancy is much lower than that for patients with spontaneous return of menses . the criteria for defining pid or for categorizing its severity are diverse . the incidence of pid is higher among iud users than among patients taking ocs or using a barrier method . the excess risk of pid among iud users , with the exception of the first few months after insertion , is related to sexually transmitted diseases and not the iud . women with no risk factors for sexually transmitted diseases have little increased risk of pid or infertility associated with iud use . there appears to be no increased risk of congenital anomalies , altered sex ratio , or early pregnancy loss among spermicide users . all present methods of contraception entail some risk to the patient . the risk of imparied future fertility with the use of any method appears to be low . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
treatment of tubal pregnancy by local injection of methotrexate after adrenaline injection into the mesosalpinx : a report of 25 patients . twenty-five patients with a tubal pregnancy were treated by an injection of methotrexate ( mtx ) into the tubal swelling after vasoconstriction of the mesosalpinx with adrenaline . twenty-four of the 25 patients had an uneventful clinical course . in one case , the tube ruptured despite falling serum human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) concentrations . in 17 of 24 patients , the dose of 100 mg that was locally injected was sufficient . seven patients were given additional systemic injections . in 3 of the 4 patients with high initial serum hcg levels ( greater than 10.000 miu/ml ) , the clinical course was uneventful . the side effects of mtx and adrenaline were minimal . whether this way of treatment guarantees better chances of fertility in the future is unknown . therefore a prospective , case-controlled study comparing the fertility rates in different ways of treatment is needed . 
serum levels of anticardiolipin antibodies are pathologically increased after active immunization of patients with recurrent spontaneous abortion . although the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to recurrent spontaneous abortion are still not fully understood , treatment schemes based on immunological principles have been advocated in recent years claiming that the production of the so-called blocking factor is being specifically stimulated . we investigated , retrospectively , whether active immunization can affect the production of immunoglobulin ( ig ) g and igm anticardiolipin antibodies . in a group of untreated recurrent spontaneous abortion patients ( n = 9 ) , the range of variation of cardiolipin antibodies , during consecutive controls taken at the same time interval as after immunization , was not statistically significant . in contrast to this , significant increases of both igg and igm antibodies occurred after active immunization with paternal leucocytes in 10 of 15 , and in 6 of 15 cases , respectively . the mean basal and posttransfusion levels were : 7.26 + / - 2.53 and 30.15 + / - 23 u/ml for igg and 2.26 + / - 1.2 and 6.82 + / - 5.6 u/ml for igm , respectively . we conclude that active immunization with human lymphocytes leads to the production of antibodies against cardiolipin . this effect is exerted on both igm and igg antibodies . 
a serial section study of visually normal pelvic peritoneum in patients with endometriosis . defined criteria were used to select small samples of visually normal study peritoneum for serial section light microscopy in 45 patients with biopsy-proven endometriosis and 10 patients without endometriosis . a glandular element compatible with possible endometriosis was found in only 1 patient . visually normal peritoneum does not harbor a high prevalence of invisible microscopic endometriosis . 
genitourinary mycobacteria in infertile egyptian men . forty infertile patients with a preliminary diagnosis of genitourinary tuberculosis were selected for our study when they presented with one or more of the following : ( 1 ) personal or family history of tuberculosis , ( 2 ) sterile pyuria , ( 3 ) voiding urinary symptoms , ( 4 ) abnormality in the epididymis , ( 5 ) hemospermia , and ( 6 ) clinically unexplained obligoathenospermia . direct smear examination by ziehl-neelsen stain for 24-hour urine and freshly ejaculated semen for 3 days as well as culture of midstream urine and semen were done on egg media . urine smear was positive ( + ) ive in 20 patients ( 50 % ) , culture was ( + ) ive in 23 ( 57.5 % ) , whereas for semen smear was ( + ) ive in 3 ( 7.3 % ) and culture was ( + ) ive in 5 ( 20 % ) . tuberculous mycobacteria were detected in 5 of 23 cases ( 21.7 % ) . nontuberculous mycobacteria were detected in 18 of 23 cases ( 78.3 % ) . mycobacterium smegmatis was the most common mycobacterium isolated . there was improvement of the seminal picture , though not significant , after therapy . 
heterologous transplantation of activated murine peritoneal macrophages inhibits gamete interaction in vivo : a paradigm for endometriosis-associated subfertility . macrophage hyperactivation has been postulated to be the pathologic aberration in patients suffering from endometriosis-associated subfertility . in this report an in vivo model for macrophage-mediated infertility is described . populations of macrophages were obtained from an inbred strain of mice ( balb/c ) as follows : ( 1 ) in vivo hyperactivated macrophages ( harvested from donor mice treated with intraperitoneal thioglycolate ) ; ( 2 ) hyperactivated macrophages deactivated ex vivo with the protein synthesis inhibitor emetine ; and ( 3 ) basal state ( nonactivated ) macrophages obtained from untreated mice . recipient mice underwent ovarian hyperstimulation with pregnant mare serum gonadotropins ; 2 x 10 ( 6 ) macrophages were transferred on the afternoon of stimulation day 3 before injection of human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) and mating . unfertilized oocytes and 4-cell embryos were counted on day hcg +2 as a reflection of reproductive performance . heterologous transfer of in vivo hyperactivated macrophages , but not basal state macrophages , significantly inhibited fertilization . this effect was largely reversed by pretreatment with emetine . these experiments confirm the relevance of macrophage-mediated interference with early reproductive performance and provide a model for the development of alternative therapies ( e.g. , immunomodulation of the peritoneal fluid environment ) for endometriosis-associated subfertility . 
pregnancy after in vitro fertilization in a patient with stage i endometrial carcinoma treated with progestins . a 35-year-old woman with chronic anovulation and bilateral tubal disease was found during infertility evaluation to have grade i endometrial carcinoma confined to an endometrial polyp . she was treated with polypectomy and endometrial curettage followed by high-dose progestagens for 6 months . endometrial curettage at 3 and 6 months of therapy indicated regression of the lesion and the patient subsequently achieved successful pregnancy with ivf . 
pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor stimulates the growth of rat pancreatic carcinoma cells . pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor was examined for growth-promoting activity on five cell lines using standard cell culture techniques . one cell line , ar4-2j , derived from a rat pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma , responded with significantly increased incorporation of [ 3h ] thymidine and colony formation . pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor stimulated the incorporation of [ 3h ] thymidine in liquid culture ; the maximal increase was 61 + / - 10 % above control ( p less than 0.001 ) and was seen at a concentration of 10 ( -9 ) mol/l . using a soft agarose clonogenic assay , pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor also consistently stimulated ( 3 assays ) colony formation : the peak activity occurred at a concentration of 10 ( -10 ) mol/l which caused a 150 + / - 55 % ( mean + / - se , p less than 0.05 ) increase above control . aprotinin had no effect on the growth of ar4-2j cells and pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor did not bind to the epidermal growth factor receptor . ar4-2j cells were shown to produce pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor . the study raises the possibility that pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor provides autocrine stimulation of tumor cell growth . 
isolation of a human epidermal cdna corresponding to the 180-kd autoantigen recognized by bullous pemphigoid and herpes gestationis sera . immunolocalization of this protein to the hemidesmosome . autoantibodies present in the sera of patients with bullous pemphigoid ( bp ) bind to the basement membrane zone of normal human skin and commonly recognize two epidermal proteins , the bp240 and bp180 antigens . two bp antigen cdna clones from a lambda gt11 human keratinocyte library have been identified on the basis of reactivity with a bp serum . the fusion protein ( fp ) produced by one clone immunoadsorbed autoantibodies , which specifically recognized the bp180 by antigen , showing no cross-reactivity with bp240 by immunoblot analysis . the fp produced by the second clone immunoadsorbed autoantibodies which specifically reacted with the bp240 epidermal antigen . northern blot analysis demonstrated that the bp180 and bp240 antigens are encoded by distinct rna transcripts with lengths of 6.0 and 8.5 kb , respectively . immunoblot analysis of the bp180 lysogen extract identified a 135-kd fp which was recognized by 7 of 16 bp sera and 7 of 8 herpes gestationis sera . a rabbit antiserum prepared against the lysogenic bp180 fp specifically recognized the bp180 antigen from human epidermal extracts by immunoblotting , labeled the bmz by indirect immunofluorescence , and bound to human epidermal hemidesmosomes by immuno-electron microscopy . these results indicate that the bp180 antigen recognized by bp and herpes gestationis autoantibodies is a unique hemidesmosomal polypeptide , distinguishable from the bp240 antigen . 
antigen specific serum antibody response to chlamydia trachomatis in patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease . sera from 35 patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease ( pid ) with and without chlamydia trachomatis confirmed by culture and sera from 19 control patients with neither evidence of pelvic infection nor c trachomatis infection were studied for the presence of serum igg , iga , and igm antibodies to c trachomatis using enzyme immunoassay ( eia ) and immunoblotting techniques . there was no correlation between the antibody concentrations in the eia and the spread of chlamydial infection , as determined by cervical , endometrial , and laparoscopic sampling for chlamydia . the immunoblot analysis showed antibodies to the major outer membrane protein ( momp ) of c trachomatis elementary bodies in all patients who had had c trachomatis isolated . reactivity was also frequently observed against the 68 , 62 , 60 , 45 , and 31 kilodalton antigens . about 20 antigenic polypeptides were identified . differences in antibody prevalence to specific chlamydial antigens , however , were not related to the site of chlamydial isolation or serum antibody concentrations observed with the eia . the results indicate that patients with pid with and without upper genital tract infection with c trachomatis can not be differentiated by reactivity of sera to specific chlamydial polypeptide antigens . the determination of a specific serum iga antibody response by eia was the most effective single test to discriminate between patients with and without acute chlamydial infection . 
treatment of vaginal candidiasis : orally or vaginally ? vaginal candidiasis continues to be the most common cause of vaginal discharge . a large variety of topical drugs and a selection of orally active antifungals are currently available . the choice between the use of oral drugs or intravaginal agents will depend on the therapeutic results obtained with the different agents , side effects , pregnancy status , and patient preference . the results obtained in the maria hospital , tilburg , the netherlands , and a review of foreign data suggest the following : ( 1 ) for acute infection oral and topical agents produce equivalent results . ( 2 ) for chronic infections oral medication is preferred . ( 3 ) oral therapy should not be given to pregnant patients or to patients not using reliable contraceptive measures . ( 4 ) half the patients prefer oral medication ; only 5 % prefer intravaginal therapy , and the others had no clear preference . 
pelvic pain : lessons from anatomy and physiology . pelvic pain is often a difficult differential diagnosis in the emergency department . for physiologic reasons , pain in the pelvis is difficult to localize to a specific organ , and pelvic peritonitis is hard to recognize . on the other hand , differences in types of pain can be very useful in arriving at a correct diagnosis . the clinician must learn to recognize superficial and deep somatic pain , and differentiate between various types of visceral pain which originate from inflammation , ischemia , or colic . a review of the anatomy and physiology of pelvic pain helps identify some of the problems as well as potential aids in approaching the patient with pelvic pain . 
can the status of tubal pregnancy be predicted with transvaginal sonography ? a prospective comparison of sonographic , surgical , and serum hcg findings results of transvaginal sonography were compared prospectively with surgical findings and levels of serum human chorionic gonadotropin in 120 women with a proved tubal pregnancy . the most common sonographic finding was a saclike adnexal ring , which was seen in 74 of the women ( 61.7 % ) . this finding was strongly associated with functioning trophoblasts and with an intact fallopian tube . in 39 of the women ( 32.5 % ) an adnexal mass with a complex texture was found . of these 39 women , 20 had a tubal hematoma and six had a ruptured fallopian tube . the size of the tubal mass created by ectopic pregnancy was predicted precisely ( r = .91 , p less than .001 ) , and transvaginal sonography enabled detection of hemoperitoneum with a sensitivity of 91 % ( 68 of 75 women ) . this study suggests that the status of a tubal pregnancy can be predicted reliably on the basis of transvaginal sonographic findings . 
management of the pregnant patient with carcinoma of the breast . the diagnosis of carcinoma of the breast during pregnancy poses a challenging dilemma . although once regarded as incurable , recent reports reveal similar long term survival rates for pregnant and nonpregnant patients who have carcinoma of the breast . when referred to a surgeon , a pregnant woman with a suspicious mammary mass deserves an expedient histologic diagnosis ; delay may jeopardize the chances of survival . once the diagnosis is established , pregnant patients should be treated in a manner similar to nonpregnant patients because there is no evidence that carcinoma of the breast in pregnant women is biologically different than carcinoma of the breast in other premenopausal women . fears of fetal exposure to radiation should not deter a physician from ordering appropriate preoperative diagnostic tests to stage the patients . operation may be performed safely when general anesthesia is administered and postoperative adjuvant therapy should be administered when necessary . the involvement of multiple subspecialties in the management of these patients is highly recommended . 
staging of ureteral transitional cell carcinoma by ct and mri . intravenous urography and retrograde pyelography are the primary radiologic studies for detecting ureteral carcinoma but give limited information regarding stage of disease . computed tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) delineate the extent of ureteral carcinomas with a high degree of accuracy by depicting the periureteral fat and presence or absence of lymphadenopathy . in selected cases , ct and mri are valuable for assessing the presence or absence of tumor in a ureteral stump and for the differential diagnosis of ureteral obstruction . five cases of ureteral carcinoma and 2 cases of stump carcinoma are presented with preoperative ct and/or mri evaluation and staging . 
the frequency of uterine leiomyomas . as a leading cause of hysterectomy in premenopausal women . uterine leiomyomas are a major public health problem . however , very little work has been done on their epidemiology . indeed , their true frequency has never been established using systematic and meticulous methods . in this study , gross serial sectioning at 2-mm intervals was applied as an adjunct to routine pathology processing in 100 consecutive total hysterectomy specimens . this tripled the number of leiomyomas noted in routine pathology reports . there were 649 leiomyomas in 77 of 100 uteri , with multiplicity of leiomyomas in 84 % . although leiomyomas were more numerous and larger in women with a clinical diagnosis of myomatous uterus , the incidence was no higher than in uteri removed for other reasons . the postmenopausal incidence of leiomyomas was no lower than the premenopausal incidence , although postmenopausal leiomyomas were smaller and fewer . these findings suggest that epidemiologic studies of leiomyomas may not be valid if they are based only on clinical diagnoses or routine pathology reports . 
small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of bartholin 's gland . a small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma that arose in bartholin 's gland in a 30-year-old woman is reported . the tumor had light , electron microscopic , and immunohistochemical features typical of pulmonary small cell carcinoma and was metastatic to inguinal lymph nodes at presentation . this is the first reported example of this tumor occurring in bartholin 's gland . 
genitourinary cancer in the elderly . the subject of genitourinary cancer in the elderly becomes increasingly more important as our population of patients older than 50 years expands . carcinoma of the kidney , bladder , and prostate all have an increasing incidence over the age of 50 and have a predilection for afflicting men more commonly than women . etiologic factors , especially with bladder and kidney carcinomas , are well documented and in some cases preventable . screening the urine for hematuria and careful digital rectal examinations may uncover a higher percentage of these malignancies in earlier , more curable stages . recent advances in the treatment of all of these malignancies have improved survival and quality of life for these patients . 
contraception and ectopic pregnancy risk . studies of the association of ectopic pregnancy with contraception have generated a conflicting array of results because of methodologic differences between studies . we estimated the absolute incidence rates of ectopic pregnancy for various contraceptives by multiplying the pregnancy rate by the proportion of pregnancies with ectopic implantation for each method . our results indicated a more than 500-fold difference in ectopic pregnancy incidence , from a low of 0.005 ectopic pregnancies per 1000 women years of oral contraception or vasectomy to a high of 2.6 per 1000 women years of no contraception . these estimated incidence rates should be useful for clinicians and patients seeking to better understand the risks and benefits of contraceptives . 
calcium supplementation during pregnancy may reduce preterm delivery in high-risk populations . results are presented of a randomized , double-blinded controlled clinical trial of calcium supplementation ( 2.0 gm of elemental calcium as calcium carbonate ) and a placebo . all participants were 17 years of age or less and clinically healthy . patients were enrolled by the twenty third week of gestation . the mean duration of calcium supplementation or placebo was approximately 14 weeks . treatment consisted of 2.8 ( + / - 1.5 ) tablets per day in the placebo group ( n = 95 ) and 3.0 ( + / - 1.4 ) tablets per day in the calcium group ( n = 94 ) . dietary calcium intake was similar in both groups at about 1200 mg/day . the calcium group had a lower incidence of preterm delivery ( less than 37 weeks ; 7.4 % vs 21.1 % ; p = 0.007 ) ; spontaneous labor and preterm delivery ( 6.4 % vs 17.9 % ; p = 0.01 ) ; and low birth weight ( 9.6 % vs 21.1 % ; p = 0.03 ) . this effect was also present after stratified analysis by level of treatment compliance , urinary tract infection , and chlamydial infection . life-table analysis demonstrated an overall shift to a higher gestational age in the calcium group compared with the placebo group ( log-rank test , p = 0.02 ) . as suggested previously , the observed effect could be mediated by a reduction in uterine smooth muscle contractibility . if confirmed by future research , these results could represent an important preventive intervention for prematurity in high-risk populations . 
sexually transmitted diseases and human immunodeficiency virus infection among women with pelvic inflammatory disease . both human immunodeficiency virus infections and pelvic inflammatory diseases are sexually acquired illnesses of great consequence to women . this study was undertaken to determine if women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease , in a community endemic for human immunodeficiency virus , were at high risk to be infected with human immunodeficiency virus and if human immunodeficiency virus infections altered their hospital course . one hundred ten women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease in brooklyn ( in a hospital in which 2 % of parturients are human immunodeficiency virus seropositive ) agreed to human immunodeficiency virus testing ; 15 ( 13.6 % ) were found to be seropositive . seropositive women were significantly more likely to have an admission white blood cell count less than 10,000 / mm3 ( p = 0.001 ) . human immunodeficiency virus seropositivity was not associated with a higher frequency of other sexually transmitted diseases although there was a trend toward more cases of syphilis among human immunodeficiency virus-infected women . similarly , although there was no significant difference in rates of operative intervention ( 26.6 % among seropositive and 8.4 % among seronegative ; p = 0.058 ) , there was a trend toward more surgery among those who were human immunodeficiency virus infected . women hospitalized with pelvic inflammatory disease , in a community endemic for human immunodeficiency virus , are at high risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection . more research is needed to verify a trend toward more refractory infections among human immunodeficiency virus-infected women . 
the effect of large uterine fibroids on urinary bladder function and symptoms . fourteen patients with large uterine fibroids and urinary symptoms were treated with monthly injections of [ d-trp6 ] - luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone microcapsules . the average uterine size before treatment was 728 ml ; it dropped to 323 ml ( a drop of 55 % ) after treatment . urinary symptoms of diurnal frequency disappeared in 11 of 12 patients ( p less than 0.005 ) after the reduction of uterine size . urgency decreased in 11 of 13 ( p less than 0.005 ) and nocturia in eight of 10 ( p less than 0.02 ) . no differences were found before and after treatment in the symptoms of urge incontinence and stress incontinence in the cystometric and urethral pressure profile measurements . urinary symptoms of frequency , urgency , and nocturia may be caused by the direct pressure exerted on the bladder by the enlarged uterus . symptoms of urge incontinence and stress incontinence deserve a more specific treatment as they are not related to uterine size . 
the natural history of thrombocytopenia associated with preeclampsia . sixty-one of 375 women with hypertension and preeclampsia in a 48-month period had thrombocytopenia . by postpartum day 3 , 90 % of these women had rising platelet counts , and by day 4 , 59 of 61 women had counts greater than 100,000 / mm3 . the two exceptions had other pathologic conditions in addition to preeclampsia . thrombocytopenia associated with preeclampsia should resolve by postpartum day 4 . 
continuing controversy in alloimmune thrombocytopenia : fetal hyperimmunoglobulinemia fails to prevent thrombocytopenia . two patients with severe alloimmune thrombocytopenia were managed by weekly intrauterine platelet transfusions at 25 to 36 weeks . in one patient high-dose immunoglobulin was also administered weekly to the mother , and high maternal and fetal immunoglobulin levels were achieved . fetal platelet counts were similar in both patients . the only variable that affected fetal platelet concentration was the posttransfusion platelet count from the previous transfusion . 
laparoscopic ventrosuspensions . a review of 72 cases . laparoscopic ventrosuspension is simple to perform after diagnostic laparoscopy . serious postoperative complication is unlikely . however , patient follow-up over 6 months has not confirmed the usefulness of laparoscopic ventrosuspension in the management of deep dyspareunia or pelvic pain in association with a retroverted uterus . the success rate of laparoscopic ventrosuspension at 6 months varies from 18.6 % to 46.5 % . the prior use of a hodge pessary does not predict the success of laparoscopic ventrosuspension . 
pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy : atypical presentations . severe pregnancy-induced hypertension and markedly elevated levels of serum alkaline phosphatase developed in a 29-year-old-woman in whom one pregnancy resulted in intrauterine death . acute fatty liver of pregnancy developed with good fetal outcome in the next pregnancy . this case suggests that pregnancy-induced hypertension and acute fatty liver of pregnancy are part of a clinical spectrum . moreover , classic abnormalities of liver function tests need not be present in acute fatty liver of pregnancy . 
successful conservative management of primary nonmetastatic cervical choriocarcinoma . primary cervical choriocarcinoma is a rare disease ; since 1915 only about 60 cases have been published . the case presented here can be defined as primary cervical choriocarcinoma since it fulfills all the criteria delineated previously . 
management and outcomes of pregnancies complicated by human b19 parvovirus infection : a prospective study during a large statewide outbreak of fifth disease in connecticut in 1988 , 39 pregnant women were identified who had serologic evidence of recent human b19 parvovirus infection . the patients were followed up prospectively with targeted fetal ultrasonographic examinations to detect signs of fetal hydrops . of these 39 pregnant women , 37 had healthy infants and two patients had miscarriages . none of the fetuses developed hydrops . we propose that pregnant women exposed to b19 parvovirus be tested for evidence of igg and igm b19-specific antibodies and that targeted fetal ultrasonography be considered when igm antibodies are found . percutaneous umbilical blood sampling and intrauterine transfusion can be considered in cases of b19 parvovirus-associated hydrops and anemia . the overall fetal loss rate in this prospective follow-up group was 5 % . 
effects of hypertension on pregnancy monitoring and results . the effect of severity of hypertension on fetal heart rate tracing changes and neonatal outcomes was evaluated on all patients with hypertension seen in 1980 and 1981 ( 666 cases , 10 % of the pregnant population ) in the chicago-lying in hospital . the patients were grouped according to severity of hypertension , and the fetal heart rate monitoring , drugs administered , mode of delivery , and neonatal outcome were analyzed . half of the patients ( 326 ) had mild hypertension and 13 % ( 87 ) had severe hypertension ; the remainder ( 253 ) had moderate hypertension . there were 49 % primiparous and 51 % multiparous women . the diagnosis of preeclampsia was made in 76 % of cases , and chronic hypertension in 19 % . only 12 % of the total were premature by dates , but 47 % of this group were among the severe group . oxytocin was given to 50 % , whereas delivery was spontaneous in 56 % of cases , and by cesarean section in 22 % . this was higher among the severe hypertension group ( 37 % ) , and the prematurity rate was 47 % . nonstress testing was done in one third of cases and only nonreactivity was associated with neonatal death . neonatal depression ( apgar score less than 6 at 5 minutes ) was significantly associated with intrapartum fixed baseline and late decelerations ; these were the best predictors of fetal outcome . the administration of magnesium sulfate , hydralazine , meperidine , or morphine did not predictably affect the fetal heart rate pattern . the perinatal mortality was 21 % in the mild group and 36 % and 138 % , respectively , among moderate and severe cases of hypertension . close antepartum and intrapartum surveillance , including proper fetal monitoring , should help to reduce risks for mother and fetus through timely intervention . 
spontaneous infarction of placental chorioangioma and associated regression of hydrops fetalis . we report a case of a large chorioangioma diagnosed prenatally with concomitant meconium peritonitis and hydrops fetalis in the second trimester . spontaneous regression of the tumor occurred , associated with some resolution of the fetal hydrops and delivery near term with good neonatal outcome . 
ovarian pregnancy : a report of twenty cases in one institution . a series of 20 cases of primary ovarian pregnancy that were diagnosed and treated in one institution is reported . the prevalence rate of 1:3600 deliveries seems to be increasing in past years and comprises 3.3 % of all extrauterine pregnancies . clinical presentation , possible pathogenesis , diagnostic steps , preferred management , and future fertility are detailed . inasmuch as all our 18 fertile patients used an intrauterine contraceptive device before the operation , special emphasis is made on the controversial relationship between use of intrauterine contraceptive devices and ovarian pregnancy . 
ultrasonographic detection of the second-trimester fetus with trisomy 18 and trisomy 21 . biparietal diameter/femur length ratio and nuchal thickness were found to be sensitive indicators for the prenatal detection of trisomy 18 and trisomy 21 . a biparietal diameter/femur length ratio greater than 1.5 sd above the control mean correctly identified 5 of 11 ( 46 % ) fetuses with trisomy 21 and 3 of 4 ( 75 % ) fetuses with trisomy 18 . nuchal thickening ( 6 mm or more ) correctly identified 5 of 12 ( 41 % ) fetuses with trisomy 21 and 2 of 4 ( 50 % ) fetuses with trisomy 18 . the sensitivity and specificity of the biparietal diameter/femur length ratio in detecting either aneuploidy was 53 % and 93 % , respectively , whereas a thickened nuchal fold had a sensitivity of 44 % and a specificity of 100 % . the combined use of the two ultrasonographic measurements had an overall sensitivity of 81 % and a specificity of 93 % . prospective ascertainment of these two trisomies appears warranted in low-risk populations . 
infertility and eating disorders . sixty-six consecutive infertility clinic patients were prospectively screened with the 26-item eating attitudes test and a study questionnaire . women identified as being at high risk for an eating disorder were then interviewed to confirm or refute the diagnosis . a total of 7.6 % of infertility clinic women were found to suffer from anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa . if eating disorders not otherwise specified were included , a total of 16.7 % of infertility patients were found to suffer from an eating disorder . among infertile women with amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea 58 % had eating disorders . because women often fail to disclose eating disorders to their gynecologists and may appear to be of normal weight , it is recommended that a nutritional and eating disorder history be taken in infertility patients , particularly those with menstrual abnormalities . it has previously been shown that disorder eating and nutrition can affect menstruation , fertility , maternal weight gain , and fetal well-being . 
postpartum osteomyelitis caused by group b streptococcus . postpartum infections caused by group b streptococci are generally limited in scope . we report a case of vaginal colonization with group b streptococcus that progressed in the postpartum period to osteomyelitis that necessitated total hip replacement . the patient had no risk factors predisposing to streptococcal osteomyelitis . an altered immune status in pregnancy and intrapartum bacteremia may be involved in the pathogenesis of this infection . 
antenatal spontaneous perforation of the extrahepatic biliary tree . spontaneous perforation of the biliary system is an unusual neonatal phenomenon that is rarely recognized at birth . to date , it has not been reported antenatally . a 16-year-old pregnant adolescent had an ultrasonogram at 25 weeks of pregnancy that revealed ascites in the fetus . after the infant was delivered at 32 weeks , a hepato-iminodiacetic acid scan showed a spontaneous rupture of the common bile duct . the infant was treated with external drainage of the biliary tree and recovered well . this case demonstrates that spontaneous perforations of the bile ducts can occur much earlier than the usually described 2 to 12 weeks after birth , can be diagnosed antenatally , and should be added to the list of causes of fetal ascites . 
preoperative evaluation of serum ca 125 , tag 72 , and ca 15-3 in patients with endometrial carcinoma . we evaluated 109 women with endometrial carcinoma to determine the accuracy of preoperative tumor-associated antigen levels ( ca 125 , ca 72 , ca 15-3 ) for prediction of extrauterine disease and whether tag 72 , ca 15-3 , or both would improve the predictive value of ca 125 alone . eleven ( 12 % ) of 80 patients with disease confined to the uterus or positive cytologic findings had ca 125 values greater than 35 u/ml versus 12 ( 65 % ) of 20 patients with extrauterine metastasis . therefore ca 125 values had sensitivity of 65 % and specificity of 88 % . the tag 72 level was elevated ( greater than 6 u/ml ) in 4 % of patients with localized disease and 30 % with metastasis . ca 15-3 was elevated ( greater than 30 u/ml ) in 17 % and 65 % in these categories , respectively . tag 72 or ca 15-3 levels did not improve the combination of sensitivity and specificity of ca 125 alone . in addition , only one of 10 patients with microscopic metastasis ( three cases ) or positive peritoneal cytology ( seven ) had elevation of any of these tumor-associated antigen levels . failure to detect occult metastasis and a high false-positive rate limit the role of these tumor-associated antigen assays in the preoperative evaluation of patients with endometrial carcinoma . 
high infectious morbidity in pregnant women with insulin-dependent diabetes : an understated complication . patients with insulin-dependent diabetes are prone to infection , possibly related to poor metabolic control . relative immune deficiency exists in pregnancy . we hypothesized that pregnant patients with insulin-dependent diabetes are at an increased risk for infection and that infection is related to poor glycemic control . we matched 65 pregnant women with insulin-dependent diabetes to 65 nondiabetic pregnant controls . at least one episode of infection before delivery occurred in 83 % of the women with insulin-dependent diabetes ( 26 % in control group ) . the rate of postpartum infection was five times higher in the group with insulin-dependent diabetes and they were susceptible to more kinds of infections . although there was no overall difference among the indices of glycemic control , hemoglobin a1 obtained before the infection was higher than during infection . we conclude that a high rate of infection exists in pregnant women with diabetes ; infection and poor glycemic control may be associated , but it is unclear whether improvement in metabolic control will reduce this high infection rate . 
effects of intravascular fetal blood transfusion on fetal intracardiac doppler velocity waveforms . in 12 fetuses from pregnancies with red blood cell isoimmunization doppler velocity waveforms were recorded at the level of atrioventricular valves immediately before and at 15-minute intervals for 2 hours after the intravascular transfusion . the left and right cardiac outputs , the ratio between the peak velocities during early passive ventricular filling and active atrial filling at the level of both ventricles as well as the heart rate were calculated . before transfusion , the left and right cardiac outputs were significantly higher than reference ranges for gestation that were constructed from the cross-sectional study of 187 normal pregnancies . after transfusion there was a significant temporary fall in right and left outputs associated with increased ratios between the peak velocities during early passive ventricular filling and active atrial filling . within 2 hours after transfusion both parameters returned toward the normal range . in addition , no significant changes were found for fetal heart rate values before and after transfusion . the fall of cardiac output was significantly related to the amount of expansion of the feto-placental volume . 
intrapartum uterine rupture and inflammatory bowel disease . the incidence of uterine rupture in pregnant women ranges from 0 % to 1.1 % in large series . this case report describes a woman with a history of obstetric complications , uterine rupture , and active inflammatory bowel disease that was treated with high-dose prednisone . 
prenatal diagnosis of congenital cytomegalovirus infection by virus isolation from amniotic fluid . cytomegalovirus was isolated antenatally from the amniotic fluid of two pregnant women . in both cases prenatal diagnosis of the fetal virus infection aided the subsequent management of the mother and newborn infant . 
collagen metabolism in gynecologic patients : changes in the concentration of the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen in serum . we have previously found the serum concentration of the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen , an indicator of collagen metabolism , to be increased in advanced ovarian cancer . in this study we measured the serum aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen concentration in healthy women during the menstrual cycle and in patients with salpingo-oophoritis , leiomyomas , endometriosis , and benign ovarian tumors . the concentration was higher in the luteal phase than that in the follicular phase , suggesting an association of collagen metabolism with ovarian steroid hormones . severe salpingo-oophoritis increased the serum level of the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen with a decrease to normal during recovery . elevated values were occasionally seen in endometriosis and leiomyomas . these findings indicate that the aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen is a relatively unspecific indicator of ovarian carcinoma . 
hypoxic acidemia , hyperviscosity , and maternal hypertension do not affect the umbilical arterial velocity waveform in fetal sheep . the effect of hypoxic acidemia , hyperviscosity , and maternal hypertension on the umbilical arterial velocity waveform was studied in 23 chronically catheterized fetal sheep . fetal hypoxic acidemia induced by lowering the maternal inspired oxygen concentration ( n = 7 ) caused no change in the ratio of systolic/diastolic blood velocity even when fetal arterial ph was as low as 6.8 . fetal blood hyperviscosity ( n = 7 ) induced by exchange transfusion with packed maternal blood cells increased placental vascular resistance by greater than or equal to 50 % but had no significant effect on the systolic/diastolic ratio . similarly , maternal hypertension induced by intravenous infusion of angiotensin ii to the ewe ( n = 9 ) did not affect the systolic/diastolic ratio despite a 50 % increase in maternal arterial blood pressure . we conclude that umbilical arterial velocity waveform abnormalities observed in growth-restricted human fetuses are probably not a direct result of fetal hypoxemia or hyperviscosity or maternal hypertension . 
a progesterone-induced blocking factor corrects high resorption rates in mice treated with antiprogesterone . earlier we showed that because of the presence of functional progesterone receptors , lymphocytes of healthy pregnant women produced an immunomodulatory protein in the presence of progesterone , whereas those of nonpregnant persons did not . progesterone-treated murine pregnancy lymphocytes release a similar factor . the present study reveals the biologic significance of this finding . treatment of balb/c mice that were 8 days pregnant with a progesterone receptor blocker ( ru 486 ) resulted in 100 % resorption of the fetuses . simultaneous administration of the supernatant from progesterone-treated murine pregnancy spleen cells restored the resorption rate to the original 6 % observed in untreated control animals . these data suggest that functional lymphocytic progesterone binding sites are needed for the maintenance of normal pregnancy . because of the blockage of progesterone receptors and the consequent inability of the lymphocytes to produce the progesterone-induced blocking factor , abortion is initiated by immune factors . the fact that administration of the preformed blocking factor counteracted the effect of antiprogesterone treatment suggests that progesterone-mediated immunosuppression is needed for the maintenance of normal gestation . 
fetal and maternal response to intravenous infusion of a thromboxane synthetase inhibitor . pharmacologic inhibition of thromboxane synthetase activity has reversed the clinical manifestations of toxemia in the ovine model . to investigate placental transfer and fetal effects of a selective thromboxane synthetase inhibitor , cgs13080 ( ciba-geigy , summit , n.j. ) was intravenously infused into eight singleton - or twin-bearing ewes near term . during cgs 13080 infusion ( 0.1 mg/kg/hr ) , maternal steady-state cgs 13080 levels of 102 + / - 18 ng/ml were achieved within 30 minutes and maternal serum thromboxane generation decreased significantly ( 13 + / - 3 to 4 + / - 1 ng/ml ) . however , fetal serum levels of cgs 13080 were only 4 % of peak maternal concentrations and fetal serum thromboxane generation did not change . there was no evidence of change in uterine blood flow , maternal or fetal blood pressure , heart rate , blood gas values , or fetal or maternal metabolites of prostacyclin or prostaglandin e2 during the study . we speculate that cgs 13080 may be efficacious in the treatment of human pregnancy-induced hypertension . 
maternal genetic effects on ethanol teratogenesis and dominance of relative embryonic resistance to malformations . maternal genetic factors and/or fetal genetic factors contribute to variations in response to prenatal alcohol exposure . to assess the contribution of maternal genotype to ethanol teratogenesis , a reciprocal cross study was conducted in an animal model using c57bl/6j ( b6 ) and long-sleep ( ls ) mice . b6 mice are more susceptible than ls mice to prenatal ethanol-induced malformations but both mouse stocks are susceptible to fetal weight deficits following in utero alcohol exposure . b6 and ls dams were reciprocally mated to b6 or ls males producing four embryonic genotype groups : the true-bred b6b6 and lsls genotypes , and the genetically similar b6ls and lsb6 genotypes ( the f1 genotype ) . dams were intubated with either 5.8 g/kg ethanol ( e ) or an isocaloric amount of sucrose ( s ) on day 9 of pregnancy . fetuses were removed on gestation day 18 , weighed , and assessed for soft tissue or skeletal malformations . results showed a greater litter weight deficit and increased total malformation rate in ethanol-exposed f1 litters carried by b6 mothers compared to ethanol-exposed f1 litters carried by ls mothers . this result would be expected only if maternal genetic factors contribute significantly towards susceptibility to ethanol teratogenesis . the influence of the ls mother was to decrease susceptibility to ethanol teratogenesis compared to the b6 mother while the influence of the b6 mother was to increase susceptibility to ethanol teratogenesis compared to the ls mother . the average malformation rate for f1 litters was significantly less than the predicted midparental value . this shows that the f1 genotype exhibited dominance towards resistance to prenatal alcohol effects . 
emergency department diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy . study objectives : to assess the accuracy of the history and physical examination as compared to the addition of serum progesterone screening for ectopic pregnancy in women presenting to the emergency department . design : prospective , consecutive case series , n = 2,157 . setting : ed of the regional medical center at memphis , a publicly subsidized , 450-bed acute care hospital staffed by residents and faculty of the university of tennessee , memphis . type of participants : all ed patients with a positive urine pregnancy test treated between january 1 and december 31 , 1988 . interventions : screening history , physical examination , and serum progesterone ( p ) and quantitative human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) titer . measurements : all discharged patients were given follow-up appointments within two weeks ; those found to have a p less than 25 ng/ml were called to return for repeat hcg and transvaginal ultrasound . main results : one hundred sixty-one of 2,157 patients ( 7.5 % ) with a positive urine pregnancy test were found to have an ectopic pregnancy . all but five had a p of less than 25 ng/ml ( sensitivity , 97 % ) ; four of these were admitted for immediate surgery because of symptoms . overall , the ed physician detected 89 of 161 ectopics ( 55.3 % ) on initial presentation , 53 ( 60 % ) of which were ruptured at the time of surgery . seventy-two patients ( 44.7 % ) who were discharged but later found to have an ectopic pregnancy had benign clinical presentations , including 41 with vaginal bleeding . there were no statistically significant differences in the presenting symptoms of patients with unruptured ectopics compared with normal intrauterine pregnancies . all but one of the 72 discharged patients were noted the following day to have a progesterone of less than 25 ng/ml and contacted to return . eight of these were found to have a ruptured ectopic at the time of surgery . only 91 of 161 patients ( 56.5 % ) with ectopic pregnancy acknowledged one or more clinical risk factors on follow-up questioning . conclusion : the standard history and physical examination , including those performed by gynecologic specialists , are insufficiently sensitive for early detection of unruptured ectopic pregnancy . eds with a high incidence of ectopic pregnancy should strongly consider implementation of a universal progesterone screening program to decrease unnecessary patient morbidity and the risk of mortality from undiagnosed ectopic pregnancy . 
plasma prolactin and clinical outcome in preterm infants . plasma prolactin was measured weekly in 280 preterm infants . the complex gestational age dependent pattern of postnatal prolactin release has been defined and reference standards provided . plasma prolactin was higher in girls , with increasing divergence between the sexes from the third week onwards , and higher after two weeks , in infants of mothers with pregnancy related hypertension . diet , assigned randomly , exerted a major effect on plasma prolactin , with significantly higher values in infants fed donor breast milk or standard formula than in those fed a protein , energy , and mineral enriched preterm formula . after adjusting for confounding factors , infants with the lowest plasma prolactin concentrations ( less than 1000 mu/l , 32.9 micrograms/l ) occurring usually at a nadir between days 5 and 12 , showed a 120 % increase in the duration of ventilatory assistance required , a 20 % increase in the number of days to attain full enteral feeds , and a 30 % decrease in length gain . we suggest preterm birth disrupts the normal perinatal pattern of prolactin release and that those infants who develop relatively low plasma concentration have an adverse outcome . our data add to the broader debate on whether preterm infants require multiple endocrine replacement treatment . 
pregnancy in women with immune thrombocytopenic purpura . thirty-six women with immune thrombocytopenic purpura were studied during 37 pregnancies , and maternal characteristics with predictive value for the fetal platelet count were determined . nine neonates were thrombocytopenic , with a platelet count of less than 50 x 10 ( 9 ) / l in eight . four of these nine neonates delivered to a subgroup of 31 mothers were studied prospectively ; the frequency of thrombocytopenia in neonates of women with immune thrombocytopenic purpura was thus 13 % . only two of these nine neonates presented with hemorrhagic syndromes ( two , petechial purpura ; one , intracranial bleeding ) . the frequency of neonatal thrombocytopenia was higher in mothers with deep thrombocytopenia and in those who had not responded to corticosteroid treatment following diagnosis . no prognostic value could be assigned to the other maternal characteristics studied , such as a history of splenectomy , maternal treatment at the time of delivery , or the presence of platelet autoantibodies evaluated either with the platelet immunofluorescence test or the platelet western blot immunoassay . 
neonatal intracranial choriocarcinoma . a 1-month-old infant died from extensive intracerebral hemorrhage due to a metastatic choriocarcinoma to the brain that presumably originated in the placenta . the clinical course was characterized by hyperbilirubinemia , repeated episodes of seizures , and intracranial hemorrhage . a computed tomographic scan revealed a large vascular mass in the left parieto-occipital region and a small lesion in the left frontal lobe . the placenta was expelled during the delivery and was not examined . in view of the high level of maternal human chorionic gonadotropic hormone and the autopsy finding of metastasis , we presumed that the mass was a metastatic choriocarcinoma that had originated in the maternal placenta . to our knowledge , only one previous instance of this phenomenon has been reported . 
binding of anti-dna antibodies and inhibition of glomerulonephritis in mrl-lpr/lpr mice by heparin . heparin was found to inhibit the dna binding of antibodies eluted from kidneys of both humans and mrl-lpr/lpr mice with systemic lupus erythematosus . treatment of mrl-lpr/lpr mice with low doses of heparin significantly inhibited renal damage . these results suggest that low-dose heparin might be useful in preventing renal damage in patients with lupus nephritis . 
the effect of maternal ethanol infusion on placental blood flow and fetal glucose metabolism in sheep . intravenous infusion of 1 g ethanol/min over 1 hr to seven catheterised pregnant ewes decreased blood flow on both sides of the placenta . the reductions in blood flow were maintained for at least 2 hr after the infusion of ethanol had ceased . although blood flow was reduced , fetal blood gases were unchanged . plasma glucose concentrations were unchanged by ethanol , but fetal glucose supply and consumption were both decreased following maternal ethanol infusions . if maintained by chronic alcohol consumption these changes could contribute to the growth retardation seen in the fetal alcohol syndrome . 
ectopic pregnancy : ten common pitfalls in diagnosis . ectopic pregnancy ( ep ) is a common , life-threatening complication of pregnancy . modern technology ( ultrasonography and improved pregnancy tests ) should facilitate the diagnosis of ep . however , in a retrospective review of 65 cases of confirmed ep managed over 18 months at an urban teaching hospital , only 37 of 65 patients ( 57 % , cl95 = 44 % , 69 % ) received prompt diagnosis and treatment ; delays occurred in 28 patients ( 43 % ) . in 10 of the 27 delayed cases , the diagnosis of ep was not even considered at the time of the first visit . in patients with a delayed diagnosis , morbidity ( transfusions , cardiovascular instability , progression of illness ) did occur . diagnostic pitfalls that resulted in delayed care were reviewed , delays most commonly occurred in patients with a benign examination or " atypical " pain . risk factors for ep were missed ( 7 patients , 25 % ) , subtle clues to blood loss were often ignored ( 10 patients , 36 % ) , and passage of tissue was thought to exclude ep ( 2 patients ) . ultrasound was only helpful for half of the diagnoses and was misinterpreted in 27 % . a dry or serous culdocentesis occurred frequently . in five patients , a falling or low quantitative human chorionic gonadotropin level was believed to indicate a completed abortion . the authors conclude that almost half of eps are still missed on the first physician visit ; errors and pitfalls in diagnosis are still common in the 1980s . 
failure to prevent preterm labour and delivery in twin pregnancy using prophylactic oral salbutamol a double blind , controlled study was performed to see whether the use of prophylactic oral salbutamol would reduce the incidence of preterm labour in twin pregnancy . of the 144 women studied , 74 took salbutamol and 70 placebo . no difference was found in the length of gestation , birthweight or fetal outcome , although fewer babies suffered from respiratory distress syndrome in the salbutamol group . women did not experience troublesome side-effects from salbutamol . 
the relative risks of caesarean section ( intrapartum and elective ) and vaginal delivery : a detailed analysis to exclude the effects of medical disorders and other acute pre-existing physiological disturbances . objective -- to compare maternal mortalities attributable to vaginal delivery , elective caesarean section ( cs ) and intrapartum cs . design -- the number of deaths associated with each method of delivery was ascertained among unselected and among low-risk women by detailed retrospective review of the case-notes of women who died after delivery . the frequency of each method of delivery throughout the study period was ascertained from the computer database and enhanced by analysis of the case-notes of unselected groups of women . setting -- the peninsula maternity services ( cape town ) during the years 1975-1986 inclusive . subjects -- a total of 108 maternal deaths arising from 263,075 maternities provided accurate information . the relative frequency of vaginal and abdominal delivery was determined from the computer database . the ratio of elective cs to emergency prepartum cs to intrapartum cs was obtained by review of the first 200 operations in the years 1975 , 1977 , 1979 , 1982 and 1984 . main outcome measures -- ( i ) mortality rates associated with the different methods of delivery in unselected women and in women who were healthy before surgery ; ( ii ) mortality rates apparently attributable to the method of delivery . results -- the overall relative risk of mortality associated with caesarean section compared with vaginal delivery was 7 decreasing to 5 after the exclusion of women with medical or life-threatening antenatal complications ( eg , haemorrhage , hypertension ) . the relative risk associated with intrapartum compared with elective sections was 2.3 decreasing to 1.4 after the exclusion of women with medical disorders or life-threatening complications . the relative risk of maternal mortality which was apparently attributable to intrapartum compared with elective sections was 1.7 . however , the 95 % confidence intervals of these values , even from this large data-set , are wide . nevertheless , these rates are in broad agreement with an approximation derived from the british confidential enquiries into maternal deaths . conclusion -- the attributable relative mortalities of caesarean section compared with vaginal delivery and intrapartum compared with elective caesarean section are lower than the overall relative mortalities of these modes of delivery and are approximately 5:1 and 1.5:1 respectively . these data are crucially important in the decision to recommend elective caesarean section compared with trial of labour . 
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in pregnancy : a randomized trial on the effect of antenatal low dose corticosteroids on neonatal platelet count objective -- to determine the efficacy of antenatal low dose oral betamethasone in preventing neonatal thrombocytopenia and/or bleeding in infants of mothers with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ( itp ) . setting -- hospital department of obstetrics and gynaecology , referral centre . patients -- 41 pregnancies in 38 women were randomized . the results of 13 pregnancies were considered non-assessable . the final analysis involved 14 in the betamethasone group and 14 in the non-treatment group . all fulfilled the criteria for itp . interventions -- the treated group received 1.5 mg betamethasone orally per day , from day 259 till day 273 and 1 mg from day 273 till delivery . main outcome measures -- effects of treatment were assessed in terms of maternal platelet counts after the first trimester and neonatal platelet counts at birth and the first week of life and neonatal bleeding episodes . results -- there were no significant differences in neonatal platelet counts at birth . two infants in the betamethasone group and one in the untreated group had a severe thrombocytopenia either at birth or during the first week of life ( less than 50 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . seven infants in the betamethasone group and six in the non-treatment group had a mild thrombocytopenia . the overall frequency of neonatal thrombocytopenia was similar : 64 % in the betamethasone group and 57 % in the untreated group ( 95 % ci of the true difference : -43.5 % to +29.5 % ) . there was also no significant difference in neonatal bleeding episodes . conclusions -- low-dose betamethasone in pregnant women with itp does not prevent thrombocytopenia or bleeding in their newborn infants . 
diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy by vaginal ultrasonography in combination with a discriminatory serum hcg level of 1000 iu/l ( irp ) the diagnostic value of vaginal sonography in combination with a discriminatory serum hcg level of 1000 iu/l ( international reference preparation ) was tested prospectively in 200 pregnant women suspected of having an ectopic pregnancy . an ectopic pregnancy was diagnosed in 68 women ( 34 % ) , a miscarriage in 56 ( 28 % ) and a normal pregnancy in 76 ( 38 % ) . on admission , an intrauterine sac was seen in 89 % of the intrauterine pregnancies , but in none of the ectopic pregnancies . detection of an adnexal mass separate from the ovaries was diagnostic of ectopic pregnancy with a sensitivity of 93 % , a specificity of 99 % , a positive predictive value of 98 % and a negative predictive value of 96 % . in 19 patients ( 9 % ) the initial sonogram was non-diagnostic and the final diagnosis was obtained after a repeated scan within 6 days . five of these women had an ectopic pregnancy , 12 a miscarriage and two a normal pregnancy . on admission the hcg level exceeded 1000 iu/l in 77 % of all patients and in 67 % of those with ectopic pregnancies . in patients with an initial level exceeding 100 iu/l , an intrauterine sac was found in all the intrauterine pregnancies but in none of the ectopic pregnancies . the use of this threshold in combination with sonographic detection of an adnexal mass was diagnostic of ectopic pregnancy with a sensitivity of 97 % , a specificity of 99 % , a positive predictive value of 98 % and a negative predictive value of 98 % . 
randomized comparison of routine vs highly selective use of doppler ultrasound and biophysical scoring to investigate high risk pregnancies objective -- to compare routine versus highly selective use of doppler ultrasound and biophysical scoring in higher risk pregnancy . design -- a pragmatic randomized trial . setting -- st james 's university hospital , leeds . subjects -- 500 pregnant women at high risk of intrauterine growth retardation or still birth . interventions -- regular monitoring with biophysical profile assessment and doppler velocity waveform recording in umbilical and uteroplacental arteries . results immediately available to clinicians . main outcome measures -- gestational age at delivery , obstetric intervention rates and short-term neonatal morbidity . results -- risk factors were distributed very evenly between the 250 patients in the study and control groups respectively . a total of 902 biophysical profile and doppler assessments were done in the 250 study group patients and only in 12 patients in the control group . in the study group , absent end-diastolic flow was found in only 2.7 % of all 902 measurements . a persistently abnormal biophysical score was always associated with absence of end-diastolic flow . the mean gestational age at induction of labour was statistically and clinically similar in the two groups and there was no overall statistically significant difference in intervention rates between the two groups . there was a statistically significant lower frequency of depressed 5-min apgar scores in the study group . serious neonatal morbidity was also statistically significantly more common in the control group than in the study group . conclusions -- the use of doppler ultrasound in higher risk pregnancies does not lead to an increase in iatrogenic preterm delivery . the total rate of positive tests on doppler ultrasound is very low and persistently abnormal biophysical scores are unlikely to be found in patients where umbilical end-diastolic blood flow is present . surrogate measures for fetal damage seem to be improved when clinicians have access to doppler ultrasound assessments . 
a risk of malignancy index incorporating ca 125 , ultrasound and menopausal status for the accurate preoperative diagnosis of ovarian cancer . age , ultrasound score , menopausal status , a clinical impression score and serum ca 125 level were assessed to see how they could best distinguish between patients with benign ( n = 101 ) and malignant ( n = 42 ) pelvic masses . each criteria used alone provided statistically significant discrimination . the most useful individual criteria were a serum ca 125 level of 30 u/ml ( sensitivity 81 % , specificity 75 % ) and an ultrasound score of 2 ( sensitivity 71 % , specificity 83 % ) . three criteria could be combined in a risk of malignancy index ( rmi ) which is simply calculated using the product of the serum ca 125 level ( u/ml ) , the ultrasound scan result ( expressed as a score of 0 , 1 or 3 ) and the menopausal status ( 1 if premenopausal and 3 if postmenopausal ) . this index was statistically virtually as effective a discriminant between cancer and benign lesions as more formal methods . using an rmi cut-off level of 200 , the sensitivity was 85 % and the specificity was 97 % . patients with an rmi score of greater than 200 had , on average , 42 times the background risk of cancer and those with a lower value 0.15 times the background risk . 
serum ca 125 levels during the menstrual cycle . serum concentrations of ca 125 were measured in different phases of the menstrual cycle in 16 women with ovulatory and 12 women with anovulatory cycles . ca 125 levels were significantly elevated during menstruation in both groups . in women with anovulatory cycles , but not in those with ovulatory cycles , ca 125 levels were already increased in the premenstrual phase . a negative correlation was found between serum ca 125 and progesterone concentrations in the premenstrual phase of the cycle . we suggest that premenstrual elevation of serum ca 125 in women with anovulatory cycles is related to premature endometrial vascular changes which are the result of the low serum progesterone concentration leading to insufficient endometrial control . thus the effect of progesterone seems to be indirect rather than a direct effect on ca 125 synthesis . when the ca 125 assay is used for diagnosis of cancer , sampling should not be done immediately before or during menstruation because the physiological elevation of the ca 125 levels may give false positive results . 
lobular pattern of choriocapillaris in pre-eclampsia with aldosteronism . we report a case of geographic or mosaic pattern yellowish opaque foci in the left eye of a 36-year-old woman who suffered from severe pre-eclampsia . though the geographic lesions resulted in chorioretinal atrophy , the mosaic lesion led to no significant atrophy . these two findings were both diagnosed as manifestations of choroidal ischaemia , the former due to choroidal artery occlusion , the latter to transient insufficiency of choroidal circulation , which reflects the lobular pattern of the choriocapillaris . 
four and a half year follow up of women with dyskaryotic cervical smears . objective -- to determine the proportion of women with mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears who ( a ) progress to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade iii or worse or ( b ) regress . design -- four and a half year cytological follow up study of women with mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears . setting -- 666 women ( mean age 28 ( sd 8 ) years ; range 14-74 ) found to have borderline , mild , or moderate dyskaryosis on routine screening . results -- 45 women ( 6.8 % ) had a cone biopsy recommended on the basis of an abnormal follow up smear ( severe dyskaryosis suggestive of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade iii or invasive cancer ) , and in one patient cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade iii was reported in a biopsy specimen after dilatation and curettage . life table analysis gave a 14 % probability of a patient being recommended for a biopsy after four and a half years of follow up ( 95 % confidence interval 12 % to 15 % ) . there was a significant excess incidence of invasive cancer of the cervix in the series compared with the general population ( five cases observed compared with less than 0.1 expected ) . 157 patients ( 24 % ) showed reversion to a normal cell pattern sustained in several smears over more than 18 months but a single negative smear was an unreliable indicator of apparent regression . having two successive smears showing mild dyskaryosis or a smear at any time showing moderate dyskaryosis was a significant predictor of a subsequent severely dyskaryotic smear . conclusions -- women found to have mild or moderate dyskaryosis in cervical smears should be kept under regular surveillance . the optimum management of these patients -- by cytology or colposcopy -- needs to be determined by randomised controlled trials . 
wegener 's granulomatosis presenting during first trimester of pregnancy . we describe a case of wegener 's granulomatosis in a lady who presented acutely with pulmonary haemorrhage , fever and breathlessness during her early pregnancy . she responded well to aggressive medical treatment . 
an anonymous seroprevalence survey of hiv infection among pregnant women in british columbia and the yukon territory we performed an anonymous seroprevalence survey of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) type 1 infection through hiv antibody testing of blood samples from 22,512 women aged 15 to 44 years receiving prenatal care in british columbia and the yukon territory from mar . 15 to sept . 30 , 1989 . of the samples six were confirmed to be hiv positive ; this yielded a crude overall seroprevalence rate of 2.7 per 10,000 pregnant women ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 1.0 to 5.8 ) . all of the positive samples were from women 20 to 29 years of age ; four were from vancouver , one was from victoria , and one was from elsewhere . the highest seroprevalence rates were among women aged 15 to 29 years in vancouver and victoria ( 7.2 and 9.4 per 10,000 pregnant women respectively ) . thus , 1 in 1300 pregnant women in that age group in the metropolitan areas of british columbia was hiv positive . application of seroprevalence rates to the total female population in british columbia and the yukon territory revealed that as many as 401 women had hiv infection in 1989 . our estimates likely represent the minimum . as a subset of women of childbearing age pregnant women are likely at lowest risk of hiv infection , and so the true number of women 15 to 44 years of age with hiv infection is probably several times higher . our study has provided a baseline assessment and will be repeated annually to analyse trends in hiv seroprevalence among pregnant women in british columbia and the yukon territory . 
erythema infectiosum and pregnancy-related complications erythema infectiosum , an acute , communicable viral disease with a highly distinctive exanthem , follows the usual course of a self-limiting benign disease . in pregnant women , however , it may be associated with fetal death and nonimmune hydrops fetalis . because of the association of human parvovirus ( hpv ) b19 infection with fetal damage we reviewed the current knowledge of the clinical aspects of erythema infectiosum , focusing on pregnancy and fetal outcome , to determine the magnitude of fetal risk and offer recommendations for management . among 180 infected pregnant women 44 fetal deaths ( 24 % ) occurred , 1 to 12 weeks after the infection was noted . pregnant women should be advised that ( a ) because of the high prevalence ( up to 65 % ) of anti-hpv b19 igg antibody among adults most of them are not at risk and ( b ) if maternal infection does occur therapeutic abortion is not indicated since intrauterine infection causes fetal death more often than abnormal development . infection should be suspected in pregnant women who exhibit the symptoms of erythema infectiosum with or without arthropathy . they should be monitored for an elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein level ( indicating fetal aplastic crisis ) and undergo serial ultrasonography for the detection of hydrops fetalis . although the incidence of congenital malformation is no higher than the expected rate in the general population ( 3 % to 5 % ) , the precise incidence of fetal adverse outcomes remains unknown and requires investigation in larger , prospective studies . 
primary chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy and/or surgery for children with localized sarcoma of the bladder , prostate , vagina , uterus , and cervix . a comparison of the results in intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma studies i and ii . a major objective of the second intergroup rhabdomyosarcoma study ( irs-ii ) ( 1978 to 1984 ) was to preserve the bladder without compromising the survival of children with localized genitourinary sarcomas arising in or near the bladder . after incisional biopsy , 109 patients with localized , gross residual sarcoma of the prostate ( 43 patients ) , bladder ( 43 patients ) , vagina ( 20 patients ) , or cervix/uterine corpus ( 3 patients ) were treated with vincristine , dactinomycin , and cyclophosphamide ( vac ) . after two to four drug courses , radiation therapy and/or surgery were used to treat patients with residual or recurrent tumor . the 3-year survival rate of patients treated on this primary chemotherapy regimen ( 70 % ) was similar to that of the primary surgery regimens of irs-i ( 78 % ; p = 0.46 ) , but the 3-year disease-free survival rate was significantly inferior ( 52 % versus 70 % ; p = 0.02 ) . since the irs-ii encouraged bladder preservation at the onset of therapy , the percentage of patients with bladder and prostate tumors who retained the bladder was initially substantially higher in irs-ii ( 97 % ) than in irs-i ( 58 % ) . however , the percentages of 95 patients with bladder-prostate ( bp ) tumors in irs-ii who retained the bladder and were alive at 2 and 3 years after starting treatment were only 33 % and 22 % , respectively , compared with 26 % and 23 % , respectively , in the 66 patients with bp tumors in irs-i . thus , sequential treatment with primary chemotherapy , followed by radiation therapy and/or surgery as given in irs-ii , failed to improve the eventual bladder salvage rate . 
an analysis of abnormalities of the retinoblastoma gene in human ovarian and endometrial carcinoma . the altered expression of the human retinoblastoma ( rb ) gene has been demonstrated to play an important role in the pathogenesis of rb and other tumors . to determine whether the rb gene might be involved in the pathogenesis of human ovarian and endometrial cancer , dna from 24 human ovarian tumors , 3 normal ovaries , 3 endometrial carcinomas , and 1 endometrial hyperplasia was examined with an rb complementary dna probe . evidence for homozygous deletion of the rb gene was observed in only one specimen . interestingly , the specimen was an endometrioid tumor of the ovary of low malignant potential ( lmp ) . this patient experienced rapid progression of the tumor and died 8 months after diagnosis . abnormalities of the rb gene may be involved in the aggressive biologic behavior of certain forms of ovarian carcinoma , particularly those of lmp . 
primary carcinoma of the upper urinary tract . effect of primary and secondary therapy on survival . the pathologic material and medical records of 76 patients with primary upper urinary tract carcinomas were reviewed to identify the role of grade and stage in predicting survival ; to determine any differences in survival between ureteral and renal pelvic carcinoma ; to understand the role of local therapy in low grade , low stage tumors ; and to establish the usefulness of adjuvant therapies in metastatic disease . kaplan-meier survival curves with cox-mantel analysis for statistical significance revealed both grade and stage to be excellent predictors of survival . no differences in survival were noted between renal pelvic and ureteral carcinomas for equivalent stage tumors . for low grade , low stage tumors , although there was an increased risk of local recurrence with local therapy , there were no differences in survival between patients treated with local therapy or radical surgery . finally , cisplatin-based chemotherapy seemed to improve survival in patients with metastatic disease . 
perinatal infection of human t-lymphotropic virus type i , the etiologic virus of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma . dna amplification of specific human t-lymphotropic virus type i sequences . a gene amplification technique , polymerase chain reaction , was used to detect human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) , the etiologic agent of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma , in mononuclear cells in peripheral blood and breast milk of ten htlv-i carrier gravida . the dna in umbilical cord blood mononuclear cells of the neonates born to the htlv-i carrier gravida were also amplified and examined for the possibility of htlv-i infection via placenta during pregnancy . the htlv-i sequences were detected both in the peripheral blood and milk of all ten carrier gravida by southern blot analysis of amplified dna . however , htlv-i proviral dna could not be detected in the cord blood of the carriers ' neonates , indicating that transplacental infection of htlv-i should be rare and that postpartum infection via breast milk is a likely major perinatal transmission route . 
characterization of epidermal growth factor receptor in normal and neoplastic human endometrium . growth factors , including epidermal growth factor ( egf ) , have been implicated in the growth of several types of cancer . this study compares egf receptors in normal and neoplastic endometrium . membrane fractions were isolated from surgical specimens . radioreceptor assays demonstrated the presence of receptors with a dissociation constant of 0.64 nmol/l in normal endometrium . affinity cross-linking revealed receptor molecular weight of 150 to 170 kilodaltons ( kd ) . a survey of samples ( n = 37 ) revealed progressive decrease of egf receptors in cancers of increasing grade : grade 1-2 adenocarcinoma decreased 34 % from control ( n = 6 , p less than 0.01 ) , whereas grade 3 adenocarcinoma decreased 90 % ( n = 7 , p less than 0.01 ) and sarcoma decreased by 72 % ( n = 3 , p less than 0.01 ) . the dissociation constant and molecular weight of the receptor in neoplastic endometrium did not differ significantly from normal . the inverse relationship with grade suggests receptor alteration or down regulation by hormones and/or growth factors . 
placenta previa . a placenta previa , whether found fortuitously by ultrasound or with the clinical emergency of maternal hemorrhage , carries significant maternal and fetal risk . accurate diagnosis , judicious expectant management with transfusion as required , and delivery at the time of fetal lung maturation can lead to the most favorable outcome . anticipation of the clinical complication of placenta accreta may avoid some serious consequences . clinical judgement and skill in the performance of cesarean sections , dilatation and curettage , and other forms of uterine invasive techniques may help to keep subsequent incidence of placenta previa at a reasonably low rate . 
postpartum hemorrhage : placenta accreta , uterine inversion , and puerperal hematomas . puerperal hematomas , although rare , can be potentially morbid or life-threatening events . early surgical management , including clot evacuation , layered closure , drainage , antibiotics , and fluid replacement ( including blood ) , usually result in satisfactory outcome . prevention is clearly preferable and often achievable with careful initial repair of episiotomies and lacerations . 
eclampsia . early detection and hospitalization in women with mild preeclampsia may prevent eclampsia . in the event of severe preeclampsia or eclampsia , delivery is indicated for the benefit of both mother and fetus . thereafter , pathologic changes of preeclampsia and eclampsia , including major multiple organ system dysfunction , undergo complete reversal . 
amniotic and thromboembolism . embolic phenomena in pregnancy demand rapid investigation and treatment . regardless , some patients will not survive due to the enormity of the insult . optimally , such patients should be treated in tertiary care centers , but this is not always possible . 
acute respiratory failure . pregnancy entails many unique physiologic changes that make the management of ards both challenging and unique . most of these women are young and in excellent health before their acute injury , and their survival should exceed that of the general population who develop ards . we advocate aggressive management of the suspected lung injury including early intubation and the institution of invasive hemodynamic monitoring . this approach ensures the most thorough assessment of the extent of the initial injury and allows rapid assessment of therapeutic maneuvers and their subsequent adjustment . our goal is to reverse the initial insult early while avoiding further iatrogenic injury . optimal management of the maternal-fetal pair requires the cooperation of an obstetrician well versed in cardiopulmonary physiology and physicians skilled in intensive care medicine . 
utility of angiograms in patients with catamenial hemoptysis . pulmonary endometriosis is the likely cause in patients with hemoptysis during menses . while we describe two cases of catamenial hemoptysis , which were localized with chest ct scanning , angiograms revealed normal appearance . we suggest that angiograms may have little value in the evaluation of patients with pulmonary endometriosis . 
urogenital dysfunction after abdominoperineal resection for carcinoma of the rectum . the long-term urogenital dysfunctions in 46 of 104 surviving patients submitted to abdominoperineal resection for rectal carcinoma between 1972 and 1986 were collected and assessed . urinary retention was present in 41 percent of the men and 35 percent of women , while incontinence was present in 10 percent of men and 29 percent of women . impotence was reported by 59 percent of the males , all sexually active before surgery . dyspareunia was present in 50 percent of the women in the study . the possibility of treating prostatic hypertrophy concurrently with abdominoperineal resection in selected cases to avoid urinary retention is discussed . the limited number of responders to the survey may interfere with the global statistical significance . 
endometrioma . an intra-abdominal troublemaker . a ten-year review of intestinal and abdominal wall endometriomas is reported . seven cases of intestinal and two cases of abdominal wall endometriomas are presented . symptoms were varied but a majority had some gynecologic complaint . in this select group of patients , preoperative investigations did not assist in establishing the diagnosis . all patients underwent surgery and coexisting inflammatory bowel disease was present in two patients . this review suggests that endometrioma of the intestine requires a high index of suspicion for diagnosis and that danazol does not appear to be effective treatment for these patients . 
alterations in phospholipase a2 activity during luteal regression in pseudopregnant and pregnant rats . the activity of phospholipase a2 was measured in microsomes prepared from ovaries of superovulated pseudopregnant rats during spontaneous and prostaglandin f2 alpha-induced regression and during regression in pregnant rats . microsome samples were incubated at 40 c for 90 min in tris buffer ( ph 8.3 ) with 1.0 mm cacl2 added . the substrate , radiolabeled phosphatidylcholine , was incorporated into liposomes . during spontaneous regression , there was a significant 2 - to 4-fold increase in phospholipase a2 activity , when compared with levels at mid-pseudopregnancy ( days 8-9 ) . this elevation was correlated with a significant decrease in plasma progesterone concentration . on day 6 or 7 of pseudopregnancy , treatment of rats with luteolytic doses of prostaglandin f2 alpha also caused a significant increase in phospholipase a2 activity , which remained elevated throughout the 72-h sampling period . in pregnant rats there was a small but significant rise in phospholipase a2 activity after parturition . these results indicate that the activity of phospholipase a2 increases during luteal regression in pregnant and pseudopregnant rats and that it could be involved in the mechanism that causes the loss in progesterone secretion . 
current concepts of beta-endorphin physiology in female reproductive dysfunction . beta-endorphin has a role in the regulation of the normal menstrual cycle and possibly in the onset of puberty . we have reviewed the evidence pointing to an alteration in this neuropeptide that may contribute to the pathogenesis of various reproductive dysfunctions . elevated or high levels of beta-endorphin have been associated with exercise-associated amenorrhea , stress-associated amenorrhea , and polycystic ovarian syndrome . depressed or low levels of beta-endorphin have been associated with pms and menopause . alterations in the levels of beta-endorphin may change the pulsatile release of gnrh via noradrenergic and/or dopaminergic pathways . we have primarily focused on beta-endorphin as representative of the endogenous opioid peptides , but other opioid peptides may also contribute to the pathogenesis of various types of reproductive dysfunction . perhaps it will become possible to characterize and hone our understanding of the function of beta-endorphin and the other substances composing the endogenous opioid peptides . a better understanding of their role in physiological as well as pathophysiological processes may allow for the development of rational approaches to the treatment of specific disorders pertaining to reproduction . many questions remain unanswered . among the most relevant are : what is the precise mechanism of action by which beta-endorphin exerts its influence on pulsatile gnrh release ? is there a functional relationship between cns and peripheral ( serum ) levels of beta-endorphin ? are the detected changes in beta-endorphin levels merely associated , or are they a cause of a particular disorder ? since it took almost 40 years between the time prostaglandins were first discovered and eventual realization of their clinical application , it may take some time before the beta-endorphin story is complete . 
hormonal treatment of functional ovarian cysts : a randomized , prospective study . estrogen ( e ) / progestin therapy for functional ovarian cysts is widely used in clinical practice , but the efficacy of this treatment has not been determined in controlled trials . in this study , we examined the effect of e/progestin administration in a group of infertility patients enrolled in a program of ovulation induction who had cysts identified by transvaginal sonography . patients were randomized to receive either norethindrone 1 mg/mestranol 0.05 mg/d ( group a , n = 24 ) or no treatment ( group b , n = 24 ) for up to 6 weeks . patients were re-evaluated by sonography at 3 , 6 , and 9 weeks after entry into the protocol . the ages , mean cyst diameters , and proportions of patients having received gonadotropins in the previous menstrual cycle were not significantly different among the two groups . all patients who had a sonographic abnormality persisting for 9 weeks were surgically explored and found to have pathological cysts . the rate of disappearance of functional ovarian cysts was not affected by e/progestin treatment . 
further observations on the doubling time of human chorionic gonadotropin in early asymptomatic pregnancies . the doubling time ( dt ) of human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) in serum was investigated retrospectively using serial serum hcg values that had been obtained from asymptomatic pregnant women with a prior history of infertility . the dt of hcg did not increase significantly as pregnancy advanced during the period in gestation when the serum hcg concentration was less than 10,000 miu/ml ( international reference preparation ) . serum hcg concentrations increased subnormally in 2 of 60 women with normal intrauterine pregnancies , 5 of 8 women with asymptomatic ectopic pregnancies ( eps ) , and in 2 of 8 asymptomatic women who subsequently aborted their pregnancies . neither the sensitivity nor the specificity of serial hcg testing for ep was enhanced by adopting different test criteria at different serum hcg concentrations . 
oocyte retention after follicle luteinization . indirect evidence supports the existence of the luteinized unruptured follicle syndrome in infertile women . to seek direct evidence of oocyte retention , infertile and normal women were studied in the early and midluteal phase by visual documentation of ovulation stigma , needle aspiration of ovarian follicles , and peritoneal fluid collection for estradiol and progesterone assay . luteal phase was confirmed by endometrial biopsy ( postovulation day 2 to 8 ) . in normal control subjects ( n = 16 ) , 25 % of test cycles were stigma-negative and no oocytes were recovered . in infertile group ( n = 23 ) , 43 % of test cycles were stigma-negative . five oocytes were recovered including one from a stigma-bearing follicle . peritoneal fluid steroid levels failed to discriminate stigma-positive from stigma-negative cycles in either group . oocyte retention after luteinization occurs in infertile women . 
endocervical chlamydial deoxyribonucleic acid in infertile women . the presence of chlamydial deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) was evaluated by dna hybridization in endocervical cells of infertile and normal fertile women . chlamydial dna was detected in 49 of 186 ( 26.3 % ) infertile patients , which is significantly more common than in fertile control individuals ( 12.5 % , or 8 of 64 individuals ) . among infertile patients , 49.3 % ( 33 of 67 ) of those with tubal factors as cause of infertility and 13.4 % ( 16 of 119 ) of those with nontubal factors were found to contain chlamydial dna in their endocervical cells . the results show that chlamydial dna could be found significantly more frequently in endocervical cells of infertile patients with tubal factor than those without tubal factors or in normal controls . 
subzonal insemination for the alleviation of infertility . methods were developed to facilitate the use of subzonal insemination to achieve fertilization in vitro . a clinical trial was undertaken in those patients having previously failed to achieve fertilization by in vitro fertilization , and in those presenting with severe oligospermia/oligoasthenospermia . from 85 patients , 585 oocytes were obtained . of these , 0.3 % had been " activated " parthenogenetically in vivo , 369 ( 72 % ) at metaphase ii underwent subzonal insemination , 15 % were fertilized , and 0.5 % had three pronuclei . thirty-eight percent of the patients had fertilization with 36 % having a replacement . one conceptus was replaced in 19 patients , two conceptus in 8 patients , and three in 4 patients . a twin and two singleton pregnancies were established . 
the role of tubal pathology and other parameters in ectopic pregnancies occurring in in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer . contradictory findings were reported concerning the role of tubal disease in the genesis of ectopic pregnancy in in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer ( ivf-et ) . we report on six ectopics that occurred in 141 ivf-et pregnancies ( 4.3 % ) . all of the six cases were among 84 patients with tubal disease , and none occurred in the remaining 57 patients with other etiological factors . no correlation was found in other parameters including : ovulation induction , number of embryos transferred , and luteal support . a comparison between the ectopics and six matched controls demonstrated similar estradiol levels , but beta-hcg levels on day 15 to 17 after et were lower . homolateral salpingectomy was performed in all six cases , but a contralateral resection was carried out in three of them . more comprehensive studies are needed to clarify whether tubal pathology really increases the risk for ectopic gestation in ivf-et . 
effect of serum from patients with minimal to mild endometriosis on mouse embryo development in vitro . two-cell mouse embryos were cultured at 37 degrees c in 5 % co2 , 95 % air with a 7.5 % serum supplement from patients with minimal to mild endometriosis , ( group i , n = 31 ) , tubal factor ( group ii , n = 33 ) , male factor ( group iii , n = 17 ) , fetal cord samples ( group iv , n = 37 ) , and ham 's f-10 medium ( gibco , grand island , ny ) without a serum supplement ( group v , n = 30 ) . the progression to blastocyst stage ( mean percent + / - se ) at 96 hours in groups i , ii , iii , iv , and v was 29.9 % + / - 3.7 % , 60.6 % + / - 4.9 % , 56.2 % + / - 5.2 % , 61.7 % + / - 5.8 % , and 63.2 % + / - 6.9 % , respectively . serum factors appear to be associated with an inhibition of early embryogenesis , which may explain the decreased fertility rates observed in patients with minimal to mild endometriosis . 
peritoneal fluid fractions from patients with endometriosis do not promote two-cell mouse embryo growth . peritoneal fluid ( pf ) from 10 infertile patients with endometriosis , obtained during the follicular phase of the cycle during laparoscopy , did not promote two-cell mouse embryo growth to the extent observed by fluid obtained from seven normal controls . five molecular weight ( mw ) fractions were obtained by ultrafiltration , and each was used as media supplement in the assay and compared with pf fractions from normal controls . all fractions of pf from patients with endometriosis inhibited mouse embryo growth to a greater extent than did normal controls . however , the mw fractions greater than 100,000 daltons showed greater inhibition of embryo development than did fractions less than 100,000 daltons . this study of cell-free pf suggests the presence of a humoral factor greater than 100,000 daltons that is inhibitory on mouse embryo growth . 
triplet tubal pregnancy treated by outpatient laparoscopic salpingostomy . to our knowledge , this represents the first case of a laparoscopically treated triplet ep and the first time that a double ep in the same tube was treated conservatively ( with preservation of the tube ) . multiple eps may be more common than currently thought , and our report offers an alternative explanation for at least some cases of persistent ep after conservative surgical therapy . finally , given the substantial cost savings and reduced postoperative recovery time associated with operative laparoscopy , when the patient is stable and the surgeon experienced , the laparoscopic approach should be tried , regardless of the number of eps or their size . 
high-output left ventricular failure after dextran use in an operative hysteroscopy . high-output left ventricular failure occurred in a patient after a difficult case of hysteroscopic lysis of adhesions using dextran as a distension medium . the excessive dissection in the uterine wall , the long duration of the operation , and the large volumes of dextran probably caused intravasation of dextran into the systemic circulation inducing a significant shift of fluids from the third space . this was possibly assisted by the large volume of fluids given intravenously in a 45-kg patient initiating the reported sequence of events . 
management of deep venous thrombosis in the pregnant female . deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities is an uncommon but dreaded complication of pregnancy which can present diagnostic and therapeutic problems to the treating physician . from january 1 , 1985 , to december 31 , 1988 , 7867 deliveries were performed at st. luke 's hospital . five of these patients were pregnant women who were treated for deep venous thrombosis of the lower extremities . the women were either in their second or third trimester of pregnancy . the clinical diagnosis in each case was confirmed with duplex ultrasonography . each patient was treated with 7 to 10 days of intravenous heparin therapy and then discharged on subcutaneous heparin therapy . there were no bleeding complications related to the heparin therapy . no patient developed a pulmonary embolism . each patient delivered a normal child . the only complication was a heparin induced rash in one patient which resolved when a different preparation of heparin was used . the management of deep venous thrombosis in pregnancy is discussed . 
clinical review 15 : management of ovulatory disorders with pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone . pulsatile gnrh therapy has yet to achieve widespread acceptance as an alternative to exogenous gonadotropin therapy in women with hypothalamic amenorrhea and complete gnrh deficiency . however , when a physiologically based replacement regimen of pulsatile gnrh is used , a high rate of ovulation and conception can be anticipated in patients with complete gnrh deficiency and hypothalamic amenorrhea . women with polycystic ovarian syndrome may also benefit from pulsatile gnrh , although rates of ovulation are lower . pretreatment with a gnrh agonist may improve these rates considerably , but experience is limited . whether an iv or sc route of administration is chosen , a simplified clinical monitoring protocol can be created which requires a minimum of patient monitoring while assuring maximum safety . seventy five nanograms per kg appears to be a reasonable initiating dose , with subsequent increases in those who do not respond . the frequency of gnrh administration is best based on the gnrh pulse frequency in normal women . however , further information is needed to determine whether such a variable frequency is clearly superior to a fixed frequency regimen . when used appropriately , pulsatile gnrh is safe , effective , and offers an excellent alternative to conventional gonadotropin therapy for women with disordered endogenous gnrh secretion . most importantly , and as opposed to exogenous gonadotropin therapy , pulsatile gnrh can be administered by most physicians in the office setting without the necessity of on-line e2 monitoring . this feature will enable more patients to receive treatment by their local physicians , whereas exogenous gonadotropin therapy should be administered by appropriately equipped referral centers . in the future , further studies will be required to determine which other categories of patients might benefit from pulsatile gnrh . 
serum hcg beta-core fragment is masked by associated macromolecules . to determine if beta-core fragment is present in serum from individuals with pregnancy and choriocarcinoma , samples were analyzed by gel filtration and fractions assessed by immunoassays ( mr = 15,000 ) . in agreement with published reports , only minute amounts of beta-core fragment were detected ( less than 0.1 % of hcg level ) . a small amount of beta-core fragment activity was identified near the void volume of the column ( mr greater than 60,000 ) . this high molecular weight material was pooled and dissociated with 3m ammonium thiocyanate , and gel filtration repeated . a much more significant beta-core fragment peak was then detected ( mr = 15,000 ) . after dissociation , beta-core fragment was 18 % ( mol/mol ) of the hcg level in early pregnancy serum , 91 % in mid-pregnancy serum , 50 % in term pregnancy serum , but only 1.3 % in choriocarcinoma serum , pre-therapy . we conclude that the major form of beta-core fragment found in serum is associated with other macromolecules , which mask the beta-core fragment epitope to existing hcg beta antibodies . measurements made on the dissociated beta-core fragment complex are much more in keeping with pregnancy levels found in urine . 
comparative study of the changes in insulin-like growth factor-i , procollagen-iii n-terminal extension peptide , bone gla-protein , and bone mineral content in children with turner 's syndrome treated with recombinant growth hormone . six girls ( 7-13 yr old ) with turner 's syndrome and short stature were treated for 1 yr with recombinant human gh ( 0.15 u/kg . day , sc ) and had sequential determinations of serum insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) , osteocalcin , and procollagen-iii . bone mineral content and density of the spine and radius were measured before treatment and at 90 and 360 days . two girls received small doses of ethinyl estradiol ( 0.025 micrograms/kg ) in addition to gh . height velocity increased by 144 % after 3 months of treatment . igf-i was normal ( 0.75 + / - 0.20 ku/l ) before treatment and increased by 90 % on day 1 and by 290 % on day 360 . procollagen-iii was low before treatment ; it peaked at 53.0 + / - 14.7 micrograms/l ( 260 % above baseline ) on day 30 , then decreased to the normal range . serum osteocalcin increased more slowly to reach a plateau on day 90 of 23.7 + / - 1.2 micrograms/l ( 46 % above baseline ) . before treatment , bone mineral content of the spine was 25 % lower than that of children matched for bone age . bone mineral contents of the peripheral and axial skeleton were increased by 10 % and 17 % , respectively , after 1 yr of treatment , an increase commensurate with that of bone age in the four patients who did not receive estrogen . on day 90 , however , although radius mineral density was already increased by 3 % , the mineral density of the lumbar spine was significantly decreased by 4 % . we conclude that treatment with gh increases igf-i , collagen turnover , osteoblastic function , and height velocity in turner 's syndrome . however , there is no catch-up of bone mineral content after 1 yr of treatment , and an early effect of gh is to decrease spine mineral density . 
women with preeclampsia have higher plasma endothelin levels than women with normal pregnancies . endothelin , a newly discovered endothelium-derived peptide , has potent vasoactive properties in vivo and in vitro . the actions of endothelin in clinical conditions of hypertension have not yet been defined . this study examined the possible role of endothelin in the vasospasm and hypertension associated with a well-defined syndrome of gestational hypertension , preeclampsia . our results indicate that the concentration of immunoreactive endothelin is elevated significantly in plasma obtained from women with preeclampsia and rapidly returns to a normal pregnancy value within 48 hours of delivery , as predicted by the prompt clinical resolution of this disorder . the findings suggest that endothelin may contribute to the vasospasm associated with this syndrome and lend further support to the involvement of endothelial cells in the pathophysiology of preeclampsia . 
sensitivity of digoxigenin and biotin labelled probes for detection of human papillomavirus by in situ hybridisation . the sensitivity of digoxigenin and biotin labelled dna probes for the detection of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) by dot blotting and in situ hybridisation was compared in tissues from cervical , laryngeal , and anogenital neoplasia . probes were either labelled with digoxigenin by the random primer technique and detected with anti-digoxigenin antibody , or labelled with biotin by nick translation and detected with streptavidin , both methods having a common final visualisation procedure using alkaline phosphatase . digoxigenin labelled probes proved two to 10-fold more sensitive by quantitative dot blotting and four-fold more sensitive in detecting hpv 16 dna in a series of 31 anal carcinomas , compared with biotinylated probes . the digoxigenin method also produced less non-specific background staining of tissue sections than biotin labelled probes . it is concluded that digoxigenin dna labelling and detection provides a simple , reliable , and efficient alternative to the use of biotin or radioactive isotopes for the detection of hpv dna by in situ hybridisation . digoxigenin labelled probes also offer the possibility of double labelling in situ hybridisation procedures when used with biotin labelled probes to provide simultaneous identification of different dna sequences . 
adenomyosis in pakistani women : four year experience at the aga khan university medical centre , karachi . as part of a quality assurance programme at the aga khan university medical centre , karachi , pakistan , all hysterectomy specimens were reviewed from january 1986 to december 1989 . adenomyosis was found in 237 of the 419 ( 56.5 % ) specimens studied . of these 237 patients , 232 ( 97.9 % ) were parous and 196 ( 82.8 % ) were in the fourth and fifth decades of life . this high prevalence in parous women aged 40-59 years was significant . fibroids , cervicitis , and endometrial hyperplasia were the most common associated diagnoses . of all the associations studied , only endometrial hyperplasia was significantly more prevalent in the group with adenomyosis . adenomyosis was stated as an indication for surgery in 69 patients and was confirmed by histopathology in 49 ( 71 % ) . preoperative suspicion of adenomyosis was present in 49 ( 20.6 % ) patients of all those ultimately found to have the disease . there is a high prevalence of adenomyosis in the population studied , which indicates that the condition may have been underdiagnosed in the past , especially as it is difficult to diagnose without surgery and hysterectomy is currently the only treatment . 
sodium lauryl sulfate-induced irritant contact dermatitis in vulvar and forearm skin of premenopausal and postmenopausal women . reactivity of the skin of the forearm and labia majora to three concentrations ( 2 % , 3 % , 5 % ) of sodium lauryl sulfate was studied in 20 healthy women , 10 premenopausal and 10 postmenopausal . patches with the irritant were applied on day 0 for 24 hours . skin changes were monitored by visual scoring and by the measurement of transepidermal water loss and capacitance as indicators of stratum corneum hydration on days 2 , 3 , 7 , and 10 . in forearm skin , irritant dermatitis developed in the majority of subjects as indicated by visual scoring and increase of transepidermal water loss . these changes were not significantly dependent on the concentration of sodium lauryl sulfate . in labia majora skin , irritant dermatitis developed in 50 % of the women as determined by visual scoring ; however , because of the pigmentation , visual scoring readings were less reliable in labia majora skin . transepidermal water loss did not increase , but a significant and immediate decrease in capacitance was noted in labia majora skin . in forearm skin , postmenopausal women reacted less frequently and more slowly to sodium lauryl sulfate than premenopausal women whereas no age-related differences were observed in reaction of the vulvar skin . it is concluded that labia majora skin is not more reactive to sodium lauryl sulfate than forearm skin and that capacitance is more sensitive than transepidermal water loss in monitoring vulvar irritant dermatitis . age-related differences in irritant reaction are apparent in the forearm , but not the vulva . 
multicentric cloacogenic carcinoma : report of a case with anogenital pruritus at presentation . a case of multicentric cloacogenic carcinoma of the perianal skin and vulva in a 79-year-old woman is presented , and the embryologic basis for the multicentricity is discussed . histologically , cloacogenic carcinoma can be differentiated from other small cell neoplasms that affect the area . cloacogenic carcinoma should be considered a rare cause of anogenital pruritus . it is important to perform an early biopsy of anogenital lesions that do not respond to conventional therapy . 
vulvar melanosis . vulvar melanosis is a condition in which intensely pigmented irregular macules , clinically mimicking malignant melanoma , appear on the vulva . a biopsy specimen shows only marked lower epidermal pigmentation without any melanocytic atypia or nesting . the process is benign , and reassurance is the only treatment . 
use of polymerase chain reaction for successful identification of asymptomatic genital infection with herpes simplex virus in pregnant women at delivery . the polymerase chain reaction was adapted to the amplification of a herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) dna sequence , common to hsv types 1 and 2 ( hsv-1 , hsv-2 ) . the amplified product was detectable by ethidium-bromide staining or southern hybridization of gels and by dot hybridization . the hsv polymerase chain reaction detected hsv dna in samples obtained from eight patients with genital lesions from which hsv-2 was isolated in tissue culture and from four patients with labial lesions from which hsv-1 was isolated . the hsv polymerase chain reaction identified hsv in clinical specimens obtained from 11 women who had asymptomatic genital hsv infections at delivery . none of 11 samples obtained at delivery from women who had antibodies to hsv-2 , but whose delivery cultures were negative , were positive by polymerase chain reaction and no false-positive reactions were obtained when the reaction mixture contained human cell dna or varicella-zoster virus , cytomegalovirus , epstein-barr virus , or human papillomavirus dna . 
partial characterization of chlamydia trachomatis isolates resistant to multiple antibiotics . in vitro susceptibility testing was done on urogenital isolates of chlamydia trachomatis from five patients , four of whom were suspected treatment failures . at least one isolate from each patient was resistant to tetracycline at concentrations greater than or equal to micrograms/ml , although less than 1 % of a population of organisms showed high-level resistance . fully resistant populations selected by passage through 8 micrograms/ml tetracycline either died or lost their resistance on further passage in antibiotic-free medium . relatively large inocula were required to demonstrate resistance , and morphology of inclusions was altered at high tetracycline concentrations . the observed resistance may be a new characteristic of the organism or merely newly recognized . isolates resistant to tetracycline were resistant to doxycycline , erythromycin , sulfamethoxazole , and clindamycin but sensitive to rifampin , ciprofloxacin , and ofloxacin . thus , resistance to tetracycline , erythromycin , and clindamycin occurs in c. trachomatis and may be a factor in some treatment failures . 
recurrent bell 's palsy in pregnancy . a case of recurrent bell 's palsy occurring in two successive pregnancies in a 37-year-old woman is presented . the causes of facial nerve paralysis of the lower motor neurone type are discussed . the rate of recurrence of bell 's palsy during pregnancy is unknown . treatment with corticosteroids of bell 's palsy during pregnancy poses the threat of possible side effects on the fetus . 
hyperemesis gravidarum as conversion disorder . psychosocial factors have long been believed to be important in the pathogenesis of emesis gravidarum ( morning sickness ) and hyperemesis gravidarum ( hg ) . although this has been confirmed during extensive studies over the last 30 years , hg has never been described as a conversion reaction . we describe two women presenting with hyperemesis who clearly fulfill diagnostic criteria for conversion . we suggest that strong psychodynamic conflicts are expressed by this potentially dangerous symptom in a subset of individuals and that dynamic interventions have a role in treating certain patients with hg . 
herpes simplex virus type 2 meningitis without genital lesions : an immunoblot study . two sexually active female patients presented with acute meningitis . the csf abnormalities were severe and persistent . in spite of the absence of genital lesions , serological studies revealed a primary infection by herpes simplex virus type 2 . an immunoblot study revealed intrathecal synthesis of anti-herpes antibodies early in the course of the disease . 
long-term sequelae of conservative treatment by surgery , brachytherapy , and chemotherapy for vulval and vaginal rhabdomyosarcoma in children . between 1970 and 1978 , 17 girls with rhabdomyosarcoma ( rms ) of the vulva or vagina were treated at the institut gustave-roussy ( igr ) by conservative treatment including surgery , brachytherapy , and chemotherapy . twelve pubescent or postpubescent girls were studied for long-term sequelae . eleven of 12 patients have had a normal puberty , two have a total of three healthy children , 11 have normal menses , and 10 normal menarche ( one after hormonal replacement ) . only one patient underwent hysterectomy following low-dose brachytherapy . five girls have no vaginal complications , and three are sexually active . three have had minimal vaginal sequelae , which required surgical correction to permit sexual intercourse . four girls sustained serious sequelae ( colorectal , vaginal , urethral , and ureteral stenosis ) . these sequelae , secondary to irradiation , are potentially avoidable in the future given the current advances in brachytherapy and improvements in dosimetry . this conservative treatment is useful and appropriate for girls with rms of vulvar or vaginal origin when complete remission can not be obtained with chemotherapy and partial colpectomy . 
effects of energy restriction on mouse mammary tumor virus mrna levels in mammary glands and uterus and on uterine endometrial hyperplasia and pituitary histology in c3h/shn f1 mice . we investigated the effects of energy restriction on the pituitary-ovarian axis and on a hormone responsive gene , the mouse mammary tumor virus ( mmtv ) . female c3h/shn f1-hybrid mice , known to display a high incidence of mammary tumors , ate an energy-restricted diet ( 48 kcal/wk ) or a control diet ( 95 kcal/wk ) beginning at the time of weaning . by 67 wk of age , 12 of 32 mice in the control group , but none of the 33 mice in the energy-restricted group , had developed mammary tumors . six tumor-free mice from each group were studied in detail at 67 wk of age . all six tumor-free control mice , but none of the six energy-restricted mice , showed uterine endometrial hyperplasia at autopsy . mice subjected to energy restriction did not display an estrous cycle . the average levels of mmtv mrna in mammary glands and uteri were strongly reduced by energy restriction . mmtv mrna levels in mammary glands from control mice were two orders of magnitude lower than those in mammary tumors . energy restriction lowered the percentage of pituitary mammatropes and suppressed proliferation of mammatropes with advancing age . energy restriction thus appeared to inhibit endometrial hyperplasia and to decrease mmtv production at the mrna level in the mammary glands and in the uterus . these effects may be a consequence of hormonal changes originating at the pituitary-ovarian axis . 
ectopic pregnancy in adolescents : a clinical review for pediatricians . pediatricians caring for sexually active female adolescents and young adults need to be aware of the history , symptoms , and signs of an ectopic pregnancy . a thorough history and physical examination , including the pelvic examination , as well as specific diagnostic tests such as repeated quantitative hcg measurements , and ultrasonography when indicated , are crucial to proper and early diagnosis of a nonruptured ectopic pregnancy manageable by laparoscopy . the key to early diagnosis is to include ectopic pregnancy in the differential diagnosis in any sexually active female patient who has abnormal vaginal bleeding or abdominal pain . with early diagnosis , close observation , and appropriate management , the outcome is more likely to be favorable , with minimal morbidity and risk of death . 
effect of interleukin-1 on gamete interaction and mouse embryo development . early stages of endometriosis have been shown to be associated with infertility . the pathophysiology of this relationship is unclear . to determine if interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) , a peritoneal macrophage product , has any effect on gamete interaction and early embryo development , human recombinant il-1 was added to the coincubation of gametes in the sperm penetration assay ( spa ) , human zona pellucida assay ( zppa ) and culture medium ( ham 's f-10 ) used for processing semen samples with the layering method , with analysis of velocity and motility after 24 hours . il-1 was also added to mouse embryos ( two cells ) cultured for 72 hours . the results showed that il-1 caused impairment of spa and zppa when compared to control medium , without significant alterations in sperm velocity and motility . also , il-1 demonstrated significant inhibition of mouse embryo development . these results help explain subfertility associated with early stages of endometriosis . 
two urogenital sinus syndromes . interstitial cystitis and focal vulvitis . forty-six young women had unusual and presumably noninfectious disorders of unknown etiology involving tissues derived from the embryonic urogenital sinus ( urogenital sinus syndromes ) . ten women had interstitial cystitis , and 25 had focal vulvitis . eleven women had both interstitial cystitis and focal vulvitis . the affected groups were similar in demographic and other characteristics . most were white and in their mid-20s . both unusual conditions occurred in the same woman more often than could be expected by chance . this observation suggests that some common , perhaps autoimmune mechanism may be involved in the etiology of these syndromes . 
perinatal outcomes of twin pregnancies at term . a review of a two-year experience in our community disclosed that 57 % of twin pregnancies ( 118/207 ) deliver at term . little attention has been focused on perinatal outcomes of twin pregnancies remaining undelivered after 36 completed weeks . therefore , we reviewed our experience to determine whether our practice should change to maximize perinatal care . nearly all the study pregnancies ( 115/117 , or 97.5 % ) delivered by the estimated date of confinement . fetal malpresentation , failure to progress and the patient 's lack of desire for a vaginal birth after cesarean delivery were common reasons for the high cesarean rate ( 62/117 , or 52 % ) . the neonatal outcomes were favorable regardless of the route or interval between deliveries . discordant fetal growth was found in only eight cases ( 6.8 % ) . no perinatal deaths occurred , and five-minute apgar scores less than 7 ( 2/234 , or 0.9 % ) and rates of anomalies ( 5/234 , or 2.1 % ) were not different from those in singleton pregnancies delivering during the same period . using the principles of obstetric practice used in our community , we would expect the perinatal outcomes in term twin gestations to be favorable . 
midtrimester tubal pregnancy with markedly elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein . a case report . elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels have been reported to occur in a variety of pathologic conditions , including early tubal pregnancy . in this case , markedly elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein was associated with a midtrimester tubal pregnancy . the breakdown of the normal fetomaternal circulatory barrier , allowing the transplacental exchange of alpha-fetoprotein , was the likely etiology of the elevation . 
intrapartum , intranasal cocaine use and acute fetal distress . a case report . intrapartum , intranasal cocaine was used for relief of labor pains by a healthy woman with an uncomplicated pregnancy . fetal hypoxemia and distress followed the event . a causal relationship between the intrapartum use of cocaine and the fetal distress was postulated . cocaine abusers could benefit from hospitalization early in labor for close surveillance and monitoring , thus avoiding exposure to cocaine and its unpredictable systemic effects . 
randomized phase ii evaluation of carboplatin and chip in advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium . the eastern cooperative oncology group . a total of 83 patients with metastatic transitional cell carcinoma who had previously received no systemic therapy entered a randomized phase ii evaluation of carboplatin and cis-dichloro-transdihydroxy-bis-isopropylamine platinum iv ( chip ) , administered respectively at 400 and 270 mg . / m. 2 every 28 days . among evaluable patients with measurable disease response rates were 3 of 22 ( 14 % , 95 % confidence interval 5 to 35 % ) for carboplatin and 4 of 25 ( 16 % , 95 % confidence interval 5 to 36 % ) for chip . among 17 patients with evaluable but not measurable metastases ( 10 carboplatin and 7 chip recipients ) there were no responses . median survival for 64 evaluable patients was 4.8 months ( 5.0 months for carboplatin and 4.3 months for chip recipients ) . independent factors prognostic for survival ( p less than 0.01 ) were performance status ( 0 or 1 versus 2 or 3 ) , liver metastases , prior radiation therapy and recent weight loss ( p = 0.02 ) . multivariate analysis confirmed that a performance status of 2 or 3 and liver metastases were predictive of shorter survival . a total of 31 % of the patients treated with carboplatin and 34 % of those who received chip experienced severe or life-threatening myelosuppression . while the response rates with carboplatin and chip are modest , we believe that the characteristics of these agents indicate that they should be evaluated further . 
nuclear morphometry as a prognostic indicator for genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma : a preliminary investigation . rhabdomyosarcoma of the urogenital tract is a malignant mesenchymal tumor seen primarily in childhood . multimodal therapy , encompassing surgery , radiotherapy and chemotherapy , has dramatically improved the survival of patients with this disease . however , the quest for markers of tumor aggression is important to decrease the morbidity of treatment given to patients with good prognosis tumors , while at the same time intensifying treatment of tumors with poor prognosis . using archival tumor specimens from 13 patients with genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma , a multivariate analysis of multiple nuclear shape descriptors was done with the hopkins morphometry system . three nuclear shape descriptors clearly separated patients with no evidence of disease recurrence or progression from those with recurrent disease , progressive disease or death of disease . these nuclear shape descriptors were standard error of the chain code standard deviation analysis ( p = 0.010 ) , range of the feret ellipticity distribution ( p = 0.016 ) and standard error of the chain code range analysis ( p = 0.037 ) . with multivariate analysis these shape descriptors taken together separated patients with good and poor prognoses to a level of significance of p = 0.007 . thus , nuclear morphometric analysis may prove to be useful as an individual prognostic indicator in childhood genitourinary rhabdomyosarcoma and warrants further analysis in a much larger , blinded , controlled study . 
de novo carcinoma of the lower urinary tract in renal allograft recipients . immunocompetence has been postulated as an important defense against the progression of urothelial carcinoma . three cases of de novo lower urinary tract carcinoma in renal transplant recipients demonstrated the potential for unusually rapid urothelial extension and invasion in chronically immunosuppressed patients . two patients had a history of perineal condyloma acuminata ; tumors from 1 of these harbored the genetic sequences of human papillomavirus type 6 . one patient had multiple manifestations of cyclophosphamide-related urothelial injury , including bladder carcinoma . treatment of 2 patients culminated in a radical operation during which the remaining native urinary system was resected completely , with sacrifice of the allograft kidney in 1 and diversion into an ileal conduit in 1 . the remaining patient underwent urethrectomy and partial cystectomy with a sigmoid conduit . 
a giant renal artery aneurysm diagnosed post partum . we report a case of a 5.8 cm . right renal artery aneurysm diagnosed intact 8 weeks post partum . rupture of a renal arterial aneurysm during pregnancy is a rare but well described catastrophic event . there are no previous reports of an intact renal artery aneurysm diagnosed either ante partum or post partum . to our knowledge , this also represents the largest reported renal artery aneurysm . the aneurysm was repaired successfully with kidney salvage and closure of the fistulous connection to the renal vein . 
hiv infection , pregnant women , and newborns . a policy proposal for information and testing . working group on hiv testing of pregnant women and newborns as the public health impact of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in women and children has increased , so has interest in screening pregnant women and newborns for evidence of hiv infection . however , screening of pregnant women and newborns raises profound moral , legal , and policy issues . in this article , we present and defend a detailed 10-point program of policy recommendations for both pregnant women and newborns . we advocate informing all pregnant women and new mothers about the hiv epidemic and the availability of testing . 
recall of alcohol consumption during pregnancy . this is a test-retest reliability study of self-reported alcohol use during pregnancy , in which two groups of women provided two reports about their first trimester drinking over a 3-month interval ( group 1 ) and over a 5-month interval ( group 2 ) . women in group 1 ( n = 91 ) were queried about first trimester alcohol consumption during their fourth month of pregnancy and again during their seventh month , a 3-month recall interval . group 2 women ( n = 88 ) provided first trimester drinking reports during their fourth month of pregnancy and again at delivery , a 5-month recall interval . the test-retest pearson correlation coefficient for recall of first trimester average daily volume ( adv ) was .61 ( p = .000 ) for group 1 and .53 ( p = .000 ) for group 2 . when the adv scores were grouped into five ordinal categories , 51.6 % of group 1 and 56.8 % of group 2 remained in the same category at test and retest . this leads to the conclusion that self-reported alcohol consumption is moderately reliable over a 3-month and a 5-month time period . 
buruli ulcer in benin in a study of 28 patients with mycobacterium ulcerans infection ( buruli ulcer ) in oinhi , benin , it became clear that the disease can regress as well as progress , and that patients can have lesions of different stages simultaneously . a system of disease staging was introduced ( i = subcutaneous nodule ; ii = cellulitis ; iii = ulceration ; iv = scar formation ) . research to find an effective treatment for this crippling disease is urgently needed . 
hypersecretion of luteinising hormone , infertility , and miscarriage the relation between prepregnancy follicular-phase serum luteinising hormone ( lh ) concentrations and outcome of pregnancy was investigated prospectively in 193 women with regular spontaneous menstrual cycles . the group included 26 nulliparous and 167 multiparous women with various obstetric histories . of the 147 women with lh concentrations of less than 10 iu/l ( normal lh group ) 130 ( 88 % ) conceived , whereas only 31 ( 67 % ) of the 46 women with lh values of 10 iu/l or more ( high lh group ) did so . in the high lh group , 20 ( 65 % ) of the pregnancies ended in miscarriage , whereas only 15 ( 12 % ) of pregnancies in the normal lh group did so . the adverse effect of a high prepregnancy lh concentration on fertility and outcome of pregnancy was seen in primigravidae , women with previously successful pregnancies , and women with a history of recurrent miscarriage . these data indicate an important role for hypersecretion of lh before conception in miscarriage . this finding offers the possibility of a simple predictive test for women before pregnancy , and could also be used to identify patients with an endocrine abnormality that can be remedied . 
frequency and costs of diagnostic imaging in office practice -- a comparison of self-referring and radiologist-referring physicians background . to assess possible differences in physicians ' practices with respect to diagnostic imaging , we compared the frequency and costs of imaging examinations as performed by primary physicians who used imaging equipment in their offices ( self-referring ) and as ordered by physicians who always referred patients to radiologists ( radiologist-referring ) . methods . using a large , private insurance-claims data base , we analyzed 65,517 episodes of outpatient care by 6419 physicians for acute upper respiratory symptoms , pregnancy , low back pain , or ( in men ) difficulty urinating . the respective imaging procedures studied were chest radiography , obstetrical ultrasonography , radiography of the lumbar spine , and excretory urography , cystography , or ultrasonography . results . for all four clinical presentations , the self-referring physicians obtained imaging examinations 4.0 to 4.5 times more often than the radiologist-referring physicians ( p less than 0.0001 for all four ) . for chest radiography , obstetrical ultrasonography , and lumbar spine radiography , the self-referring physicians charged significantly more than the radiologists for imaging examinations of similar complexity ( p less than 0.0001 for all three ) . the combination of more frequent imaging and higher charges resulted in mean imaging charges per episode of care that were 4.4 to 7.5 times higher for the self-referring physicians ( p less than 0.0001 ) . these results were confirmed in a separate analysis that controlled for the specialty of the physician . conclusions . physicians who do not refer their patients to radiologists for medical imaging use imaging examinations more frequently than do physicians who refer their patients to radiologists , and the charges are usually higher when the imaging is done by the self-referring physician . from our results it is not possible to determine which group of physicians uses imaging more appropriately . 
cavernous hemangioma of the spinal cord : report of 2 unusual cases . we present 2 cases of spinal cord intramedullary cavernous hemangioma ; 1 patient is the 1st reported case of multiple spinal cord lesions . diagnosis is greatly enhanced by the use of mri . 
classification of endometrial cells on cervical cytology . one hundred eighty-eight women who had endometrial cells on cervical cytologic specimens during the secretory phase or in the postmenopausal period were studied retrospectively . each had undergone hysterectomy or endometrial biopsy within 12 months of the original smear . the endometrial cells were classified as typical , atypical , or suspicious for carcinoma . among premenopausal subjects , three of 57 with typical cells had endometrial hyperplasia , one of two with atypical cells had endometrial polyps , and both with cells suspicious for carcinoma had endometrial carcinoma . in the postmenopausal group , ten ( 13.5 % ) of 74 with typical endometrial cells had either hyperplasia or carcinoma , and five ( 22.7 % ) of 22 with atypical cells and 24 77.4 % ) of 31 patients with suspicious cells had either hyperplasia or carcinoma . the present findings and a review of the pertinent literature demonstrate that the classification system used is helpful in predicting the risk for endometrial disease in patients with endometrial cells seen on cervical cytologic smears during the secretory phase or in the postmenopausal period . 
a randomized trial comparing two methods of cold knife conization with laser conization . in a randomized study , 62 women were submitted to cold knife conization with application of sturmdorf sutures , 60 to cold knife conization without sutures , and 61 to laser conization . early hemorrhage occurred in 1.6 , 13.3 , and 6.6 % of women , respectively ( p less than .05 ) , and late hemorrhage in 15.3 , 3.6 , and 11.7 % , respectively . considering early and late hemorrhage together , there was no significant difference among the three treatment groups . dysmenorrhea tended to be more common after application of sturmdorf sutures , as it was reported by 27.8 , 13.2 , and 14.3 % of patients , respectively , but the difference was not statistically significant . dysmenorrhea occurred in 13 % of the cases with a cone height of 20 mm or less and in 26 % of the cases with a cone height greater than 20 mm ( p less than .05 ) . endocervical cells were present significantly more often after sampling with a cytobrush than with a cotton swab ( p less than .0001 ) , whereas the method of conization had no influence . in smears obtained with a cytobrush , endocervical cells were present in 88.0 , 84.9 , and 82.5 % of the cases ; in smears obtained with a cotton swab , endocervical cells were present in 46.6 , 57.7 , and 54.5 % , respectively . we conclude that cold knife conization without sturmdorf sutures is about equal to laser conization in overall complications , but the laser is preferable for outpatient treatment because of a lower frequency of early hemorrhage . sturmdorf sutures should be avoided . smears at follow-up should be taken with a cytobrush and a wooden spatula . 
maternal mortality in the united states , 1979-1986 . to understand better the epidemiology and to describe the causes of maternal death , we reviewed all identified maternal deaths in the united states and puerto rico for 1979-1986 . the overall maternal mortality ratio for the period was 9.1 deaths per 100,000 live births . the ratios increased with age and were higher among women of black and other minority races than among white women for all age groups . the causes of death varied for different outcomes of pregnancy ; pulmonary embolism was the leading cause of death after a live birth . unmarried women had a higher risk of death than married women . the risk of death increased with increasing live-birth order , except for primiparas . in order to develop strategies to reduce the risk of maternal death in the united states , future studies should include expanded information about each death , which will allow better understanding of factors associated with maternal mortality . 
maternal hemodynamics in normal and preeclamptic pregnancies : a longitudinal study preeclampsia is a disease unique to pregnancy that contributes substantially to maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality . the condition has been thought to be one of hypoperfusion in which increased vascular resistance characterizes the associated hypertension . this study was designed to test an alternative hypothesis , that preeclampsia is characterized by high cardiac output . in a blinded longitudinal study of nulliparas with uncomplicated pregnancies , cardiac output was measured serially by doppler technique . cardiac output was elevated throughout pregnancy in patients who became preeclamptic ( p = .006 ) . six weeks postpartum , the hypertension of the preeclamptic subjects had resolved but cardiac output remained elevated ( p = .001 ) and peripheral resistance remained lower than in the normotensive subjects ( p = .001 ) . this study demonstrates that preeclampsia is not a disease of systemic hypoperfusion and challenges most current models of the disease based on that assumption . 
aggressive or expectant management for patients with severe preeclampsia between 28-34 weeks ' gestation : a randomized controlled trial . fifty-eight women with severe preeclampsia between 28-34 weeks ' gestation qualified for a randomized controlled trial to establish whether elective delivery 48 hours after administration of betamethasone ( aggressive-management group ) or delivery later as indicated by maternal or fetal condition ( expectant-management group ) was more beneficial to maternal and fetal outcome . twenty women who qualified were not randomized because they developed maternal or fetal indications necessitating delivery within 48 hours ; these newborns developed most of the complications . expectant management was not associated with an increase in maternal complications , but it significantly prolonged the gestational age ( mean 7.1 days ; p less than .05 ) , reduced the number of neonates requiring ventilation ( p less than .05 ) , and reduced the number of neonatal complications ( p less than .05 ) . 
pregnancy and liver transplantation . to define the risks and outcomes associated with pregnancy and liver transplantation , we reviewed our experience in managing eight pregnant women who had undergone orthotopic liver transplantation . seven patients conceived after transplantation ; the interval from transplantation to conception ranged from 3 weeks to 24 months . one patient received an allograft at 26 weeks ' gestation for hepatic failure secondary to acute fulminant hepatitis b. of the seven patients who conceived after transplantation , six had live births and one electively terminated her pregnancy . five patients developed worsening hypertension and/or preeclampsia . three patients developed severe preeclampsia and required delivery . one patient suffered acute allograft rejection during pregnancy which was successfully treated with corticosteroids . two patients had persistent elevation of serum transaminases and two had severe anemia . the mean gestational age at delivery was 32.8 weeks . of the six live births to women who conceived after transplantation , five infants survived and are well and one infant died . there were no congenital anomalies . all mothers are alive at this time . pregnancy in recipients of hepatic allografts is associated with good perinatal outcome , but there is an increased risk of preeclampsia , worsening hypertension , and preterm delivery . pregnancy does not appear to have a deleterious effect on hepatic graft function or survival . joint management of these patients by a transplant specialist and a perinatologist is essential . 
objective tocodynamometry identifies labor onset earlier than subjective maternal perception . the ability of women instructed in self-detection of uterine contractions to identify the abrupt rise in uterine activity known to precede the onset of labor has not been evaluated . this study was designed to assess the temporal relationship between objective uterine activity monitoring , subjective maternal perception of uterine activity above a commonly used threshold value ( four or more contractions per hour ) , and progressive cervical change . daily tocodynamometry ( 7-9 am ) was recorded in 79 women with preterm premature rupture of the membranes from admission until the onset of spontaneous labor ( 5.3 + / - 6.3 days ) . the subjects were at bed rest , received no tocolytic therapy , and were instructed in the signs of labor and uterine self-palpation . patients simultaneously provided a subjective assessment of uterine activity ( four or more contractions per hour ) . the majority of uterine activity recordings ( 78 % ) revealed fewer than four contractions per hour , and the patients ' subjective reports agreed in almost all instances ( 97.6 % ) . on 91 days , four or more contractions per hour were recorded objectively , but the patients ' subjective reports agreed in only 25 instances ( 27 % ) . on the day of labor onset , significantly more women had an objective assessment ( 32 % ) ( p less than or equal to .01 ) . patients subjectively identified labor onset 10.6 + / - 6.7 hours after objective monitoring indicated increased uterine activity , and when subjectively identified , both cervical dilatation ( 4.9 + / - 2.5 cm ) and effacement ( 85 + / - 30 % ) were significantly advanced ( p less than or equal to .001 ) compared with the admission examination ( 1.1 + / - 1.2 cm ; 20 + / - 30 % ) . 
effect of angiotensin ii infusion during normal pregnancy on flow velocity waveforms in the uteroplacental and umbilical circulations women destined to develop preeclampsia show an increased systemic pressor response to infused angiotensin ii , and the angiotensin sensitivity test has been accepted as an appropriate means of identifying these women . however , the effect of angiotensin ii infusion on uteroplacental blood flow is unknown and may be deleterious . patients undergoing angiotensin sensitivity tests as part of a protocol examining the effect of aspirin on the incidence of preeclampsia were studied with doppler velocimetry performed before and during the angiotensin ii infusion . fetal well-being was documented with biophysical profiles performed before and after the infusions . neither the systolic-diastolic ratios in the uterine and umbilical arteries nor the biophysical profile scores were altered significantly ( p = .43 , p = .23 , wilcoxon signed-rank median test , and p = .35 , fisher exact test , respectively ) . these findings suggest that the angiotensin sensitivity test does not increase resistance to flow in the uterine or umbilical circulation , and therefore may be used safely in screening for preeclampsia . 
the association between oligohydramnios and intrauterine growth retardation . among 147 cases of suspected intrauterine growth retardation ( iugr ) identified based upon ultrasonic abdominal circumference below the tenth percentile , 56 were confirmed iugr infants at birth and 91 were non-iugr infants . eight of 316 control fetuses with abdominal circumference above the tenth percentile turned out to be iugr infants at birth . the incidence of oligohydramnios was strikingly different among the three groups : 29 % for the iugr group , 9 % for the non-iugr group , and 0.6 % for the controls ( p less than .001 ) . when the criteria of abdominal circumference below the tenth percentile and presence of oligohydramnios were used together , the positive predictive value doubled ( from 38.1 to 66.7 % ; p less than .01 ) . oligohydramnios developed some time after the somatic evidence of fetal growth retardation in all cases in this study . finally , there were no significant differences between fetal growth retardation with or without oligohydramnios with respect to maternal risk factors or fetal outcome . we conclude that in fetal growth retardation , the occurrence of oligohydramnios during the third trimester of pregnancy is not associated with worse fetal outcome . 
persistent ectopic pregnancy following laparoscopic linear salpingostomy . as the surgical approach for ectopic pregnancies evolves from radical to conservative procedures , the potential hazard of persistent ectopic pregnancy has become increasingly pertinent . from september 1 , 1986 to august 31 , 1989 , 11 women with persistent ectopic pregnancy after laparoscopic salpingostomy were diagnosed and treated at yale-new haven hospital . persistent ectopic pregnancy was suspected in nine cases because of symptoms and in two because of plateauing beta-hcg titers . ten of 11 patients underwent repeat surgery . eight had partial or complete salpingectomy of the involved ipsilateral tube , two had repeat salpingostomies , and one was treated with methotrexate . when the 11 women with persistent ectopic pregnancies were compared with 70 patients treated successfully by laparoscopic salpingostomy using multivariate stepwise logistic regression , smaller size of the ectopic ( p less than .01 ) and fewer days of amenorrhea ( p less than .05 ) predicted persistent ectopic pregnancy after laparoscopic salpingostomy . based upon our experience , we believe that earlier-treated ectopic pregnancies ( ie , fewer than 42 days of amenorrhea ) and/or smaller ectopics ( ie , 2.0 cm or less in diameter ) require treatment with particular caution and close postoperative surveillance . 
serum estradiol as an aid in the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy . the value of serum beta-hcg measurement in the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy is well established , and there have been recent studies on the use of serum progesterone levels . however , we have been unable to find any reports on the potential application of serum estradiol ( e2 ) assays in the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy . we therefore concurrently measured serum e2 , progesterone , and beta-hcg in 100 women with ectopic pregnancies , as well as in 69 controls with normal intrauterine pregnancies and 36 women with threatened abortion . the mean ( + / - standard deviation ) e2 levels for ectopic-pregnancy patients , the normal controls , and the women with threatened abortion were 281.1 + / - 115.6 , 788.2 + / - 45.5 , and 788.8 + / - 40.6 pg/ml , respectively ; the mean levels in the ectopic group were significantly different ( p less than .0001 ) from those of the other two groups . all but one of the ectopic pregnancies had values below 650 pg/ml for e2 and 23 ng/ml for progesterone , and all but one of the normal intrauterine pregnancies had values above these levels . our data suggest that the addition of the estradiol assay , with or without progesterone , to the early evaluation of patients suspected of having an ectopic pregnancy may be helpful in diagnosis . 
whither electronic fetal monitoring ? largely based on promising animal studies , continuous electronic fetal monitoring ( efm ) was introduced into clinical practice in the early 1970s . after almost 20 years of experience , it is now apparent that the anticipated benefits of this technology have not materialized . undesirable side effects of efm include inappropriate operative intervention for some patients and increased liability for physicians and hospitals , resulting in an increase in the costs of obstetric services . after reviewing several research studies , the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists concluded that efm and intermittent auscultation are equivalent methods for intrapartum assessment . we have developed a protocol for the performance of intermittent auscultation , including indicated responses to different levels of bradycardia . this protocol has allowed us to substitute auscultation for efm in a high percentage of patients using existing nursing personnel . laboring patients should , at a minimum , receive information on both intermittent auscultation and efm to enable them to make an informed choice of method for intrapartum fetal assessment . 
the significance of moderate and severe inflammation on class i papanicolaou smear the significance of a cytologic diagnosis of moderate and severe inflammation with a normal ( class i ) papanicolaou smear has not been addressed . a retrospective review of 596 consecutive cervical smears performed over 13 months revealed 85 women who had a class i cytologic smear with moderate to severe inflammation . seventy-eight patients had colposcopic examinations and were considered for this study . fifty-nine ( 75.6 % ) had cervical punch biopsies and/or endocervical biopsies . of the 78 , 19 ( 24.4 % ) had cervical condylomata and nine ( 11.5 % ) had cervical intraepithelial neoplasia . we conclude that class i cytologic smears with moderate to severe inflammation may be associated with findings of condylomata and cervical dysplasia . 
menorrhagia . excessive vaginal bleeding , or menorrhagia , is one of the most common presenting symptoms for gynecologic patients . although this disorder has many possible etiologies , it is generally possible to approach its diagnosis and management in an orderly fashion . when evaluating the menorrhagic patient , it important to gear the work-up toward a differential diagnosis that includes pregnancy-related causes , hormonal problems , iatrogenic etiologies , mechanical intrauterine disorders , infections of the lower genital tract , and gynecologic cancers ( phimic ) . this differential approach can guide the types of historical data obtained from the patient , focus the physical examination , and alert the practitioner to the most appropriate laboratory and radiologic evaluation . therapy can differ widely , depending on the cause of the bleeding . most types of menorrhagia respond to medical therapy with oral contraceptives , oral synthetic estrogens or progestins , and long-acting intramuscular progestins or gnrh agonists . surgical approaches , such as dilatation and curettage or hysterectomy , are less and less a first-line therapy ; but innovative surgical techniques such as hysteroscopy and laparoscopic surgery are becoming increasingly important . with rapid , goal-directed diagnosis and specific therapy , the medical complications , anxiety , and discomfort suffered by the woman with menorrhagia can be alleviated quickly . 
vaginal bleeding in childhood and adolescence . vaginal bleeding in early childhood , regardless of its duration and quantity , is always of clinical importance . this article discusses the examination of the child and adolescent and reviews the various causes of vaginal bleeding in these patient groups . 
abnormal bleeding in the climacteric . in the perimenopausal years , we encounter a situation where the normal diminution in reproductive capacity , with its resulting disruption of the normal menstrual hormonal pattern , coincides with a very real risk of pelvic pathology . limitation in the ability to diagnose and to treat these patients conservatively has in the past resulted in a high rate of hysterectomy . with increased understanding of the normal physiology of this stage of transition and with improved diagnostic tools , we are now able to come to a definitive diagnosis in most patients . this ability to assure the diagnosis has made it much easier to counsel the patient confidently about the appropriate course of action . we will continue to encounter the problem of hysterectomy for bleeding with no histologic lesion being found . although reviewers ' letters may be considered an unnecessary thorn in the side , the improved practice that has resulted from these efforts gives strong support to their continued activities . we can have confidence that our treatment plan evolved in a logical manner and offers our patients a high probability of benefit at justifiable risk . 
the older adult . a comparative assessment . thorough assessment of older men and women is a complex but vital part of their health care . the ability to differentiate the changes owing to normal aging from those resulting from pathologic processes is necessary if their lives are to be as productive and enjoyable as they are prolonged . each body system and function must be examined or tested with this difference in mind . because aging occurs in different individuals at differing rates , a variety of functions may all be considered healthy or normal . assessment findings must be viewed through the focus of the individual person as well as that of the population . the nurse will find opportunities to use assessment skills for older adults in many settings , ranging from independent living arrangements to institutional residential areas . in the community , social meeting places , day-care facilities , meal sites , and shopping areas are but a few of the places where older adults may be found , alone or in groups . assessment opportunities can be identified or structured in any milieu . the setting itself , as well as the needs of the older adult ( s ) , will help to determine the complexity of the assessment activities . the benefit to nursing of increased and expanded ability to assess the older adult is considerable . the organized concern of science and health care with aging is a relatively recent phenomenon . the older adults of today are unique -- there are more of them than ever before , and they are living longer . although their lives are not without health complications , they are , in a sense , role models for the rest of us : pathfinders in aging who can , if we observe them carefully , give us insight and direction for our own healthy aging processes and those of generations to come . nursing is uniquely poised to use our caring methodology with the older adult . the elderly are interested in their health and willingly cooperate with those whose assessments are knowledgeable and realistic . nursing is challenged to develop and implement advanced and specialized ways to identify and meet their needs . 
early treatment with acyclovir for varicella pneumonia in otherwise healthy adults : retrospective controlled study and review . the effect of early acyclovir therapy on the course of varicella pneumonia in previously healthy adults was assessed . medical records from five university-affiliated medical centers were retrospectively reviewed ; included were all immunocompetent adults with a clinical diagnosis of primary varicella , a chest radiograph consistent with varicella pneumonia , and an arterial blood gas measurement indicating significant hypoxia . of the 38 patients who met the study criteria , 11 had had a course of intravenous acyclovir initiated within the first 36 hours of hospitalization ; the mean time from admission to initiation of therapy in this early-treatment group was 9.6 hours . the group that received early acyclovir treatment had a lower mean temperature beginning on the fifth day of hospitalization ( 37.0 degrees c vs. 37.7 degrees c ; p = .011 ) and a lower mean respiratory rate beginning on the sixth day of hospitalization ( 21 vs. 28 respirations per minute ; p = .004 ) . early acyclovir therapy also resulted in a significant improvement in oxygenation beginning on the sixth day of hospitalization in patients with follow-up arterial blood gas measurements ( p = .035 ) . thus , early institution of acyclovir therapy is associated with reduction in fever and tachypnea and improvement in oxygenation in otherwise healthy adults with varicella pneumonia . 
pneumococcal endometritis and neonatal sepsis . a recent case of postpartum maternal endometritis and neonatal sepsis due to streptococcus pneumoniae prompted this report and a review of previous citations . although this rare presentation of pneumococcal infection is potentially fatal to both mother and child , early empiric antibiotic coverage for the most frequent etiologic agents of this syndrome , group b streptococci , was and is adequate for systemic pneumococcal infections . 
congenital and perinatal cytomegalovirus infections . cytomegalovirus is the most common cause of congenital and perinatal viral infections throughout the world . congenital infection occurs in 1 % of all live births in developed countries and in an even higher percentage in developing nations . as a result of transmission during birth , by breast milk , and by blood transfusion , perinatal infections are much more prevalent than congenital infections . the vast majority of these infections are chronic , subclinical forms , but symptomatic infections are sufficiently prevalent and dangerous to represent a major unsolved public health problem throughout the world . in this review the epidemiologic , clinical , immunologic , and therapeutic facets of cytomegaloviral infections in pregnant women and their offspring will be discussed . 
arteriovenous malformation of the tongue . polyvinyl alcohol particles used to embolize an arteriovenous malformation of the tongue were only temporarily successful . additional embolization therapy was necessary and was complicated by ischemic ulcers of the tongue . we conclude that embolization therapy can be used , but the efficacy of this therapy in the longer term remains to be determined . 
comparison of southern transfer hybridization and dot filter hybridization for detection of cervical human papillomavirus infection with types 6 , 11 , 16 , 18 , 31 , 33 , and 35 . a commercial dot filter hybridization kit ( virapap kit ) was compared with southern transfer hybridization for the detection of seven types of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) in cervical specimens from 450 consecutive females attending a sexually transmitted diseases clinic . in comparison with southern transfer hybridization , performed with the same probes used in the dot filter kit , the sensitivity , specificity , and positive and negative predictive values of dot filter hybridization were 90 % , 94 % , 74 % , and 98 % , respectively . among patients with cervical cytologic dysplasia , hpv dna was detected in 44 % by dot filter hybridization and in 35 % by southern transfer hybridization . although 26 % of specimens positive by dot filter hybridization were not confirmed by southern transfer hybridization , cervical dysplasia was detected in 5 ( 25 % ) of 20 with hpv dna detected by dot filter hybridization alone , compared with 25 ( 8 % ) of those with no definitive evidence of hpv by either method ( p = 0.009 ) and with 16 ( 30 % ) of 53 with hpv dna detected by both methods ( p = 0.7 ) . the kappa statistic for interobserver and intraobserver reproducibility for interpretation of blots was similar for the two methods . the dot filter hybridization method evaluated appears to be a satisfactory alternative to southern transfer hybridization for detection of hpv dna . 
survey of histologic specimens of human cancer for human papillomavirus types 6/11/16 / 18 by filter in situ hybridization . histologic specimens ( 317 ) of genital and nongenital cancers and normal tissue were analyzed for the presence of the dna of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) 6 , 11 , 16 , and 18 by filter in situ hybridization performed on paraffin-embedded , formalin-fixed tissue ( histofish ) . hpv dna was found in 73 of 172 ( 42 % ) anogenital lesions and 17 of 116 ( 15 % ) nonanogenital carcinomas . no hpv dna was found in normal mouse skin ( five samples ) , human autopsy liver ( two samples ) , or kidney ( eight samples ) , or in carcinomas of the breast ( three samples ) , bladder ( five samples ) , or colon ( nine samples ) . of the nongenital tumors , hpv dna was found in the carcinomas of the lung ( 2 of 5 ) , anus ( 7 of 18 ) , esophagus ( 9 of 39 ) , buccal cavity ( 1 of 5 ) , and larynx ( 5 of 50 ) . hpv dna was also detected in 2 of 11 histologically normal specimens of the cervix and 1 of 3 human skin lesions . the detection of hpv dna in carcinomas of the lung , larynx , and esophagus as well as in the anogenital region confirms recent suggestions that hpv types 6 , 11 , 16 , and 18 have a wider association with different types of cancer than previously believed . the study also shows that histofish is a useful method for detecting hpv-dna in histologic specimens . 
disproportionate septal hypertrophy associated with erythroblastosis fetalis . we retrospectively reviewed clinical and echocardiographic data on 10 newborns with erythroblastosis fetalis who were admitted to our nurseries between 1984 and 1988 and who required a double-volume exchange transfusion and neonatal intensive care . echocardiograms were performed in the first 48 hours of life . in 5 patients , disproportionate septal hypertrophy was demonstrated ; 1 additional patient had biventricular hypertrophy with a thickened septum but not disproportionate septal hypertrophy . the mean septal : left ventricular free-wall ratio for the group ( n = 10 ) was 1.37 . no correlation was apparent between the occurrence of disproportionate septal hypertrophy and newborn glucose , bilirubin , or hematocrit values . when analyzed separately , the 4 patients who did not receive intrauterine blood transfusions had a ratio of 1.73 + / - 0.21 ( mean + / - sem ) ; this was significantly greater than the ratio in the 6 patients who were transfused in utero ( 1.13 + / - 0.24 ) . in patients who underwent transfusions , there was no correlation between the number of transfusions and the septal : left ventricular ratio . this study reports a significant but previously unrecognized cardiac hypertrophy with disproportionate septal hypertrophy in patients with erythroblastosis fetalis . our data suggest a sparing effect of intrauterine fetal transfusions . the mechanism by which these transfusions may affect the hypertrophic development of the myocardium remains to be determined . 
human oocyte and preembryo donation : an evolving method for the treatment of infertility . the utilization of oocyte and preembryo donation in the treatment of infertility has recently expanded . since 1983 , modifications in the retrieval of donated female gametes have enhanced both the safety and the efficacy of the procedure . pregnancy rates in women receiving donated preembryos are remarkably high , with success occurring in 25 % to 50 % of transfer cycles . the technology used for preembryo donation continues to evolve , and the current and future role ovum donation in the treatment of infertility . 
the effect of physical activity during pregnancy on preterm delivery and birth weight . the relationship between physical activity during pregnancy , preterm birth , and gestational age-adjusted birth weight was investigated prospectively in a cohort of 7101 women . this study is one of few to evaluate both employment - and non-employment-related physical activity . prolonged periods of standing were associated with a modestly increased risk of preterm delivery ( adjusted odds ratio for greater than or equal to 8 hours/day of standing = 1.31 ) . heavy work or exercise was not associated with preterm delivery ( adjusted odds ratio for greater than or equal to 4 hours per day of heavy work = 1.04 ) . the proportion of infants born preterm did not differ among women working in predominantly standing , active , and sedentary occupations . physical activity was not associated with gestational age-adjusted birth weight after controlling for confounding variables . these data suggest that unmeasured socioeconomic differences among women reporting different levels of activity may account for previously described associations between physical activity and pregnancy outcome . most pregnant women who report increased levels of physical activity are not at increased risk of preterm delivery or reduced intrauterine growth . however , these data do not address the role of activity restriction in the management of selected women at high risk for adverse pregnancy outcome . 
antenatal microbiologic and maternal risk factors associated with prematurity . in a prospective study of 202 women ( gestational age 24 + / - 4 weeks ) , we evaluated possible influences of lower genital tract infection or bacterial conditions on obstetric outcomes , including preterm labor , preterm premature rupture of membranes , and preterm birth . the presence of bacterial vaginosis ( 18.7 % ) was associated with an increased risk of preterm labor ( relative risk , 2.6 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.08 to 6.46 ) . for women with bacterial vaginosis who also had mobiluncus species morphotypes identified on gram stain , the relative risk of preterm labor was 3.8 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.32 to 11.5 ) . presence of vaginal mycoplasma hominis ( 10.8 % of patients ) was associated with both preterm labor ( relative risk , 1.8 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.77 to 4.4 ) and preterm birth ( relative risk , 5.1 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.45 to 17.9 ) . recovery of staphylococcus aureus ( 3.0 % ) was associated with preterm labor ( relative risk , 3.1 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.12 to 8.7 ) . identification of two or more bacterial-linked abnormalities was also associated with preterm labor ( relative risk , 3.3 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.44 to 7.58 ) . an increased level of vaginal wash protease ( greater than or equal to 10 trypsin units ) ( 16 % ) was associated with preterm labor and was noted in 50 % of women with preterm premature rupture of membranes . a history of prior preterm birth was the single best historical predictor of both preterm labor ( relative risk , 3.6 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.92 to 6.83 ) and preterm birth ( relative risk , 6.7 ; 95 % confidence interval , 2.2 to 20.4 ) . history of three or more abortions , antenatal urinary tract infection , and occurrence of medical complications during pregnancy also correlated with increased risk of preterm labor . these findings affirm and refine associations of various maternal reproductive tract infections with preterm labor , premature rupture of membranes , and birth , allowing for controlled treatment trials aimed at prevention of preterm birth . 
continuous or interrupted fascial closure : a prospective evaluation of no. 1 maxon suture in 402 gynecologic procedures . during a 14-month period of using a long-term absorbable suture ( no . 1 maxon ) , 402 patients were entered into a prospective , randomized trial of fascial closure . patients were randomized between a continuous closure ( 201 patients ) and an interrupted en bloc ( 201 patients ) technique . each patient was subjected to a preoperative and intraoperative protocol for wound management . there were no acute wound failures . wound infection rates and risk of hernia were not apparently affected by closure technique . 
endometrioma of the liver . hepatic endometriosis is extremely rare . we describe a patient sent to us with epigastric pain as the only symptom and who was found to have associated endometrioma of the liver and left ovary . we suggest a gynecologic evaluation before surgery for hepatic cyst of unknown cause . 
antinuclear antibodies in sera of patients with recurrent pregnancy wastage . four groups of women were studied to determine whether low-level antinuclear antibody titers are associated with a higher risk for pregnancy loss . group a consisted of 30 patients with a history of unexplained fetal losses . group b consisted of 30 women with " explained " fetal losses ( e.g. , uterine septum or luteal phase defect ) . ages and number of losses were comparable between the women in groups a and b. group c consisted of 61 healthy pregnant women . group d involved 61 healthy nonpregnant women of reproductive age . in groups a and b , 40 % and 53.3 % of the respective patients had antinuclear antibody titers greater than or equal to 1:40 . in groups c and d the frequencies of positive antinuclear antibody titers were 8.2 % and 5.6 % , respectively . this study demonstrates a high prevalence of low-titer antinuclear antibody-positive serum in patients with explained and unexplained pregnancy losses . 
corpus luteum function in early pregnancies is primarily determined by the rate of change of human chorionic gonadotropin levels . regulation of human corpus luteum activity was studied with radioimmunoassays and bioassays of sera drawn serially from women suspected of having ectopic pregnancies . progesterone values exhibited considerable overlap in pregnancies that were subsequently classified as normal intrauterine ( n = 21 ) , ectopic ( n = 35 ) , or spontaneous abortion ( n = 14 ) . the rate of change of human chorionic gonadotropin concentration was significantly correlated with progesterone levels in ectopic ( r = 0.64 ) and all pregnancies ( r = 0.70 ) . there was no correlation ( r = -0.18 ) between the rate of change of human chorionic gonadotropin and the bioactivity produced per volume of serum . ectopic pregnancies and normal intrauterine pregnancies did not differ in their ratio of in vivo bioactivity to immunoactivity . from these data we conclude that corpus luteum activity is primarily regulated by the rate of change of human chorionic gonadotropin concentration , without the involvement of other serum factors . we also conclude that reduced corpus luteum function in ectopic pregnancies is not a result of biochemical modification of the human chorionic gonadotropin molecule . finally , we discourage the use of single progesterone values in screening for ectopic pregnancies because of the considerable overlap in progesterone values among these and normal intrauterine pregnancies . 
detection of congenital toxoplasmosis by chorionic villus sampling and early amniocentesis . we describe a strategy used in this case to detect congenital toxoplasmosis early in pregnancy . combination of chorionic villus sampling and early amniocentesis with an in vitro cell culture technique makes prenatal diagnosis of congenital toxoplasmosis possible from the end of the first trimester of pregnancy . 
the " stuck twin " phenomenon : ultrasonographic findings , pregnancy outcome , and management with serial amniocenteses . thirteen consecutive twin pregnancies affected by the " stuck twin " phenomenon were reviewed to determine the potential benefit of serial amniocenteses . the fetal survival rate for the eight pregnancies that underwent serial amniocenteses was 69 % ( 11 of 16 fetuses ) . this is significantly improved compared with a fetal survival rate of 20 % among the five preceding pregnancies managed without serial amniocenteses at the same institution ( p = 0.01 ) . it is also markedly improved compared with a combined fetal survival rate of 16 % among 48 previously reported pregnancies with the stuck twin phenomenon managed without serial amniocenteses ( p less than 0.0001 ) . survival correlated with the absence of concomitant pregnancy complications ( i.e. , maternal hypertension or intractable labor ) and with the absence of severe fetal structural abnormalities . procedural complications occurred in three of eight pregnancies ( 37.5 % ) managed with serial amniocenteses and was attributed as a cause of fetal death in one case . two of 11 survivors ( 18 % ) had complications after serial amniocenteses including brain infarction and renal tubular necrosis . serial amniocenteses may significantly improve the survival rate of twin gestations affected by the stuck twin phenomenon but may be associated with complications among survivors . 
twin-twin transfusion syndrome . twin-twin transfusion syndrome associated with acute polyhydramnios in one sac and severe oligohydramnios in the other , which characteristically is diagnosed between 18 and 28 weeks , is associated with a high mortality rate for the involved twins . patients who are managed without intervention have essentially 100 % perinatal mortality . nineteen patients with this diagnosis were treated at good samaritan medical center over a 5-year period . because of the known perinatal mortality and because of early experiences with the twin-twin transfusion syndrome , we began to actively intervene in such patients with various modes of therapy . as experience was gained , it was found that repeated therapeutic amniocenteses , if performed before severe maternal abdominal distention or labor , appears to be beneficial . 
pregnancy in a patient with treated wilson 's disease : a case report . pregnancy should have a successful outcome in a patient with treated wilson 's disease if complications are excluded before conception . chelating treatment must be maintained , although there is some concern about its teratogenicity . we describe the course of pregnancy in a patient followed up in our department . 
the perinatal impact of cocaine , amphetamine , and opiate use detected by universal intrapartum screening . universal urine testing for cocaine , amphetamines , and opiates was performed on 1643 women admitted to an obstetric service for a 1-year period with 20.5 % having positive results . there were 299 patients with positive toxicology results matched for race and discharge date with patients having negative toxicology and drug history . significant differences in age , prior obstetric history , prenatal care , alcohol history , and smoking were noted between groups . there was a significant decrease in birth weight , head circumference , length , and gestational age for the drug-positive group , which was most marked in cocaine and multiple drug users . these differences persisted after we controlled for smoking , prenatal care , and prior preterm births . differences in birth weight and head circumference remained after we controlled for gestational age . rates of congenital anomalies and abruptio placental were similar between groups . perinatal substance abuse is independently associated with growth retardation and prematurity . multiple risk factors are frequently present , necessitating a comprehensive approach to prenatal care . 
prenatal diagnosis of fetal intracranial calcifications . a case is presented wherein fetal intracranial calcifications as a result of intrauterine cytomegalovirus infection were visualized by computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging at 36 weeks ' gestation . diagnosis of in utero cytomegalovirus infection was made by isolation of the virus from amniotic fluid . no symptomatic abnormality has been noted in the neonatal period except periventricular calcifications . 
a reappraisal of the need for autologous blood donation in the obstetric patient . there has been recent interest in autologous blood donation in obstetric patients , but little attention has been paid to whether such programs are needed or whether the patients that will require transfusion can be accurately predicted . at the university of california san diego medical center from july 1 to dec . 31 , 1988 , there were 2265 deliveries ; 13 women ( 0.57 % ) received blood transfusions . traditionally accepted risk factors were identified in 251 patients , with only four ( 1.6 % ) requiring transfusion . among the 150 patients delivered by repeat cesarean section , only one ( 0.7 % ) required blood . one of 27 ( 3.7 % ) multiple gestations , two of eight ( 25 % ) patients with placenta previa , and none of the 66 grandmultiparous women had transfusions . these data suggest that autologous blood donation may not be beneficial or cost effective when the low frequency of blood transfusions in this high-risk obstetric population and the difficulty in accurately predicting those likely to require transfusions are considered . 
the maylard incision in gynecologic surgery the transverse muscle-splitting maylard incision was used in 175 gynecologic patients who required pelvic-abdominal surgery . one hundred fifty-three patients ( 87 % ) had pelvic malignancy ; other indications for operation included uterine myomas , endometriosis , tuboovarian abscess , and benign ovarian cysts . exposure was excellent : 54 % of patients underwent pelvic lymphadenectomy and 17 % underwent paraaortic lymphadenectomy . twelve patients ( 6.9 % ) had wound complications , but there was neither long-term morbidity nor mortality associated with the incision . fifty-six patients ( 32 % ) received preoperative or postoperative pelvic radiation therapy with no detrimental effect on wound healing . the maylard incision is cosmetic , strong , easily learned , and has an acceptable complication rate . unless a vertical incision is indicated , the maylard technique is preferred when optimal exposure and accessibility to the pelvis are required . 
ultrasonographic diagnosis of a large placental intervillous thrombosis associated with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level . a placental lesion associated with elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein level and a positive kleihauer-betke test is reported . serial ultrasonograms showed a progressive increase in the echogenicity of the lesion that corresponded to a large intervillous thrombosis after delivery . this case illustrates the importance of detailed ultrasonographic and pathologic placental investigations in pregnancies with unexplained elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein . 
direct ultrasonographic measurement of fetal lung length in normal pregnancies and pregnancies complicated by prolonged rupture of membranes . fetal lung length was measured directly with ultrasonography in 20 patients with prolonged rupture of membranes , commencing before 25 weeks ' gestation . measurements were made weekly and compared with data collected from 310 normal pregnancies . measurement of fetal lung length by ultrasonography was a good predictor of pulmonary hypoplasia , predicting greater than 90 % of cases . there was a good correlation between lung size assessed by the last ultrasonographic examination and lung weight postmortem ( r = 0.783 , p less than 0.05 ) . lung length measurements were superior to fetal chest circumference measurements in the identification of pulmonary hypoplasia . there was a significant negative association between the amount of amniotic fluid and pulmonary hypoplasia ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were fetuses with pulmonary hypoplasia that had respiratory movements seen at the majority of ultrasonographic examinations . 
management of selected cystic adnexal masses in postmenopausal women by operative laparoscopy : a pilot study . twenty-five postmenopausal patients were predicted to have benign masses by screening criteria that included ultrasonographic findings of a cystic adnexal mass less than 10 cm with distinct borders and no evidence of irregular solid parts , thick septa , ascites , or matted bowel , and a normal serum ca 125 value ( less than 35 u/ml ) . all 25 masses were accurately predicted to be benign . the size of the cysts on ultrasonography ranged from 3 to 9 cm with a mean of 5 cm . twenty-two patients ( 88 % ) were successfully managed by operative laparoscopy and adnexectomy . mean operative time was 70 minutes and mean postoperative hospital stay was 12 hours . mean time of return to normal activity was 5 days . three patients required laparotomy . we conclude that removal of these cystic adnexal masses by operative laparoscopy is an acceptable alternative in carefully selected postmenopausal women . 
hyperadrenergic orthostatic intolerance as a result of postpartum blood loss . this article describes a young women in whom orthostatic intolerance developed as a result of protracted postpartum vaginal bleeding . the cardiovascular abnormalities were unresponsive to usual treatment measures , and she required combination therapy directed at increasing plasma volume and decreasing sympathetic nervous system activity . after resolution of her symptoms , the patient required no long-term therapy . chronic blood loss has not been reported as a cause of this syndrome . 
cervicovaginal microflora and pregnancy outcome : results of a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of erythromycin treatment . available information suggests that some instances of preterm birth or premature rupture of membranes are associated with clinically unrecognized infection and inflammation of the lower uterine segment , decidua , and fetal membranes . various cervicovaginal microorganisms have been recovered from these sites . many of these microorganisms produce factors that may lead to weakening of the fetal membranes , release of prostaglandins , or both . this study evaluated the presence of various lower genital tract microflora and bacterial conditions in 229 women enrolled in a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of short-course erythromycin treatment at 26 to 30 weeks ' gestation to prevent preterm birth . demographic , obstetric , and microbiologic parameters were prospectively evaluated . premature rupture of membranes occurred less frequently ( p less than 0.01 ) among women who received erythromycin ( 6 % ) versus placebo ( 16 % ) . preterm premature rupture of membranes also occurred less frequently , although not significantly ( p = 0.3 ) in patients who received erythromycin ( 2 % ) versus placebo ( 5 % ) . erythromycin treatment significantly decreased the occurrence of premature rupture of membranes among women who were initially positive for chlamydia trachomatis infection . logistic regression analysis demonstrated that c. trachomatis ( p = 0.05 ; odds ratio , 9 ) , vaginal wash phospholipase c ( p = 0.08 ; odds ratio , 6 ) and prior preterm birth ( p = 0.007 ; odds ratio 17 ) were associated with increased risk of preterm birth . bacterial vaginosis , mycoplasma hominis , ureaplasma urealyticum were not significantly associated with increased risk of preterm birth or preterm rupture of membranes . these findings support a role for selected lower genital tract microflora in preterm birth and premature rupture . large controlled treatment trials of specific infections or conditions associated with preterm birth and premature rupture of membranes are required to confirm the value of antimicrobial treatments in prevention of microbial-associated preterm birth . 
pregnancy outcomes among mothers infected with human immunodeficiency virus and uninfected control subjects . between june 26 , 1985 , and feb . 24 , 1989 , 101 seropositive pregnant women and 129 seronegative pregnant women from the same prenatal clinics in brooklyn and the bronx were recruited into a prospective study of human immunodeficiency virus infection in pregnant women and their offspring . this report details the course of pregnancy and short-term neonatal outcomes of 91 seropositive women and 126 seronegative women who gave birth during the study period . seropositive mothers were significantly more likely to have sexually transmitted diseases ( 17.6 % vs 7.1 % , p = 0.017 ) and medical complications ( 43.0 % vs 25 % , p = 0.006 ) during pregnancy . no other obstetric complications ( e. g. , chorioamnionitis , endometritis , toxemia , or placental problems ) were associated with serologic status . after controlling for confounding variables ( drug use , tobacco use , age of mother , and clinic ) , we found that the mother 's serologic status was not significantly associated with birth weight , gestational age , head circumference , or apgar scores among live infants . for example , after adjustment on confounders we found that children born to seropositive mothers weighed about 7 gm more than children of seronegative mothers ( 95 % confidence interval , -180 to 194 gm ) . we conclude that in this population human immunodeficiency virus infection has little demonstrable impact on the status at birth of live neonates . 
screening for trisomy 21 with ultrasonographic determination of biparietal diameter/femur length ratio . ultrasonographic determination of biparietal diameter/femur length ratios performed at 16 or 17 weeks ' gestation in fetuses with trisomy 21 were not statistically different from those of 155 normal fetuses . it appears that this test could not be used for screening for trisomy 21 . 
direct analysis of uncultured cytotrophoblastic cells from second - and third-trimester placentas : an accurate and rapid method for detection of fetal chromosome abnormalities . transabdominal chorionic villus sampling can be readily used for detection of fetal chromosome abnormalities in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy . although culture of chorionic villi offers little advantage over cultured amniotic fluid cells with respect to time required to obtain results , cytogenetic analysis of chorionic villi by direct analysis of uncultured cytotrophoblastic cells offers clear advantages because of the very short time required to obtain results . to determine whether direct analysis of uncultured cytotrophoblastic cells from second - and third-trimester placentas can routinely provide rapid and accurate assessment of fetal status , we evaluated chorionic villus specimens obtained from 57 placentas ; 49 placentas were sampled in the second trimester whereas eight were sampled in the third trimester . direct preparations yielded karyotypes in 56 ( 98.2 % ) preparations ; all results of direct analyses were available within 72 hours and , when requested , within 12 hours . all results were confirmed by chromosome analysis of cultured mesenchymal core cells or cultured fetal tissue . we conclude that direct analysis of cytotrophoblastic cells from second - and third-trimester placentas is a very rapid and accurate method for determining fetal chromosome status that is comparable with , if not superior to , percutaneous umbilical blood sampling . 
perinatal mortality in victoria , australia : role of group b streptococcus . group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus is the most common infective cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality . it is therefore surprising that no agreement exists for an approach to its prevention . there is also increasing evidence that occult infection may play an etiologic role in premature rupture of the membranes and preterm labor . in this report we review the role of group b beta-hemolytic streptococcal sepsis as a cause of perinatal wastage in the state of victoria , australia during the period 1982 to 1987 . group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus accounted for 1.7 % of overall perinatal deaths , and for 30.3 % ( 77 of 254 ) perinatal deaths directly attributable to infection . by comparison , over the same 6-year period , erythroblastosis accounted for 0.5 % of perinatal wastage and there were only two deaths as a result of congenital syphilis . the true incidence of lethal group b beta-hemolytic streptococcal infection is probably greater because of the absence of histologic and bacteriologic studies in many perinatal deaths . we believe that intrapartum chemoprophylaxis with penicillin of all group b beta-hemolytic streptococcus-positive carrier mothers would significantly reduce neonatal morbidity and mortality from this cause . 
a comparison of sperm antibody assays . cytotoxicity and immunobead-binding immunoglobulin g assays agreed in 81 % of sera from infertile men ( n = 173 ) , 74 % of sera from their wives , 75 % of seminal plasma , and 82 % of cervical mucous samples ( p less than 0.001 ; chi 2 analysis of positive and negative results ) when tested against sperm from the same donors . cytotoxic and immunofluorescent igg antibody results agreed in 79 % of sera from men and women , 76 % of seminal plasma , and 76 % of cervical mucus ( p less than 0.001 ; chi 2 analysis of positive and negative results ) . titers or percent binding of sperm by cytotoxicity , hemagglutination , and igg immunobead-binding or immunofluorescence assays in serum and secretions of husbands and wives correlated ( p less than 0.001 ) . a significantly increased number of positive results was observed in cytotoxic and immunobead-binding igg assays when the husbands ' and donors ' sperm were used rather than donors ' sperm alone . on the basis of this study we conclude : ( 1 ) that cytotoxicity , immunobead-binding igg , and immunofluorescent igg sperm antibody assays correlate when sperm from the same source are used , ( 2 ) that women 's isoimmunity to husbands ' sperm is associated with their husbands ' autoimmunity to sperm irrespective of the assay , and ( 3 ) that it is desirable to use sperm from the husbands and nonautoimmune fertile men in these assays . 
extensive vulvar and vaginal varicella necessitating abdominal delivery . maternal varicella occurs in fewer than five per 10,000 pregnancies in the united states . a case is reported in which markedly painful , extensive vulvar and vaginal ulcers prevented cervical examination , and cesarean section was performed with the patient under general anesthesia . 
the associated anomalies that determine prognosis in congenital omphaloceles . cogenital abdominal wall defects such as omphaloceles can be recognized by fetal ultrasonography . to determine whether associated anatomic features may be useful in determining fetal prognosis , a retrospective study was performed over a 5-year period . there were 28 cases of omphalocele ; 16 were larger than 5 cm and classified as giant , and the remainder were considered small . eleven of the 12 infants with small omphaloceles survived with minimal neonatal complications . ten of the 16 infants with giant omphaloceles died because of associated congenital anomalies . these were congenital heart disease , central nervous system malformations , and diaphragmatic hernias . this review suggests that the prognosis is good when a prenatal diagnosis of giant omphalocele is made and careful fetal ultrasonography , including echocardiography , does not identify heart , central nervous system , or diaphragmatic malformations , even when there is liver herniation into the omphalocele . 
ultrasonographic assessment of placental abnormalities . current ultrasonographic techniques offer a novel approach for the identification of a wide variety of placental abnormalities usually described postnatally by the pathologist . placental vascular lesions , placental tumors , and abnormal placentation are potentially associated with perinatal complications and their diagnosis in utero may influence the pregnancy management . an ultrasonographic classification of placental lesions that is based on their location , size , echogenicity , and number is proposed . repeated ultrasonographic examination , together with biologic investigations , is important for the prenatal differential diagnosis of most these lesions and for full understanding of their pathophysiologic characteristics and significance . 
preferential mitogenic activity for myoblast-like cells can be extracted from uterine leiomyoma tissues . the presence of mitogen ( s ) in leiomyoma extracts stimulating cells with the fibroblast , myoblast , and osteoblast phenotype was documented . mitogenic activity in leiomyoma extracts was acid stable and sensitive to tryptic digestion . reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography successfully separated mitogen ( s ) with preferential activity for myoblast cells from mitogens with a broad type of cell specificity and from inhibitors . this leiomyoma-derived preferential activity for myoblasts was absent in identically treated myometrial and endometrial extracts . this suggests that leiomyoma-derived substances with preferential growth factor activity for myoblast-like cells may play a role in the pathophysiologic characteristics of uterine leiomyomas . 
adhesion formation after ovarian wound repair in new zealand white rabbits : a comparison of ovarian microsurgical closure with ovarian nonclosure . thirty female new zealand white rabbits underwent standard laparotomy . each ovary was bivalved and hemostasis was achieved with bipolar electrocautery . one ovary was then randomized to the closure group , whereas the other ovary was placed in the nonclosure group . in the closure group , the ovarian capsule was closed with a continuous suture of 8-0 vicryl absorbable surgical suture material with microsurgical technique . in the nonclosure group , the ovaries were left open . three weeks later the animals were killed and the ovarian adhesions were graded with a standardized scale by an observer ( a. a. t. ) blinded to the closure status of the animals . five control animals underwent sham operations with minimal adhesion formation . statistical analysis of the study animals by the paired student t test showed a significantly higher adhesion score on the ovaries that were microsurgically closed compared with the ovaries not closed ( p = 0.02 ) . 
prior cesarean delivery in women with secondary tubal infertility . the history of cesarean delivery was evaluated in a population-based case-control study of secondary infertility in king county , washington . sixty-one married women diagnosed with secondary infertility due to tubal problems who had a previous viable pregnancy were compared to 343 married women who had a previous viable pregnancy and then had a live birth that was conceived at the same time the infertile women began trying to conceive . the risk of tubal infertility was not substantially elevated in women who had a previous cesarean delivery in the most recent viable pregnancy compared to women with vaginal delivery ( odds ratio = 1.2 ; 95 % confidence interval = 0.4 , 3.7 ) . 
spinal catheter anaesthesia for caesarean section in a patient with spina bifida . a patient with grossly deformed vertebral anatomy , scheduled for elective caesarean section , expressed her wish to stay fully awake during the procedure . epidural anaesthesia was considered to be impracticable , while dural puncture appeared possible only at thoracic level . spinal anaesthesia using a subarachnoid catheter placed at t7-8 was employed successfully . 
severe hypotension due to intramyometrial injection of prostaglandin e2 treatment of postpartum haemorrhage because of uterine atony with intramyometrial prostaglandin e2 1 mg , in an anaesthetised patient resulted in life-threatening hypotension . anaesthetists should be aware of the potential cardiovascular side effects of prostaglandins . 
laryngeal oedema from a neck haematoma . a complication of internal jugular vein cannulation . laryngeal oedema occurred after formation of a neck haematoma after attempted internal jugular vein cannulation . this resulted in complete respiratory obstruction and respiratory arrest and it was impossible to ventilate her lungs manually or intubate her trachea . oxygenation of the patient was only possible using transtracheal ventilation . 
clinical evaluation of clonidine added to lidocaine solution for epidural anesthesia . the effects of clonidine added to lidocaine solution used for epidural anesthesia were assessed in 92 women scheduled for surgery and premedicated with diazepam 10 mg po . patients received 18 ml 2 % lidocaine with clonidine 5 micrograms.ml-1 ( group c-5 , n = 26 ) , with clonidine 10 micrograms.ml-1 ( group c-10 , n = 20 ) , with epinephrine 5 micrograms.ml-1 ( group e , n = 26 ) , or plain ( group p , n = 20 ) . no significant difference in the number of segments of analgesia was found at any observation period among the four groups of patients . the decreases in mean blood pressure ( bp ) observed 20 min after epidural injection in those given clonidine ( 5 + / - 8 % for c-5 , 10 + / - 11 % for c-10 , mean + / - sd ) were similar to those given plain lidocaine ( 7 + / - 12 % ) but significantly less than those given epinephrine ( 18 + / - 12 % , p less than 0.01 vs. c-5 or p ) . the response of bp to ephedrine given for restoring bp during anesthesia was not attenuated in patients who received epidural clonidine . heart rate ( hr ) decreased significantly in patients given clonidine 10 micrograms.ml-1 ( 7 + / - 8 % , p less than 0.01 ) , but not in those given clonidine 5 micrograms.ml-1 , whereas hr increased significantly in those given lidocaine plain or with epinephrine ( 10 + / - 8 % and 28 + / - 14 % , respectively , p less than 0.01 ) . the incidence of sinus bradycardia was similar among the four groups of patients . significant differences were also observed in sedation score between clonidine groups and groups p or e ; sedation appeared approximately 10-20 min after epidural injection in both clonidine groups . 
nonsurgical management of breast infections in nonlactating women . a word of caution . management options for infectious mastitis have traditionally been limited to surgical drainage . with the advent of percutaneous fine needle aspiration ( fna ) , nonoperative treatment may be an alternative , though criteria for use have not been defined . during a 30-month period , 22 women presented with breast infection . treatment was instituted based upon the clinical stage of infection . patients with cellulitis ( n = 8 ) were managed with diagnostic fna/antibiotics . those with focal abscess ( n = 10 ) underwent fna of the cavity/antibiotics . patients with multiloculated abscess ( n c = 3 ) underwent urgent surgical drainage . of the 19 patients initially treated nonoperatively , resolution occurred in nine ( 47 % ) ; stage of infection did not effect outcome . surgical drainage was required in the remainder ; two cancers were found . fna cytology in these ( and all ) patients was negative for malignancy . all underwent mammography during treatment . in 17 ( 77 % ) cancer was considered of low probability . the only patient with a mammogram highly suspicious for cancer had fat necrosis on biopsy . bacterial cultures were positive in 79 per cent , virtually all with gram ( + ) cocci . four patients harbored gram ( - ) organisms as well , two in concert with breast cancer . conclusions : 1 ) select breast infections can be successfully managed nonoperatively , 2 ) the accuracy of fna and mammography in the diagnosis of breast cancer may be impaired by coincident infection , 3 ) the finding of a gram ( - ) breast infection warrants abandonment of nonoperative management in favor of tissue confirmation of the disease process . 
ischaemic brain lesions diagnosed at birth in preterm infants : clinical events and developmental outcome . in 232 newborn babies of less than 32 weeks ' gestational age ultrasound brain scans were carried out shortly after birth , daily for the first week of life , and at least twice weekly thereafter . periventricular echogenicity associated with or progressing to periventricular leukomalacia ( ischaemic brain lesions ) was present in nine babies within two hours of birth ( early onset ) ; 30 other babies subsequently developed similar lesions ( late onset ) . babies with early onset lesions were more likely to have a history of intrauterine growth retardation and to have recurrent apnoea in the first few hours after birth . by contrast , late onset lesions were associated with hyaline membrane disease . in later childhood four of six survivors with early onset periventricular leukomalacia , and seven of 14 survivors with late onset periventricular leukomalacia , had various disabilities including spastic diplegia , impaired vision , squints , sensorineural hearing loss , and developmental delay . in a third of the children with disabilities ischaemic brain lesions were noted within two hours of birth , raising the possibility that some of this damage had taken place before or during birth . 
diagnostic testing and return visits for acute problems in prepaid , case-managed medicaid plans compared with fee-for-service . enrollment of medicaid recipients into capitated , case-managed systems of health care has been advocated as a means to control costs . we studied the effect of such systems on care for urinary tract infection ( uti ) , pelvic inflammatory disease , and vaginitis among women enrolled in aid to families with dependent children in capitated demonstration programs in santa barbara county , california , and jackson county , missouri ( prepaid ) , compared with similar but fee-for-service ( ffs ) counties in ventura county , california , and st louis , mo . structured abstracts were performed on 2382 outpatient charts with one of the three conditions in 1985 . the proportion of cases with uti in which a urine culture was obtained was similar in santa barbara ( prepaid ) and ventura ( ffs ) , 47 % vs 46 % , but greater in jackson county ( prepaid ) than st louis ( ffs ) , 58 % vs 32 % . the proportion of cases with return visits for a uti was : santa barbara ( prepaid ) , 40 % ; ventura ( ffs ) , 33 % ; jackson ( prepaid ) , 72 % ; and st louis ( ffs ) , 53 % . the proportion of patients with pelvic inflammatory disease with cervical cultures for gonorrhea as santa barbara ( prepaid ) , 81 % ; ventura ( ffs ) , 52 % ; jackson ( prepaid ) , 86 % ; and st louis ( ffs ) , 61 % . the proportion of women returning for follow-up after pelvic inflammatory disease was similar across all counties at 40 % and 50 % . the number of office diagnostic tests performed for vaginitis was greater in both demonstration counties . these data do not demonstrate any diminution in either diagnostic testing or follow-up visits for three common ambulatory problems in a medicaid population enrolled in a capitated , case-managed system , with some trends for more care in the demonstration sites . 
genetic and familial predisposition to eclampsia and pre-eclampsia in a defined population . familial predisposition and patterns of genetic inheritance of eclampsia and pre-eclampsia were investigated through three or four generations in 94 families from the homogenous island population of iceland . the families descended from index women delivered in the years 1931-47 and who had either eclampsia ( n = 38 ) or severe pre-eclampsia ( n = 69 ) . inheritance was followed both through sons and daughters . the prevalence of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia in daughters was significantly higher ( 23 % ) than that in daughters-in-law ( 10 % ) . no difference was noted in the prevalence of these diseases by whether the daughter was born of an eclamptic or pre-eclamptic mother or whether she was a first or later born daughter . there was a non-significantly higher occurrence of pre-eclampsia among grand-daughters than in grand-daughters-in-law . no difference was seen by whether grand-daughters descended through sons or daughters . with increasing numbers of affected daughters or grand-daughters the probability rose of finding more affected women in a family . hypotheses of single recessive and dominant gene inheritance were compared and maximum likelihood estimates for gene frequency obtained . for a single recessive gene model this was 0.31 reflecting a population prevalence of 9.6 % , whereas a dominant model with incomplete penetrance gave 0.14 at 48 % gene penetrance , corresponding to a population prevalence of 0.9 % homozygous expression of severe disease and 11 % heterozygous expression of milder disease . either genetic model could fit the data . 
epidemiology of pelvic inflammatory disease in parous women with special reference to intrauterine device use . up to the end of 1989 , 206 parous women in the oxford family planning association contraceptive study had been referred to hospital with a first episode of pelvic inflammatory disease . of these , 65 suffered from definite disease described as acute , 81 from definite disease not described as acute and 60 from ' other disease ' . considering all forms of disease together , referral was less common in those aged 25-29 and in those aged 45 or more than in those aged 30-44 . referral was more common in those of low social class , in those who smoked and in those who married young . all these factors were taken into account in analyses considering the effects of contraceptive methods . in these analyses , women currently using the contraceptive pill , the diaphragm , the sheath , female sterilization or an intrauterine device ( iucd ) were compared with those currently using other methods or no method of contraception . iucd ex-users were , however , placed in a separate category , irrespective of their current method of contraception . the relative risks obtained in these analyses , with 95 % ci , were as follows : contraceptive pill 0.5 ( 0.2-0 .9 ) , diaphragm 0.6 ( 0.3-1 .2 ) , sheath 1.2 ( 0.6-2 .4 ) , female sterilization 0.7 ( 0.3-1 .5 ) , non-medicated iucd 3.3 ( 2.3-5 .0 ) , medicated iucd 1.8 ( 0.8-4 .0 ) , iucd ex-users 1.3 ( 0.7-2 .3 ) . these data suggest that oral contraceptives , the diaphragm and female sterilization protect against pelvic inflammatory disease and that iucds increase the risk . medicated devices , however , appear to carry only about half the risk of non-medicated devices , and the elevation of risks in iucd ex-users appears to be small . special analyses examined the risk associated with use of a dalkon shield . among women currently using an iucd ( of any kind ) , those who had used a dalkon shield ( at any time ) had nearly five times as great a risk of hospital referral for pelvic inflammatory disease as those who had never used a dalkon shield ( relative risk 4.7 , 95 % ci 2.1-9 .0 ) . 
middle cerebral artery flow velocity waveforms in fetal hypoxaemia . in 81 small-for-gestational age fetuses ( sga ) colour flow imaging was used to identify the fetal middle cerebral artery for subsequent pulsed doppler studies . impedence to flow ( pulsatility index ; pi ) was significantly lower , and mean blood velocity was significantly higher , than the respective reference ranges with gestation . fetal blood sampling by cordocentesis was performed in all sga fetuses and a significant quadratic relation was found between fetal hypoxaemia and the degree of reduction in the pi of fvws from the fetal middle cerebral artery . thus , maximum reduction in pi is reached when the fetal po2 is 2-4 sd below the normal mean for gestation . when the oxygen deficit is greater there is a tendency for the pi to rise , and this presumably reflects the development of brain oedema . 
experience with a ' physiological ' steroid replacement regimen for the establishment of a receptive endometrium in women with premature ovarian failure . eighteen women with a premature menopause underwent assessment of serial serum oestradiol ( e2 ) and progesterone levels and endometrial histology and function . patients received continuous transdermal e2 , and progesterone either orally or vaginally for 14 days . physiological levels of e2 were attained . significantly higher levels of progesterone were achieved with vaginal progesterone ( p less than 0.01 ) . endometrial biopsies obtained during e2 replacement demonstrated normal proliferative features . expression of an oestrogen related antigen ( er-ag ) was localized in the cytoplasm of the epithelium . after 3 days of progesterone replacement the endometrium showed normal secretory features and expression of er-ag in the stroma as well as in the glands . after 7 days of progesterone supplementation , vaginal administration produced a more consistent physiological appearance than oral administration . thus transdermal e2 combined with vaginal progesterone is a highly satisfactory combination for establishing a physiological endometrium in women with premature ovarian failure . 
prediction of pregnancy-induced hypertensive disorders by angiotensin ii sensitivity and supine pressor test . an angiotensin ii sensitivity test and a supine pressor test were done consecutively at 28 weeks gestation in 90 healthy , normotensive nulliparous women . none of the supine pressor tests was positive , applying the predefined threshold of a rise of 20 mmhg in diastolic blood pressure after rolling over ; nine tests were positive using a corrected 9 mmhg cut-off level . ten women had a positive angiotensin sensitivity test using a threshold of the effective pressor dose of 8 ng/kg/min ; 22 women were positive using an effective pressor dose of less than or equal to 10 ng/kg/min . later in pregnancy 12 women ( 13 % ) developed pregnancy-induced hypertensive disease ( pih ) . the specificity of both tests of predicting the development of pih was about 90 % . the sensitivity of the angiotensin sensitivity test at the 10 ng/kg/min level was 92 % . because of its low sensitivity of 25 % the supine pressor test appears to have no value for the prediction of pih . there was a significant positive association between angiotensin ii refractoriness and birthweight . 
the rate of rise of corticotrophin releasing factor and endogenous digoxin-like immunoreactivity in normal and abnormal pregnancy . maternal plasma concentrations of corticotrophin releasing factor ( crf ) and endogenous digoxin-like immunoreactivity ( edli ) were estimated in 80 normal and 88 abnormal pregnancies which were sampled sequentially from 24 weeks gestation to delivery . a slope was fitted for each woman 's antenatal edli and crf values , both of which rose significantly during gestation , and the mean of the slopes for the normal and abnormal groups for each value compared . there was no evidence of significant mean differences between groups for edli but there was evidence of a significant mean difference for crf ( p less than 0.05 ) . after adjustment for other variables which may affect pregnancy outcome , the slopes for crf were found not to be significantly related to outcome . 
atenolol in essential hypertension during pregnancy objective -- to determine the effect of atenolol on the outcome of pregnancy in women with essential hypertension . design -- prospective , randomised , double blind , placebo controlled study . setting -- hospital clinic . patients -- 33 women with mild essential hypertension ( systolic blood pressure 140-170 mm hg or diastolic pressure 90-110 mm hg on two occasions at least 24 hours apart ) consecutively referred to two obstetric medical clinics . four patients in the placebo group were withdrawn from the study : control of blood pressure was inadequate in two , one developed breathlessness , and one changed her mind about participating . the mean gestation in the 29 remaining women on entry to the study was 15.9 weeks . main outcome measures -- blood pressure and birth weight . intervention -- 14 women received placebo . 15 women received atenolol 50 mg daily initially , increasing until either the blood pressure was less than 140/90 mm hg or a dose of 200 micrograms daily was reached . results -- the mean blood pressure on entry was 148/86 mm hg in the group given atenolol and 144/86 mm hg in the group given placebo . during treatment the mean diastolic pressure was significantly reduced by atenolol compared with placebo ( to 74 v 81 mm hg ; difference in means ( 95 % confidence interval ) 7.0 ( 2.9 to 10.0 ) mm hg ) but the effect on systolic pressure was marginal ( 132 v 136 mm hg ; 4.0 ( -1.4 to 8.6 ) mm hg ) . babies in the atenolol group had a significantly lower birth weight than those in the placebo group ( 2620 g v 3530 g ; 910 ( 440 to 1380 ) g ) . conclusion -- atenolol given from the end of the first trimester in patients with mild hypertension is associated with intrauterine growth retardation . when taken in conjunction with the results of a previous study in which methyldopa was given these findings indicate that benefit is unlikely to result from treating mild essential hypertension in pregnancy . 
choroid plexus cysts and chromosomal defects during a 4-year period , 83 pregnant women with fetal choroid plexus cysts were investigated in our unit . abnormal karyotypes were found in 20 fetuses , including trisomy 18 ( n = 16 ) , trisomy 13 ( n = 1 ) , triploidy ( n = 1 ) and translocation down 's syndrome ( n = 2 ) . all fetuses with chromosomal defects had structural malformations in addition to the choroid plexus cysts . 
folate status assessment . this paper is a review of established methods of folate status assessment and the primary factors that increase the risk of folate deficiency , including physiological life cycle changes . the first stage of folate depletion can be assessed by measuring serum folate levels , which drop prior to tissue depletion , and which are paralleled by a reduction in red blood cell ( rbc ) folate . functional changes associated with abnormalities in biochemical pathways can be monitored by the deoxyuridine suppression test . cell division , including erythropoiesis , becomes impaired in the same time sequence as changes in biochemical functions , as evidenced by abnormal erythrocyte morphology and a reduction in hemoglobin concentration . in addition to inadequate dietary folate intake , key factors that may impair folate utilization and thus status include alcohol consumption , smoking , and specific drugs . folate requirements may increase during various phases of the life cycle due to physiological stresses such as pregnancy and lactation . folate status may also be compromised during adolescence and in senescence for diverse reasons that require special emphasis on factors such as biological maturity and socioeconomic status , as well as chronic use of alcohol , drugs , and smoking . 
a new method for the dressing of free skin grafts . using adhesive drapes and a disposable suction drain , a new method for the dressing of free skin grafts has been devised . the graft is compressed by pressure that is equivalent to the negative pressure of the suction drain . this method can apply uniform and constant pressure on the graft . moreover , the graft can be observed through a transparent drape so that the existence of hematomas can be detected easily . 
hepatic infarction in preeclampsia . two cases of hepatic infarction in toxemia of pregnancy are described . both patients had associated laboratory findings of the hellp syndrome ( hemolytic anemia , elevated liver enzyme levels , and low platelet levels ) . computed tomography ( ct ) showed nonenhancing low-attenuation areas varying in configuration from peripheral , well-defined , wedge-shaped lesions to larger abnormalities . magnetic resonance imaging showed a corresponding area of low signal intensity on t1-weighted images with high signal intensity on t2-weighted images . ultrasound showed several well-defined peripheral hypoechoic areas . the low attenuation and lack of enhancement on ct scans and the absence of mass effect are the key distinguishing features . 
genital and anal conditions confused with child sexual abuse trauma . examination of a child with genital or anal disease may give rise to suspicion of sexual abuse . dermatologic , traumatic , infectious , and congenital disorders may be confused with sexual abuse . seven children referred to us are representative of such confusion . 
restoration of sinus rhythm during two consecutive pregnancies in a woman with congenital complete heart block . in a woman with congenital complete heart block atrioventricular conduction was normal during two successive pregnancies . pregnancy , labour , and delivery were uncomplicated on both occasions and complete heart block returned post partum . 
serum concentrations of ca 125 and aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen ( piiinp ) in patients with endometrial carcinoma . serum ca 125 ( a marker of coelomic epithelial cells ) and aminoterminal propeptide of type iii procollagen ( piiinp ; an indicator of collagen metabolism ) concentrations were measured in 148 patients with endometrial carcinoma . an initial serum concentration of ca 125 was pathologic in 17 % of the patients , the frequency of abnormal values being higher ( p = 0.0001 ) in advanced ( 63 % ) than in early disease ( 10 % ) . the serum piiinp concentration was increased in 35 % of the patients and more often ( p less than 0.05 ) so in advanced ( 63 % ) than in early disease ( 31 % ) . among all the patients , at least one of the tumor markers was increased in 43 % of the cases . in early disease 12 of 108 patients contracted recurrent cancer . the accuracy of the pathologic ca 125 ( 9 % ) and piiinp ( 18 % ) concentrations in their prediction was poor . in the total material , pathologic ca 125 and piiinp concentrations appeared simultaneously in 11 patients , of whom eight had poor prognoses . in monitoring of treatment response of 24 patients , regression was accompanied by normal or decreasing ca 125 and piiinp values . the persistence of pathologic ca 125 and/or piiinp concentration predicted relapse of the malignancy . in progressive disease , ca 125 and piiinp concentrations together or separately remained at a pathologic level or increased continuously . in clinically stable endometrial carcinoma , ca 125 gave false-negative results in 71 % of the determinations and piiinp only in 12 % . the current results suggest the use of ca 125 and piiinp , simultaneously , in monitoring the clinical course of advanced endometrial carcinoma . 
osler-weber-rendu disease and pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas . deterioration and embolotherapy during pregnancy . several reports have implicated pregnancy as a cause of deterioration in patients with pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas . we report a 27-year-old woman with multiple pulmonary arteriovenous fistulas who required coil spring embolotherapy in her 24th week of pregnancy due to a spontaneous hemothorax and hypoxemia . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome due to blastomycosis during pregnancy . a 23-year-old healthy woman in her third trimester of pregnancy developed adult respiratory distress syndrome secondary to blastomyces dermatitides . pregnancy-related immunosuppression was believed to be responsible for the fungal infection . following emergency delivery of the infant and a full course of amphotericin b therapy , the patient made an uneventful recovery . although the fetal and maternal sides of the placenta demonstrated fungal spores , the child remained healthy . to our knowledge , this is the first report of blastomycosis-associated adult respiratory distress syndrome occurring during pregnancy . 
comparison of endometrial biopsy and urinary pregnanediol glucuronide concentration in the diagnosis of luteal phase defect . to determine if pregnanediol glucuronide ( pg ) excretion is useful in luteal phase assessment , we compared daily first morning urinary pg concentrations during the luteal phase in nine normal and nine deficient cycles . total luteal pregnanediol excretion ( 44.1 + / - 11.3 versus 64.0 + / - 11.6 area units + / - sem ) was not different . however , significantly less pregnanediol was excreted by the abnormal group during the 1st 5 days of the luteal phase ( 12.7 + / - 1.2 versus 18.0 + / - 1.7 area units + / - sem , respectively ) . thus , delayed pg excretion may be characteristic of luteal phase defect and measurement of urinary pg may be useful only if daily samples during the early luteal phase are obtained . 
evaluation of the stimulated menstrual cycle by magnetic resonance imaging . changes in uterine zonal anatomy in six women during a cycle of treatment with clomiphene citrate is studied by magnetic resonance imaging . there was a rapid rate of increase in endometrial thickness during the periovulatory period that was similar to the pattern seen in a prior study of women with normal ( nonstimulated ) cycles . junctional zone thickness did not parallel the endometrial pattern and differed from the response seen in nonstimulated cycles . results of large scale studies may help to further understand the effects of these medications . 
basal body temperature and endometriosis . this investigation examined the association between pelvic endometriosis and altered basal body temperature ( bbt ) . the study population consisted of infertile women who have been diagnosed as having endometriosis . a significant association was found between the presence of pelvic endometriosis ( without previous treatment ) and the appearance of a late decline in bbt during the early follicular phase of the menstrual cycle . a temperature greater than 97.8 degrees f on the first 3 days of menses is associated with pelvic endometriosis . the findings of this study support the early clinical diagnosis of endometriosis in infertile women . basal body temperature chart analysis may be useful as a clinical adjunct when endometriosis is suspected . 
home monitoring of gonadotropin ovulation induction using the ovarian monitor . the safe use of gonadotropins relies on close hormonal and/or ultrasound monitoring to assess the response to treatment , requiring multiple hospital visits . home monitoring with the ovarian monitor ( st. michael research foundation , macleod , victoria , australia ) minimizes hospital visits and overcomes many of the logistic difficulties associated with gonadotropin use . it utilizes a system of homogenous enzyme immunoassay using lysozyme conjugates to measure quantitatively either urinary estrone-3 or pregnanediol-3-glucuronide . results obtained by 24 patients in 57 cycles using the ovarian monitor at home correlate closely with results obtained in the laboratory ( estrone-3-glucuronide r = 0.955 ; pregnanediol-3-glucuronide r = 0.958 ) . cycle outcomes ( ovulation , 74 % / cycle ; clinical pregnancy , 30 % / cycle ; multiple pregnancy , 13 % / pregnancy ; hyperstimulation , 11 % / cycle ) are no different from those achieved in laboratory-monitored patients . home monitoring can be as safe and effective as laboratory monitoring , offers significant social benefits , and improves access to this form of therapy . 
a randomized , controlled trial of clomiphene citrate and intrauterine insemination in couples with unexplained infertility or surgically corrected endometriosis . this study was initiated to test the hypothesis that treatment with clomiphene citrate ( cc ) and intrauterine insemination ( iui ) results in increased fecundity when compared with periovulatory intercourse in couples with either unexplained infertility or surgically corrected endometriosis . sixty-seven couples entered a randomized , prospective trial comparing cc/iui with observation . during the study , there were 14 pregnancies in 148 treated cycles ( fecundity = 0.095 ) compared with 5 pregnancies in 150 untreated cycles ( fecundity = 0.033 ) . using life-table analysis and the log-rank test , the difference in fecundities was statistically significant . pregnancy outcome was not significantly different between the two groups . when comparing conception with nonconception cycles during treatment , no differences between the size of the lead follicle or the number of dominant follicles was detected . we conclude that treatment with cc/iui improves fecundity in couples with unexplained infertility or surgically corrected endometriosis . 
cryopreserved/thawed semen for in vitro fertilization : results from fertile donors and infertile patients . we evaluated the in vitro fertilization ( ivf ) outcome in 54 cycles using cryopreserved/thawed semen from fertile donors . controls were other ivf patients matched by time frame , female age , stimulation protocol , number of pre-embryos transferred , and absence of a male factor using freshly ejaculated normal semen samples . in the study group and controls , respectively , post-thaw swim-up motility was 83.1 % and 89.5 % ; fertilization rate of preovulatory oocytes ( 91.8 % , 95.7 % ) and ongoing pregnancy rate ( pr ) per transfer ( 21.1 % , 25.0 % ) were similar . the excellent fertilization rate with frozen/thawed semen was achieved through high-concentration insemination ( 0.5 x 10 ( 6 ) motile sperm/ml ) . with use of frozen/thawed samples from infertile men ( normal and subfertile samples ) , pr was similar but fertilization rate was lower . cryopreserved semen is a valuable option for infertile couples in ivf therapy . 
correlation between quantitative antibody titers of sperm immobilizing antibodies and pregnancy rates by treatments . immunological infertility in women who possessed sperm immobilizing ( si ) antibodies made it very difficult to conceive using the usual treatments . we examined si antibodies by the quantitative sperm immobilization test and found the antibody titers ( 50 % sperm immobilization unit : si50 unit ) associated with pregnancy rates . patients with high si50 titers ( greater than 10 units ) did not conceive by ordinary or repeated artificial inseminations with husband 's semen ( aih ) except when treated with in vitro fertilization ( ivf ) and embryo replacement . patients with relatively low si50 titers ( less than 10 units ) could conceive either by repeated or ordinary aih , though the success rates were lower than by ivf-embryo replacement . it is important to assess the si50 titers by the quantitative method to select treatments for infertile women with si antibodies . in follow-up studies of the patients who conceived successfully , it was found that si50 titers tended to decline as pregnancy proceeded . 
changes in sperm antibody test results when spermatozoa are subjected to capacitating conditions . cytotoxic and immunobead-binding antibody assays were used to document possible changes in antigenicity after the spermatozoa were subjected in vitro to capacitating conditions . serum and seminal plasma immunobead-binding immunoglobulin ( ig ) a , sperm surface igg , and iga , and seminal plasma cytotoxic antibody titers in 26 autoimmune infertile men were decreased against autologous spermatozoa under capacitating conditions . cytotoxic antibodies and immunobead-binding igg , iga , and igm against husbands ' sperm undergoing capacitation , in the cervical mucus of these women , were less than those against uncapacitated sperm . conversely , sperm antibody levels were increased against the capacitated husbands ' sperm in the husbands ' serum and wives ' cervical mucus , originally testing negative for cytotoxic antibodies against uncapacitated sperm . antibody levels were unaltered against donors ' sperm undergoing capacitation , except for a reduction in titers in the serum of isoimmune wives . the differences in sperm antibody assay results , depending on whether or not spermatozoa are incubated under conditions favoring capacitation , are specific to the husbands ' and not to the donors ' spermatozoal antigens . 
twin pregnancy after diagnosis and treatment of ectopic implantation by retrograde selective salpingography and intraluminal methotrexate injection . in this case report , a patient with a right tubal pregnancy was managed by a new procedure combining retrograde salpingography and local mtx injection . a twin pregnancy occurred shortly after treatment . we conclude that retrograde tubal cannulation may provide an alternative method for the diagnosis and treatment of selected eps . 
establishment of pregnancies in humans after transcervical transfer of gametes immediately after oocyte retrieval . this study , like that of veersema et al . demonstrates the feasibility of direct intrauterine transfer of gametes in initiating pregnancy . whether the success of this procedure can be further improved with modification ( preincubation , in vitro insemination ) remains the subject of continued investigation . notwithstanding this uncertainty , we feel that transcervical transfer of gametes may be an alternative to ivf for patients with ethical concerns regarding ivf . 
neosalpingostomy for distal tubal obstruction : prognostic factors and impact of surgical technique . we reviewed the clinical records of all women who underwent microsurgical terminal neosalpingostomy for distal tubal obstruction between january 1983 and june 1988 . we identified 95 women whose preoperative evaluation revealed no other contributory factors for infertility and analyzed their pregnancy outcome after this procedure . pregnancy success was inversely related to the extent of tubal distortion ( dilation , rugal integrity , and status of the fimbria ) and degree of adnexal adhesions . using our classification system for distal tubal obstruction , patients with mild disease had an 80 % pregnancy rate , whereas patients with moderate and severe disease had a 31 % and 16 % success rate , respectively . we found no statistically significant difference in pregnancy outcome when we compared this series with our previous group , reported in 1978 , where contemporary microsurgical technique was not used . although we feel that optimal surgical technique is important to maximize success , we conclude that the most important prognostic factor in pregnancy outcome after neosalpingostomy for distal tubal disease is the anatomical and functional integrity of the tube . 
repair of the uterine cavity after hysteroscopic septal incision . we performed a follow-up hysteroscopy with multiple biopsies at different intervals after surgery in 19 women who underwent hysteroscopic septal incision . seven days after operation the sectioned areas were very evident and not epithelialized ( 3 patients ) . at 14 days , the incised zone was depressed with scattered epithelialization ( 5 subjects ) . at 1 month , the sectioned surfaces were still depressed and uniformly covered by thin endometrium ( 5 cases ) . after 2 months the uterine cavity was almost normal with minimal tendency to central fundal adhesions ( 6 women ) . thus , spontaneous healing processes after hysteroscopic metroplasty progressed regularly and completely and there is probably no reason to delay attempts at pregnancy for longer than two cycles after surgery . 
ultrasound-guided transcervical metroplasty . a new technique of metroplasty is described . the septum is divided with 4-mm endoscopic scissors introduced into the uterine cavity through the cervix . the whole procedure is monitored by a real-time ultrasound scanner . twenty-four patients were operated on with this technique . no complication was encountered . fifteen patients had third trimester deliveries or ongoing pregnancies . among 12 patients who had suffered repetitive pregnancy losses , 11 desired pregnancy : 10 have been successfully pregnant beyond the second trimester ( 91.7 % ) , 8 are delivered , and the living birth rate is 72.7 % . these results equal those obtained after hysteroscopic metroplasty . the procedure is short , safe , requires no special equipment , and does not necessitate concomitant laparoscopy . 
neodymium : yag laser hysteroscopy in large submucous fibroids . the preoperative use of a potent , subcutaneously injected gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist ( gnrh-a ) was evaluated in a series of 60 women with large submucosal fibroids . myomectomy by hysteroscopy and nd : yag laser was easily performed . in 12 cases , the largest portion of the myoma was not inside the uterine cavity and myomectomy was carried by a two-step hysteroscopy . in women who wished to become pregnant , a pregnancy rate of 66 % was achieved . advantages of preoperative use of a gnrh-a are ( 1 ) the significant decrease of the fibroid size , ( 2 ) a lower fluid absorption , and ( 3 ) the restoration of a normal hemoglobin concentration . 
herpes simplex virus hepatitis in pregnancy . two patients successfully treated with acyclovir . two cases of herpes simplex virus hepatitis in pregnancy are presented . each case was characterized by extremely high serum aminotransferase levels with minimal bilirubin elevation . in both cases , liver biopsy was instrumental in arriving at the diagnosis . in addition , computed tomography showed a radiographic appearance of the liver not characteristically seen in other hepatic disorders of pregnancy . a high index of suspicion in the second case led to early recognition and treatment . despite the presence of fulminant liver failure and evidence of herpes encephalitis in the other case , institution of therapy with acyclovir was associated with complete recovery in both patients . the present cases are compared and contrasted with the literature . the incidence of two cases within a 6-month period suggests that herpes simplex virus hepatitis in pregnancy may occur more frequently than previously reported . 
a comparison of rapid enzyme immunoassay tests for the detection of chlamydia trachomatis cervical infections . two rapid enzyme immunoassay test kits were compared with culture for the detection of chlamydia trachomatis endocervical infections . endocervical samples for c trachomatis culture and the two enzyme immunoassay tests were evaluated from 502 county health department and planned parenthood patients . the prevalence of infection in this population was 12 % . sensitivity and specificity of the abbott testpack chlamydia were 51.7 % and 99.5 % , respectively , and of the kodak surecell chlamydia were 76.7 % and 98.6 % , respectively . the positive and negative predictive values for testpack were 93.9 % and 93.8 % , and for surecell were 88.5 % and 96.9 % , respectively . additionally , an in vitro investigation was used to evaluate whether typical office staff ( physicians , nurses , medical technicians , receptionists , and radiology technicians ) were able to perform competently the tests in each kit . office personnel tested 12 dilutions of a c trachomatis stock sample or negative control sample as unknowns for each kit in the in vitro investigation . there were no differences among office staff in performance when compared for each test kit . selective use of these enzyme immunoassay tests for high-risk patients in a family practice population that has a high prevalence of patients with c trachomatis infection may be helpful when rapid test results are required and cultures are not feasible . after appropriate training , most physician office personnel were equally able to perform the enzyme immunoassay tests evaluated . 
outcome of pregnancies experienced during residency . to investigate potential adverse effects of residency training on pregnancy outcome , a cohort study was conducted among 45 university-affiliated residency programs . outcomes of the first pregnancy experienced during residency were compared between 92 female residents and 144 spouses of male residents . despite long hours , sleep deprivation , and an increase in perceived stress , the female residents were as likely to give birth to a live , full-term newborn as the spouses of male residents . for white cohort members , an increased risk of premature labor without delivery was identified ( rr = 12.3 , 95 % confidence interval 2.4-61 .6 ) . no significant differences were found in prematurity , spontaneous and therapeutic abortions , or presence of congenital abnormalities in the infants . method of delivery and use of anesthetics and of other medications were similar in both groups . pregnancy outcomes between the two groups were similar ; however , the increased risk for premature labor among female residents is a cause for concern and should be further investigated . 
sudden infant death syndrome in infants of substance-abusing mothers . a population-based study was performed to determine whether substance abuse during the perinatal period may be a risk factor for sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) . the incidence of sids was studied in 2143 infants of substance-abusing mothers ( isam ) born in los angeles county during 1986 and 1987 who were reported to the los angeles county department of health services because of a history of drug exposure or positive urine test results in the mother , infant , or both . by comparing the isam birth reports with records of autopsy-proven sids in los angeles county , we found 19 sids cases in the population of 2143 isam , a sids rate of 8.87 cases per 1000 isam ( 95 % confidence interval 5.3 to 13.8 ) . this was significantly higher than the sids rate for the non-isam general population : 396 sids deaths among 325,372 live births , an incidence rate of 1.22 cases per 1000 births , p less than 0.00001 . the age of isam at death was 99 + / - 63 ( mean + / - sd ) days compared with 91 + / - 52 days for the non-isam population ( not significant ) . the incidence of sids was significantly greater in male infants , during the winter months , in black infants , and in non-hispanic white infants in the non-isam population . such differences were not observed in the isam group . a greater incidence of symptomatic apnea was reported before sids for the isam than for the non-isam population ( 22 % vs 5.4 % , p = 0.022 ) . we conclude that isam have a higher incidence of sids than the non-isam general population . however , it was not possible to separate maternal substance abuse from other confounding variables that may also have had an impact on sids risk in the isam group . 
antenatal phenobarbital for the prevention of periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhage : a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled , multihospital trial . to determine whether the neuroprotective properties of phenobarbital would alter the incidence and severity of intracranial hemorrhage in premature infants , we randomly assigned 110 women at less than 31 weeks of gestation to receive 10 mg/kg phenobarbital or placebo in a blinded fashion before delivery . infants were examined postnatally with real-time ultrasonography for evidence of intracranial hemorrhage . maternal demographics , pregnancy complications , antenatal management , and route of delivery did not differ between the phenobarbital group ( n = 50 ) and the placebo group ( n = 60 ) . the total incidence of periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage did not differ between the phenobarbital-treated ( n = 54 ) and the placebo-treated ( n = 67 ) infants . however , the frequency of grade 3 and grade 4 hemorrhages was 15 % ( 10 infants ) in the placebo group and 3.7 % ( 2 infants ) in the phenobarbital group ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were no differences in the severity of associated conditions in the babies to explain the difference in the incidence of severe hemorrhage between the study groups . we conclude that antenatal administration of phenobarbital appears to be effective in decreasing the severity of periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage in infants delivered at less than 31 weeks of gestation . 
neonatal interleukin-1 beta , interleukin-6 , and tumor necrosis factor : cord blood levels and cellular production . in a prospective study , levels of interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) , interleukin-6 ) ( il-6 ) , and tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) were measured in a blind fashion in cord blood plasma from 92 neonates by specific immunoassays , and were correlated with the clinical courses of the infants , including type of delivery and perinatal complications . plasma il-1 beta concentration was undetectable in infants born by normal vaginal delivery or elective cesarean section but was significantly increased in infants born after induced vaginal deliveries ( 142 + / - 68 pg/ml ) or urgent cesarean section ( 290 + / - 21 pg/ml ; both p less than 0.05 compared with normal deliveries ) . the il-1 beta levels were elevated in infants with severe perinatal complications ( 282 + / - 116 pg/ml ; p less than 0.001 ) , whereas tnf and il-6 levels were not related to these complications . infants with isolated perinatal infectious complications had elevated levels of plasma il-6 compared with those of sick neonates without infection ( p less than 0.001 ) . in contrast , tnf plasma levels and il-1 beta production by cord blood leukocytes were decreased in infants with infectious complications alone ( both p less than 0.05 ) . these studies suggest that the levels of il-1 beta , il-6 , and tnf in the cord plasma relate differentially to clinical complications in the perinatal period . 
vaginal removal of the pedunculated submucous myoma . historical observations and development of a new procedure . a new method of vaginal removal of submucous fibroids was attempted on 151 patients . the procedure involves dilation of the cervix with laminaria tents and removal of the submucous fibroid by grasping with appropriate instruments . myomas were removed successfully in 92 % of the patients ; hysterectomy and abdominal myomectomy were avoided in all but four of them . perforation occurred in two patients . morbidity was minimal . the four patients who desired pregnancy conceived . 
prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine added to a metoclopramide antiemetic regimen . a controlled comparison . cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting occurs both acutely and over a prolonged period of time . these symptoms may be incapacitating and are frequently given as a reason to discontinue therapy . we compared prochlorperazine and transdermal scopolamine when added to a standardized metoclopramide antiemetic regimen . twenty-seven patients receiving cisplatin at 100 mg/m2 were randomly assigned to one of the two treatment arms . patients were observed during chemotherapy and answered a standard questionnaire 24-26 hours later . among similar treatment groups no differences were seen regarding the number of emetic events , level of nausea , degree of sedation or overall acceptability of one treatment arm or another . while not superior to prochlorperazine , transdermal scopolamine is a useful antiemetic agent and can be combined with metoclopramide in an attempt to reduce cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting . further evaluation of this approach is needed . 
obesity and vaginal hysterectomy . a retrospective study was done of 471 consecutive vaginal hysterectomies done in a three-year period . three groups of patients -- 239 normal to 9 % overweight , 132 10-24 % overweight and 100 greater than or equal to 25 % overweight -- were compared . surgical difficulties were similar in all three groups . the more obese patient had a slightly greater incidence of febrile morbidity , stayed one day longer in the hospital and had a minimally greater loss of hemoglobin 48 hours postoperatively . however , obesity per se caused few problems during and after vaginal hysterectomy . the vaginal approach is the procedure of choice for hysterectomy in obese women . 
c-reactive protein in assessing antimicrobial treatment of acute pelvic inflammatory disease . serial serum c-reactive protein ( crp ) determinations were used in the evaluation of antimicrobial treatment of acute pelvic inflammatory disease ( pid ) as proven by laparoscopy and endometrial biopsy or microbiologic findings in the upper genital tract in 36 women . sixteen patients were treated with ciprofloxacin and 20 with doxycycline plus metronidazole . the mean crp levels did not differ significantly in patients with severe and moderate salpingitis in comparison with mild salpingitis on admission or during treatment , nor was there any significant difference between the mean crp levels in patients with acute chlamydial/gonococcal and nonchlamydial/nongonococcal pid . the mean crp levels decreased by the third day of treatment in all treatment groups , and the decrease by the sixth day of treatment was significant ( p less than .05 ) , reflecting the clinical response to therapy faster than did serial esr determinations . after the documentation of acute pid , serial serum crp determinations were a useful predictor of the short-term response to antimicrobial therapy . 
initiating a chorionic villus sampling program . relying on placental location as the primary determinant of the sampling route . in initiating a chorionic villus sampling ( cvs ) protocol , we relied upon placental locations as the determinant in the choice of technique . an anterior or fundal location prompted a transabdominal ( ta ) cvs , while the transcervical ( tc ) approach was reserved for posterior placentas . a coaxial needle system was used for ta cvs ( 18-gauge , 15-cm guide needle and 20-gauge , 20-cm sampling needle ) , while tc cvs was accomplished with a 5.8-french , 27-cm polyethylene catheter . between july 1988 and february 1989 our initial 118 procedures were performed for 115 consecutive pregnancies using this protocol . testing indications and antenatal characteristics of the ta ( n = 56 ) and tc ( n = 63 ) groups were similar . one procedure failure occurred in the tc group , and a single aspiration was sufficient in 59 % of the cases ( ta , 30/55 ; tc , 39/63 ) . in tc procedures an increased aggregate sample weight was observed as compared to ta cases ( 25.8 g vs. 16.9 g , respectively ; p less than .001 ) . this difference was not attributable to an increased number of placental aspirations in tc cases . one abnormal karyotype was observed ( 45x ) , and four pregnancy losses occurred ( tc , 3 ; ta , 1 ) . using placental location to determine the choice of cvs technique appears to be feasible and may be associated with a lower failure rate during a facility 's initial experience ( when compared to reliance upon one technique alone ) . trials comparing the safety of these two methods should consider placental location an independent variable before randomization . 
hip pain in late pregnancy . hip pain in late pregnancy is quite common , and its etiology is rarely established unless acute demineralization occurs . we measured the bone mineral content of both hips in 26 women within 48 hours of delivery . twelve of 36 densities ( 33 % ) were decreased in a group with severe pain when compared to 12 of 120 decreased densities ( 10 % ) in the remaining patients ( p less than .05 ) . those data suggest that severe hip pain may be related to a decrease in bone mineral content . 
aggressive evaluation for atypical squamous cells in papanicolaou smears . a retrospective study was done on women who had atypical papanicolaou smears and were referred for immediate colposcopy . the smears were obtained during january 1985 to march 1989 at edwards air force base , california . excluded from the evaluation were abnormal papanicolaou smears with hyperkeratosis , parakeratosis and koilocytotic atypia suggestive of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) infection . the evaluation included colposcopy , colposcopically directed biopsies , endocervical curettage and repeat papanicolaou smears . a total of 101 patients were included in the study . cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( cin ) was seen in 29.7 % ( 30 patients ) : 12.9 % ( 13 ) cin i , 12.9 % ( 13 ) cin ii and 3.9 % ( 4 ) cin iii . carcinoma was seen in 3.9 % ( 4 ) of the patients : 2.9 % ( 3 ) was carcinoma in situ , and 0.99 % ( 1 ) was invasive squamous cell carcinoma , stage iib . hpv and dysplastic lesions were seen together in 19.8 % ( 20 ) of the patients . hpv was seen alone in 45 % ( 46 ) . twenty-one patients ( 20.8 % ) had no apparent lesions on colposcopy , although one developed microinvasive keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma within 36 months of colposcopy . many significant lesions can go undetected for extended periods of time in women with atypical papanicolaou smears , resulting in delayed management . referral for immediate colposcopy is advocated strongly . 
vaginitis emphysematosa . a report of four cases . it has been hypothesized that vaginitis emphysematosa is a manifestation of trichomonal or gardnerella infection . in support of this etiologic concept , four cases of the disorder are described showing the apparent curative effect of treating the associated infection . the linkage of these and other reported cases with conditions of impaired immunity suggests that immunologic factors are involved in the pathogenesis . 
intrapartum cocaine use . a case report . the use of cocaine during pregnancy appears to be reaching epidemic proportions . in the first reported case of intrapartum cocaine use , fetal heart rate abnormalities were detected . 
chlamydial infections . chlamydia trachomatis is a unique intracellular parasite that causes a number of common sexually transmitted disease syndromes , including nongonococcal urethritis in both men and women , epididymitis in men , and pelvic inflammatory disease in women . infants exposed at delivery are at risk for the development of conjunctivitis and pneumonia . there is strong evidence that chlamydia is a cause of obstructive infertility and ectopic pregnancy in women . it appears that these complications result from the chronic inflammatory response and secondary scarring that are elicited by long-term asymptomatic or nearly asymptomatic fallopian tube infections . because treatment with tetracycline , doxycycline , or erythromycin is simple , effective , and inexpensive , major efforts should be put into identifying asymptomatic young women through screening of the subpopulations at highest risk . these include sexually active adolescent women and older women who are not monogamous . blacks are at higher risk than other ethnic groups for infection . the cost of diagnosing chlamydial infection has decreased with the introduction of new nonculture diagnostic tests . this should increase the availability of testing for screening purposes . it is critical to remember that male sex partners of infected women must be treated ; otherwise all efforts to prevent long-term complications by identifying and treating asymptomatic women are doomed to failure . 
chancroid and the role of genital ulcer disease in the spread of human retroviruses . chancroid is the most prevalent form of genital ulcer disease in developing countries and is undergoing a resurgence in industrialized countries . as a result of a nonspecificity of the clinical findings , the etiologic diagnosis of genital ulcer disease requires laboratory support . genital ulcer disease is a risk factor for the transmission of human retroviral infections . an understanding of this interaction is emerging and will impact on the treatment and control programs for the agents causing genital ulcer disease . 
genital herpes simplex virus infections . there has been a dramatic increase in patient visits to physicians for evaluation and treatment of genital herpes infections . this has resulted in part from an increase in genital herpes infections , particularly severe , first-episode genital herpes infections in adults without prior hsv-1 infection . virus culture remains the most sensitive and specific method for diagnosis , and use of viral cultures is encouraged . type-specific antibody tests have been employed in studies documenting the role of asymptomatic shedding of hsv in transmission of genital infections , the role of genital hsv in transmission of hiv , the predominance of asymptomatic and unrecognized infections in those infected with hsv-2 , and the presence of past asymptomatic or unrecognized acquisition of hsv-2 in 25 % of persons presenting with first-episode genital herpes . unfortunately , commercially available serologic tests do not reliably differentiate between antibody to hsv-1 and hsv-2 . recent studies suggest that the annual risk of transmission from a sexual partner with genital herpes is about 10 % in heterosexual couples . currently , promotion of " safe sex " is the only available approach for prevention of transmission . however , ongoing research is focused on the development of an effective vaccine . acyclovir should be used routinely in persons with first-episode genital herpes , but careful evaluation is needed in persons with recurrent genital herpes to determine whether episodic or suppressive treatment is indicated . acyclovir should also be used routinely for episodic or suppressive treatment of hsv infections in persons with aids . additional antiviral agents are needed for more effective suppressive therapy and for treatment of acv-resistant hsv infections in the immunocompromised host . 
human papillomavirus infections of the genital tract . infection of the genital tract by hpv is a sexually transmitted disease of increasing prevalence . the association of hpv infection with genital tract malignancies is of great concern , and further studies are needed to clarify this association . few investigators believe at this time that proof of a direct causative role exists for hpv in these cancers , but indirect evidence of such a role is abundant . there are many clinical forms of hpv infection of the genital tract , and few clinicians can easily recognize them all . treatment of condyloma acuminatum is difficult and frustrating . cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen is the safest and most effective therapy for most forms of condyloma acuminatum . recurrence of condyloma acuminatum is common with all presently used forms of therapy , probably owing to latent hpv infection in normal-appearing skin . no form of treatment is ideal for all forms of condyloma acuminatum , but without continued efforts to find better therapeutic modalities and preventative measures , the epidemic of genital hpv infection will continue unchecked . 
common nonvenereal genital lesions . there are a wide variety of local and systemic skin diseases that produce lesions in the genitoanal region . these lesions may resemble those produced by sexually transmitted microorganisms . the purpose of this article is to make physicians aware of the common skin diseases that produce lesions on the genitalia to avoid the inappropriate diagnosis of a sexually transmitted disease . 
approach to the patient with genital ulcer disease . the three major diseases characterized by genital ulcers -- genital herpes , syphilis , and chancroid -- are common , with genital herpes being most common in industrialized countries and chancroid being most common in developing countries . one fourth to one half of patients with genital ulcers have no diagnosed cause for their illness despite diagnostic efforts . the bulk of these cases is probably constituted by one of the three diseases for which diagnostic tests are falsely negative . there is accumulating evidence that genital ulcers facilitate the transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , and they may also be markers of high-risk behavior for acquisition of hiv . appropriate therapy of patients with genital ulcers ( as well as their sexual partners ) depends on accurate diagnosis . patients with genital ulcers , particularly those with syphilis or chancroid , should be encouraged to undergo testing for hiv infection . 
vaginal infections in adult women . often trivialized by the medical profession , vaginitis in adult women is not only extremely common but is the source of considerable distress and often results in marked suffering . epidemiologic studies described in this article indicate the high prevalence of vaginitis and the large number of causes . although the majority of infections in women are due to bacterial vaginosis , vvc , and trichomoniasis , it is clear that many other causes exist , and we have yet to discover the etiology of many clinical syndromes . considerable progress has been made in understanding the pathogenesis of the three common vaginitides . although excellent progress has been made by the pharmaceutical industry in providing new drugs for vaginitis , any further progress will require a better understanding of etiology and pathogenesis . vaginitis causes major symptoms and is more than a nuisance problem . clinicians owe it to their patients to attempt to make an accurate diagnosis and not to rely on empiric therapy . 
pelvic inflammatory disease . the costs of pid to both individuals and society are enormous . although primary prevention of pid through control of lower genital tract infections is the most effective prevention strategy , early diagnosis and treatment of acute pid may minimize some of its serious sequelae . although laparoscopy is helpful for establishing the diagnosis of salpingitis , other less invasive tests along with selected clinical criteria may also be useful . treatment of pid , which is empiric and broad spectrum , is oriented toward polymicrobial pid . whenever possible , women with pid should be hospitalized for parenteral therapy . the 1989 cdc std treatment guidelines recommend two regimens for inpatient parenteral therapy : clindamycin/gentamicin and cefoxitin , or equivalent cephalosporin/doxycycline . outpatient management of pid should be monitored closely ; the cdc-recommended regimen includes use of intramuscular cephalosporins and oral doxycycline . oral penicillins are no longer recommended . 
aids . natural history and prognosis . infection with hiv results in a chronic , persistent infection that usually progresses slowly from an asymptomatic state to full-blown aids . aids remains a lethal disease with no effective cure . a great deal of information has been learned in the past decade , yet many questions remain unresolved . much more research is needed into the conditions surrounding the perinatal transmission of hiv . many women who give birth to a child with aids are themselves asymptomatic for hiv infection during pregnancy and at delivery ; thus , routine voluntary prenatal hiv screening programs must be instituted in areas of high seroprevalence . such screening programs must provide pretest and post-test counseling with consent and confidentiality . seroprevalence studies conducted during the perinatal period or at birth using newborn blood samples will provide important epidemiologic data for further research investigations as well as continued estimates of the prevalence of hiv infection . currently , there is no formal reporting system for hiv infection , only for the clinical expression of aids . there may be a need to develop a centralized reporting unit for hiv infection . as the epidemic continues and the true prevalence rates are determined , additional resources for public health care , housing , insurance , and foster care for children will be needed . the number of women who are infected is increasing at an alarming rate . every opportunity to increase public awareness about the aids epidemic and modes of transmission must be exploited if we are to impact on the spread of hiv infection . prospective studies of pregnant hiv-positive women and pediatric follow-up can provide a wealth of data about aids and disease progression in both the mother and the infant . even if some children do not develop aids , the possibility of permanent effects of in utero exposure to the virus still exists . at what exact point in gestation does infection occur ? can infection be prevented or delayed with current chemotherapeutic protocols ? even if a cure or vaccine is developed in the near future , the impact of this deadly virus will have repercussions for many years to come . 
human immunodeficiency virus education and screening of prenatal patients . prenatal hiv education and testing requires access to many resources and is demanding of time and personnel . properly trained sympathetic on-site counselors are essential . such personnel may combine this role with other tasks but should have the time necessary to commit to individualized hiv counseling . high-quality laboratory facilities should be available . ready access to psychiatric professionals , social service supports , clergy , internal medicine , pediatric primary care , and infectious disease consultation or referrals needs to be available and integrated into all prenatal screening programs . obstetrician/gynecologists at all levels should seek access to and support for these necessary though resource-intensive programs and work toward extension of such programs to all women of childbearing age . 
the immunology of hiv disease and pregnancy and possible interactions . hiv infection may impair a large portion of the human immune response . infection of cd4 + t cells results in depletion of this population , leading to dysfunction of t-cell-dependent activities . numerous other immune functions are directly or indirectly impaired , including the function of cd8 + t cells and decreases in total lymphocytes , il-2 secretion , il-2r expression , proliferative response to mitogens , nk activity , adcc , and several other measures . immune alterations seen in normal pregnancy include decreases in cd4 and t cells , the proliferative response to mitogen , il-2 secretion , and nk activity . these changes are largely cellular and usually are not apparent clinically . normal pregnant women are immunocompetent . when pregnancy is complicated by asymptomatic hiv infection , the obstetric outcome does not seem to be adversely affected . preliminary studies show that the course of hiv disease may not be adversely affected in these women , but this matter is the subject of intense investigation . 
role of the placenta in perinatal transmission of hiv . the role of the placental tissue in the perinatal transmission of hiv is still far from being understood . significant data regarding transplacental infection have been collected , but differences in technique have led to controversy . it appears clear that many hofbauer cells are cd4 + and can become infected with hiv . less certain but probable is infection of trophoblasts themselves . whether infection is cd4 mediated or via cell-cell fusion is not established . transplacental traffic of virus and cells remains a little-studied possibility . further data are needed regarding the fascinating concept of the placenta as a modulator of infection . 
human immunodeficiency virus infection in pregnancy . among an estimated 1 million to 1.5 million americans infected with hiv , about 10 per cent are women . moreover , almost 30 per cent of hiv infection among women is acquired through heterosexual activity . therefore , the average obstetrician/gynecologist is not sheltered from dealing with hiv . this article offers guidelines for caring for hiv-infected pregnant women during antepartum , intepartum , and postpartum phases . 
hiv infection . managing exposure risks for the obstetrician/gynecologist . human immunodeficiency virus infection in women is geographically widespread throughout the us . infected blood is the single most important source for hiv transmission in the health care setting . occupationally acquired hiv infection appears to be an uncommon event , with prospective studies thus far reporting an incidence of 0.6 per cent or less . strategies for preventing transmission of hiv infection in an obstetric/gynecologic setting are a matter of appropriate barrier protection , good infection control technique , and a large measure of common sense . 
human immunodeficiency virus infection , women , and pregnancy . ethical issues . should women of childbearing age be screened for the presence of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ? if infected , should they be instructed not to become pregnant or not to bear children ? should pregnant women and their offspring be included in research protocols that explore ways to prevent or treat perinatally acquired hiv disease ? this article examines ethical controversies related to hiv screening , counseling , and research and suggests that resolutions may come from achieving greater clarity about the ultimate goals of obstetric and gynecologic care . 
papanicolaou smear cell recovery techniques used by primary care physicians . nine hundred tennessee-based internists , family physicians , and obstetrician-gynecologists were randomly selected and surveyed to identify papanicolaou smear cell recovery methods used in their practices . this 16-item survey also requested typical laboratory reporting procedures on papanicolaous smears . the most frequently reported cell sampling technique was the combination cotton-tipped applicator and spatula , which was used by 47 percent of all physicians . use of the cervical cytobrush for papanicolaou smears , which has been shown to improve the detection of cervical dysplasia , was used alone or in combination by 19 percent of those surveyed , of whom 72 percent were gynecologists . cervical sampling should contain cells from the transformation zone as evidenced by an adequate number of endocervical cells on the smear . laboratories reporting the presence of endocervical cells were significantly different ( p less than 0.05 ) among the specialties , with 26 percent of the internists ' , 18 percent of the family physicians ' , and 15 percent of the obstetricians ' laboratories not providing this information in their reports . reporting inadequate smears is a necessary first step toward improved sampling technique . without this information , physicians risk missing pathology through reports of false-negative papanicolaou smears . 
measurement of activity of urea resistant neutrophil alkaline phosphatase as an antenatal screening test for down 's syndrome . objective -- to investigate the value of measuring maternal urea resistant neutrophil alkaline phosphatase activity as an antenatal screening test for down 's syndrome . design -- case-control study of blood samples collected at nine to 27 weeks of pregnancy . setting -- antenatal clinics in london and oxford . patients -- 72 women whose fetuses had been diagnosed by amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling as having down 's syndrome and 156 women whose fetuses did not have the syndrome . only singleton pregnancies were studied . main outcome measure -- activity of urea resistant neutrophil alkaline phosphatase measured cytochemically . results -- the median enzyme activity in the index patients was 1.65 times the expected median for the controls at the same duration of pregnancy ( p less than 0.0001 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.56 to 1.74 ) . a cut off value that identified the 5 % of control patients with the highest activities yielded a rate of detection of down 's syndrome of 79 % ( 95 % confidence interval 70 to 89 % ) . conclusion -- activity of urea resistant neutrophil alkaline phosphatase is an effective maternal blood marker for down 's syndrome . its use in antenatal screening could lead to a substantial improvement in the detection of this disorder . before introducing the test into routine medical practice it will have to be automated so that it can be used on a large scale and is less subjective . 
ultrasonography compared with intravenous urography in the investigation of adults with haematuria objective -- to compare ultrasonography with intravenous urography in the investigation of adults with haematuria . design -- prospective study entailing the examination of all patients with both investigations concurrently . the investigations were performed independently on routine lists by different duty radiologists . each was aware of the details of the request form but not of the findings of the other investigation . setting -- radiology department of a teaching hospital . patients -- 155 consecutive adult patients ( aged 18-93 ) referred from general practitioners and hospital outpatient clinics with a history of haematuria . follow up -- when results of both examinations proved normal no clinical or radiological follow up was sought . all abnormal findings of either investigation were correlated with results of subsequent imaging studies or operative findings . results -- 81 patients ( 52 % ) had normal findings on urography and ultrasonography . overall , the findings of ultrasonography concurred with those of urography in 144 cases ( 93 % ) . among the discrepant findings of the two investigations ultrasonography missed two ureteric calculi ; one was in a non-dilated ureter , and in the other case ultrasonography detected the secondary ureteric dilatation . ultrasound examination alone detected four bladder tumours not visible on urography with sizes ranging from 5 to 21 mm , representing one fifth of the 20 cystoscopically proved bladder tumours detected in the series . ultrasonography detected all the 22 neoplastic lesions discovered in the study ( 20 bladder , two renal ) . ultrasonography clarified the nature of renal masses evident in three urograms ( simple cysts ) . conclusions -- ultrasonography is a safe and accurate method of investigating the urinary tract in adults with haematuria . when combined with a single plain abdominal radiograph it proved to be superior to urography as the primary imaging study in this series . ultrasonography should certainly be preferred to urography if cystoscopy is not planned . no urothelial tumours of the upper urinary tract were found in the series , reflecting their rarity . for those patients in whom ultrasonography and plain radiography have shown no abnormality and in whom cystoscopic appearances are normal urography would be advisable to exclude urothelial tumours of the upper urinary tract . 
dilatation in the duplex kidney : 3 unusual cases . dilatation in the upper limb of a duplex ureter is usually secondary to obstruction and may be associated with a ureterocele . by contrast , vesicoureteric reflux is the usual cause of a dilated lower moiety ureter . we report 3 cases in which unusual or complex causes of dilatation of 1 limb of a duplex ureter were demonstrated . 
the encased ureter : bullet and bodkin pattern , a reliable radiographic sign . among the causes of constricted ureter is benign or malignant encasement . the diagnosis of ureteric encasement is frequently overlooked , even by well informed clinicians and radiologists . the most common benign cause is retroperitoneal fibrosis and the most frequent malignant causes are extension from an adjacent primary tumour , true metastases to the ureter and lymphoma . lack of recognition of the process may lead to mistaken diagnosis of an inflammatory stricture or infiltrating transitional cell tumour , with resultant inappropriate management . a sign which appears to be almost specific for encasement , the bullet and bodkin configuration , is described here . newer imaging modalities such as computed tomography and ultrasound , while helpful , are probably less sensitive and less specific than the retrograde ureterogram because a detectable mass is not always present . 
stimulation of active renin release in normal and hypertensive pregnancy . 1 . active plasma renin concentration but not total renin concentration is reduced in women with pregnancy-induced hypertension compared with normotensive pregnant women . this study was conducted to determine whether women with pregnancy-induced hypertension are able to stimulate release of active renin . 2 . active plasma renin concentration was measured as the generation of angiotensin i at physiological ph in the presence of excess renin substrate , and total renin concentration was determined in the same way after trypsin activation . inactive plasma renin concentration was calculated as the difference between total renin and active plasma renin concentrations . 3 . resting active plasma renin concentration was significantly greater in third-trimester primigravidae compared with normotensive non-pregnant women and active plasma renin and total renin concentrations rose significantly without a fall in inactive plasma renin concentration in both groups after 2 h ambulation , suggesting increased release of active plasma renin and not conversion of circulating inactive to active renin . these responses were blunted in women taking oral contraceptives . 4 . although the active plasma renin concentration was significantly reduced in third-trimester primigravidae with pregnancy-induced hypertension , total renin concentration was not significantly different compared with normotensive women of similar gestation and in both groups 30 min 60 degrees head-up tilt increased active but not inactive plasma renin concentration . 5 . these studies show that in normal pregnancy active plasma renin concentration can be stimulated to a similar extent as in non-pregnant women , despite a higher resting level . this appears to be due to increased secretion of active plasma renin rather than conversion of circulating inactive to active renin . 
pulmonary problems in pregnancy . pregnant women with asthma and pulmonary infections should be treated essentially the same as nonpregnant women with similar disease severity . definitive diagnosis and prompt treatment with heparin should be used for patients with pulmonary thromboembolism . 
expression of rat prolactin-like protein b in deciduoma of pseudopregnant rat and in decidua during early pregnancy . the rat prl-like protein-b ( rplp-b ) complementary dna ( cdna ) , originally cloned from a late term placental library , hybridizes to transcripts in the deciduoma tissue artificially produced in pseudopregnant rats . the expression of rplp-b in deciduoma is first observed 48 h ( pseudopregnancy day 7 ) after the deciduogenic stimulus and increases to a maximum by 96-120 h ( pseudopregnancy day 9-10 ) . in situ hybridization studies show that rplp-b hybridizes specifically to the antimesometrial cells of deciduoma tissue in day 9 pseudopregnant rats and to the homologous cells of the decidua that surround the embryo-trophoblastic structure at day 9 of pregnancy . a temporal study on the expression of rplp-b during pregnancy shows that rplp-b is concomitantly expressed by the decidual cells of maternal origin and the cytotrophoblast of fetal origin around day 13 of pregnancy . 
a simple and sensitive microtiter plate estrogen bioassay based on stimulation of alkaline phosphatase in ishikawa cells : estrogenic action of delta 5 adrenal steroids . we have developed an estrogen bioassay using the ishikawa human endometrial adenocarcinoma cell line growing in 96-well microtiter plates . alkaline phosphatase enzyme activity ( alkp ) in these cells is markedly stimulated by estrogens , and this enzyme can be easily quantified in situ using a chromogenic substrate . these cells are very sensitive to estrogens ; estradiol induces alkp at levels as low as 10 ( -12 ) m. antiestrogens completely block the action of estradiol . various estrogens stimulate alkp with potencies comparable to those achieved in vivo . the induction of alkp is specific for estrogens ; no other type of steroid , including androgens , progestins , mineralocorticoids , or glucocorticoids produce this effect . the stimulation of alkp in ishikawa cells is specific for estrogens , is highly reproducible and sensitive , and permits large numbers of samples to be assayed with ease . we have used this assay to investigate the estrogenic action of the adrenal delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroids . while pregnenolone is inactive , dehydroepiandrosterone and its sulfate ester induce alkp slightly . however , the c19 steroid , 5-androstene-3 beta , 17 beta-diol is considerably more estrogenic in this assay , although it stimulates ishikawa alkp with a potency of 1/30 ,000 that of estradiol . the stimulation by 5-androstene-3 beta ,17 beta-diol is inhibited by antiestrogens , but it is not blocked by the delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid isomerase/dehydrogenase inhibitor , cyanoketone , or by the aromatase inhibitor , 4-hydroxy-androstenedione . thus , neither conversion to a delta 4-3-ketone nor aromatization is required for the action of this unusual estrogen . 
preliminary characterization of angiogenic activity in media conditioned by cells from luteinized rat ovaries . angiogenic activity was detected in media conditioned by ovarian cells from superovulated , pseudopregnant ( pmsg/human cg treated ) immature holtzman rats . media conditioned by cells from luteinized rat ovaries stimulated the directed migration of rabbit endothelial cells or mouse balb/c3t3 cells , but was not mitogenic to either cell type . that endotheliotropic activity was not associated with a steroid was indicated by the finding that chemoattractant activity was detected in fractions after reversed-phase c18 chromatography , which removes more than 95 % of steroids present in the media , and that chemoattractant activity was precipitated by ammonium sulfate and by ethanol . full chemoattractant activity was recovered after boiling ( 95 c for 30 min ) , lyophilization , dialysis , sephadex g-25 desalting columns , and ph changes from 3-10 . after sephadex g-200 chromatography , chemoattractant activity emerged at elution volumes corresponding to 20,000-30 ,000 mol wt . chemoattractant activity was not retained by concanavalin a-sepharose or gelatin-sepharose , and was only partially retained by heparin-agarose . chemoattractant activity was also partially retained on both cation and anion exchange columns . our collective findings indicate the presence of a nonsteroidal , heat-stable , pronase-sensitive factor , nominal mol wt of 20,000-30 ,000 , in media conditioned by cells from luteinized rat ovaries ; this factor is chemoattractive but not mitogenic to endothelial cells . ovarian-derived chemoattractant activity appears to be distinct from fibroblast growth factor because it lacked detectable mitogenic activity , and because fibroblast growth factor was not active in our cell migration bioassay . because stimulation of endothelial cell migration is a key event during angiogenesis , demonstration of an ovarian endotheliotropic chemoattractant is consistent with our hypothesis that angiogenesis factors play a role in the paracrine regulation of ovarian function . 
transplantable rat choriocarcinoma cells express placental lactogen : identification of placental lactogen-i immunoreactive protein and messenger ribonucleic acid . the purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the abilities of a transplantable rat choriocarcinoma ( rcho ) to produce placental prls . the rcho tumor was analyzed biochemically and histologically for the expression of placental prls . expression of placental prl mrnas was determined by northern blot and in situ hybridization analyses . expression of placental prl proteins was determined by western blot and immunocytochemical analyses . histologically , rcho tumors were characterized by the appearance of giant cell surrounding hemorrhagic regions . female rats bearing the rcho tumor beneath their kidney capsule showed extensive mammary gland development . the rcho tumors expressed placental lactogen-i ( pl-i ) mrna and protein , but there was no evidence of placental lactogen-ii ( pl-ii ) , prl-like protein-a ( plp-a ) , or prl-like protein-b ( plp-b ) . rcho pl-i mrna and proteins migrated as a 1-kilobase species and a 36 - to 40-kda species similar to those expressed by normal rat trophoblast tissues . the cell type responsible for rcho pl-i production was the giant cell , similar to that observed in normal rat trophoblast tissues . in summary , we have demonstrated the production of pl-i by a transplantable rat choriocarcinoma ( rcho ) . the rcho tumor resembles rat trophoblast tissue at early postimplantation stages ( days 6-10 of gestation ) and may be a useful tool for studying placental prl expression during trophoblast differentiation . 
pregnancy outcome after inadvertent ivermectin treatment during community-based distribution . ivermectin is the drug of choice for community-based treatment of onchocerciasis . since pregnancy testing during mass distribution campaigns is not feasible , the safety of ivermectin in pregnancy must be established . during a 3-year study , ivermectin was distributed to the population of a rubber plantation ( 14,000 people ) in liberia . only 31 % of women were aware of their pregnancy status during the first month ; it was calculated that about half of women in the first trimester of pregnancy are likely to be treated inadvertently . 203 children born to women inadvertently treated during pregnancy were identified . in this limited sample , there was no significant difference in birth defects between treated and untreated mothers in the same population or compared with a reference population . children of treated and untreated mothers showed no difference in developmental status or disease patterns . further surveillance is necessary ; however , since no major effects of ivermectin on pregnancy outcome were detected , there seems no need to change existing strategies of ivermectin distribution . 
ulcerative lesions and herpes simplex virus type 2 in a patient with evan 's syndrome . we have described a case of herpes genitalis in a patient with evans 's syndrome who had violaceous macules leading to deep ulcerations . this case serves as a reminder that hsv infection may be atypical and have an unusual course in immunocompromised patients . with the availability of specific therapy for this infection , it is important to consider hsv in the differential diagnosis of all ulcerative skin lesions . 
cardiovascular anomalies associated with prenatal exposure to theophylline . theophylline has been shown to be a potent cardiovascular teratogen in animals , but there has been no evidence linking theophylline with congenital anomalies in infants . the cardiovascular anomalies in our three patients were aortic anomalies , double-outlet right ventricle , transposition of the great arteries , total anomalous pulmonary venous connection , and hypoplasia of the left ventricle . some of these rare defects were also induced frequently in animal experiments with theophylline , which suggests that this drug can be a cardiovascular teratogen in a susceptible human fetus . 
endometriosis of the abdominal wall . endometriosis of the abdominal wall typically occurs as a painful mass in a lower abdominal incision from previous cesarean section or hysterectomy . most patients are young and in their active reproductive years . the histologic diagnosis requires a combination of either endometrial-like glands , endometrial stroma , or hemosiderin pigment . the diagnosis must be considered in any woman with an abdominal wall mass and a history of transabdominal gynecologic surgery . wide excision offers the best chance to prevent recurrence . 
acute appendicitis in the pregnant patient . acute appendicitis is the most common surgical problem in pregnancy requiring emergent intervention . to establish a contemporary patient profile and formulate an effective management strategy , a retrospective review was conducted of 84 pregnant patients who underwent laparotomy with a preoperative diagnosis of acute appendicitis . gestational stage at presentation included the first trimester in 27 patients ( 32 % ) , the second trimester in 37 patients ( 44 % ) , the third trimester in 13 patients ( 16 % ) , and the puerperium in 7 patients ( 8 % ) . fifty-four patients ( 64 % ) had pathologically proven acute appendicitis ; the incidence did not vary by trimester . other intra-abdominal conditions were detected in 15 patients ( 18 % ) . there were no significant differences between patients with positive and negative laparotomies ( or among trimesters ) regarding frequency of presenting symptoms and signs or laboratory results . operation occurred within 24 hours of symptom onset in 19 of 54 ( 35 % ) instances of proven acute appendicitis . perforation occurred in 23 of 54 patients ( 43 % ) , all of whom had symptoms exceeding 24 hours ( p less than 0.0005 ) . five instances of perinatal death and one case of extreme perinatal morbidity were associated with negative laparotomies ; only one of these was attributed to operation itself . no adverse long-term maternal morbidity or mortality occurred . wound infection developed in seven cases of acute appendicitis ( six perforated ) and two negative explorations . we conclude that ( 1 ) gestational physiologic changes obscure the accurate diagnosis of acute appendicitis ; ( 2 ) the natural history of acute appendicitis is not affected by trimester of presentation ; and ( 3 ) adverse sequelae of acute appendicitis are obviated by prompt operative exploration and prevention of appendiceal perforation . 
caesarean section in a patient with haemoglobin sc disease and a phaeochromocytoma . the anaesthetic management of a patient with haemoglobin sc disease for lower segment caesarean section and excision of a phaeochromocytoma is described . the patient was given a general anaesthetic for the surgical procedure after exchange transfusion had achieved an haemoglobin a concentration of greater than 50 % . a live infant was delivered and a suprarenal phaeochromocytoma was excised during a 6.5 hour procedure . the patient 's postoperative recovery was uneventful . 
aids following mother-to-child transmission of hiv-2 . mother-to-child infection with hiv-2 is thought to be rare , and there have been few previous reports of transmission by this route . reports of morbidity associated with hiv-2 infection in children are also rare . we describe eight children born to mothers who were infected with hiv-2 ; five developed aids , and three were still seropositive at 17-49 months of age . the only apparent route of hiv-2 transmission was from mother to child , except for one child who had been transfused . three of the children with aids died , all having decreased cd4 + lymphocytes and mitogen responses . further studies are needed to determine the prevalence and natural history of mother-to-child transmission of hiv-2 . 
prevention of perinatal hiv transmission : are there alternatives to pre-pregnancy serological screening in kinshasa , zaire ? complete obstetrical and medical histories were obtained from 6312 women between the ages of 15 and 45 years who had undergone hiv serological tests . individual factors were examined for sensitivity , specificity and positive predictive value of hiv infection . no individual risk factors for hiv infection were identified which had sensitivities greater than 60 % . combinations of factors were modelled by logistic regression . only a model which included indicators of present illness with aids/hiv-related symptoms ( i.e. , chronic fever , diarrhea or profound weight loss ) was predictive of hiv serostatus . these results suggest that identification of healthy women at high risk of hiv infection using non-serological information is not feasible . thus , since the yearly cost of universal serological screening is prohibitively expensive in the zairean context , hiv/aids education and prevention campaigns may in fact be a more cost-effective means of preventing perinatal transmission of hiv . 
detection of hiv in fetal central nervous system tissue . neurological disease is a common finding in children with aids and in others without signs of disease but with evidence of congenital hiv-1 infection . to investigate the possibility that hiv-1 can infect fetal central nervous system ( cns ) tissue and therefore possibly serve as the substrate for the abnormal neurodevelopment characteristic of pediatric aids , eight abortus cns samples ( one set of twins ) from seven hiv-1-seropositive intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) and eight control abortus cns samples from eight hiv-1-seronegative ivdus were analyzed for hiv-1 infection . hiv-1 nucleic acid was detected only after the use of polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) in three of eight cns samples from hiv-seropositive ivdus but not in samples from seronegative subjects . in situ hybridization confirmed that hiv-1 dna sequences were in cells in the cns parenchyma of two of the three positive samples . this study demonstrates that hiv-1 can infect human fetal cns tissue in vivo , but that the use of pcr may be necessary for its detection . 
anti tsh-receptor antibodies in pregnant patients with autoimmune thyroid disorder . the study was designed to test further the usefulness of the radioreceptor assay of thyroid stimulating hormone ( tsh ) binding inhibitory immunoglobulins ( tbii ) and the bioassay of thyroid stimulating antibodies ( tsab ) or tsh stimulated camp response inhibitory antibodies ( tbkab ) in the prediction of neonatal thyroid dysfunction . of 63 pregnant women with a current or past history of autoimmune thyroid disorder , 11 ( one with active and six with a past history of graves ' disease and four with autoimmune thyroiditis ) gave birth to a baby with transient hyper or hypo-thyroidism . only high maternal titres ( which could persist after partial thyroidectomy ) of anti tsh-receptor antibodies ( trab ) led to neonatal hyperthyroidism . both types of assay were able to detect the antibodies responsible for transitory neonatal autoimmune thyroid disease . tbii values reflected tsab titres so that there was a significant correlation between the results of both assays in women with graves ' disease and in neonatal sera . positive tbii and tbkab activities were present in 5 of the 28 women with autoimmune thyroiditis . therefore , when tbii is positive , the functional characterization of the antibodies warrants the use of the bioassay . 
the use of rectus abdominis myocutaneous flaps following excision of vulvar cancer . rectus abdominis myocutaneous flaps have been used in 16 women following radical excision of extensive vulvar cancer . in two women the procedure was part of the primary surgery , in 11 for recurrence of vulvar cancer and in three for symptomatic palliation . fifteen ( 94 % ) of the grafts took with primary healing . thirteen of the 16 patients are alive 6-60 months ( median 29 months ) after surgery and the three who died benefited from symptomatic palliation . simultaneous vulvar reconstruction allows good cosmetic rehabilitation and is an important part of the armamentarium for the management of patients with advanced primary or recurrent vulvar carcinoma . this technique offers excellent surgical clearance of massive offensive and painful vulvar tumors . 
a morphological and immunological study of human placental bed biopsies in miscarriage . placental bed biopsies were examined in three groups of pregnant women for maternal vascular response to placentation as well as for the presence of cells associated with local immunosuppression activity . in the group of women undergoing legal abortion , the histological appearance of trophoblastic invasion was normal in all but one , and the proportion of immunosuppressor cells was also normal . in the missed miscarriage group the histological appearances were abnormal except in one patient . in women with a history of recurrent miscarriage who had miscarried after immunization , placentation was normal in some and defective in others . immunosuppressor cells appeared to be diminished in number , although there was no correlation between the cytotoxic status of their sera and their pregnancy outcome . 
success of a program of routine prenatal screening for hepatitis b surface antigen : the first 2 years . prenatal screening for hepatitis b surface antigen ( hbsag ) restricted to women with defined risk factors for chronic hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection fails to identify many carriers . a centralized program of routine hbsag screening for all pregnant women in alberta was introduced in 1985 . we collected and analysed data for the first 2 years of the program in edmonton to determine the frequency of risk factors for hbsag positivity , the proportion of multiparous hbsag-positive women not identified in previous pregnancies , the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of providing immunoprophylaxis to infants at risk of hbv infection and the degree of success in inducing adequate protection . a total of 149 women ( 158 pregnancies ) were found to be hbsag positive . risk factors were readily ascertainable for 85 % of the women ; the remaining 15 % would not have been identified through risk-selective screening . the most common risk factors were oriental ethnic origin , history of hepatitis , jaundice or multiple transfusions of blood or blood products , and occupational exposure to blood . although 86 % of the multiparous hbsag-positive women had risk factors , only 7 % had been identified in previous pregnancies . the alberta program appears to be cost-effective . we conclude that only routine prenatal screening will identify all infants at risk of perinatal hbv infection and that a comprehensive public health program involving central laboratories , private physicians and public health staff can be highly effective and efficient in protecting infants against hepatitis b. 
occurrence of human papillomavirus type 16 dna in cutaneous squamous and basal cell neoplasms . sixty-eight cutaneous squamous cell neoplasms ( in situ and invasive ) and 26 basal cell carcinomas from 89 patients were analyzed for dna sequences homologous to the human papillomavirus ( hpv ) types found predominantly in the genital tract . thirty-six ( 53 % ) of the squamous cell neoplasms contained hpv dna as detected by filter or in situ hybridization analysis . the frequency of detection of hpv dna was dependent on the site of the lesion . of 40 genital squamous cell neoplasms ( penile , vulvar , and perianal ) , 27 ( 68 % ) had detectable hpv dna . in 25 of these , the hpv type was 16 or hpv-16-related , which was similar to the results for the squamous cell neoplasms of the finger ( hpv dna in 9 of 11 tumors with hpv-16 in seven ) . none of 16 squamous cell neoplasms from sites other than the genital tract or the finger had detectable hpv dna . hpv dna was detected in one of the 26 basal cell carcinomas ( 4 % ) . we conclude that , for cutaneous epithelial malignancies , hpv-16 is restricted to squamous cell neoplasms of the genital tract and finger . these data are consistent with venereal transmission of hpv-16 to the periungual region and suggests a role for this virus in the evolution of squamous cell carcinoma at this site . 
changes affecting the initial evaluation and care of the pregnant trauma victim . pregnant women in american society today are at significant risk of injury during a period when physiologic responses to trauma , as well as expected findings of physical examination and laboratory evaluation are altered by the on-going pregnancy . changes in anatomy , hemodynamics , respiratory function , gastrointestinal function , and hematologic and hemostatic parameters impact upon the approach to the evaluation and management of injured pregnant women . maternal outcome is dependent on the nature and extent of injury and on the delivery of appropriate care . fetal outcome relates to the magnitude of direct injury and the maternal physiologic response . it is imperative that all physicians involved in clinical evaluation and management of injured pregnant women understand the changes engendered by pregnancy and their effects upon the mother , the fetus , and the decision-making process . the best way to secure a favorable outcome for both mother and fetus is a standardized planned approach to care provided by a team cognizant of these changes . 
ovarian response to exogenous gonadotropins during pregnancy . multiple ovarian follicles were successfully induced in a patient undergoing superovulation for a gamete intrafallopian transfer ( gift ) procedure despite the presence of an undiagnosed ectopic pregnancy . midluteal gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist ( gnrh-a ) treatment should be coupled with mechanical contraception in the previous cycle in patients with patent tubes . 
the establishment of an ovum donation program using a simple fixed-dose estrogen-progesterone replacement regimen . most ovum donation ( od ) programs involve cycle synchronization between recipient and donor for normally cycling recipients and a complex estrogen-progesterone replacement regimen for recipients with ovarian failure . in 1987 , serhal and craft ( 1 ) suggested the use of a fixed-dose estrogen-progesterone regimen for recipients who were normally ovulatory and to those with ovarian failure . following this protocol , and simplifying it still , the authors administered 6 mg estradiol valerate ( e2 ) daily orally starting on day 2-6 of induced withdrawal bleeding , augmented with 100 mg progesterone in ethyl oleate ( p ) intramuscularly daily , starting any time between 4 days prior to and the day of oocyte pickup . all recipients underwent embryo transfer at a 2-pronuclei ( 2pn ) -10 - cell stage . a group of 21 patients underwent 26 treatment cycles , resulting in 16 pregnancies . twelve of the patients gave birth , one to triplets , two to twins , and nine to singletons . four patients miscarried in the first trimester of pregnancy . 
the value of hysteroscopy in elderly women prior to in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer ( ivf-et ) : a comparative study . two hundred eighty-four hysteroscopies were performed in 312 ( 91 % ) candidates for in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer ( ivf-et ) who were divided into two groups . group i consisted of elderly women over 40 years , and group ii of women below this age . although visualization revealed uterine abnormalities in 29.9 % of all patients , abnormal findings were significantly increased in the former group in comparison to the latter ( p less than 0.001 ) . this difference was attributed mainly to uterine rather than cervical pathology . furthermore , in elderly women age-related uterine pathology such as submucous myomata , endometrial hyperplasia , and polyps were more prominent , while in younger patients other uterine lesions such as adhesions and tubal ostia occlusion were more common . moreover , treatment prior to ivf-et resulted in 7 clinical pregnancies ( 8.9 % ) in group i and in 41 clinical pregnancies ( 19.9 % ) in group ii , all of which failed in one to three cycles previously . it seems that hysteroscopic evaluation may reduce the ivf-et failure rate due to intrauterine abnormalities in elderly as well as young patients , thus it becomes an absolute prerequisite for all patients scheduled for an ivf program . 
gamete intrafallopian transfer ( gift ) in women with bicornuate uteri . fourteen women with bicornuate uteri underwent a total of 30 gamete intrafallopian transfer procedures . all patients responded adequately to ovarian stimulation . eight women conceived , two of them twice . five women delivered at term and three had a premature delivery . there was one spontaneous abortion and an ectopic pregnancy . no neonatal deaths occurred in this series . no increase in the incidence of spontaneous abortion was noted but there appeared to be an increase in the incidence of premature labor . these findings suggest that the prospects of conception for infertile women with bicornuate uteri treated with gamete intrafallopian transfer are similar to those of the rest of the infertile population treated at our center . 
interobserver variation in histopathological grading of cervical dysplasia . in order to assess the variability among histopathologists in grading cervical dysplasia , four experienced histopathologists examined the same set of 106 biopsy specimens and assigned them to one of five diagnostic categories . these were : no dysplasia , mild dysplasia , moderate dysplasia , severe dysplasia and carcinoma in situ . the histopathologists did not discuss the grading criteria beforehand . there was considerable disagreement among the pathologists : unweighted group kappa 0.28 , weighted group kappa 0.56 . it appeared that all grades of dysplasia were equally difficult to distinguish from adjacent categories . various explanations for this interobserver variation are put forward . 
severe cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis developing during pregnancy in a case of systemic lupus erythematosus . we describe a fatal case of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) developing cerebral and systemic necrotizing vasculitis during pregnancy . the patient was discovered to have sle at 14 weeks ' gestation . although the symptoms disappeared without treatment with corticosteroid in the 2nd trimester , she presented with meningoencephalitis due to vasculitis in the 3rd trimester . polyarteritis nodosa ( pan ) - like necrotizing vasculitis of the small muscular arteries and arterioles , with acute and healing lesions in the leptomeninges , brain parenchyma and visceral organs was observed at postpartum autopsy . pan-like vasculitis in the central nervous system is quite rare in sle . this case is also suggestive in terms of the influence of pregnancy on the activity of sle . 
