functional upper airway obstruction in adolescents . functional upper airway obstruction is an uncommon manifestation of a conversive reaction characterized by recurrent stridor attacks caused by adduction of the vocal cords during inspiration . the oxygen saturation never drops to pathologic levels . the stridor is not accompanied by an appropriate degree of anxiety and is not associated with other symptoms . patients benefit from verbal reassurance and speech therapy , but stridor attacks tend to recur and psychiatric consultation seems necessary in most cases . we present the case histories of three adolescent patients with nonorganic upper airway obstruction and describe the features that may facilitate the diagnosis of this condition . early diagnosis and intervention may prevent unnecessary and potentially harmful investigations and therapy . 
influence of doppler sample volume location on the assessment of changes in mitral inflow velocity profiles . previous studies that have validated doppler indexes of mitral inflow have used pulsed wave sample volume locations either at the level of the mitral valve anulus or at the tips of the mitral valve leaflets . although significant differences between absolute values for peak velocities and velocity time integrals at these sample volume locations have previously been reported , no information exists that has compared changes in inflow profiles after an intervention to improve left ventricular filling . to address this question , 13 patients with severe pulmonary hypertension ( mean pulmonary artery pressure , 50 + / - 13 mm hg ) caused by chronic thromboembolic disease were studied with use of doppler echocardiography immediately before and after surgical reduction of pulmonary hypertension ( pulmonary vascular resistance decreased from 916 + / - 413 to 233 + / - 89 dynes.sec.cm5 ) . this clinical model has been shown to have abnormal mitral inflow velocity profiles that improve markedly after surgery . doppler measures of early and late peak velocities were significantly lower both before and after surgery when sampling at the mitral anulus compared with the leaflet tips , although late filling parameters and the deceleration of early flow velocity tended to differ little . with surgery , the significant increase in peak early velocity and the ratio of early to late velocity was present regardless of the sample volume location ( peak e at leaflet tips , 47.1 + / - 16.0 to 68.9 + / - 15.4 [ p less than 0.001 ] , and at anulus , 40.7 + / - 11.3 to 56.2 + / - 14.6 cm/sec [ p less than 0.001 ] ; peak e/a at leaflet tips , 0.95 + / - 0.4 to 1.55 + / - 0.9 , and at anulus , 0.78 + / - 0.3 to 1.32 + / - 0.7 [ both p less than 0.02 ] ) . 
hyponatraemia secondary to an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone in cardiac tamponade . a spontaneous intrapericardial haemorrhage caused cardiac tamponade in a 29 year old paraplegic man who was being treated with warfarin . the associated persistent hyponatraemia , which was believed to be caused by an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone , rapidly resolved after pericardiocentesis . 
reproduction of transfusion-related acute lung injury in an ex vivo lung model leukoagglutinins are implicated in transfusion-related acute lung injury ( trali ) . in the present study , severe lung vascular leakage was reproduced by application of a leukoagglutinating antibody of anti-5b specificity in an ex vivo lung model . the antibody originated from a multiparous donor-plasma , observed to cause noncardiogenic edema during transfusion therapy . heated full plasma ( anti-5b-titer 1/128 ) or purified immunoglobulin g fraction was used for the studies . ex vivo isolated rabbit lungs were perfused with albumin buffer , and human granulocytes ( pmn ) were admixed to the recirculating perfusate . in presence of anti-5b antibody plus 5b-positive pmn plus rabbit plasma as complement-source , severe lung edema occurred after a latent period of 3 to 6 hours . pulmonary artery pressure was only transiently and moderately increased , and the leakage reaction could be traced back to a several-fold increase in lung vascular permeability . in contrast , no vascular leakage was noted in lungs perfused in the absence of anti-5b antibody , pmn , or rabbit plasma . moreover , no permeability increase occurred on use of 5b-negative pmn . this reproduction of trali in an ex vivo lung model corroborates the role of leukoagglutinating antibodies in initiating pmn-dependent respiratory distress and suggests a contribution of concomitant complement activation . 
human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 associated with small cell lung cancer . a patient with small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) whose serum contained high levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptors is reported . soluble interleukin-2 receptors in the supernatant of cultured sclc cells obtained from the patient 's pleural effusion while he had malignant pleuritis , increased almost linearly from the time of cell seeding . the expression of interleukin-2 receptors ( tac ) on the sclc cells were demonstrated by an immunofluorescence study . however , other lymphocytic markers , including okt 11 , okt 4 , okt 8 , b 1 , and b 4 , were not found on the cells with the exception of the natural killer cell marker , nkh-1 . southern blot analysis indicated the rearrangement of the t-cell receptor of the cancer cells . moreover , monoclonal integration of human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) provirus in dna from the cancer cells was also demonstrated . these observations suggest that some sclc in htlv 1 endemic areas are associated with htlv-1 . 
immunocytochemical characterization of lung tumors in fine-needle aspiration . the use of cytokeratin monoclonal antibodies for the differential diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma . in the current study , immunocytochemical typing of intermediate filaments was used for a differential diagnosis of human lung tumors from transthoracic fine-needle aspiration biopsies ( tfnab ) . the authors have compared the cytologic diagnosis of 53 lung cancer cases with the immunofluorescence patterns obtained using a panel of monoclonal antibodies , five of which ( kg 8.13 , km 4.62 , ks b. 17 , ks 8.12 , kk 8.60 ) react with specific cytokeratin polypeptides and one with vimentin ( vim 13.2 ) . only in six of 23 samples cytologically diagnosed as squamous cell carcinoma did the immunocytochemical typing of cytokeratins ( ictc ) confirm the cytologic diagnosis . in seven cases some of the tumor cells stained positively with antibody ks b. 17 specific for simple epithelial keratin ( no : 18 ) , suggesting the presence of some cells of glandular origin . in ten additional cases the ictc was in conflict with the cytologic diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma ( i.e. , antibodies ks 8.12 and kk 8.60 were negative , and antibody ks b. 17 , positive ) supporting a diagnosis of adenocarcinoma . in 14 of 18 cases cytologically diagnosed as adenocarcinoma , the ictc confirmed the diagnosis whereas in four cases additional presence of some squamous cells was noticed . the ictc labeling of cases cytologically diagnosed as undifferentiated and large cell carcinomas was similar to that of the group of adenocarcinomas . thus , the application of cytokeratin typing for tfnab samples seems to provide a vital complementation to routine cytologic study , especially for cases cytologically diagnosed as squamous carcinoma . 
low-dose sufentanil in major surgery . the purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of sufentanil 1 micrograms.kg-1 during n2o-o2 and intermittent isoflurane anaesthesia in major non-cardiac surgery . thirty-one patients ( 18 females , 13 males ; mean age 47 yr ) , undergoing cholecystectomy received a 1 microgram.kg-1 bolus of sufentanil before the induction of anaesthesia with thiopentone . on average , three sufentanil increments were administered , to a total ( bolus + maintenance ) dose of 1.5 micrograms.kg-1 . cardiovascular stability was not achieved in eleven patients who then were given isoflurane . the arterial pressure decreased after sufentanil ( p less than 0.05 ) , reaching a nadir ( mean 108/65 mmhg , heart rate 63 bpm ) at one minute post-incision . clinically important hypertension or hypotension did not occur in any patient . one patient , receiving beta-blocker therapy , required atropine to control bradycardia . postoperative respiratory depression did not occur in patients who received less than one micrograms.kg-1 . hr-1 with the last increment being given more than 20 minutes before the end of anaesthesia . slight respiratory depression in the recovery room was reported in one patient , who had received a total of 1.3 micrograms.kg-1 . hr-1 of sufentanil , and the last sufentanil increment 24 min before the end of surgery . the most frequently reported side-effects were nausea ( 35 per cent ) and vomiting ( 23 per cent ) . induction , maintenance and recovery from anaesthesia were rated as " good " in 87 , 87 , and 74 per cent of the cases , respectively , and " satisfactory " in the remainder . we conclude that this technique is valuable to assure good protection of the cardiovascular system without undue respiratory depression during recovery . 
epidural morphine for analgesia after caesarean section : a report of 4880 patients this retrospective study was undertaken to assess the efficacy and safety of epidural morphine in providing analgesia following caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia . the morphine was administered as a single bolus , following delivery , in doses ranging from 2 to 5 mg . the charts of 4880 caesarean sections , performed on 4500 patients , were reviewed . the duration of analgesia and the occurrence of any symptoms which might be side-effects of the epidural morphine were recorded . the duration of analgesia was 22.9 + / - 10.1 hr and was not correlated with the dose of epidural morphine . eleven per cent of the patients required no supplemental analgesia during the first 48 hr . twelve patients ( 0.25 per cent ) had respiratory rates less than 10 breaths per minute , on at least one occasion . no serious sequelae resulted from these periods of bradypnoea . pruritus occurred in 58 per cent of patients , nausea and vomiting in 39.9 per cent and dizziness in ten per cent . herpes simplex labialis was recorded in 3.5 per cent of patients . epidural morphine is thus confirmed as an effective analgesic technique post-caesarean section with 3 mg being the optimal dose . even in this young healthy patient population , clinically detectable respiratory depression occurs so clinical respiratory monitoring is indicated . 
pulmonary edema induced by phagocytosing neutrophils . protective effect of monoclonal antibody against phagocyte cd18 integrin . we studied the changes in pulmonary hemodynamics and lung wet weight induced with opsonized zymosan ( oz ) in isolated guinea pig lungs perfused with ringer-albumin solution containing neutrophils ( pmns ) . addition of oz to the pmn-perfused lungs caused pulmonary vasoconstriction and weight gain ; neither oz nor pmns added individually to the perfusate altered pulmonary vasomotor tone or wet weight . the steady gain in lung weight by 1,588 + / - 464 mg over the 45-minute study period was associated with pulmonary capillary hypertension and an increase in the capillary filtration coefficient , indicative of increased lung vascular permeability . these responses may not be due to generation of oxygen radicals , because the alterations in pulmonary hemodynamics and lung weight were not reduced by addition of superoxide dismutase , catalase , or superoxide dismutase plus catalase . we examined the basis of the pmn-mediated effects by layering pmns on bovine pulmonary artery endothelial monolayers . challenge with oz resulted in increased endothelial permeability to 125i-albumin . the monoclonal antibody ib4 ( directed against cd18 , the common beta-subunit of structurally related adhesion receptors on phagocytes , lfa-1 , mac-1 , and p150 ,95 ) prevented the oz-mediated increase in pmn adherence to endothelial cells and the increase in endothelial permeability to 125i-albumin . ib4 also inhibited the lung weight gain mediated by the oz-stimulated pmns in intact lungs . the protective effect of ib4 could be ascribed neither to inhibition of uptake of oz by pmns nor to inhibition of release of oxygen radicals , myeloperoxidase , and elastase . 
flow and volume dependence of respiratory system mechanics during constant flow ventilation in normal subjects and in adult respiratory distress syndrome . seven control subjects and seven patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) were artificially ventilated and flow , volume , and tracheal pressure were monitored . respiratory system resistance ( rrs , max ) was partitioned into its homogeneous ( rrs , min ) and uneven ( rrs , u ) components . respiratory system elastance ( ers ) was also measured . in both groups ers did not vary with different inspiratory flows and volumes , but was significantly higher in ards . with increasing volume ( isoflow maneuvers ) , rrs , max and rrs , u increased but rrs , min remained unaltered in ards . in control patients , however , resistances did not vary but rrs , max and rrs , u were smaller and rrs , min equaled their corresponding values in ards . hence , stress relaxation seems to be increased in ards . during isovolume maneuvers rrs , max and rrs , u decreased with increasing flows ( both groups ) , although they were significantly higher in ards . rrs , min was not modified by different flows and was similar in both groups . thus , pendelluft is also increased in ards . in conclusion , the mechanical profile of ards is characterized by increased ers and rrs , max , the latter being secondary to augmented mechanical unevenness within the system . 
role of prostaglandin e1 in reducing pulmonary vascular resistance in an experimental model of acute lung injury . to determine the role and efficacy of prostaglandin e1 ( pge1 ) on the cardiopulmonary derangements induced by glass bead embolism , two studies were performed . in the first study , a dose response of pge1 was tested in six animals that were first embolized with sufficient glass beads to double the pulmonary artery pressure ( pap ) . this study demonstrated that pge1 reduced pap and cardiac output by a preload-mediated mechanism , as evidenced by a reduction in the right ventricular ( rv ) end-diastolic segment length , at doses of 15 and 30 ng/kg . min . the second study was performed in two groups of animals , the control group ( n = 6 ) , and the treated group ( n = 6 ) , which were given pge1 at 15 ng/kg . min after the pap had been doubled by glass bead embolism . rv preload was kept constant . this study demonstrated that there was no difference in pulmonary vascular resistance between either the treated group or the control group . there were no other significant differences between the two groups . the results of both of these studies suggest that there is little afterload reducing effect of pge1 in this model and at these dose ranges . part of the mechanism of pge1 that improves pulmonary edema and gas exchange may be the reduction of filtration surface area and hydrostatic pressures in the lungs . 
aspiration and the elderly . aspiration is prevalent in the elderly but its association with impairment of oral intake and gastroesophageal reflux is often misunderstood . this paper describes the causes , pathophysiology , and consequences of aspiration and their unique features in aged persons . it also explains how videofluoroscopic evaluation can assess current function while limiting factors that result in misinformation . the management of aspiration is discussed , emphasizing the importance and difficulties in maintaining functional well-being and possible complications of therapy . 
transient neuromuscular impairment resulting from prolonged inhalation of halothane and enflurane . inhalation anesthesia first with halothane followed by enflurane relieved a patient with status asthmaticus who was refractory to conventional therapy including mechanical ventilation . after 13 days of anesthesia while on mechanical ventilation and employing nondepolarizing muscle relaxants , significant neuromuscular impairment , manifested by tetraplegia and sensory disturbance , developed . anesthesia was discontinued on day 14 , and the patient was weaned from mechanical ventilation on day 16 . over the next two months , the neuromuscular impairment markedly improved . halothane was associated with cardiac arrhythmias and hepatitis necessitating replacement by enflurane . enflurane appeared to be as effective a treatment for refractory asthma as halothane . the most probable cause of the neuromuscular impairment in our patient was the long-term use of inhalation anesthetics or nondepolarizing muscle relaxants . 
mucoid impaction of upper lobe bronchi in the absence of proximal bronchiectasis . mucoid impaction is a complication of asthma and is frequently recurrent in patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis ( abpa ) . this report describes a patient with asthma and recurrent bilateral well-circumscribed densities on chest roentgenogram in the absence of abpa . recognition of this clinical presentation may avoid the need for invasive diagnostic procedures or steroid therapy . 
confluence of pulmonary veins simulating a pulmonary mass . confluence of the pulmonary veins commonly appears on the frontal view of the chest and generally is easily recognized as such . on plain film tomography , computerized tomography , and pulmonary angiography , the anatomy of convergence of pulmonary veins prior to common entry into the left atrium is clearly displayed . in this report , attention is called to the occasional appearance of confluence of the pulmonary veins on the lateral view of the chest as a clearly circumscribed round opacity mimicking a lung or mediastinal mass . 
cyclosporine and chronic sarcoidosis . two patients with progressive sarcoidosis who had poor responses and side effects from corticosteroid therapy were treated with cyclosporine . cyclosporine suppressed conventional markers of inflammation and there was clinical improvement in one patient , but the disease recurred when therapy was discontinued . the second patient who had diabetes mellitus developed unstable glucose metabolism when given cyclosporine . this unstable diabetes mellitus together with side effects of nausea and vomiting resulted in weight loss and inadequate serum therapeutic levels that was associated with a poor therapeutic response to the cyclosporine . the major side effects in both patients were headache and gastrointestinal symptoms , but there was no renal dysfunction . we conclude that while corticosteroids remain the mainstay of sarcoid therapy , when these drugs have not been successful for the skin manifestations of the disease , a trial of cyclosporine may be justified . 
resolution of the adult respiratory distress syndrome following colectomy and liver transplantation . a 32-year-old woman with liver failure from end-stage cirrhosis and ulcerative colitis developed septicemia and severe ards . subtotal colectomy and a successful liver transplantation resulted in complete resolution of the ards . 
cytomegalovirus pneumonia in allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . an immunopathologic process ? recent literature suggests that cmv pneumonia is an immunopathologic process . this case report summarizes the clinical course of a patient which supports this hypothesis . the patient is the recipient of an allogeneic bmt who recovered from an episode of cmv pneumonia that occurred about two months after the transplant . despite recovery from the viral infection , follow-up bals revealed persistent lymphocytosis in an apparent asymptomatic patient . he subsequently developed boop about four months after the initial cmv infection . these observations suggest that the viral infection may have resulted in the activation of the host 's cell-mediated response and provides evidence to support the hypothesis that cmv pneumonia is an immune-mediated process . 
pathologic involvement of the left ventricle in chronic cor pulmonale . to determine whether or not the left ventricle is pathologically involved in patients with chronic cor pulmonale , right and left ventricular weights , wall thickness , myocyte diameters , and percentage of fibrosis in 18 autopsied hearts were examined in patients with chronic pulmonary disease ( cpd ) ; ten had right ventricular hypertrophy on their electrocardiograms , and eight were without right ventricular hypertrophy . five with extracardiopulmonary disease were used as controls . the weight of the right ventricle was significantly increased in cpd when compared to control subjects . walls of both ventricles were significantly thicker in cpd . myocyte diameters of both ventricles were significantly greater in cpd . the percentage of fibrosis in the right ventricle was significantly greater in cpd . the percentage of fibrosis in the left ventricle was significantly greater only in patients with right ventricular hypertrophy . we concluded that the left ventricle was also involved pathologically in patients with chronic cor pulmonale in the end stage of the disease . 
pulmonary alveolar proteinosis associated with pneumocystis carinii . ultrastructural identification in bronchoalveolar lavage in aids and immunocompromised non-aids patients . pneumocystis carinii ( pc ) has been recognized as frequently responsible for most opportunistic pulmonary infections occurring in immunocompromised aids and non-aids patients . moreover , these patients can be considered at risk for secondary pulmonary alveolar proteinosis . therefore , we have investigated the occurrence of associated secondary alveolar proteinosis and pc pneumonitis in aids and non-aids immunocompromised patients . in a series of 26 bronchoalveolar lavages ( bal ) in patients with pc pneumonitis ( 19 aids and seven non-aids patients ) , we observed on light microscopy , in addition to the honeycombed material , areas of an extracellular material that had a different pattern which was suggestive of that described in alveolar proteinosis . a systematic ultrastructural study of these 26 bal fluid samples demonstrated in each of them an accumulation of phospholipid surfactantlike extracellular material mixed or not with the pc cysts . in nine cases , the observation of lipoproteinaceous material on light microscopy and abundant phospholipid material with myelinlike and myelin tubular laminated structures on electron microscopy was highly suggestive of an associated pulmonary alveolar proteinosis ( pap ) . such an accumulation of extracellular material was not observed in the 11 bal fluid samples collected in immunocompromised patients ( seven aids and four non-aids patients ) without pc pneumonitis . these findings demonstrated a particular frequency of associated pap with pc pneumonitis . these results raise important questions concerning ( 1 ) the consequence of such an alveolar accumulation of lipoproteinaceous material on the clinical status and prognosis of the pneumonitis , and ( 2 ) the mechanisms responsible for this accumulation . 
differential therapy with calcium antagonists in pulmonary hypertension secondary to copd . hemodynamic effects of nifedipine , diltiazem , and verapamil . in 53 patients with copd and precapillary pulmonary hypertension , we investigated the effect of three typical calcium antagonists on hemodynamics at rest and during bicycle ergometer exercise . in the responders , the decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance following nifedipine was 23 percent at rest ( p less than 0.0005 ) and 35 percent during exercise ( p less than 0.0005 ) ; following diltiazem , it was 10 percent at rest ( p less than 0.05 ) and 23 percent during exercise ( p less than 0.025 ) ; following verapamil , it was 22 percent at rest ( p less than 0.005 ) and 11 percent during exercise ( p less than 0.025 ) . the cardiac index rose significantly at rest and under exercise only after the administration of nifedipine ( +16 percent and +8 percent , resp ) . nifedipine caused the most distinctive peripheral vasodilation . the heart rate increased slightly following nifedipine and decreased slightly following diltiazem and verapamil . after long-term therapy with nifedipine ( 13 + / - 5 months ) , the decrease in pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance was no longer significant . in our opinion , the different hemodynamic action profiles will have consequences for the differential therapy in patients with copd and pulmonary hypertension . 
diagnostic value of nonfluoroscopic percutaneous lung needle aspiration in patients with pneumonia . in forty-one patients ( mean [ + / - sd ] age 51 + / - 19 years ; range , 11 to 88 years ; seven female and 34 male ) with clinical signs and symptoms of pneumonia , we performed a nonfluoroscopic percutaneous lung needle ( 22 gauges ) aspiration ( plna ) to investigate the diagnostic yield of this technique . all the patients were receiving antibiotics at the time of the study , and plna was performed either because of a lack of response to empiric antibiotic treatment or because of the severity of the pneumonia or the underlying condition of the patient . eight patients were mechanically ventilated ( mv ) due to acute respiratory failure . the plna was performed at bedside and without fluoroscopic guidance . twenty-two microorganisms were identified by means of stains and/or cultures of plna samples . sensitivity of plna was 43 percent ( 18/41 ) . we detected three false-positive cultures probably due to contamination from the skin area punctured . in the eight mv patients studied , the sensitivity of plna was 37.5 percent , and the microbiologic findings turned out to be crucial for the outcome of the patients . pneumothorax developed in three patients ( 7 percent ) after plna . none of these three patients developed a pleural infection but two of them required thoracostomy drainage . none of the mv patients presented complications . our results showed that nonfluoroscopic plna is a technique with moderately good sensitivity and with a low rate of false-positive cultures ( 8 percent ) to diagnose pulmonary infections in patients with unresponsiveness to empiric antibiotic treatment or with severe pneumonia . further evaluation of its diagnostic value and complications in mv patients is needed , although our preliminary results suggest that plna can be an alternative technique to other methods for diagnosing pulmonary infections in patients receiving artificial ventilatory support . 
intravenous and oral corticosteroids for the prevention of relapse after treatment of decompensated copd . effect on patients with a history of multiple relapses to determine if a regimen of intravenous and oral corticosteroids reduces the relapse rate after treatment of decompensated copd in the ed , 30 patients were studied . forty-five visits in which intravenous and oral corticosteroids were given ( t visits ) were compared with an equal number of matched visits in which they were withheld ( n visits ) . no differences were noted between t and n visits with respect to clinical findings , laboratory results and other forms of therapy . treatment with corticosteroids reduced the relapse rate within 24 h of discharge . at 48 h , the cumulative relapse rate for t visits ( 8.9 percent ) was significantly lower than for n visits ( 33.3 percent ; p = 0.005 ) . for patients with a history of multiple relapses , a regimen consisting of intravenous and oral corticosteroids reduces the risk of relapse after ed treatment of decompensated copd . 
predicting failure following shunting of pleural effusions . we placed 43 shunts in 34 patients in five years . twenty-four had malignant effusions and ten had benign effusions . thirty-one patients had unilateral shunts , three had bilateral shunts and six required revisions for shunt failure . two patients died after shunt placement from disease progression . of the nine patients who experienced poor results , one was noncompliant in operating the shunt and eight had occluded shunts . in the 30 patients , who were compliant and had adequate length of follow-up , five had excellent results , 12 had good results , and five had fair results . two of the patients with occluded shunts had good results after shunt revision ; 24 patients had some symptomatic relief with shunting . evaluation of factors including a history of prior abdominal surgery , performance status , and pleural fluid cell counts , differential , chemistries , and cytology revealed no significant differences between the patients who experienced shunt failure and those who had patent shunts . shunting of pleural effusions is well tolerated and has good success rates in properly selected patients . 
quality of life in elderly patients with chronic nonspecific lung disease seen in family practice . we studied the quality of life of elderly patients with chronic nonspecific lung disease ( cnsld ) in family practice . we also investigated the relationship between patients ' somatic condition and their quality of life . seventy patients , aged 40 years or older , with a diagnosis or symptoms of cnsld completed the sickness impact profile ( sip ) and the list of daily activities ( dal ) . pulmonary function ( fev1 , ivc ) and respiratory symptoms were assessed . the results indicated that patients were more impaired in their physical and psychosocial functioning than healthy control subjects . most lung function parameters showed no correlation with the sip scores . the respiratory symptoms of wheezing and dyspnea were related to patients ' quality of life . patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) were more restricted in their daily functioning than patients with asthma . since the relationship between patients ' somatic condition and their quality of life is weak , we recommend comprehensive care that encompasses psychosocial as well as somatic interventions . 
acute pulmonary effects of aerosolized pentamidine . a randomized controlled study . toronto aerosolized pentamidine study ( taps ) group . from june 1988 to february 1989 , we enrolled 36 patients with human immunodeficiency virus into a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial assessing the efficacy and toxicity of aerosolized pentamidine ( ap ) as secondary prophylaxis for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . each patient underwent spirometric evaluations before and after aerosolized treatment . there was no significant difference in the results of baseline pulmonary function tests between the two groups . eleven patients ( 65 percent ) in the ap group developed cough but only four demonstrated significant reduction in the forced expiratory flow rates after ap ; four patients ( 21 percent ) in the placebo group developed cough , but no significant change in the expiratory flow rates was noted . all bronchospastic episodes were self-limited and symptomatically responded to remedial inhaled albuterol ( salbutamol ) treatment . we conclude that ap treatment is frequently associated with coughing attacks ( 65 percent ) , but the actual incidence of bronchospasm on spirometry is much lower ( 24 percent ) and is generally quite mild . 
neutrophilia in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of diffuse panbronchiolitis . the clinical and pathologic features of diffuse panbronchiolitis ( dpb ) have been well reported to date , although its pathogenesis remains unknown . in the present study , we performed bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) on three patients with biopsy specimen-proven dpb and eight patients with highly probable dpb ( six women and five men ; one smoker and ten nonsmokers ) , nine patients with chronic bronchitis ( all men , five smokers and four nonsmokers ) , and nine normal control subjects ( six women and three men , all nonsmokers ) to clarify the cell populations in the lower respiratory tract . neutrophils comprised 55.3 + / - 24.4 percent of recovered cells by bal in dpb patients but only 6.6 + / - 6.4 percent in chronic bronchitis patients , and 1.8 + / - 1.5 percent in normal control subjects ( p less than 0.001 , all comparisons ) . the dpb patients also exhibited a decreased percentage of alveolar macrophages ( 34.9 + / - 23.5 percent ) compared with chronic bronchitis patients and normal control subjects ( p less than 0.001 , all comparisons ) . the percentage of lymphocytes of the recovered lavage cells in dpb patients did not differ from that in chronic bronchitis patients and normal control subjects . these results indicate that neutrophils play an important role in the pathogenesis of dpb . they also suggest that neutrophilia of bal-recovered fluid is a common finding in diseases associated with bronchiolar inflammation despite some clinical and pathophysiologic differences . 
pulmonary lipid peroxidation in cigarette smokers and lung cancer patients . lipid peroxidation ( lpo ) was studied in lung tissues of patients with lung cancer ( lc , n = 37 ) or nonlung cancer ( nlc , n = 13 ) and its relationships with the smoking habits and the degree of airway obstruction were investigated . specimens of peripheral lung parenchyma , free of tumor tissue , were taken and the malondialdehyde ( mda ) content was measured in the s-12 fractions . airway obstruction was assessed by flow-volume curves , and data were expressed as percentage of the predicted values . cigarettes smoked were expressed as pack-years . the patients with lc and nlc did not differ by mda content , age , and number of pack-years . on the contrary , fef75-85 and mef75 were significantly lower in lc than in nlc patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . the mda content was inversely correlated to number of days patients had refrained from smoking ( r = -0.66 , p less than 0.001 ) . the mda content was higher in recent smokers ( ie , people smoking during the last 30 days before surgery ) than in the other patients ( 0.136 + / - 0.007 vs 0.116 + / - 0.007 mumol/g of tissue , p less than 0.05 ) and , by considering only recent smokers , mda content was higher in lc patients ( 0.144 + / - 0.008 mumol/g of tissue ) than in nlc patients ( 0.113 + / - 0.014 mmol/g tissue , p = 0.059 ) . when patients were divided into " high mda " and " low mda " groups , mef75 was much lower in the high mda group ( 35.1 + / - 3.4 percent ) than in the low mda group ( 55.1 + / - 8.1 percent ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . these results suggest the following : ( 1 ) enhanced level of prooxidant state in the lungs is associated with recent cigarette smoking ; ( 2 ) lc patients may be more prone than respective nlc patients to oxidative stress ; ( 3 ) mda level and degree of small airway obstruction were associated and differed between lc and nlc patients even though these groups did not differ in the percentage of recent smokers ; and ( 4 ) a common free-radical mediated pathway may be active for both lc and small airway obstruction . 
three mixed venous saturation catheters in patients with circulatory shock and respiratory failure thirty-one critically ill patients with acute respiratory failure and circulatory shock were divided into three groups . group 1 included 11 patients with an inserted mixed venous saturation ( svo2 ) catheter using three-reference wavelengths and characterized by one transmitting and one detecting fiberoptic filament ( oximetrix opticath catheter ) ; group 2 included eight patients with an inserted svo2 catheter using two-reference wavelengths and characterized by one transmitting and one detecting fiberoptic filament ; ( edwards sat-one catheter ) ; group 3 included 12 patients with an inserted svo2 catheter using two-reference wavelengths and characterized by one transmitting and two detecting fiberoptic filaments . once calibration procedures were performed , svo2 measured by the catheter and by an hemoximeter osm 3 ( reference value ) were compared following each therapeutic intervention . over a period of 1.5 to 6 hours during which the hematocrit value remained unchanged , 119 measurements were obtained in group 1 , 91 in group 2 and 181 in group 3 . the dispersion of svo2 values was much more pronounced with the two-reference wavelength systems using either one or two detecting fiber optic filaments , and the correlation coefficient was significantly higher with the three-reference wavelength system ( r = 0.970 for the oximetrix catheter vs r = 0.855 for the edwards catheter and r = 0.826 for the spectramed catheter , p less than 0.001 ) . after 24 hours , the spontaneous drifts in the two-reference wavelength systems , using either one or two detecting fiber optic filaments ( expressed as the svo2 value measured by the catheter minus the reference svo2 value ) were significantly higher than the spontaneous drift in the three-reference wavelength system ( 9.3 + / - 7 percent for the edwards catheter and + / - 6 + / - 4.1 percent for the spectramed catheter vs 3.3 + / - 3.1 percent for the oximetrix catheter , p less than 0.05 ) . this study shows that a three-wavelength system is more accurate than a two-wavelength system for measuring acute changes in svo2 . the addition of a second detecting fiber optic filament does not seem to improve the accuracy of the system when svo2 changes occur in conditions of stable hematocrit . 
lactate levels as predictors of the relationship between oxygen delivery and consumption in ards . we reviewed the changes in do2 and vo2 in 58 patients with ards after interventions which included fluid loading , blood transfusion , and peep . after a significant change in do2 , patients with lactic acidosis ( lactate level greater than 2.4 mmol/l ) exhibited significant corresponding changes in vo2 ( p less than 0.001 ) ; however , no change in vo2 was observed in patients without lactic acidosis ( 1-beta greater than 0.8 ) . we conclude that a biphasic pattern of oxygen utilization in patients with ards emerges when subsets of patients with and without lactic acidosis are compared . lactic acidosis , a marker of anaerobic metabolism , may be a characteristic of patients with ards who exhibit changes in vo2 that are dependent on changes in do2 . 
mechanical disruption of pulmonary emboli in dogs with a flexible rotating-tip catheter ( kensey catheter ) . pulmonary embolism was induced in 11 dogs by the injection of three - to four-day-old allogeneic blood clots . the clots were made radiopaque by soaking them in contrast material . the resulting clots were firm , 3 to 4 cm long , and 1 cm in diameter . injection of the clots into the external jugular vein consistently produced occlusion of at least one of the lobar pulmonary arteries . in every instance in which the tip of the catheter could be positioned at the clot embolus ( six dogs ) , the clots were readily fragmented with a number 8 french ( 2.67 mm od ) flexible rotating tip catheter ( kensey catheter ) activated at 80,000 rpm . overall perfusion was shown by posttreatment angiograms to be markedly improved . these studies show that catheter-tip fragmentation of pulmonary emboli with a kensey catheter has excellent potential for therapeutic application in patients with pulmonary embolism . 
relationship between blood plasma prostaglandin e2 and liver and lung metastases in colorectal cancer . the relationship of prostaglandin e2 , of which a large amount is produced in various neoplasms , and hematogenous distant metastases was investigated in a total of 44 colorectal cancer patients because of its varied pathophysiologic potentials . the authors found significantly high levels of pge2 in local venous blood draining the carcinoma and in peripheral blood in cases with liver or lung metastasis , as well as a significantly large amount of pge2 production in the carcinoma tissue . the results suggest that increased local blood pge2 could enhance the metastasis formation , and increased peripheral blood pge2 may be useful in the detection of such metastasis in colorectal cancer . 
endoscopic palliative intubation of the esophagus invaded by lung cancer . thirty-two patients with esophageal involvement by lung cancer were managed by endoscopic intubation . in 22 patients with extrinsic esophageal strictures , the success rate of intubation was 91 % , and 82 % were discharged with their dysphagia relieved and esophageal patency restored . the mean survival rate was 4.4 months . in 10 patients with esophago-bronchial fistulas , 3 had the fistulous tract obliterated and lived a mean of 5 months . this low success rate of closing fistulas is due to failure to seal off the space between the stent and the fistula because of absence of tumor-associated stenosis . the overall morbidity rate was 28.1 % ( 18.8 % perforation , 6.3 % hemorrhage , and 3.1 % tracheal obstruction ) . the overall mortality rate was 18.8 % . although complications were more frequent than in primary esophageal tumors , endoscopic intubation was the only way to palliate this desperate condition and provided 66.6 % of patients with relief of symptoms , nutritional improvement , and a mean survival time of 4.5 months . 
pneumonia syndromes : a clinical approach in the elderly . important in the pathogenesis of pneumonia in the elderly patient are chronic diseases , including diabetes mellitus , coronary artery disease , congestive heart failure , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and cerebrovascular disease . also vital are the changes that take place in the immune system and mucociliary clearance mechanisms of the lung . the clinician should be aware of these risk factors , especially since the mortality rate of lower respiratory infections approaches 40 % in these elderly patients . treatment guidelines are included . 
changes in self-concept during pulmonary rehabilitation , part 1 . the purpose of this two-part study was to describe changes in self-concept during and after a formal pulmonary rehabilitation program . a 20-item semantic meaning differential scale was administered to 37 patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who were participating in a multidisciplinary pulmonary rehabilitation program . patients were asked to evaluate their past , present , and future selves on program admission , on program discharge , and 2 to 6 months after home discharge . mean total self-concept score for the present self significantly increased between program admission and home discharge 3 weeks later ( mean change 31.32 + / - 22.04 , p less than 0.0001 ) . no significant declines in self-concept were found 2 to 6 months after home discharge ( p = 0.39 ) . men showed a significantly higher change in total self-concept score than women during the 3-week program ( p = 0.03 ) . however , the men 's change score dropped significantly after home discharge ( p = 0.02 ) , suggesting a need for more intensive follow-up care than with women . the self-concept tool in this study provided an easy way to monitor subjective changes in psychologic status . 
changes in self-concept during pulmonary rehabilitation , part 2 . this two-part study describes changes in self-concept during pulmonary rehabilitation . a 20-item semantic meaning differential scale was administered to 37 patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who were participating in a multidisciplinary pulmonary rehabilitation program . patients were asked to evaluate their past , present , and future self-concepts on program admission , on program discharge , and 2 to 6 months after home discharge . in this part of the study item-level quantitative data as well as qualitative data from the counseling session at program discharge are reported . the quantitative data documented detailed changes in self-concept at various stages of pulmonary rehabilitation . counseling session results indicated that patient involvement in item-level analysis greatly facilitates psychosocial intervention . findings from this study establish clinical indications for use of the self-concept evaluation tool in adult patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . use of this tool is recommended early in the rehabilitation process . 
ligation of the superficial femoral vein in prevention of pulmonary embolism : an old fashion procedure ? from 1974 to 1988 , interruption of the superficial femoral vein ( sfv ) was performed to prevent pulmonary embolism ( pe ) in 73 patients . the mean age of the patients was 62 years . phlebography showed thrombi in the following localizations : calf veins ( 67.3 % ) , superficial femoral or popliteal veins ( 56.6 % ) , common femoral veins ( 19.5 % ) and iliac veins ( 2.7 % ) . a floating thrombus in the popliteal or femoral vein was the main indication for surgery in 97.3 % of patients . pulmonary embolism had occurred in 76.7 % and was associated with neoplasm in 13.7 % . ligation of the sfv was performed in 93 limbs and completed iliac or femoral thrombectomy in 32.3 % . the procedure was performed under locoregional anesthesia in 82.9 % of the cases . hospital mortality was 1.4 % and 3 year survival , considering only pe related deaths was 95.3 + / - 2.7 % . follow-up was complete for all patients and averaged 3.0 years , for a 3 years pe-free rate of 90.8 + / - 3.6 % . persistent symptoms included increased limb tenseness in 12.5 % and mild ankle edema in 25 % . bilateral strain-gauge plethysmography ( sgp ) was obtained in 65 limbs . the time necessary to obtain a 50 , 75 and 100 % decrease in calf volume ( respectively t1/2 , t3/4 and tt ) was calculated for the operated limb and compared with the untreated limbs used as controls . a prolongation of t1/2 from 2.5 + / - 0.3 sec in controls to 4.3 + / - 0.4 sec in the operated limb ( p less than 0.01 ) was found . thus , our experience with ligation of the superficial femoral vein is favourable since long-term ill effects have been minimal and strain gauge plethysmography ( sgp ) showed only mildly altered venous drainage . 
platelet-derived growth factor in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis . fibrosis is a complex process involving an inflammatory reaction , fibroblast proliferation , and abnormal accumulation of interstitial collagens . mononuclear cells are usually present in lung fibrosis . activated monocytes and macrophages in culture have been shown to produce several growth factors including platelet-derived growth factor ( pdgf ) . pdgf is a potent mitogen and chemoattractant for fibroblasts and smooth muscle cells and a stimulator of collagen synthesis . we have studied the expression of c-sis/pdgf -2 mrna in lung tissues derived from five patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) and from four control individuals without ipf . northern blot analysis of specimens obtained from four patients with ipf revealed the expression of the c-sis/pdgf -2 protooncogene . a control lung tissue without ipf did not express the c-sis protooncogene . in situ hybridization extended these studies demonstrating the expression of the c-sis mrna in the five specimens with ipf but not in the four control specimens without ipf . the expression of c-sis mrna was localized primarily in the epithelial cells . invading alveolar macrophages also expressed c-sis mrna . the expression of c-sis mrna was accompanied by the expression of pdgf-like proteins in lung specimens with ipf but not in control lung specimens . these findings demonstrate the in vivo expression of the c-sis/pdgf -2 protooncogene and the production of pdgf-like proteins in the epithelial cells and macrophages of the fibrotic tissue . this localized and sustained production of pdgf-like mitogen may constitute an important contributing factor in the abnormal fibroblast proliferation and collagen production , events associated with pulmonary fibrosis . 
itraconazole therapy in aspergillosis : study in 49 patients . itraconazole , 200 to 400 mg once daily , was administered to 49 patients with different types of aspergillosis : pulmonary aspergilloma ( 14 patients ) , chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis ( 14 ) , and invasive aspergillosis ( 21 ) . itraconazole was prescribed alone or in combination or after treatment with amphotericin b and flucytosine . of 14 aspergilloma patients , 2 were cured and 8 had symptomatic improvement . in chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis , 7 of 14 patients were cured and 6 improved significantly . in invasive aspergillosis treatment failed in 6 patients and 15 were cured . itraconazole can be an alternative to amphotericin b in the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis . in aspergilloma itraconazole may be useful in inoperable cases . 
repeated exposure of asthmatic airways to inhaled adenosine 5 ' - monophosphate attenuates bronchoconstriction provoked by exercise . inhaled adenosine 5 ' - monophosphate ( amp ) induces bronchoconstriction in subjects with asthma , probably caused by histamine release from airway mast cells , and repeated amp bronchial challenge leads to attenuation of the bronchoconstrictor response . since exercise-induced bronchoconstriction may be mediated by hypertonic mast cell degranulation , we postulated that repeated amp bronchial challenge should reduce the response to subsequent exercise challenge . eight atopic subjects with asthma took part in an unblinded , randomized trial . on the control study day , a treadmill exercise test previously demonstrated to induce a greater than 20 % fall in fev1 was performed . on the amp study day , three amp dose-response bronchial challenges were performed at 1-hour intervals . each amp challenge was continued until either a provocative concentration causing a 20 % fall in fev1 had been achieved ( pc20 ) and the pc20 was calculated , or the maximum concentration of amp ( 400 mg/ml ) had been administered . after recovery of the fev1 from amp challenge , a treadmill exercise test identical to the test on the control study day was performed . on the amp study day , the geometric mean pc20 was 15.3 ( 7.9 to 29.5 ) mg/ml for the first test , and 28.2 ( 10.7 to 77.4 ) mg/ml for the third test ( not significant ) . on the control study day , the mean maximum percentage fall in fev1 after exercise was 28.0 % + / - 2.7 % , whereas on the amp study day , it was reduced to 13.0 % + / - 4.3 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . a significant correlation was found between the change in responsiveness to amp induced by repeated challenge and the attenuation of the subsequent exercise response ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
therapeutic embolization : enhanced radiolabeled monitoring . radiolabeling of ivalon ( polyvinyl alcohol sponge ) particles permits localization of injected particles during embolization through the use of a portable gamma camera and provides a means to prevent potentially fatal complications such as pulmonary embolization . a more efficient technique of labeling ivalon particles with technetium-99m sulfur colloid was developed . an increase in labeling efficiency allowed more accurate determination of the distribution of injected ivalon particles . scanning electron microscopy demonstrated the stability of the ivalon particles during this new labeling process . two patients with arteriovenous malformations underwent therapeutic embolization with radiolabeled ivalon particles ; gamma camera imaging of the lesion and chest was performed throughout the procedure . 
mr imaging of the bird 's nest filter . the appearance of the bird 's nest inferior vena cava filter on magnetic resonance ( mr ) images of 11 patients is described . no complication or symptomatic filter displacement was encountered as a result of mr imaging performed at 1.5 t. the filters created significant local artifact and distortion on mr images . however , diagnostic mr images of the pelvis , spine , and brain may still be obtained . 
intra-abdominal palpation of a nasogastric tube in the stomach does not assure appropriate placement . improperly placed nasogastric ( ng ) tubes have been associated with considerable morbidity . the only reliable indicator of correct ng tube placement appears to be the aspiration of gastric contents . we have reported a case of major morbidity from an improperly placed ng tube that perforated the cervical esophagus , dissected the mediastinum , and terminated in the omental bursa . no gastric aspirate was obtained by suctioning of the tube , but correct placement was presumed based upon the surgeon 's direct intraoperative palpation of the tip of the tube . failure to aspirate gastric contents should alert the practitioner to the possibility of improper ng tube placement . 
disseminated strongyloidiasis in aids and non-aids immunocompromised hosts : diagnosis by sputum and bronchoalveolar lavage . in conclusion , disseminated strongyloidiasis is a fatal disease that commonly affects the lungs . the disease should be suspected in an immunocompromised host who came from an area endemic for s stercoralis even years before the onset of symptoms or in patients with unexplained gram-negative bacteremia or meningitis . treatment should be started promptly and should be maintained for a long time . 
early tracheostomy for primary airway management in the surgical critical care setting . during a 12-month period , 264 patients with multiple injuries who required mechanical ventilation were admitted to the surgical intensive care unit . one hundred twenty patients ( 46 % ) were disengaged from the ventilator , and 38 patients ( 14 % ) died . of the remaining 106 patients ( 40 % ) 51 patients ( group i ) were to receive tracheostomy within 1 to 7 days , and 55 patients ( group ii ) underwent late ( 8 or more days after admission ) tracheostomy . multiple variables in four categories ( admission , operative , ventilatory , and outcome ) were analyzed prospectively to define the impact that early tracheostomy had on duration of mechanical ventilation , intensive care stay , and hospital stay . morbidity and mortality rates of the procedures were assessed . early tracheostomy , in a homogeneous group of critically ill patients , is associated with a significant decrease in duration of mechanical ventilation , as well as shorter intensive care unit and hospital stays , compared with translaryngeal endotracheal intubation . there were no deaths attributable to tracheostomy , and overall morbidity of the procedures was 4 % . we conclude that early tracheostomy has an overall risk equivalent to that of endotracheal intubation . furthermore , early tracheostomy shortens days on the ventilator and intensive care unit and hospital days and should be considered for patients in the intensive care unit at risk for more than 7 days of intubation . 
trends in lung cancer , chronic obstructive lung disease , and emphysema death rates for england and wales 1941-85 and their relation to trends in cigarette smoking trends in smoking associated respiratory diseases in england and wales during 1941-85 have been studied , with careful attention to problems caused by changes in classification of cause of death . three diseases were selected for analysis : lung cancer , emphysema , and chronic obstructive lung disease . during 1971-85 deaths that would previously have been certified under chronic bronchitis have increasingly tended to be classified under chronic airways obstruction . the definition of chronic obstructive lung disease that was used includes both terms to avoid the artificial decline caused by consideration of chronic bronchitis in isolation . age specific rates for all three diseases show a pronounced cohort ( period of birth ) pattern , rates for men rising up to the rates for those born shortly after the turn of the century and then declining , and rates for women peaking in the cohort born 20-25 years later . for chronic obstructive lung disease , but not for lung cancer and emphysema , the cohort peak is superimposed on a sharply declining downward trend . in both sexes cohort patterns of cumulative cigarette consumption peak at a time broadly similar to those seen for the three diseases . trends in cigarette consumption , however , can not explain the underlying steeply declining rate of chronic obstructive lung disease . nor can they fully explain the declining trends in lung cancer and emphysema rates in younger men and women . 
use of biological glue to control pulmonary air leaks . biological glue is a natural adhesive generated by the interaction between fibrinogen ( pre-glue ) and thrombin to produce fibrin . the pre-glue is prepared from a single donor ( to avoid the problems of pooled plasma ) and stored as cryoprecipitate . before being used it is thawed , dissolved in saline , and activated into an adhesive by the addition of topical thrombin . biological glue was used prophylactically to prevent air leaks from bronchial suture lines and raw lung surfaces after pulmonary resections in six patients . in addition two new methods of using biological glue have been developed for the control of persisting air leaks . in selective intrabronchial tamponade the glue is instilled into the bronchial tree through a flexible bronchoscope , and in therapeutic pleurodesis it is instilled into the pleural cavity through a chest drainage tube . the air leaks were resolved in all cases . seven procedures using selective intrabronchial tamponade were carried out in six patients . four were immediately successful but three were not and required further interventions . therapeutic pleurodesis alone was successfully carried out in one patient and as an adjunct to selective intrabronchial tamponade on two occasions . a thoracotomy was eventually needed in one of the seven patients . 
effects of inflammation and fibrosis on pulmonary function in diffuse lung fibrosis . to investigate the relation between lung function and inflammation and fibrosis in patients with diffuse lung fibrosis , a study was made of untreated patients without appreciable airway obstruction ( 14 patients with cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis and seven with pneumoconiosis ) . quantitative assessment of inflammatory infiltration and fibrosis was carried out on open lung biopsy specimens and compared with lung volumes , carbon monoxide transfer factor ( tlco ) , tlco corrected for alveolar volume ( tlco/va ) , and arterial blood gases at rest and during exercise . the degree of fibrosis and the degree of cellular infiltration were positively correlated . lung volumes and tlco were correlated with the grades of fibrosis and cellular infiltration of alveoli ; arterial blood gases during exercise tended to correlate with both fibrosis and infiltration ( p less than 0.06 ) . in contrast , morphological data were not correlated with gas exchange at rest or with tlco/va . it is concluded that , in untreated patients with diffuse lung fibrosis , lung volumes , tlco , and arterial blood gases during exercise reflect the lung lesions , and that the pulmonary function tests used can not discriminate between fibrosis and infiltration of the lung by inflammatory cells . 
appropriate and inappropriate neuroendocrine products in pulmonary tumourlets . pulmonary tumourlets are focal aggregates of neuroendocrine cells that occur in the periphery of the lung and may be associated with chronic inflammation and scarring . six such lesions were seen in five lungs from a series of 35 pairs of lungs studied at necropsy . all were immunoreactive for neurone-specific enolase , protein gene product 9.5 , and a range of neuroendocrine products . of the peptides found in neuroendocrine cells in normal human lungs , gastrin releasing peptide was present in all tumourlets and calcitonin in all but one ; none contained leucineenkephalin . of a series of peptide and protein hormones not present in the neuroendocrine cells of healthy human lungs , growth hormone was present in all six tumourlets and adrenocorticotrophin in two . identical patterns of peptide expression were displayed by neuroendocrine cells in the airway associated with the tumourlets in two cases . such cells were increased in number and abnormally clustered . aberrant expression of peptides might accompany the morphological changes in the pulmonary neuroendocrine cells seen in diseased lungs , their florid focal proliferation occasionally resulting in the formation of a tumourlet . 
plasma cross linked fibrin degradation products in pulmonary embolism . plasma concentrations of cross linked fibrin degradation products , a marker of intravascular thrombosis and fibrinolysis , were measured in 495 patients with suspected pulmonary embolism referred for ventilation-perfusion lung scanning to determine whether concentrations are increased in pulmonary embolism and their potential use in diagnosis . lung scans were described as normal ( n = 66 ) or as showing a low ( n = 292 ) , indeterminate ( n = 58 ) , or high probability ( n = 79 ) of pulmonary embolism . there was a difference between the mean levels of cross linked fibrin degradation products in each scan category : normal scans , 142 ng/ml ; low probability scans , 295 ng/ml ; indeterminate probability scans , 510 ng/ml ; high probability scans , 952 ng/ml ( p less than 0.001 ) . of the patients with high probability scans , 96 % had raised concentrations . explanations for discrepant low results include incorrect scan diagnosis , delay in blood sampling , and anticoagulation . of the patients with a low or indeterminate probability of pulmonary embolism , 43 % had increased concentrations of cross linked fibrin degradation products that could be attributed in most cases to another illness . owing to the wide range of values in each lung scan diagnostic category , raised concentrations of these fibrin degradation products can not be used without reference to the patient 's clinical state as a discriminatory test for pulmonary embolism . further evaluation of the significance of normal concentrations in excluding a diagnosis of pulmonary embolism appears to be warranted . 
external detection of pulmonary accumulation of indium-113m labelled transferrin in the guinea pig . accumulation of radioisotope labelled transferrin in the lungs of guinea pigs was determined with an external detection system . the method is based on the intravascular and extravascular distribution of indium-113m labelled transferrin compared with the intravascular distribution of technetium-99m labelled red blood cells . guinea pigs were given iloprost , a prostacyclin analogue and potent pulmonary vasodilator , and noradrenaline , a pulmonary vasoconstrictor , in an attempt to increase and decrease respectively the blood volume in the lungs . neither agent altered transferrin accumulation in the lung by comparison with a saline infusion . iloprost infused before and after oleic acid infusion reduced macro-molecular leakage when compared with oleic acid alone . these data suggest that the double isotope method can distinguish between hydrostatic and injury induced pulmonary oedema . 
prostaglandin f2 alpha enhancement of capsaicin induced cough in man : modulation by beta 2 adrenergic and anticholinergic drugs . the effect of inhaled prostaglandin ( pg ) f2 alpha on the response to the inhaled tussive agent capsaicin was investigated in normal subjects . seven subjects inhaled three breaths of four doses of capsaicin ( 0.3 , 0.6 , 1.2 , and 2.4 nmol ) before and immediately after inhaling pgf2 alpha ( 0.1 mumol ) or placebo ( 0.15 m nacl ) on separate days . the numbers of capsaicin induced coughs were greater after pgf2 alpha ( mean 42.3 coughs ) than after 0.15 m sodium chloride ( 30.1 ) . visual analogue scores ( 0-10 on a 10 cm continuous scale ) showed that capsaicin was more irritant after pgf2 alpha than after saline . total respiratory resistance ( rrs ) , measured by the forced oscillation technique , was unaltered throughout the study . a double blind , placebo controlled study of the effects of inhaled salbutamol ( 200 micrograms , 0.6 mumol ) and ipratropium bromide ( 40 micrograms , 0.1 mumol ) on cough induced by capsaicin ( 2.4 nmol ) and by pgf2 alpha ( 0.1 mumol ) and on pgf2 alpha augmented , capsaicin induced coughing was performed in seven subjects . neither drug had any effect on capsaicin induced coughing . salbutamol reduced coughing due to pgf2 alpha ( mean 7.7 coughs after salbutamol , 9.3 after placebo ) but ipratropium bromide did not ( mean 6.9 coughs after ipratropium bromide , 6.6 after placebo ) . salbutamol also inhibited the augmentation of the capsaicin induced cough that followed inhalation of pgf2 alpha ( mean augmentation 1.9 coughs after salbutamol , 4.1 after placebo ) , whereas ipratropium bromide did not ( augmentation 1.7 coughs after ipratropium bromide , 2.7 after placebo ) . no changes in rrs were seen after pgf2 alpha or either drug . thus salbutamol reduces pgf2 alpha induced cough and the augmentation of capsaicin induced cough that follows pgf2 alpha . 
the hyperimmunoglobulinaemia e and recurrent infections syndrome in an adult [ published erratum appears in thorax 1990 dec ; 45 ( 12 ) :984 ] a 27 year old white woman with a history of chronic eczema and episodes of serious infection of the chest , skin , and bone presented with acute respiratory failure . she was found to have a spontaneous right pneumothorax and a pneumatocele in the left upper lobe . despite a left upper lobectomy she was left with chronic respiratory failure , bullous lung disease , and bilateral bronchiectasis . the hyperimmunoglobulinaemia e and recurrent infections syndrome was diagnosed only in adult life . 
pulmonary disease following intravesical bcg treatment . bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) is an attenuated strain of mycobacterium bovis that has been used in the treatment of malignant disease for over 20 years and for the treatment of bladder cancer since 1976 . major complications of this treatment are infrequent . we report two cases of systemic illness with pulmonary manifestations after treatment with intravesical bcg . 
use of a fenestrated silicone drain to stent a malignant tracheobronchial stenosis . an innovative use of a fenestrated silicone drainage tube as an endobronchial stent is reported . the patient had respiratory obstruction due to a carinal tumour and laser photoresection had failed to restore airway patency . 
bronchoalveolar lavage findings in a patient with the organic dust toxic syndrome . a previously healthy student developed the organic dust toxic syndrome after unloading a grain silo for one day . bronchoalveolar lavage seven days later showed a total cell count six times normal with 70 % lymphocytes . this suggests that the previously described acute neutrophil influx into the alveolar spaces in this syndrome is rapidly replaced by a lymphocyte dominated infiltration . 
pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis occurred in 30 patients ; 18 ( 60 % ) presented with at least 1 pulmonary complaint and 10 ( 33 % ) had multiple pulmonary symptoms . in 14 patients ( 47 % ) , abnormalities were found on examination of the chest . in 16 chest roentgenograms ( 53 % ) , there was at least 1 abnormality : right-sided pleural effusion ( 9 patients ) and elevated right hemidiaphragm ( 8 patients ) were the most common . all patients were treated with metronidazole ( flagyl ) and had resolution of the amebic liver abscess and pulmonary disease . pleuropulmonary disease is a common complication of amebic liver abscess . the clinical presentation and chest roentgenograms are virtually diagnostic and obviate the need for invasive procedures to confirm the diagnosis . pleuropulmonary disease resolves with amebicidal treatment of the hepatic abscess . 
inhaler and spacer use in obstructive airway diseases . the role of inhaled aerosols in the treatment of obstructive airway diseases is increasing for both immediate bronchodilation and prophylactic anti-inflammatory effects . inhaled aerosol agents are available in metered-dose inhaler and nebulizer forms . maximum therapeutic benefit from metered-dose inhalers is assured when the correct inhaler technique is used . spacer devices may be helpful in some patients . 
characterization of the morphonuclear features and dna ploidy of typical and atypical carcinoids and small cell carcinomas of the lung . the authors analyzed several cytomorphonuclear parameters related to chromatin distribution and dna ploidy in typical and atypical carcinoids and in small cell lung cancers . nuclear measurements and analysis were performed with a samba 200 ( titn , grenoble , france ) cell image processor with software allowing the discrimination of parameters computed on cytospin preparations of feulgen-stained nuclei extracted from deparaffinized tumor tissues . the authors ' results indicate a significant increase in dna content -- assessed by integrated optical density ( iod ) -- from typical carcinoids to small cell lung carcinomas , with atypical carcinoids showing an intermediate value . parameters related to hyperchromatism ( short and long run length and variance of optical density ) also characterize the atypical carcinoids as being intermediate between typical carcinoids and small cell lung cancers . the systematic measurement of these cytomorphonuclear parameters seems to define an objective , reproducible " scale " of differentiation that helps to define the atypical carcinoid and may be of value in establishing cytologic criteria for differential diagnosis . 
isolation of measles virus in primary rhesus monkey cells from a child with acute interstitial pneumonia who cytologically had giant-cell pneumonia without a rash . the isolation of measles virus in primary rhesus monkey kidney cells ( prmk ) in patients with documented giant-cell pneumonia who have presented without a rash is limited . the diagnosis usually is made by cytologic examination of nasal or bronchial secretions in which characteristic multinucleated giant cells with intranuclear and intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies are observed . the diagnosis of giant-cell pneumonia has been associated with measles virus but not exclusively . canine distemper , herpes group viruses , and parainfluenza infections have been associated with these cells . in addition , vitamin a deficiency also has been cytologically associated with multinucleated giant cells . the authors describe the isolation of measles virus from bronchial washing and sputum in prmk cells at 4 days from an 11-year-old child with acute interstitial pneumonia who was in remission for acute lymphocytic leukemia . classic cytopathologic effect ( cpe ) consisting of syncytial and hole formation on the prmk monolayer was apparent . in addition , a foamy appearance of the monolayer was noted in an otherwise clean lot of monkey cells . confirmatory testing with measles antibody of the infected areas of the monolayer by indirect immunofluorescence ( ifa ) was positive for measles antigen and negative for mumps , parainfluenza ( types i , ii , and iii ) and influenza a and b virus . serologic studies for measles antibody revealed an ifa igg titer of greater than 1:10,240 , and an igm titer of 1:128 . cytologic examination of the same bronchial fluid revealed the typical giant cells with characteristic inclusions associated with measles virus . because this disease usually is severe , and often fatal , prompt recognition of this virus is essential , not only to the patient , who can be treated with immunoglobulin and/or antiviral therapy , but also to prevent the spread of the virus to other patients and medical personnel . these findings also support direct evidence for the etiologic role of measles virus in giant-cell pneumonia that has been detected either histologically or cytologically and in tissue culture at autopsy . 
brake mechanics , asbestos , and disease risk . health risks posed by inhalable asbestos fibers are known to exist in a variety of industrial and nonindustrial settings . although early studies described an increased risk of asbestosis , lung cancer , and mesothelioma in asbestos-industry workers , subsequent research revealed the existence of a potential asbestos-related health hazard in nonasbestos industries such as the textile and railroad industries . brake mechanics and garage workers constitute a large work force with potential exposures to levels of asbestos capable of producing disease . unfortunately , the health risk faced by these workers has received little attention . this article briefly discusses currently available information on the asbestos health risks of workers in this setting , and highlights the need for further investigations of this occupational group . 
arterial oxygen desaturation during gastrointestinal endoscopy this prospective study evaluated the incidence and severity of arterial oxygen desaturation during gastrointestinal endoscopy . following pulmonary function testing , 115 male patients underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy ( egd ) , colonoscopy , or colonoscopy followed by egd , with continuous recording of arterial oxygen saturation ( sao2 ) . most patients ( 80/115 , 70 % ) showed arterial oxygen desaturation ( greater than 4 % decrease from baseline sao2 ) ; severe arterial oxygen desaturation ( sao2 less than or equal to 85 % ) reflecting hypoxemia ( pao2 less than or equal to 50 mm hg ) was noted in one-third of patients overall ( 37/115 , 32 % ) . severe arterial oxygen desaturation occurred in 9/62 egd patients ( 15 % ) , 23/46 colonoscopy patients ( 50 % ) , and 4/7 patients having colonoscopy followed by egd ( 57 % ) . arterial oxygen desaturation occurs frequently during gastrointestinal endoscopy and is often severe . these data support the concept that continuous monitoring of sao2 should be standard procedure during all gastrointestinal endoscopic procedures . 
treatment of wegener 's granulomatosis with intermittent high-dose intravenous cyclophosphamide purpose : concerns regarding the long-term toxicity of daily cyclophosphamide ( cp ) therapy for the systemic vasculitides have led us to evaluate alternative approaches to treatment in an attempt to achieve comparable efficacy with less toxicity . this study sought to determine the efficacy , toxicity , and immunologic effects of glucocorticoids ( gc ) and intermittent high-dose intravenous cp ( " pulse " cp ) in the treatment of 14 patients with wegener 's granulomatosis ( wg ) . patients and methods : the diagnosis of active wg was supported by a typical clinical presentation and histopathologic findings of vasculitis , granulomatous inflammation , and tissue necrosis . gc treatment was initially provided on a daily basis and later tapered to an alternate-day schedule if vasculitis remained inactive . pulse cp treatment was initially administered once a month for 6 months . if after 6 months remission had been attained and gc therapy had been discontinued , then pulse cp treatment was given at less frequent intervals thereafter . treatment and evaluation were provided for participants as inpatients in a clinical research center ( national institutes of health ) . results : thirteen of 14 patients ( 93 % ) initially experienced unequivocal improvement with pulse cp therapy , and seven of 14 ( 50 % ) achieved remission within 4 months . however , treatment was associated with significant toxicity in two patients and later relapses in nine patients , so that a total of 79 % either failed to achieve sustained remission or were unable to continue therapy . three of 14 ( 21 % ) patients have achieved sustained remissions with the pulse cp protocol and one additional patient ( who had a limited exacerbation of wg ) continues to receive that therapy after 14 to 22 months ( mean 17 months ) . conclusions : the use of pulse cp and gc therapy in 14 patients with wg was associated with a high initial response rate . however , failure to respond initially to treatment , to sustain improvement , or to tolerate continued treatment was noted in 79 % of patients within a period of 1 to 22 months . these observations indicate that this particular pulse cp protocol does not achieve a high degree of lasting efficacy . 
pleuritis as a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the frequency with which tuberculous pleuritis is a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis and to compare the clinical manifestations of reactivation tuberculous pleuritis with " classic " tuberculous pleuritis , in which chest roentgenograms reveal no parenchymal infiltrates . patients and methods : we evaluated the medical records of 59 patients in whom tuberculous pleuritis was confirmed by histologic findings or mycobacterial culture . twenty-seven patients ( 46 % ) had typical chest roentgenographic findings of reactivation tuberculosis , whereas 32 ( 54 % ) had classic tuberculous pleuritis . the clinical and laboratory features of these two groups were compared . results : symptoms were more prolonged and pleural fluid glucose and lactate dehydrogenase concentrations were more markedly abnormal in patients with reactivation pleuritis than in those with classic pleuritis , suggesting a more chronic inflammatory process in the former group . compared with patients with classic tuberculous pleuritis , those with reactivation pleuritis had a lower frequency of reactive tuberculin skin tests ( 61 % versus 88 % ) and granulomatous pleural inflammation ( 25 % versus 72 % ) , but a higher bacillary burden , manifest by a higher frequency of positive sputum smears for acid-fast bacilli ( 50 % versus 0 % ) and positive mycobacterial cultures from sputum ( 60 % versus 23 % ) and pleural fluid ( 91 % versus 66 % ) . conclusions : in contrast to previous reports , tuberculous pleuritis was a manifestation of reactivation tuberculosis in 46 % ( 27 of 59 ) of patients . tuberculous pleuritis is a more chronic process in patients with reactivation disease than in those with classic pleuritis . the lower frequency of reactive tuberculin skin tests and granuloma formation , combined with the higher bacillary burden in patients with reactivation pleuritis , suggest that these patients mount a less effective immune response to mycobacterium tuberculosis infection than do patients with the classic form of tuberculous pleuritis . 
cardiorespiratory effects of endoscopic esophageal variceal sclerotherapy . endoscopic variceal sclerotherapy ( evs ) is an effective means of controlling variceal hemorrhage , which develops as a consequence of portal hypertension . while esophageal perforation , ulceration , strictures , and mediastinitis are potential complications associated with this procedure , it is not clear whether isolated pleuropulmonary events such as pleuritis , pneumonitis , and adult respiratory distress syndrome are causally related to the evs . endoscopy and sedation with the attendant risk of aspiration , particularly in the background of hepatic encephalopathy , may account for some of these events . recent controlled studies of respiratory function demonstrate that evs as such results in minor changes in gas exchange , lung volumes , and pulmonary and systemic hemodynamics . most pulmonary complications have been reported with the use of sodium morrhuate sclerosant . comparative studies among different sclerosants are necessary to evaluate relative safety . finally , there have been rare reports of myocardial ischemia and pericarditis reported in association with evs , but these are of a transient nature . chest symptoms , roentgenographic pleuropulmonary changes , pulmonary hemodynamics , and cardiac perturbations are transient and should not preclude offering evs to patients with variceal hemorrhage . 
viral bronchiolitis during early life induces increased numbers of bronchiolar mast cells and airway hyperresponsiveness . the objectives of this study were to determine the kinetics of sendai virus-induced increases in bronchiolar mast cells and to determine whether virus-induced increases in bronchiolar mast cells were associated with increased airway responsiveness to methacholine and with altered allergic inflammatory responses to antigen stimulation . mast cell density in intrapulmonary airways was measured in outbred cd ( crl : cdbr ) rats by use of morphometric techniques at 7 , 15 , 30 , 60 , and 90 days after viral or sham inoculation . density of bronchiolar mast cells was higher in virus-inoculated rats than in control rats at 30 , 60 , and 90 days after inoculation ( p less than 0.01 ) , but not at 7 or 15 days after inoculation . total pulmonary mast cell numbers were increased in virus-inoculated rats at 30 days after inoculation . rats at 42 days after viral inoculation had over a threefold increase in sensitivity to the concentration of nebulized metbacholine that would stimulate a 50 % increase in respiratory resistance . virus-inoculated rats sensitized to ovalbumin had over a 10-fold increase ( p less than 0.02 ) in pulmonary neutrophils that were recovered by bronchoalveolar lavage at 4 hours after ovalbumin aerosol challenge . virus-inoculated rats at this time also had higher densities of neutrophils in bronchiolar walls than allergen-exposed control rats . the results indicate that sendai virus induces increases in numbers of bronchiolar mast cells at times from 30 to 90 days after inoculation , and that mast cell increases are associated with airway hyperresponsiveness to methacholine and heightened allergic airway inflammatory reactions . 
intraluminal fibrosis induced unilaterally by lobar instillation of cdcl2 into the rat lung . lung injury induced by intratracheal instillation of cadmium chloride ( cdcl2 ) into the rat lung may serve as a model of human interstitial lung disease . in this study , cdcl2 solutions were instilled through a lobar bronchus into the left lung of the rat . two doses ( 400 micrograms or 50 micrograms of cdcl2 , each in 400 microliters of neutral saline ) were used and the morphologic changes occurring during the first 7 days after a single exposure were documented by light and electron microscopy . with the higher dose , inflammatory cells appeared in the alveolar interstitium 1 day after cdcl2 administration . edema and thickening of the alveolar walls were evident , as were damaged type i epithelial cells and denuded basement membranes . fibrin was found in the air spaces . within 2 days , inflammatory cells were seen in large numbers and fibroblasts were observed passing through gaps in the alveolar basement membranes into the air spaces . by 4 and 7 days after cdcl2 , various forms of intraluminal fibrosis , including intrabronchiolar budding , mural incorporation , and obliterative changes , were observed . the contralateral lungs had normal-appearing architecture for all the time points investigated . in the lower dose exposure , gradients of alveolar damage were observed in which normal lung , interstitial fibrosis , and/or intraluminal fibrosis were seen within treated lungs . in the mildly damaged regions , interstitial fibrosis predominated , while in the more severely damaged regions , mural incorporation of the convoluted basement membranes was observed . the pulmonary fibrosis that developed appeared to be similar to some human interstitial lung diseases and may offer a system in which to study the regulation of collagen deposition and fibrosis development in these pathologic conditions . 
neuromuscular effects of respiratory and metabolic acid-base changes in vitro with and without nondepolarizing muscle relaxants . the effects of metabolic ( bicarbonate , [ hco3 ] ) and respiratory ( carbon dioxide , pco2 ) acid-base changes on indirectly elicited twitch tension with and without nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents were compared in a rat phrenic nerve-hemidiaphragm preparation . ionized calcium [ ca2 + ] and magnesium [ mg2 + ] concentrations in the modified krebs ' solution were measured and kept constant . likewise , twitch was altered when ph changes were produced by altering either pco2 or [ hco3 ] . decreasing ph either by increasing pco2 or by decreasing [ hco3 ] significantly decreased ( p less than 0.01 ) twitch , by 9.5 + / - 0.6 ( sem , n = 8 ) and 10.6 + / - 1.5 % , respectively . increasing ph by decreasing pco2 or by increasing [ hco3 ] significantly increased ( p less than 0.01 ) twitch , by 5.6 + / - 0.9 and 7.9 + / - 0.6 % , respectively . after a partial depression of twitch by nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents , the effects of pco2 and [ hco3 ] changes were again assessed . decreasing ph by increasing pco2 or by decreasing [ hco3 ] intensified d-tubocurarine ( dtc ) ( 28.2 + / - 1.6 and 32.0 + / - 2.9 % , respectively ) and vecuronium ( 23.0 + / - 1.4 and 36.8 + / - 3.2 % , respectively ) block , whereas it reversed metocurine ( 1.2 + / - 2.2 % ns and 2.9 + / - 1.3 % , respectively ) and pancuronium ( 8.3 + / - 1.5 and 11.5 + / - 3.0 % , respectively ) block . conversely , increasing ph by decreasing pco2 or by increasing [ hco3 ] antagonised dtc ( 12.8 + / - 2.2 and 13.6 + / - 1.8 % , respectively ) and vecuronium ( 25.3 + / - 1.7 and 25.0 + / - 3.0 % , respectively ) block , whereas it potentiated metocurine ( 4.2 + / - 0.6 and 8.0 + / - 1.1 % , respectively ) and pancuronium ( 11.0 + / - 1.2 and 17.5 + / - 2.0 % , respectively ) block . except where indicated , all changes in block described above were statistically significant . 
additive effect of albuterol and ipratropium bromide in the treatment of bronchospasm in children . inhaled albuterol ( a ) ( salbutamol ) alone and albuterol plus ipratropium bromide ( ib ) were administered to 12 asthmatic children . following administration of a alone or in combination with ib , there was a significant increase in fev1 and fef . significant statistical difference in favor of the association a plus ib was observed at 120 and 240 minutes for fev1 and in the period 120 , 180 , and 240 minutes for fef . the additive effect was present both in the large and small airways . the short-lived additive effect of a plus ib suggests the opportunity to increase the frequency of drug administration in patients with severe bronchial obstruction . 
effects of albuterol and procaterol on exercise-induced asthma . procaterol and albuterol , beta agonists , were studied using a placebo-controlled , repeated exercise challenge design in order to assess their duration of effectiveness in both bronchodilation and in modifying exercise-induced asthma ( eia ) . fifty-three subjects aged 12 to 50 years who had at least a 20 % drop in fev1 during a screening exercise tolerance test were entered . subjects took two inhalations of procaterol ( 10 micrograms/inhalation ) , albuterol ( 90 micrograms/inhalation ) , or placebo . thirty minutes later they exercised on a treadmill at a workload sufficient to induce greater than or equal to 80 % aerobic o2 consumption for six minutes . pulmonary function was measured before and serially for 30 minutes after exercise . the same exercise challenge was repeated three , six , and nine hours after drug administration . both procaterol and albuterol bronchodilated and modified eia at 30 minutes and three hours , mean drops in fev1 being 8.2 and 9.7 % respectively at 30 minutes and 16.8 and 16.3 % at three hours . this was compared with placebo falls of 30 % and 26 % . at six hours the subjects ' response was similar after both procaterol and albuterol , and fewer subjects had a 20 % fall in fev1 than with placebo , although protection afforded by both beta agonists was substantially less than at three hours . both drugs were tolerated well . 
exercise-induced biphasic responses and methacholine reactivity in asthma . biphasic ( early and late ) asthmatic responses to exercise occurred in seven of 43 children with reproducible exercise-induced asthma . as biphasic allergen-induced asthma is associated with a prolonged increase in nonspecific bronchial hyperreactivity , this effect was not sought in the 43 asthmatic children . there was no significant change in methacholine pd20 fev1 before and after exercise challenge , either in children who had early , or early and late , exercise responses . late reactions after allergen exposure are likely to be of considerable clinical significance in relation to the enhancement of bronchial responsiveness . it is reassuring that this is not the case for exercise challenge , as it would have major implications in relation to the recommendations that asthmatics should participate in normal activities and even in training programs . furthermore , it suggests that there are differences between the pathophysiology of asthma induced by exercise and that produced by allergens . 
oral gold therapy in steroid-dependent asthma , nasal polyposis , and aspirin hypersensitivity . eight patients are described who fulfill the criteria for the triad of asthma , nasal polyposis , and aspirin hypersensitivity who have been treated with oral chrysotherapy from 7 to 17 months . patient diary and symptom scores reflect an overall improvement in global symptoms . monthly pulmonary assessment ( spirometry ) does not indicate a significant change ( improvement or deterioration ) but average daily oral prednisone requirements have decreased . one of eight patients experienced a minor side effect of treatment but did not require discontinuation of therapy . oral gold therapy may prove to be an alternative therapy in a select population of patients and permit a reduction or discontinuation of oral corticosteroid therapy . 
functional character and augmentation of lymphocytes in regional lymph nodes of patients with lung cancer . it appears that lymph node metastases are more frequent in lung cancer than in other cancers because of impaired defensive mechanisms in the regional lymph nodes . however , little is known about the immunologic function of regional lymph node lymphocytes ( rlnl ) in patients with lung cancer . we have studied the immunologic properties of rlnl in comparison with peripheral blood lymphocytes ( pbl ) . we measured the natural killer ( nk ) cell activity of rlnl and pbl in patients with lung cancer and found that the nk activity was significantly more depressed in the rlnl than in the pbl . in contrast , interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) production was markedly higher in the rlnl than in the pbl . the cytotoxic effect of rlnl in nonmetastatic lymph nodes on target cells ( such as k562 cells ) or pc-3 and pc-10 cells ( nk-resistant , human lung cancer of adenocarcinoma and epidermoid carcinoma , respectively ) was significantly enhanced by in vitro incubation with recombinant il-2 ( ril-2 ) . furthermore , we clarified that both ril-2 and ok-432 , which is a biologic response modifier and il-2 inducer as well , augmented the cytotoxicity of rlnl and that these effector cells were lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cells . the depletion of lymphocyte subsets by pretreatment with specific monoclonal antibody showed that the lak activity in rlnl was mediated by cd3 + and cd8 + cells , whereas the lymphocyte subsets contributing the lak activity in pbl were cd3 + and cd16 + cells . it was concluded that a majority of the effector cells in rlnl were lak cells of the cytotoxic t cell population . 
doppler assessment of pulmonary hypertension induced by hypoxic breathing in subjects susceptible to high altitude pulmonary edema . to verify the abnormal pulmonary vascular response implicated in the pathogenesis of high altitude pulmonary edema ( hape ) , we examined the hemodynamic responses to hypoxia in hape-susceptible subjects ( hape-s ) by means of both right heart catheterization and pulsed doppler echocardiography . the hape-s were seven men and one woman with a history of hape . six healthy volunteers who had repeated experiences of mountain climbing without any history of altitude-related problems served as control subjects . the hape-s showed much greater increase in pulmonary vascular resistance ( pvr ) than did the control subjects , resulting in a much higher level of pulmonary arterial pressure ( ppa ) under acute hypoxia both of 15 % o2 and 10 % o2 . we then evaluated the usefulness of pulsed doppler echocardiography in the prediction of pulmonary hypertension . acceleration time ( act ) and right ventricular ejection time ( rvet ) were measured from the flow velocity pattern in the right ventricular outflow tract . the ratio of act to rvet was correlated to invasively determined mean ppa ( ppa ) and pvr . the results were as follows : ( 1 ) act/rvet = 0.52 to 0.0047 ( ppa ) , r = -0.93 , see = 0.017 , p less than 0.001 ( hape-s ) ; ( 2 ) act/rvet = 0.55 to 0.0055 ( ppa ) , r = -0.70 , see = 0.030 , p less than 0.001 ( hape-s ) ; ( 4 ) act/rvet = 0.52 to 0.00077 ( pvr ) , r = -0.91 , see = 0.016 , p less than 0.001 ( control subjects ) . we conclude that hape-s have a constitutional abnormality in the pulmonary vascular response to hypoxia , which is a possible causative factor of hape , and that pulsed doppler echocardiography may be supportive to assess the pulmonary vascular pressor response in the hape-s . 
endogenous opioids modulate the increase in ventilatory output and dyspnea during severe acute bronchoconstriction . the aim of this study was to evaluate whether endogenous opioids are involved in the regulation of breathing pattern and respiratory drive during bronchoconstriction induced by methacholine ( mch ) . we studied six male asymptomatic asthmatics 18 to 35 yr of age . in a preliminary study we determined the concentration of mch causing a 60 % fall in fev1 ( pc60 fev1 ) . on two subsequent days , we measured breathing pattern , dyspnea sensation ( borg scale ) , mouth occlusion pressure ( p0 .1 ) , and fev1 before and 10 min after an intravenous injection of either naloxone ( 0.1 mg/kg ) or saline according to a randomized double-blind crossover design . a mch concentration equal to the pc60 fev1 was then inhaled , and measurements were repeated 5 min later . neither placebo nor naloxone affected baseline breathing pattern , p0 .1 , and fev1 . naloxone pretreatment did not influence airway response to mch ; the mean percent fall in fev1 was 65.9 + / - 1.3 and 64.7 + / - 1.2 % ( mean + / - 1 se ) on the placebo day and the naloxone day , respectively . after mch inhalation no significant changes in ve , vt , and breathing frequency occurred when patients received placebo . however , p0 .1 increased from 1.48 + / - 0.17 to 3.43 + / - 0.70 cm h2o ( p less than 0.05 ) , and vt/ti fell from 0.66 + / - 0.08 to 0.52 + / - 0.04 l/s ( p less than 0.05 ) . naloxone pretreatment resulted in an increase in breathing frequency ( from 18.2 + / - 1.7 to 22.8 + / - 2.6 breaths/min ; p less than 0.05 ) and vt/ti ( from 0.58 + / - 0.06 to 0.74 + / - 0.05 l/s ; p less than 0.05 ) after mch . 
the relationship between respiratory impairment and asbestos-related pleural abnormality in an active work force with the general improvement in environmental controls in workplaces where asbestos is used , an increasing number of workers are seen who exhibit isolated pleural plaques . the question as to whether these are associated with respiratory impairment independently of parenchymal disease remains unresolved . the question was reinvestigated using quantitative gallium-67 lung scanning to take into account early parenchymal change not evident on the chest radiograph . we carried out a cross-sectional study of 110 construction insulators all currently at work . overall , 58.2 % had pleural abnormality , 52.5 % pleural plaques only , and 5.5 % diffuse pleural thickening as assessed from the pa chest radiograph . compared with those without , those with any pleural abnormality had a decrease in fev1 and fvc on average of 222 and 402 ml ( p less than 0.05 ) , and those with isolated pleural plaques , a decrease on average of 200 and 350 ml ( p less than 0.05 ) , after taking into account age , height , smoking status , and the presence of parenchymal abnormality as assessed by chest radiography and gallium uptake . the complaint of dyspnea with strenuous activities was also significantly related to the width and extent of chest wall pleural thickening ( p less than 0.05 ) , independently of parenchymal disease . this study suggests that the most common radiographic findings in asbestos-exposed , isolated pleural plaques are associated with a significant reduction in fev1 and fvc , which can not be attributed to the presence of radiographic and subradiographic pulmonary fibrosis . 
selective igg subclass deficiencies and antibody responses to pneumococcal capsular polysaccharide antigen in adult community-acquired pneumonia . we measured the serum concentrations of igg subclasses in healthy subjects ( n = 26 ) and in patients with community-acquired pneumonia ( cap ) on admission ( n = 38 ) , at recovery ( n = 21 ) , and 9 months after admission ( n = 19 ) . then , in 8 of the control subjects and 15 of the patients , we measured igg subclasses and mean serum antibody concentrations of pneumococcal capsular polysaccharides before and 3 wk after immunization with a pneumococcal vaccine . compared to the control subjects , the serum concentration of the igg2 subclass was lower at admission in patients with cap of bacterial or unknown cause ( p less than 0.005 ) . concentrations of igg subclasses in patients did not differ between admission and recovery , or between admission and 9 months later . after vaccination , in both control subjects and patients , there was an increase in the concentrations of igg2 subclasses ( p = 0.01 ) and antipneumococcal antibodies ( p less than 10 ( -4 ) ) . we show that serum igg2 concentration in patients with cap of bacterial or unknown cause is lower than in healthy subjects and remains lower for several months . after immunization with a pneumococcal vaccine , the increase in serum concentrations of igg subclasses and antipneumococcal antibodies in patients does not differ from those in control subjects . 
timing of corticosteroid treatment . effect of lung lymph dynamics in air injury in awake sheep . in paired experiments , we studied the effects of high-dose methylprednisolone on the acute pulmonary injury caused by 4 h of venous air embolization in 19 chronically instrumented , unanesthetized sheep with lung lymph fistulas . we compared the effect of methylprednisolone ( 30 mg/kg intravenous bolus ) given before embolization , early ( 1 h ) in the course of embolization , late ( 3 h ) in the course of embolization , or after embolization ( at the beginning of the recovery period ) . we measured pulmonary hemodynamics and lymph dynamics . in six sheep we also fixed lung tissue for semiquantitative histology , and in some we measured leukocyte concentrations in blood and in pulmonary lymph . methylprednisolone did not significantly affect pulmonary hemodynamics but it largely prevented lung injury when it was given before embolization . it also lessened the degree of lung injury when it was given during embolization , although this effect became less marked as treatment was delayed . methylprednisolone had no effect on lung injury when given after embolization was completed ( 4 h ) . we found fewer leukocytes attached to air emboli and fewer endothelial cell gaps in the lungs of sheep given methylprednisolone as prophylaxis . leukocyte counts were lower in lung lymph and higher in the circulating blood of methylprednisolone-treated sheep . we conclude that methylprednisolone has a preventive effect on air embolism lung injury , such that its effect is greater when given earlier during the development of injury . 
central airway obstruction due to cytomegalovirus-induced necrotizing tracheitis in a patient with aids . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) can present as either disseminated disease , pneumonitis , retinitis , gastroenteritis , neuropathy , or a subclinical infection . we report a patient whose initial manifestation of cmv infection was severe central airways obstruction due to necrotizing tracheitis . at bronchoscopy , the lesion appeared deeply ulcerated , distinctly different from previously described airway lesions in patients with aids . mucosal biopsies showed characteristic intranuclear and intracytoplasmic inclusions and cultures yielded only cmv . the patient responded partially to ganciclovir , steroids , and antibiotics against suspected anaerobic superinfection but died as a result of central nervous system disease believed due to toxoplasmosis or lymphoma . cmv infection of the upper airway should be considered in the patient with aids presenting with atypical cough or stridor and ulcerated endobronchial lesions . 
sarcoidosis complicated by hiv infection : three case reports and a review of the literature . we report three cases of sarcoidosis complicated by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and review four other isolated case reports in the literature . there is clinical overlap of both diseases , including symptoms , pulmonary function abnormalities , and lymphocyte function . bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) in these patients showed a lymphocytic alveolitis without pathogens . bal lymphocyte subset analysis showed markedly depressed cd4 + / cd8 + ratios in three patients . these data were clinically useful for distinguishing the cd8 + alveolitis associated with hiv infection from the cd4 + alveolitis associated with sarcoidosis . three patients improved with corticosteroid therapy . two patients with bal-documented cd8 + alveolitis tolerated discontinuation of steroids . one patient 's sarcoidosis improved without therapy concurrent with the diagnosis of kaposi 's sarcoma . another patient developed sarcoidosis 1 yr after manifesting hiv positive serology . bal can be used to distinguish the lymphocytic alveolitis of sarcoidosis from that associated with hiv infection . patients with active sarcoidosis complicated by hiv infection can be effectively treated with corticosteroid therapy . 
ciliary motility in two patients with yellow nail syndrome and recurrent sinopulmonary infections . the yellow nail syndrome ( yns ) is described as a combination of yellow nails , chronic lymphedema , pleural effusions , and recurrent sinopulmonary infections , but all these features need not be present for the diagnosis . the mechanism that renders patients with this syndrome susceptible to respiratory infections is not known . to determine whether abnormal ciliary motility is a predisposing factor , in vitro ciliary beat frequency ( cbf ) was measured in two patients with yns and recurrent respiratory infections . in each case , the cbf was within normal limits ( 12 hz ) . these data suggest that abnormal ciliary motility is not a pathophysiologic mechanism of recurrent sinopulmonary infections in yns . 
manual ventilation bags as a source for bacterial colonization of intubated patients . a group of 14 intensive care unit ( icu ) patients were studied to determine if manual ventilation bags ( mvb ) could serve as a source of bacterial or fungal pathogens that could colonize the respiratory tract of intubated patients . a total of 51 cultures were simultaneously obtained of patient 's sputum , the exterior mvb surface , mvb port , and mvb interior ( postexhalation valve ) . pathogens colonizing or infecting the respiratory tract of intubated icu patients were frequently simultaneously present on the exterior surface of the mvb and inside the mvb port used to connect the mvb with the endotracheal tube . in addition , coagulase-negative staphylococci and yeast were frequently present on the exterior surface of the mvb . the interior of the mvb was usually sterile . in three instances pathogens were isolated from the mvb before isolation from the patient 's sputum . mvb may serve as a source for colonizing the respiratory tract of intubated icu patients and/or the hands of medical personnel . the exterior surface and port of mvb should be cleaned of visible debris and disinfected at least once a day . 
differential roles of opioid receptors in respiration , respiratory disease , and opiate-induced respiratory depression . in summary , these findings indicate the importance of designing future experiments that delineate between opioid and nonopioid forms of respiratory disease and dysfunction , and the need to identify means of diagnosing them in order to achieve successful recovery . apparently there is great diversity between animal species in terms of contributions of endogenous opioids to tonic control of ventilation , and future work should strive to identify which species is most appropriate as a model of human ventilatory control and disease . certain opioid receptor types appear to be linked to independent respiratory functions . for instance , mu receptors in the brain stem produce strong inhibitory actions on respiratory parameters , including rr , vt , ve , and co2 sensitivity . these effects have been observed in vivo and by electrophysiologic recordings in vitro . delta receptors may also exert some inhibitory effect on respiration , especially in the nts . in the cns , the ventral surfaces of the medulla and pons , especially the nts and na , seem to be important sites for opioid-induced inhibition of respiration , whereas the spinal cord probably is not involved in opioid-mediated ventilatory depression . kappa receptors appear to be devoid of respiratory depressant activity , whereas sigma receptors may stimulate some ventilatory parameters . morphine and similar pure mu agonists , such as fentanyl and oxymorphine , probably produce their analgesic and respiratory depressant effects through stimulation of mu receptors . mixed agonists/antagonists that have mu antagonist ( or partial agonist ) activity plus kappa agonist and/or sigma agonist activity show a ceiling effect for respiratory depression . future tests need to determine which opioid receptor may be responsible for the ceiling effect . in addition , the effects of mu , delta , kappa , and sigma selective agonists on hypoxic drive should also be determined , as a drug that stimulates hypoxic sensitivity in the face of hypercapnic depression may produce less overall respiratory depression due to counteractive effects . in the future , clinically optimal opiates should have more specificity of action than those available now . this may be achieved by creating drugs selective for single receptors or by creating drugs with desirable combinations of receptor selectivities . the combinations of mixed agonists/antagonists with pure mu agonists currently in use today are promising , as they provide analgesia with reduced respiratory depression . in the early days of opiate research and development , combination drug regimens were thoroughly tested to determine the " ideal ratios " that would retain analgesic properties but not the other undesirable effects such as respiratory depression ( 196 ) . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
lung lobe torsion following lobectomy . three cases of postoperative pulmonary lobe torsion were reported . two of three showed hemorrhagic infarctions , and as a result underwent rethoracotomies and removal of the affected lobes . from these experiences , we consider that computed tomography ( ct ) and bronchofiberscopic examinations are useful for the diagnosis of advanced torsion . 
clinical prediction rule for pulmonary infiltrates objective : to derive and validate a clinical rule for predicting pneumonic infiltrates in adult patients with acute respiratory illness . design : prevalence studies in three settings . setting : emergency departments of the university of illinois hospital at chicago , the university of nebraska medical center at omaha , and the medical college of virginia at richmond . patients : symptoms , signs , comorbidity data , and chest roentgenogram results were recorded for 1134 patients from illinois ( the derivation set ) , 150 patients from nebraska , and 152 patients from virginia ( the validation sets ) . all patients presented to the emergency department and had a chest roentgenogram to evaluate fever or respiratory complaints . measurements and main results : within the training set , temperature greater than 37.8 degrees c , pulse greater than 100 beats/min , rales , decreased breath sounds , and the absence of asthma were identified as significant predictors of radiographically proved pneumonia in a stepwise logistic regression model ( p = 0.001 ) . the logistic rule discriminated patients with and without pneumonia in the training set with a receiver operating characteristic ( roc ) area of 0.82 . in the validation sets , the rule discriminated pneumonia and nonpneumonia with roc areas of 0.82 and 0.76 after adjusting for differences in disease prevalence ( p greater than 0.2 compared with the training set ) . the predicted probability of having pneumonia for patients with different clinical findings corresponded closely with the incidence of pneumonia among patients with such findings in the three settings . conclusions : among adults presenting with acute respiratory illness , a prediction rule based on clinical findings accurately discriminated patients with and without radiographic pneumonia , and was used in two other samples of patients without significant decrement in discriminatory ability . this rule can be used by physicians to develop more effective strategies for detecting pneumonia and for helping to determine the need for radiologic study among patients with acute respiratory disease . 
a clinical triad to diagnose paraneoplastic retinopathy . two elderly men developed photosensitivity and light-induced glare , transient visual symptoms , and progressive visual loss several months before small cell carcinoma of the lung was discovered . both patients had impaired visual acuity and color vision , ring scotomas , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber . electroretinography demonstrated abnormal cone and rod-mediated responses . antiretinal antibodies were identified in their serum . their visual sensory function improved following therapy with immunosuppressive agents . the triad of photosensitivity , ring scotomatous visual field loss , and attenuated retinal arteriole caliber should alert one to a paraneoplastic disorder affecting the retina . 
latent sensitisation to respiratory syncytial virus during acute bronchiolitis and lung function after recovery . to determine whether latent sensitivity to respiratory syncytial virus antigen ( s ) occurs after infection , 27 infants with acute bronchiolitis were studied and compared with 15 hospital controls . blood was collected for whole blood challenge , and histamine release was measured by a high performance liquid chromatography technique with fluorometric detection . there was a significantly greater histamine release to respiratory syncytial virus antigen ( s ) in those with bronchiolitis than in controls , expressed either in amount ( median 154 nmol/l compared with 104 nmol/l ) or percentage release ( median 20 % compared with 3 % ) . there was a significant difference between index and control groups in terms of individual histamine responses . these findings strongly suggest that infants develop latent sensitivity to respiratory syncytial virus antigen ( s ) during the course of acute bronchiolitis . serial lung function tests were performed in 15 infants . all infants had abnormalities of lung function at some stage , but the small numbers of subjects precluded comparison between ' sensitised ' and ' non-sensitised ' infants . further study is indicated to define the relation of latent sensitisation and subsequent bronchial hyper-responsiveness after respiratory syncytial virus infection in infants . 
how curable is relapsed wilms ' tumour ? the united kingdom children 's cancer study group . three hundred and eighty one children with wilms ' tumour were treated on the united kingdom children 's cancer study group wt1 study ( 1980/6 ) . seventy one patients relapsed during or after treatment , which included surgery and chemotherapy , with irradiation depending on stage and histology . despite treatment with various combinations of chemotherapy , surgery , and radiotherapy there were only 17 survivors . for unfavourable histology , any stage , only two of 20 survive . we conclude that , after relapse , even for patients who have had localised disease and favourable histology , the ' salvage ' rate is little more than 50 % and for all others the likelihood of cure is very small . three of 41 children who relapsed less than 12 months from diagnosis survive , compared with 14 of 30 who relapsed later . it is essential that even with this ' good prognosis ' tumour initial treatment is optimal and given by centres experienced in management of children 's cancer . furthermore , there is a clear need for additional effective chemotherapeutic agents for relapsed patients . 
an unusual cause of thoracic mass . a previously well 10 year old boy presented with scoliosis , a mass in the chest wall , and a pleural effusion . chest radiography showed the triad of chronic consolidation , pleural effusion , and rib periostitis . investigations confirmed thoracic actinomycosis . tissue spread was evaluated by computed tomography . it was successfully treated with benzylpenicillin , which was later replaced by clindamycin . 
tumor necrosis factor-alpha mediates acid aspiration-induced systemic organ injury . acid aspiration-induced systemic organ injury is mediated by the sequestration of activated neutrophils ( pmn ) . in other settings cytokines have been shown to increase neutrophil-endothelial adhesion , a requisite for injury . this study tests whether the systemic leukosequestration and permeability following localized aspiration is mediated by tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) - alpha-induced synthesis of an adhesion protein . anesthetized rats underwent tracheostomy and insertion of a fine-bore cannula into the anterior segment of the left lung . this was followed by the instillation of either 0.1 ml 0.1 n hci ( n = 18 ) or 0.1 ml saline in control rats ( n = 18 ) . localized aspiration induced generalized pulmonary leukosequestration with 95 pmn/10 high-power fields ( hpf ) in the aspirated lung and 46 pmn/10 hpf in the nonaspirated lung , higher than control values of 7 pmn/10 hpf and 5 pmn/10 hpf in saline - and nonsaline-aspirated sides , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . the leukosequestration was associated with permeability edema shown by increased protein concentrations in bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) of 3900 micrograms/ml in the aspirated and 2680 micrograms/ml in the nonaspirated side , higher than saline with 482 micrograms/ml and 411 micrograms/ml , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was generalized pulmonary edema following aspiration measured by increase in wet-to-dry weight ratios ( w/d ) of 6.6 in the aspirated and 5.1 in the nonaspirated lung , higher than control values of 3.5 and 3.4 , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . localized aspiration led to systemic leukosequestration documented by increases in myeloperoxidase activity ( units/g tissue ) of 2.2 and 1.7 in heart and kidney , higher than control values of 0.3 and 0.4 , respectively ( p less than 0.05 ) . this event was associated with edema of these organs with w/d ratios of 4.6 and 4.3 , relative to control values of 3.0 and 3.4 ( p less than 0.05 ) . treatment of animals ( n = 18 ) 20 minutes after aspiration with anti-tnf-alpha antiserum ( rabbit anti-murine ) but not normal rabbit serum ( n = 18 ) reduced lung leukosequestration in the aspirated and nonaspirated segments ( 61 and 32 pmn/10hpf ) , bal protein concentration ( 1490 and 840 micrograms/ml ) , and w/d ratio ( 4.3 and 3.7 ) ( all p less than 0.05 ) . in the heart and kidney there were reductions in myeloperoxidase activity ( 0.7 and 0.6 ) and w/d ratio ( 3.5 and 3.6 ) ( both p less than 0.05 ) . treatment of rabbits ( n = 18 ) with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide , 0.2 mg/kg/hr was as effective as tnf-alpha antiserum in modifying aspiration injury . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
relief of tracheal compression by aortopexy . we have performed aortopexy in 12 children with tracheal compression . six infants had compression secondary to a vascular anomaly ( group 1 ) , and the other 6 had previous repair of esophageal atresia ( group 2 ) . eleven of the 12 children are alive after a mean follow-up of 36 months . in group 1 , 1 patient died and 3 patients ( 50 % ) experienced recurrent respiratory distress . five infants sustained a major postoperative complication , and the average postoperative hospital stay was 25 days . in group 2 , however , aortopexy was uniformly successful . there were no deaths , no postoperative complications , and no cases of postoperative respiratory distress , and the mean postoperative hospital stay was only 10 days . for children with reflex apnea after repair of esophageal atresia , aortopexy is lifesaving and can be performed with minimal morbidity and mortality . great caution is indicated in children with tracheal compression from other causes . 
cor triatriatum : clinical presentation and surgical results in 12 patients . twelve patients with cor triatriatum have been seen at our institution since 1979 . the clinical presentation , diagnostic evaluation , and surgical results are outlined in this retrospective review . operation is the treatment of choice for this rare congenital cardiac defect . one patient died 1 day before scheduled operation , and 2 patients died postoperatively , yielding a surgical mortality rate of 17 % and an overall mortality rate of 25 % . resection of the obstructing atrial membrane was performed using hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass in all cases . left atriotomy was performed in 6 patients , and right atriotomy was performed in 7 . the two postoperative deaths occurred in patients who had serious associated cardiac defects . associated anomalies include atrial septal defect , persistent left superior vena cava , and partial anomalous pulmonary venous return . the postoperative course has been excellent in all 9 surviving patients ; all remain asymptomatic . cor triatriatum is amenable to surgical repair with excellent results when diagnosed early and when not complicated by other severe cardiac anomalies . 
tracheal and main bronchial disruptions after blunt chest trauma : presentation and management tracheobronchial disruption is one of the less common injuries associated with blunt thoracic trauma . this injury can be life threatening , however , and failure to diagnose it early can lead to disastrous acute or delayed complications . nine cases of tracheobronchial disruption in the setting of nonpenetrating thoracic trauma were seen at four los angeles trauma centers between 1980 and 1987 . mechanism of injury , presentation , diagnosis , and management of these patients were reviewed . disruptions involved the trachea in 3 patients , the right bronchus in 5 patients , and the left bronchus in 2 patients . tracheobronchial disruptions occurred in settings of high-energy impact-type injuries and were more likely to have associated injuries than they were to occur alone . common presenting signs included subcutaneous emphysema , dyspnea , sternal tenderness , and hemoptysis . radiographic findings were most commonly pneumothorax , pneumomediastinum , and clavicle or rib fractures . rigid bronchoscopy and fiberoptic bronchoscopy were both highly accurate methods for diagnosis but only in the hands of trained cardiothoracic surgeons . delay in diagnosis increased the likelihood of postoperative complications . 
complications after cardiac operations in patients with severe pulmonary impairment . the postoperative courses of 39 patients with severe lung disease ( 31 with obstructive disease and 8 restrictive ) who underwent a cardiac operation were retrospectively reviewed . the stay in the intensive care unit of the study group was 7.9 + / - 10.3 days ( mean + / - standard deviation ) compared with 2.4 + / - 3.9 days for the control group ( 100 patients with less impaired pulmonary function ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . the study group also had a greater number of valve replacements than did the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) . patients with obstructive disease had more respiratory complications than did patients with restrictive disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were 21 cases of atelectasis . effusions were noted in 11 patients . ten patients had bronchospasm . bronchial secretions were a major problem in 6 patients . pneumonia developed in 4 patients , and pneumothorax occurred in 3 others . the two in-hospital deaths were not directly related to pulmonary complications . our findings indicate that ( 1 ) patients with severe lung impairment generally do well after a cardiac operation but have more postoperative pulmonary complications than patients with less impairment ; ( 2 ) patients with restrictive pulmonary disease appear to fare better than those with obstructive disease ; ( 3 ) pulmonary function tests can alert the clinician to the possible risk of postoperative complications , but they can not , by themselves , be used to exclude patients from operation ; and ( 4 ) patients with severe pulmonary impairment facing valve replacement are at greater risk of pulmonary complications than patients having other types of cardiac surgical intervention . 
results in 104 patients undergoing bronchoplastic procedures for bronchial lesions . bronchoplastic procedures were used in 104 patients with various bronchial disorders . ten had benign lesions and 94 , malignant tumors . the principal operative procedures were sleeve lobectomy and sleeve pneumonectomy for bronchogenic carcinoma , but 11 limited bronchial resections were performed in patients with benign lesions , minute bronchogenic carcinomas , and low-grade malignant tumors . of the 94 patients with malignant tumors , 79 underwent a bronchoplastic procedure without carinal resection ( sleeve lobectomy in 75 and limited bronchial resection in 4 ) , and there was one operative death ( 1.3 % ) . the overall 5-year survival rate for the patients with bronchogenic carcinoma in this group was 45 % and that for patients undergoing curative resection , 57 % ( survival of patients in stages i , ii , and iiia was 79 % , 55 % , and 30 % , respectively ) . a bronchoplastic procedure with carinal resection was performed in 15 patients . twelve in this group underwent sleeve pneumonectomy . there were two operative deaths , and 1 patient has survived for longer than 4 years . two patients with low-grade malignant tumors underwent carinal resection without lung resection and are still alive . we believe that bronchoplasty is a safe and valuable procedure and that limited bronchial resection appears to be the procedure of choice for localized bronchial lesions . 
intraoperative bronchial aspiration of ruptured pulmonary hydatid cysts . ruptured pulmonary hydatid cysts are seen clinically and radiologically as persistent cavitary lesions of the lung . bronchi opening into the pericyst cavity allow for discharge of fluid matter but not the escape of solid remnants of the collapsed parasite . operative manipulation of the involved lung in the course of surgical management of chronic ruptured pulmonary hydatids can force fragments of the laminated membrane or small daughter cysts into the bronchial tree . such extruded solid fragments lodge in bronchi of the same or opposite lung with resulting acute obstruction of airways . intraoperative bronchial aspiration of hydatid material was seen in 7 patients with ruptured hydatid cysts of the lung , either primary or secondary to transdiaphragmatic extension of liver hydatids . the first clinical sign can be unexplained difficulty in ventilation . effective management consists of prompt exposure of the stem bronchus on the operative side , with bronchotomy for suction retrieval of escaped solid fragments of the parasite . 
swan-ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and pulmonary artery false aneurysm . swan-ganz catheter-induced massive hemoptysis and later pulmonary artery false aneurysm occurred in a patient with prosthetic mitral regurgitation . this patient was successfully managed by double-lumen endotracheal intubation , control of pulmonary hypertension , reversal of anticoagulation , mitral valve re-replacement , and transcatheter embolization . the pertinent literature is reviewed . 
resection of the superior vena cava for primary lung cancer : 5 years ' survival . we describe a patient with squamous cell carcinoma of the right lung that required a resection of the superior vena cava combined with a tracheal sleeve pneumonectomy . the superior vena cava was totally replaced with a polytetrafluoroethylene graft with 115 minutes cross-clamping of the superior vena cava . the patient remains healthy and the polytetrafluoroethylene graft remains patent 5 years 4 months after operation . 
spontaneous pneumothorax in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome treated with prophylactic aerosolized pentamidine . spontaneous pneumothorax is a known complication of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . to evaluate the possible pathogenesis and natural history of pneumothorax in patients receiving aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis , we retrospectively reviewed 327 outpatients positive for human immunodeficiency virus receiving aerosolized pentamidine . there were 12 spontaneous pneumothoraces in this group of patients . seventy-five percent of patients with pneumothorax had roentgenographic evidence of fibrocystic lung parenchyma and clinical evidence of active pneumocystis pneumonia . the majority ( 83 % ) required chest tube evacuation . there was a 50 % mortality rate associated with this complication . these findings suggest that spontaneous pneumothorax in patients treated with aerosolized pentamidine most commonly represents a prophylaxis failure associated with a high mortality rate . 
acute renal failure due to ciprofloxacin . acute renal failure developed in three patients within a few days of starting ciprofloxacin hydrochloride therapy . an allergic interstitial nephritis was suggested by fever and eosinophiluria in one patient and by erythema multiforme in another . a kidney biopsy specimen confirmed this diagnosis in one patient . renal function improved shortly after withdrawal of the drug in all three patients . literature survey revealed an additional three patients with a similar complication . allergic manifestations , such as fever or rash , were a feature in most reported cases . in view of this potential complication , renal function should be closely monitored in patients receiving ciprofloxacin therapy , especially if other potentially nephrotoxic drugs are prescribed concomitantly . 
mucinous cystadenoma of the lung . a report of two cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural analysis . we describe two patients who presented with solitary pulmonary masses that consisted of unilocular cysts lined by columnar mucinous epithelium . the cysts contained copious mucus . the epithelial lining of the cysts showed foci of stratification and papillary infolding . histologically identical lesions have previously been termed unusual mucous cysts or mucinous cystadenomas . we believe that these tumors are true neoplasms differentiating toward the respiratory epithelial mucous cell . they should be distinguished from a variety of pulmonary neoplasms including bronchoalveolar carcinoma , bronchial mucous gland adenoma , mucoepidermoid carcinoma , and metastatic adenocarcinoma . 
pulmonary arteriolar muscularization in coal workers ' pneumoconiosis and its correlation with right ventricular hypertrophy . the relationship between the thickness of the walls of small pulmonary arteries ( the medial wall thickness as a percentage of external diameter , percentage of medial thickness ) in coal miners and control subjects were studied using morphometric techniques and correlated with the degree of right ventricular hypertrophy , severity of coal workers ' pneumoconiosis , emphysema , and other chronic lung diseases . pulmonary arteries less than 100 microns in external diameter were identified and the external diameter , medial thickness , and intimal thickness were quantitatively measured in the lung tissues of 57 coal miners and 15 control subjects with and without other chronic lung diseases . coal workers ' pneumoconiosis , emphysema , and right ventricular hypertrophy were assessed uniformly in all cases . the arterial wall thickness correlated with right ventricular hypertrophy , progressive massive fibrosis , and other chronic lung diseases . severity of emphysema also showed a weak correlation . although the functional significance of these findings is not known , we conclude that the muscularization of pulmonary arterioles provides a structural basis for the development of right ventricular hypertrophy in coal miners . 
pulmonary blastoma with malignant melanoma component . pulmonary blastomas are rare primary tumors that consist of tubular or glandular structures embedded in an undifferentiated mesenchymal stroma . focal cartilage , bone , and skeletal muscle as well as squamous differentiation have been described in these tumors . we report a unique case of a pulmonary blastoma showing a malignant melanoma component . immunohistochemical stains for s100 protein and hmb-45 were positive in the areas of melanocytic differentiation . 
strapless oral-nasal interface for positive-pressure ventilation . a custom-fabricated strapless oral-nasal interface ( soni ) is described . it was used in the long-term administration of intermittent positive-pressure ventilation ( ippv ) by 18 patients with paralytic or restrictive pulmonary insufficiency . this interface is an acrylic shell which is firmly fixed to an orthodontic bite plate ; it is designed to form a seal over the nose and mouth for the entry of ippv . eight patients were ventilator dependent 24 hours a day . the ten patients who required only nocturnal aid had improvement in daytime arterial blood gases . although nine of these patients could manage less than 15 minutes of unassisted breathing ( free time ) supine , all slept supine on soni ippv . the 13 patients who underwent sleep monitoring maintained a mean oxygen saturation of 95.3 % + / - 1.7 % and acceptable end-tidal pco2 ( 30 to 45 mmhg ) . these 13 patients have used soni ippv for an average of 22 months ( range = 3 to 63 months ) . impediments to successful long-term use of a soni include the presence of a hyperactive gag reflex or stimulation of excessive oral secretions . when combined with mouth ippv , glossopharyngeal breathing , the intermittent abdominal pressure ventilator , or the cuirass ventilator for daytime use , soni ippv is an option for the patient who prefers total ventilatory support by noninvasive means . 
selection factors resulting in improved survival after surgical resection of tumors metastatic to the lungs . from 1973 through 1987 , a total of 140 patients underwent 184 operations for removal of metastatic tumors to the lungs . the number of lesions removed ranged form one to 30 . of the patients , 44 % had solitary lesions . overall 3-year survival was 62.6 % , and 5-year survival was 48.2 % . in all primary tumors except melanoma and breast cancer , 3-year survival was greater than 50 % and 5-year survival was greater than 40 % . with rare exceptions , the operation of choice for unilateral lesions was ipsilateral thoracotomy , and for bilateral lesions it was median sternotomy . adequate conservative resection was the rule . there were three pneumonectomies , 25 lobectomies , 71 single wedge resections , 38 multiple unilateral wedge resections , and 47 bilateral wedge resections . there were no postoperative hospital deaths . cox covariate analysis demonstrated improved survival in patients whose largest lesion was less than 1.5 cm in diameter and with disease-free interval longer than 1 year , but survival was not related to number of lesions or age of patient . an aggressive surgical approach is justified in patients with most primary tumors and a limited number of lung metastases less than 1.5 cm in diameter . resection of metastases from melanoma and breast cancer should be accomplished after other sites of metastatic disease have been ruled out by the most stringent criteria . 
metastatic carcinoma to the retina . clinicopathologic findings in two cases . two cases of metastatic carcinoma to the neuroretina are reported . one patient had an oat cell carcinoma of the lung that was metastatic to the brain and retina ; this was confirmed postmortem . the other patient had metastatic breast carcinoma with seeding of tumor cells into the vitreous from a focus of retinal embolism . the diagnosis was confirmed from a vitrectomy specimen . 
critical volume for pulmonary acid aspiration : reappraisal in a primate model . we have studied , in the monkey , the critical volume for the production of severe pneumonitis following pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents . aspiration of 0.4 ml kg-1 and 0.6 ml kg-1 at ph1 produced mild to moderate clinical and radiological changes , but no deaths . aspiration of 0.8 ml kg-1 and 1.0 ml kg-1 at ph1 was associated with an increasingly severe pneumonitis . at 1.0 ml kg-1 , 50 % of the animals died -- a mortality rate considerably less than that reported previously in animal studies . if these results were to be extrapolated to humans , the critical volume for severe aspiration could be increased from 25 ml to 50 ml ( 0.8 ml kg-1 ) , considerably reducing the percentage of patients perceived to be " at risk " . 
effect of different rates of infusion of propofol for induction of anaesthesia in elderly patients . the effect of changing the rate of infusion of propofol for induction of anaesthesia was studied in 60 elderly patients . propofol was administered at 300 , 600 or 1200 ml h-1 until loss of consciousness ( as judged by loss of verbal contact with the patient ) had been achieved . the duration of induction was significantly longer ( p less than 0.001 ) with the slower infusion rates ( 104 , 68 and 51 s ) , but the total dose used was significantly less ( p less than 0.001 ) in these patients ( 1.2 , 1.6 and 2.5 mg kg-1 , respectively ) . the decrease in systolic and diastolic arterial pressure was significantly less in the 300-ml h-1 group at the end of induction and immediately after induction ( p less than 0.01 ) . the incidence of apnoea was also significantly less in the slower infusion group . 
foam cuffed tracheal tubes : clinical and laboratory assessment . the efficiency of a foam cuffed tracheal tube has been studied in protecting the pulmonary tree from aspiration of oropharyngeal and gastric contents . following instillation of methylene blue dye above the cuff , subsequent fibreoptic bronchoscopy revealed no instance of dye staining of the tracheal mucosa . a " bench " study was undertaken subsequently to estimate the likely pressure that the cuff would exert on the tracheal mucosa as a result of elastic recoil properties of the foam . the results suggested that , under normal clinical conditions , the pressure is not likely to exceed a value at which impairment of the mucosal blood supply would occur . 
wegener 's granulomatosis presenting during first trimester of pregnancy . we describe a case of wegener 's granulomatosis in a lady who presented acutely with pulmonary haemorrhage , fever and breathlessness during her early pregnancy . she responded well to aggressive medical treatment . 
variations in urethral and bladder pressure during stress episodes in healthy women . pressure variations in the urethra and bladder during stress episodes and their time separations were investigated in 30 healthy female volunteers . the pressure was measured by means of a double microtip transducer catheter with the distal sensor in the bladder and the proximal sensor at the bladder neck , the mid-urethra and the distal urethra . in advance of the pressure spike during cough a pressure rise was demonstrated in the bladder and at all 3 sites of measurement in the urethra . the urethral pressure increments preceding and following the pressure spike were statistically significantly higher in the mid-urethra than the corresponding bladder pressures . this active urethral pressure generation in the mid-urethra and distal urethra was initiated 200 ms before the bladder pressure began to rise . the pressure in the urethral high pressure zone was higher than the bladder pressure in all cases . passive pressure transmission to the urethral high pressure zone can take place only insignificantly due to a continuous higher pressure inside the urethra than in the bladder and due to the location of the high pressure zone in the demarcation of the abdominal cavity . it was concluded that the urethral pressure rise in the high pressure zone during stress episodes is mainly generated actively by intra - and/or peri-urethral structures . 
surgery in patients on long-term steroid therapy : a tentative model for risk assessment . increased morbidity after operation has been associated with long-term steroid therapy . to determine the correlation between steroid therapy and such morbidity , the perioperative course of 55 steroid-treated patients was reviewed : 27 had bronchopulmonary disorders ( group p ) and 28 had non-pulmonary diseases ( group np ) . there were six ( 11 per cent ) deaths , of which three were steroid related . among the 13 non-lethal postoperative complications , eight were considered to be steroid related in group p and one in group np . the duration of steroid therapy was for a median of 24 months ( range 1-408 months ) in group p and for a median of 6 months ( range 1-240 months ) in group np ( p less than 0.01 ) . in contrast , the daily dose of hydrocortisone or equivalent before operation was significantly lower in group p , with a median of 0.51 mg kg-1 day-1 ( range 0.20-2 .56 mg kg-1 day-1 ) than in group np , with a median of 1.20 mg kg-1 day-1 ( range 0.23-7 .38 mg kg-1 day-1 ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . in conclusion , bronchopulmonary disorders requiring a long duration of steroid therapy are associated with a higher risk of steroid-related complications after surgery . a convenient mathematical model is proposed which may allow a preoperative assessment of surgical risk , using steroid dose and duration of treatment . 
heterogenous amplification of myc family oncogenes in small cell lung carcinoma . one hundred forty-two foci of small cell lung carcinoma ( sclc ) from 47 patients were examined for amplification of myc family oncogenes ( c-myc , n-myc , and l-myc ) , by dot blot hybridization using formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded materials which were resected surgically or obtained at autopsy . some selected patients were also examined by in situ hybridization . amplification of myc family genes was detected in 11 patients ( 23.4 % ) ( c-myc in one , n-myc in five , and l-myc in five ) . two of the 11 patients ( one with n-myc and one with l-myc ) had heterogenously amplified clones . in the patient with n-myc amplification , amplification was detected in metastatic tumors in the pancreas , lung , and pleura , but not in the liver and lymph node metastases . in the primary tumor , areas with and without n-myc amplification were seen . in the patient with l-myc amplification , although amplification was not detected in the surgically resected primary lesion , mediastinal lymph node metastatic lesions obtained at autopsy showed l-myc gene amplification . these two cases , together with previously reported evidence , suggest that myc gene amplification plays an important role in malignant progression , rather than development , of sclc . in stage iii and iv groups , patients with over ten-fold myc gene amplification were suggested to survive for a shorter time than patients without such amplification ( p = 0.06 ) . 
identification of somatostatin receptors in human small cell lung carcinoma . biopsy specimens obtained from eight patients with lung cancer were tested for content of somatostatin receptors by autoradiography . somatostatin receptors were detected in two of three patients with small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) but in none of five patients with non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) including adenocarcinoma ( two ) , squamous cell carcinoma ( two ) , and bronchoalveolar carcinoma ( one ) . in those with sclc , specific somatostatin receptor binding was evidenced only in tumor foci and not in surrounding stroma or normal lung parenchyma . further tissue characterization by immunoperoxidase staining with the pancytokeratin monoclonal antibody , mab-lu-5 , revealed labeling to all of the nsclc but to none of the sclc specimen . selective immunoreactivity was detected in both the sclc and the nsclc specimen to chromogranin and neuron-specific enolase ( nse ) whereas none of the specimen had detectable immunostaining to somatostatin , bombesin , serotonin , adrenocorticotropic hormone , neurofilament , calcitonin , and synaptophysin . the identification of somatostatin receptors in primary human lung cancer may have a bearing on the biology of this disease and perhaps on the clinical application of somatostatin analogues in patients with sclc . 
nasal lymphoma . a retrospective analysis of 60 cases . sixty cases of nasal lymphomas were reviewed . there were 42 men and 18 women . the median age was 49 years . the histologic types were low grade in four cases , intermediate grade in 33 , high grade in seven , and unclassifiable in 16 . thirteen cases had features of polymorphic reticulosis . the immunophenotype was available in 18 cases and a majority of 67 % of them were t-cell . forty-one of them ( 68 % ) had clinically localized ( stage i and ii ) disease which often spread locally to neighboring tissues and they presented predominantly with nasal symptoms . nasal lymphoma appeared to carry a poor prognosis . although our patients with clinically localized disease had significantly better prognosis than those with advanced disease , the 5-year survival of stage i and ii patients was only 55 % . chemotherapy did not appear to be more effective than radiotherapy alone in preventing relapses but the patient number was too small to allow a firm conclusion to be made . patients with advanced disease had even poorer prognosis with a 5-year survival of only 17 % . innovative therapy has to be developed for these patients . 
chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome after the treatment of head and neck cancer . a case report . a 62-year-old woman who was being treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck developed a chemotherapy-related hemolytic-uremic syndrome during the second cycle of neoadjuvant chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin , bleomycin , and methotrexate . though the syndrome was suspected early , attempts at reversing the hematologic and renal abnormalities were unsuccessful . at postmortem examination , the characteristic microvascular lesions of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome were found in the kidneys . 
primary carcinoma of the upper urinary tract . effect of primary and secondary therapy on survival . the pathologic material and medical records of 76 patients with primary upper urinary tract carcinomas were reviewed to identify the role of grade and stage in predicting survival ; to determine any differences in survival between ureteral and renal pelvic carcinoma ; to understand the role of local therapy in low grade , low stage tumors ; and to establish the usefulness of adjuvant therapies in metastatic disease . kaplan-meier survival curves with cox-mantel analysis for statistical significance revealed both grade and stage to be excellent predictors of survival . no differences in survival were noted between renal pelvic and ureteral carcinomas for equivalent stage tumors . for low grade , low stage tumors , although there was an increased risk of local recurrence with local therapy , there were no differences in survival between patients treated with local therapy or radical surgery . finally , cisplatin-based chemotherapy seemed to improve survival in patients with metastatic disease . 
thromboembolism . a complication of weekly chemotherapy in the treatment of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . in a retrospective survey of 85 patients who received chemotherapy as treatment for non-hodgkin 's lymphomas , the authors found that clinically apparent thromboembolic disorders occurred in four of 11 patients receiving weekly chemotherapy , and in none of 74 patients who were treated on less intensive schedules , suggesting that intensive weekly chemotherapy is thrombogenic . the possible mechanisms of this effect are discussed . 
unusual case of pacemaker lead migration . pulmonary artery migration of pacemaker lead is rare and may result in pulmonary emboli originating from the thrombus around the infected catheter and causing multiple pulmonary infarcts . we report an unusual case of pacemaker lead migration to the right pulmonary artery with septic pulmonary embolism . while being treated with intravenous cefuroxamine , the patient had spontaneous migration of the lead to the left pulmonary artery with subsequent left pulmonary embolism . 
left ventricular ejection fraction may not be useful as an end point of thrombolytic therapy comparative trials . in the era of comparative and adjunctive trials in reperfusion therapy , the need to develop alternative end points for mortality reduction is clear . left ventricular ejection fraction , which has been commonly used as a surrogate , is problematic due to missing values , technically inadequate studies , and lack of correlation with mortality results in controlled reperfusion trials performed to date . in this paper , we present a composite clinical end point that includes , in order , severity of adverse outcome death , hemorrhagic stroke , nonhemorrhagic stroke , poor ejection fraction ( less than 30 % ) , reinfarction , heart failure , and pulmonary edema . such a composite index may be useful to detect true therapeutic benefit in reperfusion trials without necessitating greater than 20-30 ,000 patient enrollment . 
peak flow nasal patency indices and self-assessment in septoplasty . the present study evaluates the results of septoplasty monitored by the objective peak flow nasal patency indices and the subjective patient self-assessment scores of nasal obstruction . mini-wright peak flow meters were used . the peak flow nasal patency index was defined as the ratio between nasal and oral peak flow rates . uni and bi-lateral , as well as ex and in-spiratory , indices were calculated . both peak ex and in-spiratory flow nasal patency indices were significantly increased 1 and 6 months post-operatively , indicating improved nasal patency . the most marked post-operative increase of the nasal patency indices was seen for the preoperatively worst airway and the total airway . a weak significant positive correlation was found between the peak flow nasal patency indices and the patient mean self-assessment scores of the uni and bi-lateral nasal obstruction . the change of the peak flow nasal patency indices measured 6 months post-operatively correlated well with the patient overall assessment of the operative changes of the total nasal patency . the method was found quick and easy to handle in monitoring the effect of functional septoplasty and is recommended as an alternative to rhinomanometry . 
trimming of the inferior turbinates : a prospective long-term study . the aim of this study was to determine whether the initial benefits of radical trimming and anterior trimming of the inferior turbinates on nasal airflow persisted in the long term . radical trimming significantly reduced nasal resistance at 2 months following operation ( n = 12 ) ( p less than 0.005 ) . there was no significant change in nasal resistance over the next 20 months . symptom scores for nasal obstruction also showed a significant reduction ( n = 16 ) ( p less than 0.005 ) , at 2 months , and did not change significantly over the next 20 months . radical trimming of the inferior turbinates is a highly effective operation in patients with hypertrophy of the inferior turbinates with few initial complications . however , further analysis of the data revealed that up to 20 % of patients lose the initial subjective benefit of relief of nasal obstruction within 2 years of follow-up . late onset crusting occurs in some patients though this is not directly attributable to an increase in nasal airflow . this study also concludes that anterior trimming of the inferior turbinates can not be recommended as a form of treatment . 
chest infection following head and neck surgery : a pilot study . this paper reports the results of a pilot study which examined factors associated with chest infection following head and neck surgery . the overall rate of chest infection was 11 % , but was 20 % in those patients having a tracheotomy . no infection developed in patients with an intact airway . other factors which emerged as possibly important were the duration of surgery and heavy regular alcohol intake . we recommend that prophylactic antibiotics be continued for at least 48 h in patients requiring a tracheotomy as part of their head and neck surgery . this is against the trend of shorter antibiotic regimens recommended for prevention of wound infections . 
acute respiratory failure . pregnancy entails many unique physiologic changes that make the management of ards both challenging and unique . most of these women are young and in excellent health before their acute injury , and their survival should exceed that of the general population who develop ards . we advocate aggressive management of the suspected lung injury including early intubation and the institution of invasive hemodynamic monitoring . this approach ensures the most thorough assessment of the extent of the initial injury and allows rapid assessment of therapeutic maneuvers and their subsequent adjustment . our goal is to reverse the initial insult early while avoiding further iatrogenic injury . optimal management of the maternal-fetal pair requires the cooperation of an obstetrician well versed in cardiopulmonary physiology and physicians skilled in intensive care medicine . 
mechanical measures in the prophylaxis of postoperative thromboembolism in total knee arthroplasty . total knee arthroplasty patients are at high risk for deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism . prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in these patients seems mandatory . pharmacologic agents such as dextran 40 , aspirin , and warfarin are effective but may be associated with significant complications such as drug reaction , bleeding , hematoma , and hemarthrosis . heparin was not effective and was associated with significant bleeding complications . mechanical methods such as continuous passive motion and sequential pneumatic compression stockings were without complications and seemed equal to or more effective than pharmacologic agents . adding warfarin to mechanical methods did not seem to augment the antithromboembolic effect of the mechanical methods . 
does alternate-day cloprednol therapy prevent bone loss ? a longitudinal double-blind , controlled clinical study . osteoporosis is a serious side effect of systemic treatment with steroids . cloprednol , a synthetic glucocorticoid with an anti-inflammatory potency twice that of prednisone , causes less calcium and nitrogen excretion than does prednisone in equipotent doses . therefore a double-blind study was undertaken comparing the effects of alternate-day cloprednol and prednisone therapy on bone mineral density in 39 patients ( cloprendol : 13 men and 8 women aged 48.5 + / - 2.8 years ; prednisone : 9 men and 9 women aged 49.7 + / - 1.7 years ) with lung diseases . ten patients with asthma ( 9 men and 1 woman aged 37.8 + / - 3.7 years ) inhaling daily beclomethasone served as control subjects . trabecular and total bone density of the distal tibia and radius was determined quarterly during 1 year with a special-purpose computed tomographic system . initial mean trabecular bone density of the patients receiving cloprednol and prednisone was 17 % below normal . after a treatment period of 1 year , we found a loss of radial trabecular bone density ( mean + / - sem ) of 1.33 % + / - 0.49 % in the cloprednol group and 2.38 % + / - 0.69 % in the prednisone group . in postmenopausal women , prednisone but not cloprednol therapy caused significant ( p less than 0.01 ) trabecular bone loss ( 5.29 % + / - 0.99 % versus 0.70 % + / - 0.65 % ) . the control group lost 0.91 % + / - 0.79 % . loss of cortical bone was insignificant in all three groups . in post-menopausal women , 1 year of alternate-day cloprednol therapy was associated with significantly less bone loss than was prednisone therapy in equipotent dosages . 
community-acquired pneumonia : evidence of functional inactivation of alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor . quantitative and qualitative elastase inhibitory capacity ( eic ) alpha 1 proteinase inhibitor ( alpha 1 pi ) was measured in pulmonary arterial and systemic arterial blood of patients with community-acquired pneumonia ( cap ) . eleven patients with uncomplicated cap were compared with 16 patients with fulminating pneumonia requiring intensive care management . an appropriate increase in quantitative alpha 1 pi was demonstrated in all patients . a significant functional inactivation of alpha 1 pi was demonstrated in the icu-treated patients that was not apparent in the uncomplicated cap patients ( p less than .01 ) . this low eic returned to normal 4 wk after hospital discharge in all survivors . a significant ( p less than .02 ) difference in eic between the pulmonary arterial and systemic arterial blood was found in the nonsurvivors on admission , which suggests that alpha 1 pi is inactivated in the lungs of patients with fulminating cap . the present data demonstrate that alpha 1 pi is functionally inactivated in patients with fulminating cap . this low serum functional alpha 1 pi may result in proteolytic lung damage and an unfavorable outcome . 
tracheostomy in children with guillain barre syndrome during the 10-yr period beginning january 1979 , 59 infants and children with guillain barre syndrome ( gbs ) were admitted to our hospital . tracheostomies were performed in 15 patients and their records were reviewed . fourteen patients were recalled for assessment of pulmonary function and respiratory muscle strength ( rms ) . the median duration of assisted ventilation ( including endotracheal [ et ] intubation ) was 21 days and the median duration of tracheostomy was 39 days . only two patients were discharged with the tracheostomy in situ . all patients were successfully decannulated at the first attempt . no tracheostomy-related complications or symptoms were reported apart from croup in two patients . on review , lung volumes and maximal inspiratory and expiratory flows were normal . there was no evidence of tracheal stenosis or significant tracheomalacia . rms tests were normal . in this hospital , tracheostomy is a safe , well-tolerated procedure in the management of infants and children with gbs who need long-term ventilation . there were no deaths and all patients returned to their normal school or were gainfully employed after their illness , although 12 patients had mild persistent weakness of at least foot dorsiflexion . 
prevention of nosocomial lung infection in ventilated patients : use of an antimicrobial pharyngeal nonabsorbable paste . a comparative , prospective study was made of the incidence of infection in the lower airway ( purulent tracheobronchitis and pneumonia ) in long-term patients who were mechanically ventilated due to respiratory failure of noninfectious origin . twenty-eight patients were randomly allocated into a study group ( a , n = 13 ) in which a nonabsorbable paste containing 2 % tobramycin , 2 % amphotericin b , and 2 % polymyxin e was administered locally to decontaminate the oropharynx , and a control group ( b , n = 15 ) in which a paste without antibiotics was also applied to the oropharynx . we studied the effectiveness of the prophylactic technique in decontaminating the oropharynx and trachea of organisms potentially pathogenic for the respiratory system . decontamination was successful in ten of 13 patients in group a vs. one of 15 patients in group b ( p less than .001 ) . the results demonstrated a lower rate of infection in the lower respiratory tract in the study group ( three patients with tracheobronchitis and no pneumonias ) than in the control group ( three patients with tracheobronchitis and 11 with pneumonia ) , the difference between both being highly significant ( p less than .001 ) . two ( 15 % ) patients in group b developed sepsis of pulmonary origin . none of the patients on prophylactic treatment developed this complication . although the overall mortality was similar in both groups ( group a , 30 % vs. group b , 33 % ) , we believe that infection contributed to a great extent to the death of two of five patients in group b. we conclude that nosocomial pneumonia , which is a frequent complication in critically ill patients on mechanical ventilation , could be prevented by local application of nonabsorbable antibiotics to the oropharynx . 
iatrogenic illness in pediatric critical care . iatrogenic illness may be an important determinant of the need for pediatric intensive care . we prospectively evaluated consecutive admissions to a pediatric icu ( picu ) over two time periods totaling 6 months . twenty-five ( 4.6 % ) admissions were necessitated by iatrogenic illnesses . drug-induced conditions accounted for eight ( 32 % ) of the iatrogenic patients , and complications of medical-surgical acts accounted for 17 ( 68 % ) . diagnoses included six respiratory failures due to seizure medications , six chronic upper airway complications of neonatal intensive care , four posttonsillectomy and postadenoidectomy complications , two chronic postcardiac surgery complications , two cardiac catheterization complications , and five miscellaneous conditions . one ( 3.7 % ) patient with iatrogenic illness died . as a group , patients with iatrogenic illness were at a risk of dying similar to other patients . we conclude that iatrogenic illness is a significant cause of picu admission . 
high-frequency oscillation during simulated altitude exposure . ventilatory requirements using high-frequency oscillation ( hfo ) during simulated altitude exposure were investigated in control dogs and animals with oleic acid-induced lung injury . fio2 values of 0.21 and 1.0 were supplied by bias flow to the normal and injured dogs , respectively . after a control period , animals were exposed to a simulated altitude of 8,000 ft ( barometric pressure 564 torr ) , followed by a second control period at ground level . both experimental groups had similar values of paco2 at ground level and during exposure to reduced barometric pressure . the tidal volume necessary to maintain eucapnia was higher in oleic acid-injured animals compared with the control group ; cardiac output and functional residual capacity were lower . the alveolar-arterial oxygen difference was substantially larger in the oleic acid group . adequate gas exchange can be maintained with hfo during exposure to altitude provided that ventilation and inspired po2 are not reduced below normobaric levels . 
undiagnosed tuberculosis in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection we describe the clinical features of 11 patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection in whom tuberculosis was undiagnosed and untreated prior to death . most patients ( 9 of 11 ) had pulmonary complaints and 8 of 11 had roentgenographic findings suggestive of tuberculosis ( hilar or mediastinal adenopathy , pleural effusion , apical infiltrate or miliary pattern ) . despite these findings , tuberculin skin tests were not performed in any of the patients . acid-fast smears of sputum were obtained in three cases and bronchoscopy performed in only four , reflecting the low index of suspicion for tuberculosis . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was the presumptive diagnosis in nine cases but was confirmed in only one case . autopsy revealed tuberculosis as the cause of death in four patients . of the seven patients who did not undergo autopsy , disseminated tuberculosis , manifest by mycobacteremia , was the only life-threatening illness identified and probably contributed to death . increased awareness of the clinical and roentgenographic features of tuberculosis in hiv-infected patients , combined with more intensive use of acid-fast smears and tuberculin skin testing , are necessary in order to decrease mortality from this treatable complication of hiv-infection . 
pulmonary manifestations of disseminated cryptococcosis in patients with aids . forty-eight patients with disseminated cryptococcosis and aids were retrospectively studied to define the pulmonary manifestations . cryptococcus neoformans ( cn ) was first isolated from a pulmonary site in 12 patients . disseminated disease was subsequently documented in all these patients . symptoms and roentgenographic manifestations ( normal , nodular/circumscribed infiltrates , pleural effusions , lobar consolidation ) were diverse . interstitial infiltrates predicted the presence of another opportunistic lung infection besides cryptococcosis in five patients ( three untreated and two treated patients ) . infectious causes other than cryptococcosis were established by culture and clinical course in five of the ten patients who developed chest roentgenographic abnormalities during amphotericin b therapy . endobronchial abnormalities were identified in four patients at bronchoscopy . bronchoalveolar lavage ( 9/9 ) and pleural fluid ( 3/3 ) cultures were sensitive tests for detection of pulmonary involvement with cn . 
mortality from pulmonary embolism in the united states : 1962 to 1984 . to examine the effect of advances in the prevention of and therapy for pe , we reviewed mortality for pe in the united states from 1962 to 1984 . age-adjusted pe mortality increased by 67 to 100 percent between 1962 and 1974 for white and non-white men and women . from 1975 to 1984 , these rates declined by 20 to 28 percent . non-white pe mortality was greater than white pe mortality ; men had a greater risk of pe death than women . age-specific patterns ( more than 40 years of age ) of pe mortality followed those of the age-adjusted death rates , with increases noted in all groups between 1962 and 1974 and declines during the 1975-1984 period . these patterns might reflect improved ascertainment of cases and better prevention of disease . the magnitude of the rates suggests that the list of indications for prophylactic anticoagulation should be re-examined for possible expansion . 
exercise performance of polycythemic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients . effect of phlebotomies . the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of phlebotomy on the exercise tolerance and right and left ventricular ejection fraction of polycythemic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . ten patients with copd ( mean fev1 = 1.32 + / - 0.55 l ) and polycythemia ( mean hct = 62 + / - 3 percent ) were studied before and after their hematocrits had been reduced to approximately 50 percent . post-phlebotomy the maximal oxygen consumption increased from 1.09 + / - 0.34 l/min to 1.26 + / - 0.43 l/min ( p less than 0.05 ) and the maximum workload increased from 56.5 + / - 32.6 watts to 74.5 + / - 23.4 watts ( p less than 0.05 ) . the increase in the exercise tolerance appeared to be primarily due to an increased cardiac output at emax . there was no relationship between the increases in the upright exercise capacity and changes in the supine ejection fractions of the right or left ventricular either at rest or during exercise . 
quality of well-being before and after antibiotic treatment of pulmonary exacerbation in patients with cystic fibrosis . general quality of life has only recently been measured with an objective tool in patients with cystic fibrosis ( cf ) , and there have been no reported attempts to document changes in patients ' overall well-being over time , as patients deteriorate or respond to intervention . we applied the quality of well-being scale ( qwb ) in 28 patients with cf before and after a two-week course of oral ciprofloxacin used to treat pulmonary exacerbations . there were significant correlations between changes in qwb and various pulmonary function test results ; qwb vs fev1 : r = 0.4 , p less than 0.03 ; qwb vs fvc : r = 0.5 , p less than 0.01 ; and qwb vs sao2 : r = 0.4 , p less than 0.05 . thus , the qwb can track changes in general well-being in cf patients over a brief time and detect changes associated with pulmonary exacerbation and its treatment . 
subpleural mononuclear cell infiltration . significance in the differential diagnosis of pleuritis showing nonspecific histologic findings . to determine if patients who had lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion and a pleural biopsy without any specific findings could be histopathologically differentiated between those with tuberculous and nontuberculous pleuritis , we histologically re-evaluated the pleural biopsies of all patients whose pleural effusion was predominant with lymphocytes and contained no malignant cells . a total of 40 patients with a nonspecific histologic findings of pleural biopsy specimen were categorized based on their ultimate diagnosis as having tuberculous ( n = 15 ) , carcinomatous ( n = 10 ) or nontuberculous , benign pleuritis ( n = 15 ) . the pleural biopsy specimen of patients with nontuberculous , benign pleuritis frequently showed a band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate ( 10 out of 15 patients ) , while the same finding was infrequent in those with tuberculous pleuritis ( 0 out of 15 , p = 0.0001 ) and pleuritis associated with carcinoma ( three out of 10 , p = 0.082 ) . based on these results , the presence of band-like infiltration of mononuclear cells in the subpleural adipose tissue with minimal pleural inflammatory infiltrate in pleural biopsy specimens of patients with lymphocyte-rich pleural effusion suggests that the pleuritis is nontuberculous in its nature . 
bronchial cartilage alterations in lung transplantation . changes in the hyaline cartilage of the proximal bronchial tree were investigated in a group of combined heart-lung and double-lung recipients with and without ob . ossification , calcification and fibrovascular ingrowth into the normally avascular hyaline bronchial cartilage were observed in almost all patients and were independent of small or large airway inflammation . alterations in the integrity of hyaline cartilage have been produced by others in animals by ligation of the blood supply . finding similar changes in airway cartilage of all transplanted lungs argues that there is relatively poor perfusion to the proximal air-conducting passage . such a mechanism may contribute to the development of ob , bronchiectasis and a predilection for infections following pulmonary transplantation . 
hypothyroidism and pleural effusions . serous effusions have been thought to be an unusual complication of hypothyroidism and most commonly have been associated with ascites , pericardial fluid and heart failure . pleural fluid as an isolated finding in hypothyroidism is apparently rare and complete analysis of these hypothyroid-associated pleural effusions has not been described . to determine the frequency , chemical characteristics and clinical associations of hypothyroidism and pleural effusions , the medical records of 128 patients with hypothyroidism ( defined by an increased serum tsh concentration ) were reviewed . the majority of effusions in patients with hypothyroidism were due to other diseases . effusions solely due to hypothyroidism appeared to be a real entity . these effusions were borderline between exudates and transudates and showed little evidence of inflammation . 
hyperresponsiveness of the extrathoracic airway in patients with captopril-induced cough it has been suggested that cough from captopril may originate from an increased sensitivity of receptors in the extrathoracic airway ( ea ) . to explore this hypothesis , we assessed the responsiveness of ea and bronchi and the cough sensitivity to inhaled histamine in nine hypertensive patients with captopril-induced cough ( group 1 ) during treatment and one month after withdrawal of the drug treatment . nine patients who were asymptomatic while receiving captopril ( group 2 ) and nine patients receiving no current treatment ( group 3 ) served as controls . the ea responsiveness was assessed by using the maximal midinspiratory flow ( mif50 ) as an arbitrary index of ea constriction and was expressed as the histamine concentration causing a 25 percent decrease in mif50 ( pc25mif50 ) . pc15fev1 was the index of bronchial responsiveness and pccough ( dose causing five or more coughs ) was that of cough sensitivity . airway hyperresponsiveness ( ea-hr or bhr ) was diagnosed when pc25mif50 or pc15fev1 were 8 mg/ml or lower . patients with captopril-cough , as compared with controls , had significantly lower values of pc25mif50 , pc15fev1 , and pccough ; ea-hr and bhr were found , respectively , in seven and three of these patients and in none of the control subjects . in all the patients of group 1 , cough and ea-hr resolved after withdrawal of captopril treatment , while bhr persisted in one . pc25mif50 , pc15fev1 , and pccough were all significantly improved . our findings suggest that cough during captopril therapy may originate from receptors in the ea . 
the entrainment of low frequency breathing periodicity . it has been predicted by mathematical models of the respiratory control system that the delay between the lung and the respiratory controller may determine the cycle time found in periodic breathing . we examined cycle time of periodic breathing and circulation time in 11 patients known to have circulation delay due to heart failure . we did not find a significant relationship between the amount of periodic breathing and circulation delay , but found a very high correlation between circulation delay and the cycle time of periodic breathing ( r2 = 0.825 ; p = 0.0001 ) . 
bronchoalveolar lavage in liquid paraffin pneumonitis . we evaluated cells and lipids recovered in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from seven patients with liquid paraffin pneumonitis . for each patient , the balf was whitish with oil droplets on the surface . alveolar macrophages contained numerous , large vacuoles that did not react with may-grunwald-giemsa , papanicolaou , or periodic acid-schiff but were stained in black with sudan b , orange with sudan iii and red with oil red o. liquid paraffin was identified on thin layer chromatography of balf-extracted lipids as a very hydrophobic compound migrating on the solvent front as control liquid paraffin . this abnormal spot was definitely identified as liquid paraffin by infrared spectroscopy and gas liquid chromatography for the first patient . the number and percentage of ams were largely decreased in the balf of each patient , whereas the number of neutrophils , eosinophils and lymphocytes was increased . these findings suggest that this cell-mediated inflammatory response plays a role in the development of interstitial fibrosis at late stages of liquid paraffin pneumonitis . 
feasibility of intraoperative cytodiagnosis of lung cancer . of 354 thoracotomies , 114 cases involved intraoperative cytopathologic evaluation . the study included 86 men and 28 women , and 184 specimens were examined . smears were taken from the lung lesion or lymph node and the chest wall or bronchial stump by imprint or needle aspiration . intraoperative evaluations were compared with histologic findings . in 85 cases not diagnosed as malignant preoperatively , malignancy was confirmed in 97.6 percent of cases and histologic type in 71.8 percent . in the 28 cases diagnosed as malignant preoperatively , there was only one false-negative . the most important finding during thoracotomy is whether a lesion is malignant or not . the time required to obtain a pathologic diagnosis also is important . we are able to obtain the results of a cytologic diagnosis within 10 min . cytologic diagnosis of malignancy during thoractomy may be a feasible and convenient method of diagnosis , especially where malignancy is suspected . 
concentration of tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor ( tati ) in pleural effusions . we measured the concentration of tumor-associated trypsin inhibitor ( tati ) in plasma and pleural fluid of 84 patients with pleural effusions of various causes . we observed elevated ( greater than 30 micrograms/l ) tati levels in pleural fluid in 45 percent of patients with pleural effusion associated with malignant disease and in 15 percent of patients with benign disease . similar results were obtained for tati in plasma . the concentration of tati in pleural fluid closely parallelled that in plasma . in patients with renal insufficiency and in patients with biliary obstruction , the tati levels were elevated both in plasma and pleural fluid . a positive correlation was seen between the concentration of tati and the activity of alkaline phosphatase in plasma . the results show that simultaneous determination of tati in plasma and pleural fluid improves the diagnosis of cancer only marginally . our results also support the hypothesis that elevated tati levels may reflect an acute phase reaction caused by inflammatory disease or tissue destruction associated with cancer not only in inflammatory conditions , but also in malignant disease where the tumor itself is not producing tati . 
neural respiratory drive and neuromuscular coupling in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) . in 15 spontaneously breathing patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) divided into two groups , one with normocapnia ( a ) and one with chronic hypercapnia ( b ) , we evaluated the maximal voluntary inspiratory muscle strength ( mip ) , the pattern of breathing , the mouth occlusion pressure ( po .1 ) , the neural respiratory drive ( nrd ) , assessed by surface electromyographic ( emg ) activity of the diaphragm ( emgd ) and emg activity of intercostal muscles ( emgint ) , and the chest wall neuromuscular coupling , assessed in terms of po .1 / emgd ratio . compared with an age-matched normal control group , both a and b groups exhibited lower mip , significantly greater emgd and emgint , and lower po .1 / emgd ratio . however , a similar pattern , along with a rapid and shallow breathing , differentiated group b from group a. in group b we found a significant direct relationship between po .1 / emgd ratio and mip , and an inverse relationship between paco2 and po .1 / emgd ratio . these data seem to indicate the following : ( 1 ) emg is a more precise method than po .1 in assessing the magnitude of the nrd ; ( 2 ) nrd is increased in these patients ; and ( 3 ) clinical manifestations probably associated with inspiratory muscle fatigue ( marked decrease in muscle strength , rapid and shallow breathing , and alveolar hypoventilation ) may be accompanied by a greater nrd and a more marked derangement in chest wall neuromuscular coupling in copd . 
determinants of cell type in patients with cancer of the lungs . in order to evaluate the determinants of cell type in patients with primary lung cancer , we compared smoking characteristics in 1,939 patients ( 1,474 men and 465 women ) . patients with squamous cell carcinomas , adenocarcinomas , or small-cell carcinomas were eligible . this study did not consider smoking as a risk factor for lung cancer , as all subjects had a confirmed diagnosis . we were interested in smoking history and the pattern of smoking among those whose risk was 100 percent . among these patients , we confirmed that a larger subset of nonsmoking individuals developed adenocarcinomas than squamous cell or small-cell carcinomas ; however , the duration and intensity of cigarette smoking , as measured by pack-years , were not determinants of tumor cell type in male patients . small-cell carcinomas in women were more strongly associated with cigarette smoking than either squamous cell carcinomas or adenocarcinomas . more than 3,500 different substances have been measured in tobacco smoke , including tumor initiators , promoters , and those involved in tumor progression . these data confirm the hypothesis that factors other than cigarette smoking are more likely to be involved in the initiation of adenocarcinomas than other cell types . endogenous and exogenous factors related to gender may be more important than the duration or intensity of cigarette smoking . 
real and pseudo late asthmatic reactions after submaximal exercise challenge in patients with bronchial asthma . a new definition for late asthmatic responses after exercise challenge . the late asthmatic reaction after exercise challenge remains a controversial issue . in this study , 21 patients recorded peak expiratory flow rate ( pefr ) on two control days without performing exercise . there was no difference between both control days when pefr at 1 h was compared with baseline pefr and when pefr at 4 to 13 hours was compared with baseline pefr . after analyzing variation coefficients of baseline pefr on a control day and exercise day , pefr was not allowed to differ more than 15.3 percent in the same patient when comparing exercise day and control day for the late fall in pefr in the study . in 17 of 81 patients , a late asthmatic reaction after exercise challenge was present when pefr fall was greater than or equal to 20 percent compared with baseline pefr value . in eight of the 17 patients , a real late asthmatic reaction to exercise challenge was present with a pefr fall greater than or equal to 20 percent on at least three successive time points and who had a pefr fall greater than or equal to 20 percent compared with corresponding clocktime on a control day . the late asthmatic reaction to exercise challenge is characterized not as a nonspecific epiphenomenon , but as a fall in pefr of greater than or equal to 20 percent compared with baseline pefr value and with corresponding clocktime on a control day on at least three successive time points . graphic illustration of airway responses following exercises may facilitate the detection of a late asthmatic response . 
permeability pulmonary edema following lung resection . the etiology of edema associated with pulmonary resection was investigated in five patients during the immediate postoperative period . three patients received pneumonectomy while two patients had one lobe resected . all patients suffered from severe respiratory distress and had x-ray evidence of diffuse interstitial pulmonary edema within 12 hours of surgery . hemodynamic data were obtained with radial and pulmonary artery catheters . edema fluid was obtained along with blood samples for simultaneous determination of protein and albumin content . all patients studied had normal or high cardiac output , normal cardiac filling pressures , and edema fluid protein to serum protein ratio of 0.6 or greater suggestive of permeability changes contributing to edema fluid accumulation . calculated shunt fraction exceeded 25 percent in all patients . pulmonary edema has been noted in patients following pulmonary resection in the early postoperative period . in patients reviewed here , two factors appeared to be significant . first is an increase in pulmonary capillary pressure associated with passage of a normal to high cardiac output in a reduced volume pulmonary vascular bed . the second factor , as demonstrated by protein content in the edema fluid , is injury to the alveolar capillary membrane . 
hemoptysis in a 49-year-old man . an unusual presentation of a sporadic disease . although amebiasis is prevalent in tropical and subtropical areas , it occurs sporadically in the united states . pleuropulmonary involvement is seen in about 20 percent of the patients with amebic liver abscesses . we describe a patient with pleuropulmonary amebiasis who complained of hemoptysis but had no gastrointestinal symptoms . this rather unusual presentation caused a considerable delay in securing the diagnosis . 
rounded atelectasis complicated by obstructive pneumonia and pulmonary arterial thrombosis [ published erratum appears in chest 1991 jun ; 99 ( 6 ) :1556 ] a patient with a history of asbestos exposure developed rounded atelectasis . the mass was associated with local bronchial obstruction , obstructive pneumonia and arterial thrombosis . autopsy demonstrated marked pleural thickening and radiographically inapparent asbestosis . this is the first reported case in which seemingly benign rounded atelectasis not only increased morbidity , but also contributed to mortality through airway obstruction and local arterial thrombosis . 
dialysis-induced respiratory acidosis . the inability to increase alveolar ventilation can lead to co2 retention and acute respiratory acidosis in patients with ventilatory limitation . in this case , a young woman receiving maximum ventilatory support was unable to excrete excess co2 , associated with increasing dianeal concentrations of peritoneal dialysis . since the patient 's lung disease had necessitated a large amount of ventilatory support , the patient was unable to increase ve appropriately to handle excess co2 . peritoneal dialysate was an additional source of carbohydrates . peritoneal dialysate is an additional carbohydrate source that may result in hypercapnia and respiratory acidosis in patients with respiratory compromise . to our knowledge , this is the first case report in an adult which demonstrates that peritoneal dialysis with high glucose loads produced an acute respiratory acidosis that was reversed by decreasing the glucose concentrations in the dialysate . excess co2 production should be considered with respiratory disorders associated with dialysis . 
occult fatal pulmonary embolism with disseminated intravascular coagulation . an unusual case masquerading as miliary tuberculosis . we report a fatal case of occult pulmonary embolism complicating bronchogenic carcinoma which presented with rapidly progressive pulmonary miliary shadows and respiratory failure . a clotting profile abnormality compatible with disseminated intravascular coagulation was noted . postmortem examination showed extensive clots occluding the major pulmonary vessels and areas of pulmonary infarcts . histologic examination revealed fibrin deposition in the microvasculature compatible with dic . cases of pulmonary embolism with dic have previously been reported , but this is the first case with pathologic confirmation . thus , unusual presentation with diffuse lung shadow and dic should not deter the clinician from correct diagnosis so that appropriate treatment can be promptly started . 
pulmonary malignant angioendotheliomatosis . presentation with fever and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone . a 64-year-old man presented with protracted fever , hyponatremia , and mononeuritis multiplex . inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion was established . the absence of pulmonary infiltrates precluded any lung biopsy . autopsy revealed malignant angioendotheliomatosis involving multiple organs including the alveolar septa and pulmonary vasculature . an early diagnosis of mae in the setting of fever and siadh may be possible via transbronchial biopsy . 
utility of angiograms in patients with catamenial hemoptysis . pulmonary endometriosis is the likely cause in patients with hemoptysis during menses . while we describe two cases of catamenial hemoptysis , which were localized with chest ct scanning , angiograms revealed normal appearance . we suggest that angiograms may have little value in the evaluation of patients with pulmonary endometriosis . 
kyphoscoliosis and respiratory failure . a patient treated with assisted ventilation for 27 years . a 62-year-old woman had had kyphoscoliosis since age 12 years . respiratory failure developed at age 35 years following a respiratory infection . a tracheostomy was done and she required assisted ventilation using a respiratory ( bird ) . many attempts at weaning her from the ventilator were unsuccessful . she has remained dependent on assisted ventilation for more than 27 years but has had a relatively comfortable and meaningful life . in 1983 , a left pleuroscopy was done related to recurrent pneumothorax and numerous small bullae were seen on the lung surface . recent investigation using computed tomographic scanning has shown patchy areas of emphysema in both lungs . emphysema is not a feature of kyphoscoliosis and it is suggested that intermittent positive pressure applied to the lung over long duration may cause the lung destruction of emphysema . 
use of nd : yag laser in endobronchial kaposi 's sarcoma . an unusual case of endobronchial kaposi 's sarcoma causing right middle and lower lobe atelectasis is reported . the lesion was successfully removed with nd-yag laser photoresection . 
the malignancy-sarcoidosis syndrome . in a retrospective review of six patients with malignancy preceding sarcoidosis , we found four cases of malignant lymphoproliferative disease ( ld ) and one case each of ovarian cancer and breast cancer . the median interval from onset or relapse of malignancy to sarcoidosis was nine months . of the four patients with ld , sarcoidosis appeared within six months of termination of chemotherapy for three of the patients and 15 months after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for the fourth patient . at the time of diagnosis of sarcoidosis , there was no clinical or pathologic evidence of malignancy in the chest . we conclude that in contradistinction to the previously described syndrome of sarcoidosis preceding ld , there exists a syndrome of sarcoidosis following malignancy with or without chemotherapy . 
septic pulmonary emboli . a rare cause of bilateral pneumothorax in drug abusers . an intravenous drug abuser presented with bilateral pneumothorax . this is a previously unreported ( to our knowledge ) complication of septic pulmonary emboli secondary to right-sided endocarditis . this possibility must be considered in the differential diagnosis of pneumothorax in drug addicts . 
retroperitoneal air after routine hemorrhoidectomy . report of a case . retroperitoneal air as a complication after routine hemorrhoidectomy has not been reported in the literature . this occurred recently after hemorrhoidectomy in a 34-year-old patient receiving glucocorticoid therapy for rheumatoid arthritis . adverse steroidal effects of wound healing have been well documented . it is believed that steroid-induced tissue changes contributed to the development of this unique complication . 
a randomized controlled evaluation of a psychosocial intervention in adults with chronic lung disease . the effect of a stress management program on morbidity and psychosocial and physical function in patients with chronic lung disease was assessed . adults attending either a va pulmonary clinic or university hospital pulmonary rehabilitation clinic who met criteria for obstructive or restrictive pulmonary disease were randomly assigned to receive the intervention or to a control group . the intervention was provided by a nurse and included one to three teaching sessions , reading material , audiotapes , and telephone follow-up . the program focused on stress management techniques such as cognitive restructuring , progressive relaxation , breathing exercises , and visual imagery . the 45 experimental subjects were similar to the 49 controls with respect to baseline characteristics . experimental and control subjects had similar rates of mortality , hospital days , bed-disability days , restricted-activity days , and physician visits during the 12-month follow-up . there were no differences between the two groups in physical or psychosocial function at six months or in levels of stressful life changes , social supports , and self-esteem at six and 12 months . intervention recipients had better function at 12 months , suggesting a possible benefit of the intervention . 
effects of supplemental oxygen administration in an infant with pulmonary artery hypertension . in patients with pulmonary disease , pulmonary artery hypertension often occurs as a result of pulmonary artery vasoconstriction , primarily from hypoxia and alveolar hypotension . in this report we describe the hemodynamic effects of breathing supplemental oxygen in a child with bronchopulmonary dysplasia and pulmonary artery hypertension . these hemodynamic effects include an improvement in oxygenation , an increase in systemic vascular resistance , and a decrease in the pulmonary vascular resistance . as a direct result of these changes in vascular resistances , alterations of heart rate , cardiac index , stroke volume , aortic pressure , oxygen consumption , and pulmonary artery pressure have been shown to occur . oxygen is widely used to treat many physiologic conditions . however , during the administration of supplemental oxygen , rarely do we recognize the hemodynamic changes associated with its use . these hemodynamic effects must be clearly understood and appreciated before oxygen administration in any clinical situation . 
trapped-lung syndrome after cardiac surgery : a potentially preventable complication of pleural injury . a case of trapped-lung syndrome after coronary artery bypass grafting ( cabg ) is presented . a significant pleural injury occurred during the bypass operation resulting in intrapleural hemorrhage , pleural fibrosis , and trapped-lung syndrome . the physicians caring for the patient when she was first seen with the trapped-lung syndrome were unaware of the potential relationship between the two prior bypass surgeries to this pulmonary complication . recognition of the potential for pleural injury to occur after cardiac operations is important and may allow for earlier diagnosis and institution of appropriate therapeutic interventions . early recognition and treatment with pleural fluid drainage and reexpansion of the collapsed lung may help prevent this potentially serious pleuropulmonary complication from occurring . in addition , the presentation of this pleuropulmonary complication may be delayed after the cardiac surgery , making early diagnosis more problematic . 
hydraulic conductivity of canine parietal pleura in vivo . the hydraulic conductivity ( lp ) of the parietal pleura was measured in vivo in spontaneously breathing anesthetized dogs in either the supine ( n = 8 ) or the prone ( n = 7 ) position and in an excised portion of the chest wall in which the pleura and its adjacent tissue were intact ( n = 3 ) . a capsule was glued to the exposed parietal pleura after the intercostal muscles were removed . the capsule was filled with either autologous plasma or isotonic saline . transpleural fluid flow ( v ) was measured at several transpleural hydrostatic pressures ( delta p ) from the rate of meniscus movement within a graduated pipette connected to the capsule . delta p was defined as the measured difference between capsule and pleural liquid pressures . the lp of the parietal pleura was calculated from the slope of the line relating v to delta p by use of linear regression analysis . lp in vivo averaged 1.36 x 10 ( -3 ) + / - 0.45 x 10 ( -3 ) ( sd ) ml.h-1 . cmh2o-1 . cm-2 , regardless of whether the capsule was filled with plasma or saline and irrespective of body position . this value was not significantly different from that measured in the excised chest wall preparation ( 1.43 x 10 ( -3 ) + / - 1.1 x 10 ( -3 ) ml.h-1 . cmh2o-1 . cm-2 ) . the parietal pleura offers little resistance to transpleural protein movement , because there was no observed difference between plasma and saline . we conclude that because the lp for intact parietal pleura and extrapleural interstitium is approximately 100 times smaller than that previously measured in isolated stripped pleural preparations , removal of parietal pleural results in a damaged preparation . 
lung overexpansion increases pulmonary microvascular protein permeability in young lambs . to study the effects of inflation pressure and tidal volume ( vt ) on protein permeability in the neonatal pulmonary microcirculation , we measured lung vascular pressures , blood flow , lymph flow ( ql ) , and concentrations of protein in lymph ( l ) and plasma ( p ) of 22 chronically catheterized lambs that received mechanical ventilation at various peak inflation pressures ( pip ) and vt . nine lambs were ventilated initially with a pip of 19 + / - 1 cmh2o and a vt of 10 + / - 1 ml/kg for 2-4 h ( base line ) , after which we overexpanded their lungs with a pip of 58 + / - 3 cmh2o and a vt of 48 + / - 4 ml/kg for 4-8 h. ql increased from 2.1 + / - 0.4 to 13.9 + / - 5.0 ml/h . l/p did not change , but the ratio of albumin to globulin in lymph relative to the same ratio in plasma decreased , indicating altered protein sieving in the pulmonary microcirculation . seven other lambs were mechanically ventilated for 2-4 h at a pip of 34 + / - 1 cmh2o and a vt of 23 + / - 2 ml/kg ( base line ) , after which their chest and abdomen were bound so that pip increased to 54 + / - 1 cmh2o for 4-6 h without a change in vt . ql decreased on average from 2.8 + / - 0.6 to 1.9 + / - 0.3 ml/h ( p = 0.08 ) , and l/p was unchanged . 
late-phase bronchial vascular responses in allergic sheep . sheep were classified on the basis of their airway response to ascaris suum antigen aerosols as allergic or nonsensitive . allergic sheep were classed as acute or dual responders . acute responders had only an immediate increase in mean airflow resistance after antigen , whereas dual responders had an immediate and late-phase ( 6-8 h after antigen challenge ) increase in mean airflow resistance ; nonsensitive sheep had minimal airway responses to antigen ( less than 30 % increase from base line ) . the sheep were anesthetized 2 wk later and , after a left thoracotomy , were challenged with antigen to determine bronchial vascular responses ; bronchial artery blood flow was measured with an electromagnetic flow probe . airway responses to antigen aerosol challenge were similar in the anesthetized and conscious animals . the mean fall in bronchial vascular resistance ( bvr ) immediately after antigen challenge was similar in acute and dual responders ( 41 + / - 7 and 47 + / - 9 % of base line , respectively ) . in dual responders , late-phase airway responses were preceded by a significant increase from base line in qbr and a fall in bronchovascular resistance ( bvr ) . the mean fall in bvr 6-8 h after antigen challenge in documented dual responders was significantly different from bronchial vascular responses in acute responders ( 59 + / - 3 vs. 89 + / - 10 % , respectively ) . sheep without airway responses to a. suum had no significant changes in bronchial hemodynamics or airways mechanics . late-phase-associated changes in bvr are a specific response to antigen challenge and may be a sensitive index of mediators being released . 
urinary n tau-methylimidazole acetic acid excretion in respiratory disease . n tau-methylimidazole acetic acid ( n tau-miaa ) is the principal urinary metabolite of histamine . the basal urinary excretion rate of n tau-miaa was determined as 0.117 + / - 0.008 ( se ) mg/h , with a renal clearance for n tau-miaa of 273 + / - 27 ml/min implying active secretion . after subpharmacological infusion of histamine ( 50 ng.kg-1 . min-1 over 2 h ) in five volunteers that increased plasma histamine from 0.28 + / - 0.04 to 0.71 + / - 0.15 ng/ml , urinary excretion of n tau-miaa over 8 h was increased by less than 17 % compared with a control saline infusion . urinary n tau-miaa excretion in normal controls ( 273 + / - 14 micrograms/mmol creatinine ) was similar to that observed in patients with severe acute asthma ( 253 + / - 22 micrograms/mmol ) , antigen-induced bronchoconstriction ( 269 + / - 21 micrograms/mmol ) , seasonal allergic rhinitis ( 304 + / - 31 micrograms/mmol ) , and clinically stable bronchiectasis ( 270 + / - 22 micrograms/mmol ) . in contrast , large increases in metabolite excretion ( greater than 7,000 micrograms/mmol creatinine ) were observed in a patient with systemic mastocytosis where very high plasma histamine levels were recorded ( greater than 500 ng/ml ) and marked systemic hemodynamic effects occurred . we conclude that urinary n tau-miaa will only be increased in pathologies where sustained hyperhistaminemia occurs and that increased local histamine production in the lung or the upper airway does not cause a measurable change in the basal urinary excretion of this metabolite . 
an unusual late complication following surgical repair of tetralogy of fallot . a case is presented of extrusion of right ventricular outflow tract patch material through a mediastino-cutaneous fistula occurring five years after repair of tetralogy of fallot . the focus of the mediastinal infection was an infected epicardial pacemaker electrode placed at the time of initial surgery . subsequent echocardiographic studies showed minimal right ventricular outflow tract or pulmonary arterial dilatation , and , with no further surgery , the child is well after two and a half years follow-up . 
parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic human endocrine tissues . pth-like peptide ( plp ) is produced by tumors commonly associated with hypercalcemia as well as nonneoplastic tissues and several endocrine glands and tumors . to characterize the distribution of plp in human endocrine tissues and tumors , we localized plp in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique with polyclonal antisera . among peptide hormone-producing tissues , plp was identified in nontumorous adenohypophysis and pituitary adenomas ; medullary thyroid carcinomas ; normal , hyperplastic , and adenomatous parathyroids ; adrenal medulla and pheochromocytomas ; normal pancreatic islets ; and endocrine tumors of pancreas , gut , and lung , including small cell carcinomas . in other endocrine tissues plp was identified in nontumorous thyroid follicular epithelium , colloid nodules , and follicular neoplasms ; normal adrenal cortex , adrenocortical adenomas , and carcinomas ; nontumorous testicular leydig cells ; normal ovarian granulosa and thecal cells ; an ovarian thecoma and a granulosa cell tumor ; placental trophoblast ; and decidua . these results demonstrate that plp is localized in many normal and neoplastic endocrine cells , including those not known to influence extracellular calcium homeostasis . the presence of plp in a variety of endocrine tissues suggests that it may play a local physiological role in the growth or function of endocrine cells . 
thyroiditis as the presenting manifestation of disseminated extrapulmonary pneumocystis carinii infection . a 38-yr-old male with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome developed neck pain in association with mild hyperthyroidism and a diffusely enlarged thyroid gland . radioactive iodine scanning was consistent with thyroiditis , and biopsy of the thyroid demonstrated the presence of pneumocystis carinii in thyroid tissue . treatment with pentamidine followed by trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole led to rapid normalization of thyroid size in association with the development of hypothyroidism . this case illustrates the natural history of pneumocystis carinii thyroiditis and suggests that thyroid disease be added to the spectrum of human immunodeficiency virus-associated endocrine dysfunction . 
importance of sampling method in dna analysis of lung cancer . lung carcinomas are characterised by considerable histological variation within the tumour . the possible effects of this morphological heterogeneity on the estimation of tumour ploidy were investigated . multiple tissue blocks were systematically taken from 20 lung tumours and analysed by flow cytometry . the routine , archival paraffin wax embedded diagnostic blocks from these cases were also analysed . nineteen ( 95 % ) of the tumours were shown to contain aneuploid stemlines by systematic sampling , but if only one of these systematic tissue blocks had been taken from each case the incidence of dna aneuploidy could have been as low as 45 % . only 15 ( 75 % ) tumours were aneuploid when all the routine archival blocks were analysed , but by specifically selecting tumour areas from the archival material the accuracy of this method was increased to 90 % . it is concluded that tumour sampling methods are of primary importance in assessing the dna content of lung tumours . routine paraffin wax embedded archival tissue provides a suitable source of material for this purpose , provided that " turnover " selection is carried out . 
life-threatening hemorrhage after placement of an endosseous implant : report of case this article reports an unusual but dangerous complication of implant surgery . minimal perforations of the lingual plate and inferior border of the mandible had been considered previously to be benign occurrences . this report demonstrates the importance of managing acute airway problems resulting from perforations . 
role of nasal allergy in chronic maxillary sinusitis -- diagnostic value of nasal challenge with allergen . the role of nasal allergy in chronic maxillary sinusitis without an air-fluid level was studied in 37 patients . seventy-three nasal provocation tests with various inhalant allergens were performed in 37 patients by means of rhinomanometry , and maxillary sinus radiographs were performed before and repeatedly after the allergen challenge . forty-one positive nasal responses ( nrs ) occurred in 29 patients ; 13 were immediate only , 18 were late only , and 10 nrs were dual responses . of these responses , 32 demonstrated radiographic changes , primarily an increase in mucosal edema and/or opacification . these responses were accompanied by increased pressure in the maxillary sinuses , acute headache , and sometimes otalgia . eight patients did not develop any nrs ; however , increased thickening of the mucosal membrane of the maxillary sinuses , accompanied by subjective symptoms , was recorded in three of these nonresponders . these results demonstrate the role of nasal allergy in some patients with chronic maxillary sinusitis , which may affect the diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to this disorder . 
a placebo-controlled trial of immunotherapy with two extracts of dermatophagoides pteronyssinus in allergic rhinitis , comparing clinical outcome with changes in antigen-specific ige , igg , and igg subclasses . a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of immunotherapy was conducted in patients with dermatophagoides pteronyssinus rhinitis . thirty patients received an extract with a high content of der p i ( pharmalgen ) , 20 received a conventional mite extract ( allpyral ) , and 30 patients received histamine chloride ( placebo ) . specific igg and subclasses were measured before and after 3 and 12 months of treatment by ria and/or elisa , and specific ige by rast . clinical outcome was assessed by skin prick tests , nasal challenge , visual analogue , and diary-card symptom and drug scores ; from these findings , a clinical index was derived . an igg response occurred only in the pharmalgen-treated group : d. pter igg and igg1 increased by 3 months ( p less than 0.05 ) and then plateaued to 12 months ( p less than 0.05 ) . igg4 levels increased throughout treatment ( p less than 0.05 and p less than 0.01 ) , as did the igg/ige ratio . a subclass switch from igg1 to igg4 occurred . d. pter ige rose at 3 months ( p less than 0.05 ) . clinical improvement occurred at 3 and 12 months in the pharmalgen-treated group only . pretreatment levels of ige , igg1 , or igg4 did not predict clinical outcome . our findings are compatible with the hypothesis that igg subclasses may modulate antigen-ige interactions , although the antibody response to this potent extract need not be causally related to improvement . 
different prevalence and degree of nonspecific bronchial hyperreactivity between seasonal and perennial rhinitis . from the patients observed at our respiratory allergology service , we selected patients with rhinitis only , without any past or present respiratory symptoms , for our study . all these patients had normal pulmonary function , were administered carbachol or methacholine bronchial challenges , and had one or more skin reactions to perennial or seasonal allergens . patients were allocated to three groups : group a , patients with seasonal rhinitis who were administered nonspecific challenges out of season ; group b , patients with seasonal rhinitis tested during the season ; and group c , patients with perennial rhinitis . the three groups were divided into subgroups according to the duration in years of rhinitis and to the degree of nonspecific bronchial responsiveness . the distribution into four groups of reactivity , arbitrarily defined as normal and mildly , moderately , and severely increased reactivity , was as follows : group a , 124 , 21 , 30 , 22 ; group b , 75 , 15 , 7 , and 21 : and group c , 69 , 17 , 39 , and 72 , respectively . the patients of group c ( perennial rhinitis ) demonstrated a distribution significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) different from subjects with seasonal rhinitis , both group a and group b. our results are consistent with the hypothesis that perennial rhinitis is much more important than seasonal rhinitis as a risk factor for developing nonspecific bronchial hyperresponsiveness . 
neuropeptides and nasal secretion . recent research has disclosed that neurotransmitters and neuropeptides released within the autonomic nervous system exert homeostatic control of nasal secretion . although cholinergic and adrenergic influences have long been thought to be the predominant mechanisms , the nonadrenergic , noncholinergic responses may have more suitable , longer-lasting effects . peptides from sensory nerves , such as calcitonin gene related peptide , substance p , and neurokinin a , may participate in axon response-mediated vasodilation and plasma extravasation . substance p and gastrin releasing peptide may induce glandular secretion . defensive responses to local mucosal injury may be amplified by axon response , which initiates these vascular and glandular reactions . cholinergic effects are primarily responsible for mediating parasympathetic reflexes , but vasoactive intestinal peptide may regulate acetylcholine release , augment glandular secretory responses , and have a vasodilatory effect . in the sympathetic nervous system , neuropeptide y probably functions as a long-acting vasoconstrictor . integration of sympathetic and parasympathetic influence may regulate the normal nasal cycle , and sensory and parasympathetic defensive reflexes may respond to epithelial and mast cell stimulation . it is possible , then , that the pathophysiology of vasomotor rhinitis involves an exaggeration of these neural influences . 
the role of histamine in allergic rhinitis . studies using nasal provocation followed by nasal lavage have demonstrated that histamine plays an important role in the mediation of allergic rhinitis but not of rhinovirus infection . the response to antigen challenge is often biphasic . during the early response , increases in histamine levels appear to be associated with activation of mast cells . in a subset of persons who exhibit an additional late response , however , the rise in histamine is concomitant with an increase in the number of basophils . further evidence of the role of histamine in allergic rhinitis has emerged from nasal provocation experiments involving pretreatment with a variety of drugs known to antagonize or affect release of histamine . nasal provocation with histamine causes sneezing , itching , rhinorrhea , and nasal congestion . most h1 antihistamines have been found to inhibit sneezing and to lessen the increase in vascular permeability , but they do not affect histamine release . the h1 antihistamine terfenadine , however , inhibits histamine release during the early response ; effects on late response remain unknown . prednisone decreases histamine levels during the late , but not the early , response . one-week pretreatment with topical steroids , on the other hand , affects both the early and the late response . 
platelet-activating factor - and leukotriene b4-induced release of lactoferrin from blood neutrophils of atopic and nonatopic individuals . we found increased accumulation of neutrophils and their components , lactoferrin ( lf ) and elastase , as well as platelet-activating factor ( paf ) and leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) at sites of ongoing human allergic reactions . to determine whether paf or ltb4 , could be the stimulus for in vivo lf release , blood neutrophils of 17 subjects were incubated with paf , ltb4 , or the phorbol ester , phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) , and the released lf ( elisa assay ) was compared with spontaneous release . significantly increased lf release was induced by paf , 10 ( -5 ) to 10 ( -8 ) mol/l ( p less than 0.002 ) ; ltb4 , 10 ( -7 ) to 10 ( -8 ) mol/l ( p less than 0.004 ) ; and pma ( 0.05 micrograms/ml ) in a dose-dependent reaction . cytochalasin was not required for lf secretion but did enhance such responses . paf-induced lf secretion was inhibited by the specific paf antagonist , bn 52063 . more lf was released from neutrophils of atopic than from nonatopic subjects in response to paf , 10 ( -6 ) mol/l ( 4.2 micrograms/ml + / - 0.2 versus 2.6 micrograms/ml + / - 0.2 ; p less than 0.001 ) but not to ltb4 , pma , or buffer ( p , not significant ) . we conclude that ( 1 ) paf and ltb4 released in vivo could stimulate local neutrophils to release lf with possible pathogenic effects and ( 2 ) neutrophils of atopic subjects are more responsive to paf than neutrophils of nonatopic subjects in this regard . 
immediate skin test reactivity to food and drug administration-approved standardized extracts . in an effort to determine whether recently introduced food and drug administration-approved standardized extracts produce clinically appropriate responses in a population , 200 subjects were skin prick tested ( spt ) . thirteen extracts ( 10 pollens , two house dust ( hd ) mites and cat ) were tested in three groups of subjects , 50 with a history of asthma or allergic rhinitis ( al ) , 50 without asthma or perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis but with a positive immediate family history for these conditions ( fal ) , and 100 subjects without a personal or family history for these conditions ( nal ) . an spt mean wheal diameter greater than or equal to 3 mm was considered positive . ninety percent ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 82 % to 98 % ) of al subjects had at least one positive spt . forty-six percent of fal subjects ( 95 % ci , 30 % to 58 % ) and 29 % of nal subjects ( 95 % ci , 20 % to 38 % ) had at least one positive spt . more fal than nal subjects had at least one spt ( p less than 0.05 ) , and fal subjects had more positive spts than nal subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) , further supporting the genetic regulation of allergen-specific ige production . of the five al subjects with no spt wheal greater than or equal to 3 mm , three subjects were available for intradermal tests . thirteen nonstandardized allergens similar to allergens used for spt were applied intradermally in each of these three subjects and were all negative . compared with history , an spt wheal greater than or equal to 3 mm to cat produced a sensitivity of 0.90 , a specificity of 0.90 , and diagnostic accuracy of 0.90 . tenfold dilutions of pollens and cat reduced sensitivity without significantly improving specificity . 
increased bronchial hyperresponsiveness after inhaling salbutamol during 1 year is not caused by subsensitization to salbutamol . recently , it was suggested that long-term administration of an inhaled beta 2-agonist might increase bronchial hyperresponsiveness ( bhr ) to histamine , possibly as a consequence of subsensitization to the inhaled beta 2-agonist . to test this hypothesis , we studied two groups of patients with asthma or with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . an experimental group of 15 patients , inhaling 400 micrograms of salbutamol four times daily during 1 year and subsequently 40 micrograms of ipratropium bromide four times daily for 6 months , and a control group , consisting of 22 patients with the opposite treatment regimen . the bhr , the response in fev1 to cumulative doses of salbutamol , and the number of beta 2-adrenoceptors and antagonist affinity of these receptors on circulating lymphocytes were assessed at the start of the study and at 6-month intervals for 1 1/2 years . the bhr increased significantly ( p = 0.001 ) during the year salbutamol was inhaled and returned to about the value at the start of the study after inhaling ipratropium bromide for 6 months . no change occurred in the bronchodilating responses to cumulative doses of salbutamol , nor was any change observed in the number and the affinity of beta 2-adrenoceptors on lymphocytes . it was concluded that long-term use of salbutamol caused a small but significant increase in bhr . the increase in bhr was not caused by subsensitization of beta 2-adrenoceptors to salbutamol . 
measurement of histamine in nasal lavage fluid : comparison of a glass fiber-based fluorometric method with two radioimmunoassays . the determination of histamine in nasal secretions and nasal lavage fluid may be of importance to monitor activation of histamine containing cells in the nasal cavity . however , such studies have been besieged by controversy , specifically to findings of changes in histamine levels in relation to allergenic stimulation . this controversy may be due to the specificity and accuracy of the various methods used to determine histamine in the nasal fluid . we have therefore applied and compared three new methods to determine histamine in nasal lavage fluids obtained before and after allergen challenge in normal subjects and patients with allergic rhinitis . we used a fluorometric glass fiber-based histamine method ( fhr ) and two rias , i and ii . the fhr ( detection limit , 7.0 nmol ) and the ria ii ( detection limit , 0.2 nmol ) are specific for histamine itself , whereas the ria i ( detection limit , 18.0 nmol ) measures mainly methylhistamine and cross-reacts to some extent with histamine . the histamine levels in the nasal lavage fluids from the nasal challenges demonstrated histamine values between 100 and 2000 nmol/l of histamine with significantly higher levels in the postallergen challenges for the allergic subjects as compared to the normal control subjects . the fhr correlated well with the ria i and ria ii methods with correlation coefficients of 0.77 to 0.88 ( p less than 0.001 ) , respectively . however , the ria i ( methylhistamine antibody ) always demonstrated absolute histamine values 5 % to 20 % of values measured by the ria ii ( at the level of cross-reactivity to histamine ) . 
down regulation in hypersensitivity pneumonitis . levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptor ( sol-il-2r ) in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( balf ) of pigeon breeders with hypersensitivity pneumonitis were compared with balf levels in asymptomatic pigeon breeders who had been exposed to pigeon allergens for an equivalent length of time . no mean difference in sol-il-2r levels was detected when these levels were expressed per milliliter balf , epithelial lining fluid , or per t-lymphocyte . in sarcoidosis , the availability of sol-il-2r per t cell was significantly higher for the group with inactive sarcoidosis compared with the group with active sarcoidosis . the results do not support the hypothesis that down regulation , in subjects exposed to allergens causing hypersensitivity pneumonitis , is a function of cell-free sol-il-2r levels in balf . in the dynamic situation , however , the hypothesis appears tenable . 
developmental expression of plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 by human alveolar macrophages . possible role in lung injury . urokinase activity is regulated by the specific endogenous plasminogen activator inhibitors type 1 ( pai-1 ) and type 2 ( pai-2 ) . one of these inhibitors , pai-1 , has been directly implicated in connective tissue metabolism by virtue of its ability to bind extracellular matrix proteins . because the normal lung is relatively rich in urokinase and abnormalities in urokinase activity have been associated with fibrotic lung diseases , we have explored the possibility of local production of pai-1 and pai-2 in human lung . reverse transcription and subsequent amplification by the polymerase chain reaction of total lung rna revealed pai-1 mrna in each of three normal samples and in two specimens from patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) . in situ hybridizations of lung biopsy specimens from a patient with ards with crna probes to pai-1 and pai-2 indicated that alveolar macrophages express pai-1 mrna during the acute injury phase . subsequent reverse transcription and pcr amplification of normal human monocyte and alveolar macrophage mrna revealed that neither cell type expressed mrna for urokinase inhibitors . however , after 24 h stimulation with endotoxin in vitro , monocytes were strongly positive for pai-2 but negative for pai-1 mrna whereas , under the same conditions , alveolar macrophages exhibited mrna for both pai-1 and pai-2 . metabolic labeling of endotoxin-stimulated alveolar macrophages with 35s-methionine followed by immunoprecipitation with pai-1 and pai-2 antibodies revealed that macrophages synthesized both pai-1 and pai-2 . as judged by immunoprecipitation and functional studies , pai-2 was found to be the major intracellular pa inhibitor whereas pai-1 was found to predominate outside the cell . thus , mononuclear phagocytes exhibit a developmental potential for pai-1 expression . the release of pai-1 by stimulated macrophages , as observed in the setting of ards , may be one mechanism by which these cells promote connective tissue accumulation . 
a randomized controlled trial of glucocorticoid prophylaxis against experimental rhinovirus infection . the effects of combined intranasal and systemic glucocorticoid steroids on the local inflammatory response , and symptoms due to experimental rhinovirus infection were studied in 45 adults randomized to prophylaxis with either placebo or steroids . intranasal beclomethasone ( 168 micrograms twice a day ) was begun 4 days before viral challenge and continued 5 days after challenge . oral prednisone ( 30 mg twice daily ) was given for 3 days beginning 1 day before challenge . during the first 48 h after viral inoculation , nasal obstruction , nasal mucus weights , and kinin concentrations in nasal lavages were lower in steroid recipients , but subsequent increases in these variables in the steroid group resulted in no significant cumulative differences between treatment groups . these data suggest that steroid prophylaxis may suppress nasal inflammation and cold symptoms during the first 2 days in experimental rhinovirus colds . 
pneumococcal anticapsular antibodies in patients with chronic cardiovascular and obstructive lung disease in the netherlands . differences in pneumococcal anticapsular antibody concentrations were assessed among patients with various chronic disorders and among young ( 25-35 years of age ) and older adults ( 55-65 years ) . antibody concentrations were determined by elisa , using the whole 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine as antigen . no differences in mean or distribution of serum antibody concentrations were found among young adults ( either healthy or asthmatic ) or among older adults ( healthy or with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease ) . each group included individuals with low antibody levels . therefore , the enhanced susceptibility to pneumococcal infections reported for some groups at risk , that is , elderly individuals and patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary or chronic cardiovascular disease , can not be attributed solely to low anticapsular antibody concentrations . 
adverse effects of aspirin , acetaminophen , and ibuprofen on immune function , viral shedding , and clinical status in rhinovirus-infected volunteers . a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial was conducted to study the effects of over-the-counter analgesic/antipyretic medications on virus shedding , immune response , and clinical status in the common cold . sixty healthy volunteers were challenged intranasally with rhinovirus type 2 and randomized to one of four treatment arms : aspirin , acetaminophen , ibuprofen , or placebo . fifty-six volunteers were successfully infected and shed virus on at least 4 days after challenge . virus shedding , antibody levels , clinical symptoms and signs , and blood leukocyte levels were carefully monitored . use of aspirin and acetaminophen was associated with suppression of serum neutralizing antibody response ( p less than .05 vs. placebo ) and increased nasal symptoms and signs ( p less than .05 vs. placebo ) . a concomitant rise in circulating monocytes suggested that the suppression of antibody response may be mediated through drug effects on monocytes and/or mononuclear phagocytes . there were no significant differences in viral shedding among the four groups , but a trend toward longer duration of virus shedding was observed in the aspirin and acetaminophen groups . 
transmission of chlamydia pneumoniae in young children in a japanese family . chlamydia pneumoniae strain twar was isolated from the respiratory tract of a 5-year-old girl suffering from pneumonia . the igm and igg antibody titers to twar were 1:32 and 1:128 , respectively . cultures and serology for other common bacterial and viral respiratory pathogens were negative . although she was treated with 35 mg/kg/day rokitamycin , twar was repeatedly isolated after treatment . her 3-year-old sister developed acute bronchitis , and twar was isolated from her nasopharynx . she was treated with 43 mg/kg/day erythromycin with prompt improvement , and twar was not isolated after treatment . although her mother , grandmother , and 8-month-old sister suffered from respiratory illness during these periods , twar was not isolated from them . the repeated isolations from the index patient suggest that infection was transmitted from sister to sister . this case represents the first reported isolation of twar from young children in the same household and the first from japan . 
pilot trial of selective decontamination for prevention of bacterial infection in an intensive care unit . selective decontamination of the oropharynx and gastrointestinal tract with nonabsorbable antimicrobials and sucralfate , a stress ulcer prophylactic that maintains the normal gastric acid bacterial barrier , were compared for prevention of pneumonia in a cardiac surgery intensive care unit . over 8 months , 51 patients received selective decontamination and 56 received sucralfate . the selective decontamination regimen included polymyxin , gentamicin , and nystatin given as an oral paste and as a solution ; patients also received standard antacid or histamine2 blocker stress ulcer prophylaxis . patients in the selective decontamination group had significantly less colonization of the oropharynx and stomach by gram-negative bacilli ( 12 % vs. 55 % , p less than .001 ) , significantly fewer infections due to gram-negative bacilli ( 6 % vs. 20 % , p = .02 ) , and fewer infections overall ( 12 % vs. 27 % , p = .04 ) . there was one episode of pneumonia in the selective decontamination group and five in the sucralfate group . mortality and length of stay did not differ between the groups , but those receiving selective decontamination had less than one-third as many days of systemic antibiotic therapy with no increase in colonization or infection with resistant gram-negative bacilli . thus , selective decontamination appeared to reduce both extrapulmonary and pulmonary infections . 
lipid peroxidation and expression of copper-zinc and manganese superoxide dismutase in lungs of premature infants with hyaline membrane disease and bronchopulmonary dysplasia . the putative involvement of reactive oxygen species in the etiology of lung damage in infants receiving mechanical ventilation has been examined by comparing the levels of peroxidation and expression of the antioxidant enzymes , cuzn and mn superoxide dismutase , in lungs from control and affected infants as well as from fetuses and infants who died postnatally after term delivery . mean levels ( + / - sd ) of lung peroxidation , determined with a thiobarbituric acid method , were similar in affected and control premature neonates and in fetal subjects ( 1.87 + / - 1.26 , 1.92 + / - 2.07 , and 1.19 + / - 1.36 nmol/mg protein , respectively ) . expression of cuzn and mn superoxide dismutases was also similar in these subjects and in the patients who died postnatally . thus activity measurements and immunoblotting studies showed continuous expression of these enzymes throughout development with no apparent change in protein levels or size . immunohistochemical examination of lung tissue showed expression of cuzn and mn superoxide dismutases in epithelial , smooth muscle , endothelial , and some mesenchyme components . in patients with bronchopulmonary dysplasia , alveolar walls were thickened by an excess of fibrous tissue and terminal air spaces were lined mainly by type ii pneumatocytes . all structures , including abnormal fibrous components , were positive for both cuzn and mn superoxide dismutase . our data show that , unlike some experimental animals , expression of at least these antioxidant enzymes in human infants born prematurely is similar to that in adults , and indicate that such infants are better adapted for life in an oxygen-containing environment than previously suspected . 
effect of fasting on the lung glutathione redox cycle in air - and oxygen-exposed mice : beneficial effects of sugar . fasting increases susceptibility to hyperoxic lung damage in mice , at least in part , by decreasing lung glutathione level . to determine whether fasting alters other components of the glutathione redox cycle , and whether a diet of sugar alone reverses fasting 's effects , normally fed , sugar-fed , and fasted mice were exposed to room air or 100 % oxygen for up to 4 days . in air-exposed mice , fasting decreased glutathione peroxidase ( gp ) and glutathione reductase ( gr ) activities 15 % to 20 % on days 3 and 4 ( p less than 0.01 ) and glutathione level 25 % to 30 % on days 2 to 4 ( p less than 0.05 ) . when corrected for protein concentration , gp and gr values were similar to those in the fed mice , but glutathione levels remained lower on days 2 and 3 ( p less than 0.05 ) . oxidized glutathione ( gssg ) was unchanged , but the ratio of gssg to total glutathione ( reduced glutathione plus gssg ) increased on day 2 ( p less than 0.05 ) . in oxygen-exposed fed mice , gp increased 62 % and gr increased 39 % on day 4 ( p less than 0.05 ) , the time when the lung injury was most severe ; glutathione increased 30 % on days 3 and 4 ( p less than 0.05 ) ; and gssg increased threefold and eightfold on days 3 and 4 ( p less than 0.01 ) . oxygen-exposed fasted mice were all dead by day 3 ( versus no deaths in the fed mice ) , failed to increase gr and total glutathione in response to the oxidant stress , and increased gp and gssg on day 3 to the same extent as the fed mice did on day 4 . 
role of endoscopy in diagnosing scleroma in its uncommon sites . eighty cases suffering from rhinoscleroma were studied . suspected cases were examined by sinoscopy , nasopharyngoscopy and bronchoscopy for detection of secondary involvement in these sites . antroscleroma , salpingoscleroma and tracheo-bronchoscleroma have been found in a relatively high percentage of cases . the role of endoscopy in early diagnosis , initial symptomatic treatment and follow-up cases is discussed . 
smoking cessation in chronic reinke 's oedema . in evaluating the long term results of surgical treatment of reinke 's oedema , there has been found to be a high incidence of recurrence . the recurrence rate is significantly lower amongst those patients who gave up smoking after treatment . a group of patients with chronic reinke 's oedema were followed for six months . maximum efforts were made to help the patients to stop smoking . twenty-nine patients entered the study , but only eight of them ( 28 per cent ) refrained from smoking ; all were women ( 39-70 years ) and all experienced reduced discomfort , although none of the voices were restored to normal . diffuse laryngitis disappeared completely , but the oedema did not disappear entirely in any patient . before treatment of chronic reinke 's oedema patients must be well advised and informed , and if surgery is decided upon , they must be urged most strongly to stop smoking , if they wish to enhance the possibility of satisfactory long-term results . 
epistaxis as an unusual presentation of an antrochoanal polyp . antrochoanal polyps rarely present with severe epistaxis . we present the case of a young male patient who presented in such a manner , thus leading to the suspicion of an angiofibroma as the underlying pathology . the radiological investigations , treatment and pathological features are discussed . 
a ' silent ' intracranial complication of frontal sinusitis . intracranial complications of frontal sinusitis , although rare today , do still develop despite widespread use of antibiotics . we report a case which demonstrates how silently a frontal lobe abscess may present with subtle changes in mood and behaviour , with no focal neurological signs . diagnosis and management are discussed and a brief review of the incidence of intracranial complications of frontal sinusitis , mode of spread , clinical presentation , investigations , treatment and bacteriology is presented . 
infectious mononucleosis complicated by lingual tonsillitis . although upper airway obstruction and superimposed infection are well-known complications of infectious mononucleosis , lingual tonsillitis in this context has not been mentioned in the literature . we describe a case of acute bacterial lingual tonsillitis with airway obstruction complicating infectious mononucleosis . the role of the base of tongue region in the pathophysiology of infectious mononucleosis is discussed . 
acute upper airway obstruction following teflon injection of a vocal cord ; the value of nebulized adrenaline and a helium/oxygen mixture in its management a 67-year-old man presented with a 45-year history of a week voice . this was result of polio which had left him with a right vocal cord palsy . the patient underwent a teflon injection of the right vocal cord under general anaesthesia to improve the quality of his voice . in the immediate post-operative period , he suffered acute upper airway obstruction . the problem of acute upper airway obstruction following teflon injection is considered and its management with nebulized adrenaline and a helium/oxygen mixture is discussed . 
multiple primary malignancies in patients with malignant tumours of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses . the incidence of multiple primary malignancies ( mpm ) was analysed in 1297 patients with malignant tumours of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses . the patients were followed for a minimum of six years or until death . the incidence of mpm was 3.4 per cent ( 44/1297 ) which is lower in patients with malignant tumours of other regions in the upper aerodigestive tract . five of the 44 patients had second malignancies within previously irradiated areas . there was a difference between the proportion of histologies occurring in irradiated tissues compared with the overall 1297 patients . this finding suggests that radiotherapy may induce a second cancer . 
inter-arytenoid glottic bar following intubation . inter-arytenoid glottic bar is a rare complication of prolonged endotracheal intubation . we present two such cases and their treatment . the aetiology of this complication is multifactorial and involves local factors -- local trauma , movement of the endotracheal tube within the larynx , infection , and anatomical influences -- together with systemic factors such as in our two cases . the relative importance of these factors is discussed . a comment is also made on the use of a pre-operative topogram and the importance of an ent assessment in patients with airway problems following prolonged intubation . 
lambert eaton syndrome : autonomic neuropathy and inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion in a patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung . a patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung developed asymptomatic autonomic neuropathy , inappropriate antidiuretic hormone ( adh ) secretion and lambert eaton myasthenic syndrome . the autonomic neuropathy and inappropriate adh secretion were present at the time of diagnosis of the tumour . following chemotherapy these resolved , but 5 months later the patient developed lambert eaton syndrome which responded to 3,4-diaminopyridine . this sequence of changes appears to be unique . 
treatment of small-cell lung cancer with an alternating chemotherapy regimen given at weekly intervals : a southwest oncology group pilot study . we designed an intensive , weekly treatment regimen for patients with small-cell lung cancer ( sclc ) using six of the most active chemotherapeutic agents for this disease ( doxorubicin [ dox ] , cyclophosphamide [ ctx ] , vincristine [ vcr ] , etoposide [ vp-16 ] , cisplatin [ cddp ] , and methotrexate [ mtx ] ) . the goal of this program was to gain rapid , repetitive exposure to multiple , active drugs . treatment was administered weekly for a total of 16 weeks . seventy-six sclc patients ( limited disease , 34 ; extensive disease , 42 ) were treated . the overall complete plus partial response rate was 82 % . complete response rates of 47 % and 38 % were observed in patients with limited ( ld ) and extensive disease ( ed ) , respectively . the median survivals for patients with ld and ed were 16.6 and 11.4 months , respectively . toxicities were tolerable and were primarily hematologic . twenty-six patients had one or more transient life-threatening toxicities , but only one patient developed a fatal toxicity . eighty-four percent of the patients received 80 % or greater of the intended protocol dosages over the entire 16-week treatment period . we conclude that this intensive , short-duration treatment regimen is at least as good as other " standard " regimens , and we are encouraged aged by the complete response rate and median survival in patients with ed sclc . 
the relative value of conventional staging procedures for developing prognostic models in extensive-stage small-cell lung cancer . published prognostic models for small-cell lung cancer ( sclc ) have either combined limited - and extensive-stage patients or have not included standard anatomic staging information to assess the relative value of the knowledge of specific sites and number of sites of metastases in predicting survival in extensive-stage disease . we studied 136 extensive-stage patients in whom traditional staging procedures were performed and in whom other previously demonstrated significant pretreatment variables were determined . using the cox proportional hazards model , when all data were included , three variables were significant : performance status ( ps ) ( p = .0001 ) , number of sites of metastases ( p = .0010 ) , and age ( p = .0029 ) . a prognostic algorithm was developed using these variables , which divided the patients into three distinct groups . when the anatomic staging data were omitted , the serum albumin ( p = .0313 ) was the only variable in addition to ps ( p = .0001 ) and age ( p = .0064 ) that was significant . an alternative algorithm using these three variables was nearly as predictive as the original . therefore , in extensive-stage patients , reasonable pretreatment prognostic information can be obtained without using the number or specific sites of metastases as variables once the presence of distant metastases has been demonstrated . 
cerebral venous oxygen content as a measure of brain energy metabolism with increased intracranial pressure and hyperventilation . in order to test the hypothesis that the cerebral arteriovenous oxygen difference ( avdo2 ) and venous oxygen content ( vo2 ) could be used to monitor brain energy metabolism in the setting of increased intracranial pressure ( icp ) . 12 cats were studied with 31p-magnetic resonance spectroscopy . six cats were subjected to intracranial hypertension by cisternal infusion of saline . energy failure occurred at an average avdo2 of 8.4 + / - 3.2 vol % ( + / - standard deviation ) ( range 4.7 to 14.7 vol % ) . the vo2 at the point of metabolic failure averaged 1.45 + / - 0.6 vol % and extended over a narrower range ( 1.0 to 2.9 vol % ) . in an additional six cats , icp was raised to the threshold of metabolic failure and hyperventilation was then instituted ( pco2 10 to 18 torr ) . five of the six cats experienced a drop in vo2 with hyperventilation . in two of these animals , hyperventilation resulted in a vo2 of 1.1 vol % or less and in metabolic failure as evidenced by a fall in phosphocreatine . it is concluded that a vo2 of less than 2 vol % is correlated with brain ischemia and that the safety of hyperventilation in the setting of increased icp can be monitored by the use of vo2 . 
administered dose and tumor dose of bleomycin labeled with cobalt-57 in mice and men . tumor concentrations of the chemotherapeutic drug , bleomycin , labeled with cobalt-57 ( co-bleo ) were compared in mouse tumor models and in human lung tumors using quantitative single-photon emission computed tomography . drug concentrations in histologically similar human tumors showed marked variability for the same injected dose ( id ) . small cell carcinomas showed concentrations between 1.09 and 8.85 % id/cc x 10 ( -3 ) while non-small cell lung tumors showed a concentration variation between 0.36 and 6.75 % id/cc x 10 ( -3 ) . in contrast to the situation in human tumors , uptake in mouse tumors showed only slight variability in animals with the same tumor model . emt-6 tumors in mice showed at 6 hr significantly higher uptake of co-bleo ( p less than 0.001 ) and significantly higher tumor-to-lung ratio ( p less than 0.001 ) when compared to murine fibrosarcomas . the emt-6 tumors in contrast to the fibrosarcomas responded to bleomycin treatment in a dose dependent manner . the results indicate that while in mice the tumor dose closely follows the administered dose , in humans , the tumor dose and the tumor-to-lung ratio in the individual patient can not be predicted from the administered dose . 
imaging of tumor in patients with indium-111-labeled biotin and streptavidin-conjugated antibodies : preliminary communication tumor localization in patients has been achieved through the in vivo use of streptavidin and biotin . in these preliminary studies , the monoclonal antibody hmfg1 was conjugated with streptavidin and 1 mg was administered intravenously to each of 10 patients with documented squamous cell carcinoma of the lung . two to 3 days later , 111in-labeled biotin was also administered intravenously . no evidence of toxicity was observed . background radioactivity levels were reduced in liver ( 1 % id at 24 hr ) and kidneys ( 2 % ) and in all other normal tissues and blood . images of lung tumor were obtained in as little as 2 hr following administration of labeled biotin . in eight patients , tumor was detected with labeled biotin alone without the previous administration of streptavidin-conjugated antibody but in three of these patients , the images were improved with the prior administration of conjugated antibody . these results suggest that this approach may improve the tumor-to-normal tissue radioactivity ratios in radioimmunotargeting . 
pedunculated soft-tissue mass on the alveolar gingiva [ clinical conference ] a case of peripheral ameloblastoma , a rare intraoral neoplasm , has been presented . the lesion appears most commonly as a mass on the mandibular lingual gingiva of patients in their fifth and sixth decades of life . the peripheral ameloblastoma does not share the aggressive nature of the intraosseous variant . the lesion has been overtreated in the past and warrants only a local supraperiosteal excision . 
early ribavirin treatment of respiratory syncytial viral infection in high-risk children . a 3-year prospective , blinded , multicenter study was done to assess the efficacy of early ribavirin intervention in mild respiratory syncytial virus illness in children with bronchopulmonary dysplasia or with congenital heart disease . a cohort of 178 children younger than 36 months of age with bronchopulmonary dysplasia or congenital heart disease were followed . forty-seven infants whose respiratory syncytial virus infection resulted in mild symptoms of less than or equal to 72 hours ' duration received ribavirin ( n = 20 ) or water placebo aerosol ( n = 27 ) either in a hospital or at home . outcome measures included respiratory and analog score , room air oxygen , saturation , and oxygen flow needed to maintain saturation at greater than or equal to 91 % . no difference in age , gender , family size , passive smoking , baseline oxygen saturations in room air , or duration of symptoms before treatment was found between groups . after 3 days of therapy , ribavirin produced a greater rate of improvement of analog scores ( p = less than or equal to 0.001 ) , lower oxygen requirements ( p = 0.01 ) , and higher oxygen saturation ( p = 0.01 ) . respiratory scores and total hospital days did not differ significantly between the groups . treatment failure occurred in 2 of 20 children ( 10 % ) in the ribavirin group versus 5 of 27 children ( 18 % ) in the placebo group , a nonsignificant difference . no child required assisted ventilation or had an adverse reaction . we conclude that early ribavirin therapy may help to reduce morbidity from respiratory syncytial virus infection in high-risk young children . 
prediction of postoperative clinical course by autologous tumor-killing activity in lung cancer patients . fifty patients with primary localized lung cancer were tested at the time of surgery for the ability of their lymphocytes to kill autologous , freshly isolated tumor cells , and the assay was evaluated for prognostic significance . peripheral blood lymphocytes of 27 patients ( 54 % ) demonstrated significant autologous tumor-killing activity in 6-hour 51cr-release assays . twenty-three of the 27 patients with autologous tumor-killing activity remained tumor free and survived more than 5 years after curative surgery , while all 23 who were negative for autologous tumor-killing activity relapsed by 18 months after surgery and died within 42 months after surgery . the differences in survival curves for the two groups were highly significant ( p less than .00003 ) . autologous tumor-killing activity was not correlated with natural killer ( nk ) cell activity against k562 human myeloid leukemia cells or proliferation of lymphocytes stimulated with autologous , freshly isolated tumor cells in mixed culture . there were no differences in total survival between patients with positive results and those with negative results in tests of nk cell activity and autologous mixed lymphocyte-tumor culture reaction . these results indicate that autologous tumor-killing activity is a meaningful prognostic indicator and provide evidence for immunological control of tumor growth and metastasis . according to our preliminary data , it is unlikely that lung cancer patients who remain tumor free after 60 months of follow-up will develop recurrence or die from the disease . we are conducting a study to determine whether induction of autologous tumor-killing activity before surgery , by treatment with biological response modifiers , can improve the clinical outcome in patients who do not naturally have this potential . 
auto-peep in the multisystem injured patient : an elusive complication . auto-peep ( a-peep ) , unrecognized alveolar positive and expiratory pressure during mechanical ventilation , is an acknowledged hazard in patients with chronic obstructive lung disease . we evaluated 50 consecutive trauma patients for the presence of a-peep and its effect on hemodynamic stability . injury severity scores ( iss ) were 8 to 41 ( 21 + / - 1 ) ; revised trauma scores ( rts ) ranged from 2.0 to 7.8 ( 6.2 + / - 0.2 ) . mode of ventilation was assist control , inspiratory flow rates were 40 to 120 l/m ( 78 + / - 2 ) . a-peep , determined in the non-assisting patient by occluding the expiratory port at end exhalation , was present in 28 patients ( 56 % ) and ranged from 1 to 12 cm h2o ( 5.3 + / - 0.4 cm h2o ) . data segregated by a-peep versus no a-peep were as follows ( mean + / - sem ) : [ table : see text ] * p less than 0.05 , ve = minute ventilation , paw = mean airway pressure . upon reversal of a-peep in the eight patients with levels greater than 5 cm h2o , mean blood pressure rose from 90 + / - 17 to 102 + / - 22 mm hg and central venous pressure fell from 13 + / - 5 to 7 + / - 5 mm hg . a-peep was successfully treated in these eight patients by increasing peak flows , minimizing ve requirements and selective use of bronchodilators . in sum , the hypermetabolic ventilated trauma patient should be monitored routinely for this common phenomenon which may have profound cardiopulmonary effects in the setting of acute resuscitation . 
effect of endotoxin and a burn injury on lung and liver lipid peroxidation and catalase activity . both endotoxin and a burn alone produce oxidant-induced tissue lipid peroxidation . the endotoxin response is due in large part to hydrogen peroxide . the combination of endotoxin after a burn results in an increased liver , but not lung , oxidant injury . our purpose was to determine whether the burn oxidant injury inactivated endogenous liver tissue catalase , thereby amplifying a subsequent h2o2 insult . twenty-six adult sheep were studied . twelve sheep had a 15 % tbs burn . tissue catalase activity , measured in lung and liver 3 days postburn , was significantly decreased from a control of 3.58 + / - 1.8 and 193 + / - 63 , respectively , to 1.72 + / - 0.63 and 148 + / - 33 k ( sec-1 ) / 0.5 gram tissue . the addition of endotoxin 3 days postburn resulted in an increase in liver malondialdehyde , mda , a measure of lipid peroxidation , from a control of 110 + / - 80 to 450 + / - 54 nmol/gram tissue . this value was significantly greater than the 210 + / - 80 nmol/gram tissue seen after endotoxin alone . lung tissue mda with burn and endotoxin was 65 + / - 8 compared to 42 + / - 7 for control and 80 + / - 6 nmol/gram for endotoxin alone . we conclude that a decrease in liver catalase activity occurs after a burn . the decrease corresponds to an accentuated oxidant-induced lipid peroxidation after an added endotoxin insult where h2o2 is known to be an etiologic agent . the catalase activity also decreases in postburn lung , but accentuated lung damage was not seen , indicating a variable tissue response from the burn-induced decrease in antioxidant activity . 
effect of chronic respiratory acidosis on urinary calcium excretion in the dog . it is currently believed that the two chronic acidemic disorders exert disparate effects on urinary calcium excretion : chronic metabolic acidosis induces consistent hypercalciuria , but no appreciable change or even a decrease in calcium excretion is reported to attend chronic respiratory acidosis . whereas the effect of metabolic acidosis is well documented , little work has been carried out in chronic hypercapnia . in fact , most of the studies on chronic respiratory acidosis were short in duration , had employed only mild hypercapnia , or had failed to control carefully the prevailing metabolic conditions . we have carried out balance observations in nine dogs exposed to a 10 % co2 atmosphere in an environmental chamber for a period of two weeks . chronic respiratory acidosis led to a significant increase in urinary calcium excretion from a mean control value of 0.4 + / - 0.1 mmol/day to 0.6 + / - 0.1 mmol/day during both week 1 and 2 of hypercapnia ( p less than 0.05 ) . hypercalciuria occurred even though filtered load of calcium fell . mean fractional excretion of calcium increased significantly during each week of hypercapnia averaging 0.60 + / - 0.12 % during control , 1.05 + / - 0.13 % during week 1 , and 1.26 + / - 0.17 % during week 2 of hypercapnic exposure ( p less than 0.05 ) . there were no changes in plasma levels of immunoreactive parathyroid hormone or 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 . these findings suggest that chronic respiratory acidosis , just like chronic metabolic acidosis , augments urinary calcium excretion by a direct depressive effect on the tubular reabsorption of calcium . 
diagnosis of malignant cardiac disease by endomyocardial biopsy among oncology patients , endomyocardial biopsy has been used primarily for the evaluation of anthracycline cardiotoxicity . in addition , however , endomyocardial biopsy may be useful for the detection of malignant cardiac neoplasms . between 1982 and 1989 , metastatic involvement of the heart was diagnosed by endomyocardial biopsy in seven patients at our institution . all except one of these patients were older than 50 years of age and had dyspnea as an initial symptom , and all had a known malignant lesion . results of endomyocardial biopsy confirmed cardiac involvement by a hematologic malignant lesion in four patients and metastatic melanoma in two patients . in one patient , who had a history of breast cancer and lymphoma , a metastatic neoplasm of uncertain differentiation was observed . myocyte damage was evident in endomyocardial biopsy specimens from two of the four patients with hematologic malignant disease . endomyocardial biopsy was performed to confirm the possibility of metastatic involvement in five patients ; in the other two , endomyocardial biopsy was performed to determine whether anthracycline cardiotoxicity was present , and metastatic involvement was unanticipated . 
value of antigen detection in predicting invasive pulmonary aspergillosis two elisas were used to detect serum and urinary aspergillus antigen in 121 patients who were profoundly neutropenic after leukaemia therapy or bone marrow transplantation . the presence of antigen correctly predicted development of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis ( ipa ) in 16 patients . in 2 other cases antigen appeared after the clinical diagnosis had been made , while in only 1 case was antigen not detected . in 11 of 13 episodes of clinically suspected fungal infection antigen was detected before clinical diagnosis was made . by contrast , antigen was detected in only 1 of 90 patients who had no evidence of ipa . both elisas gave positive and negative predictive values for ipa of greater than 95 % , demonstrating the value of antigen detection in early diagnosis of aspergillus infection and the assay 's ability to predict subsequent development of ipa . we conclude that neutropenic patients should be screened for aspergillus antigen , and propose that initial detection of fungal antigen justifies commencement of empirical antifungal therapy . such an approach should improve the survival of patients who are at risk of developing this usually fatal infection . 
angioedema from angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors : a cause of upper airway obstruction . angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors have several side effects of concern to the otolaryngologist . angioedema is a rare , but potentially lethal adverse effect when associated with upper airway obstruction . four cases of ace-inhibitor-induced angioedema , three with significant upper airway obstruction , are reported . angioedema secondary to ace inhibition appears to be mechanism based . the probable link is the potentiation of bradykinin , which results in vasodilation , increased vascular permeability , and angioedema . since angioedema can progress to upper airway obstruction , otolaryngologists must be aware of this association . the differential diagnosis and treatment of this adverse effect is discussed , as well as a review of ace inhibitors and other causes of angioedema . 
computed tomography staging of the paranasal sinuses in chronic hyperplastic rhinosinusitis . in this study , the computed tomography scans of 100 patients with chronic hyperplastic rhinosinusitis were reviewed to establish a clinical staging system . fourteen percent of the patients were classified as stage i ( single-focus disease ) ; 36 % as stage ii ( multifocal disease responsive to conservative therapy ) ; 32 % as stage iii ( diffuse disease partially responsive to medication ) ; and 16 % as stage iv ( diffuse disease associated with bony changes and poorly responsive to conservative treatment ) . the incidence of recurrent or persistent disease ranged from 13 % for stage ii to 30 % for stage iv . stage i and iii patients had 13 % and 18 % recurrence rates , respectively . computed tomography staging is shown to be useful in outlining operative strategies and is a reliable prognosticator of the disease process . 
esthesioneuroblastoma : surgical treatment without radiation . this study compares the treatment of two groups of patients diagnosed with esthesioneuroblastoma limited to the nasal cavity without evidence of cribriform plate erosion . five patients were treated with radiation and extracranial excision , and eight patients were treated by craniofacial resection only . the incidences of local recurrence were 60 % and 12 % , respectively . the paper also presents a new staging classification for these tumors . 
flexible nd : yag laser palliation of obstructive tracheal metastatic malignancies . flexible nd : yag endoscopic laser surgery may become an effective new modality for palliation in patients with obstructive endotracheal metastatic malignancies . we report the results of the treatment of two patients with severely obstructing intraluminal tracheal metastatic melanoma and medullary thyroid carcinoma , using the neodymium-yag laser via the flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope . both patients complained of significant dyspnea , orthopnea , cough , and hemoptysis and were not candidates for rigid bronchoscopy because of underlying medical contraindications and anatomical problems . multiple treatment sessions were used with treatment intervals of 1 to 2 weeks . all treatments were performed in the operating room under sedation , without intubation , with topical lidocaine and standard superior laryngeal nerve block . successful relief of airway obstruction with complete regression of the endotracheal masses was achieved and no recurrences were seen after 9 months ' follow-up . flexible nd : yag laser bronchoscopy offered an alternative for the relief of obstructing endotracheal or bronchial malignancies in patients in whom the rigid bronchoscope could not be passed . it seemed to prolong survival in selected cases , and provided definite improvement in quality of life . 
an in vivo canine model for testing treatment effects in laryngeal hyperadduction disorders . adductor spastic dysphonia is a voice disorder characterized by a strained , squeezed , effortful voice produced by true and false cord hyperadduction . an in vivo canine model has been developed to simulate hyperadduction of the true cords . using this model , the thyroarytenoid muscle was found to have a greater effect on intraglottic and subglottic pressure than cricothyroid muscle contraction . the intraglottic and subglottic pressure was reduced after simulated recurrent laryngeal paralysis . this model can be used in future studies to compare laryngeal treatment modalities for disorders that have a component of vocal cord hyperadduction , such as spastic dysphonia . 
pancreaticopleural fistula . report of 7 patients and review of the literature . pancreaticopleural fistula is an uncommon clinical condition . its presentation is often confusing because of the paucity of clues suggestive of pancreatic disease and the preponderance of pulmonary symptoms and signs . most patients are alcoholics but only one-half will have a clinical history of previous pancreatitis . pleural effusions are large , recurrent , and highly exudative in nature . many patients go through extensive pulmonary evaluation before the pancreas is identified as the site of primary pathology . an elevated serum amylase may be the first clue to the diagnosis . however , the key to the diagnosis is a dramatically elevated pleural fluid amylase . effusions in association with acute pancreatitis , esophageal perforation , and thoracic malignancy are important to consider in the differential diagnosis of an elevated pleural fluid amylase but are usually easy to exclude . computed tomography is excellent in defining pancreatic abnormalities and should be the first abdominal imaging study in suspected cases . endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ercp ) is used as a diagnostic tool only in confusing cases . although no systematic study evaluates medical versus surgical therapy , we recommend an initial 2 to 4-week trial of medical therapy , including allowance of no oral intake , total parenteral nutrition , chest tube thoracostomy , and possibly a regimen of somatostatin or its analogs . the major complication in these patients is superinfection , which results in significant morbidity and mortality . failure of medical therapy should be considered failure of pleural effusion ( s ) to clear , recurrence after reinstatement of oral intake , or superinfection . for those patients who fail to benefit from medical therapy , surgery is indicated . 
disseminated histoplasmosis in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome : clinical findings , diagnosis and treatment , and review of the literature . histoplasmosis is a serious opportunistic infection in patients with aids , often representing the first manifestation of the syndrome . most infections occurring within the endemic region are caused by exogenous exposure , while those occurring in nonendemic areas may represent endogenous reactivation of latent foci of infection or exogenous exposure to microfoci located within those nonendemic regions . however , prospective investigations are needed to prove the mode of acquisition . the infection usually begins in the lungs even though the chest roentgenogram may be normal . clinical findings are nonspecific ; most patients present with symptoms of fever and weight loss of at least 1 month 's duration . when untreated , many cases eventually develop severe clinical manifestations resembling septicemia . chest roentgenograms , when abnormal , show interstitial or reticulonodular infiltrates . many cases have been initially misdiagnosed as disseminated mycobacterial infection or pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . patients are often concurrently infected with other opportunistic pathogens , supporting the need for a careful search for co-infections . useful diagnostic tests include serologic tests for anti-h . capsulatum antibodies and hpa , silver stains of tissue sections or body fluids , and cultures using fungal media from blood , bone marrow , bronchoalveolar lavage fluid , and other tissues or body fluids suspected to be infected on clinical grounds . treatment with amphotericin b is highly effective , reversing the clinical manifestations of infection in at least 80 % of cases . however , nearly all patients relapse within 1 year after completing courses of amphotericin b of 35 mg/kg or more , supporting the use of maintenance treatment to prevent recurrence . relapse rates are lower ( 9 to 19 % ) in patients receiving maintenance therapy with amphotericin b given at doses of about 50 mg weekly or biweekly than with ketoconazole ( 50-60 % ) , but controlled trials comparing different maintenance regimens have not been conducted . until results of such trials become available , our current approach is to administer an induction phase of 15 mg/kg of amphotericin b given over 4 to 6 weeks , followed by maintenance therapy with 50 to 100 mg of amphotericin b given once or twice weekly , or biweekly . if results of a prospective national institutes of allergy and infectious disease study of itraconazole maintenance therapy document its effectiveness , alternatives to amphotericin b may be reasonable . 
coccidioidomycosis during human immunodeficiency virus infection . a review of 77 patients . through a retrospective review , we identified 77 previously unreported cases of coccidioidomycosis during hiv infection . patients were classified into 1 of 6 categories based on their primary clinical presentation : 20 had focal pulmonary disease ( group 1 ) , 31 had diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) , 4 had cutaneous coccidioidomycosis ( group 3 ) , 9 had meningitis ( group 4 ) , 7 had extrathoracic lymph node or liver involvement ( group 5 ) , and 6 has positive coccidioidal serology without a clinical focus of infection ( group 6 ) . coccidioidal serologies were positive on initial testing in 83 % of the patients in whom such serologic testing was performed . sera from 39 % of patients were positive for tp antibodies while 74 % had cf antibodies . eleven of 12 seronegative patients had pulmonary disease ( group 1 or 2 ) . serologic results of other patients sent to a single reference laboratory were similar , with 26 % positive for immunodiffusion tp antibodies and 79 % positive for immunodiffusion cf antibodies . for the 77 patients in this study , the cd4-lymphocyte count was below 0.250 x 10 ( 9 ) cells/l in 46 of the 55 patients who had this test performed , and a low cd4 count was significantly associated with mortality ( p less than 0.01 ) . at the time of follow-up , 32 of the 77 patients ( 42 % ) had died . there were significantly more deaths in those with diffuse pulmonary disease ( group 2 ) than in other groups ( p less than 0.001 ) . amphotericin b , ketoconazole , fluconazole , and itraconazole were all used as antifungal therapies . outcome could not be related to the therapy used . of note , 3 patients developed coccidioidomycosis while receiving ketoconazole for other conditions . 
corticosteroids as adjunctive therapy for severe pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial . background . preliminary reports suggest that patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and pneumocystis carinii pneumonia may benefit from the addition of corticosteroid treatment to antibiotic therapy . methods . we conducted a double-blind , placebo-controlled trial to assess the efficacy of adjunctive corticosteroids in patients with aids and severe p. carinii pneumonia . patients with marked abnormalities in gas exchange who had been treated with antibiotics for less than 72 hours were randomly assigned to receive either methylprednisolone ( 40 mg ) or placebo every 6 hours for 7 days , in addition to treatment for 21 days with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . the primary outcome measures were survival until hospital discharge and the development of respiratory failure . results . twenty-three patients were enrolled in the study ; there were no significant differences in base-line clinical or laboratory measures between the two treatment groups . of 12 patients treated with corticosteroids , 9 ( 75 percent ) survived until hospital discharge , as compared with only 2 of 11 placebo recipients ( 18 percent ) ( p less than 0.008 ) . respiratory failure developed in nine placebo recipients , as compared with only three patients treated with corticosteroids ( p less than 0.008 ) . no patient required the interruption or discontinuation of corticosteroid or antibiotic treatment because of toxicity or a complicating event . because of the marked difference in survival , it was deemed unethical to continue the trial , and the study was terminated . conclusions . early adjunctive corticosteroid therapy can improve survival and decrease the occurrence of respiratory failure in patients with aids and severe p. carinii pneumonia . 
a controlled trial of early adjunctive treatment with corticosteroids for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . california collaborative treatment group . background . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia remains a common cause of serious morbidity and mortality in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . the extensive lung injury that accompanies pneumocystis-associated respiratory failure and the reports of clinical benefit from the use of adjunctive corticosteroids provided the rationale for this prospective multicenter trial . methods . a total of 333 patients with aids and pneumocystis pneumonia received standard treatment and were randomly assigned to receive either corticosteroids ( beginning with the equivalent of 40 mg of prednisone twice daily ) or no additional therapy . the primary end points in this unblinded trial were the occurrence of respiratory failure ( hypoxemia ratio [ partial pressure of arterial oxygen divided by fraction of inspired oxygen ] less than 75 , intubation , or death ) , death , and dose-limiting toxicity of the initial standard therapy . results . of the patients with confirmed or presumed pneumocystis pneumonia ( n = 225 and n = 26 , respectively ) , those assigned to treatment with corticosteroids had a lower cumulative risk at 31 days of respiratory failure ( 0.14 vs. 0.30 , p = 0.004 ) and of death ( 0.11 vs. 0.23 , p = 0.009 ) , as well as a lower risk of death within 84 days ( 0.16 vs. 0.26 , p = 0.026 ) . the frequency of dose-limiting toxicity of the standard therapy was similar in the two treatment groups . intention-to-treat analyses of the entire cohort confirmed these findings . clinical benefit could not be demonstrated , however , for patients with mild disease ( hypoxemia ratio , greater than 350 ) , equivalent to a partial pressure of oxygen greater than 75 torr on room air . the patients assigned to corticosteroid treatment had an excess of localized herpetic lesions ( 26 percent vs. 15 percent , p = 0.04 ) but not of other infections or of neoplasms . conclusions . early adjunctive treatment with corticosteroids reduces the risks of respiratory failure and death in patients with aids and moderate-to-severe pneumocystis pneumonia . because the adverse effects are few , corticosteroids should be included as part of the initial treatment for persons with aids who have moderate-to-severe pneumocystis pneumonia . 
identification of the primary gene defect at the cytochrome p450 cyp2d locus . the mammalian cytochrome p450-dependent monooxygenase system is involved in the metabolism of drugs and chemical carcinogens . the role of these enzymes in toxicological response is exemplified by an autosomal recessive polymorphism at the cytochrome p450 cyp2d6 debrisoquine hydroxylase locus which results in the severely compromised metabolism of at least 25 drugs , and which in some cases can lead to life-threatening side-effects . in addition , this polymorphism , which affects 8-10 % of the caucasian population , has been associated with altered susceptibility to lung and bladder cancer . here we report the identification of the primary mutation responsible for this metabolic defect and the development of a simple dna-based genetic assay to allow both the identification of most individuals at risk of drug side-effects and clarification of the conflicting reports on the association of this polymorphism with cancer susceptibility . 
subdural hematoma associated with metastatic neoplasms . two cases of subdural hematoma , one acute and the other chronic , associated with cancer metastatic to the dura are reported . various mechanisms of the association of hematomas with cancer are reviewed . 
aspiration in bilateral stroke patients . seventy patients with bilateral strokes underwent neurologic and videofluoroscopic barium swallowing examinations ; 34 ( 48.6 % ) aspirated . patients with aspiration were more likely to have posterior circulation strokes , abnormal cough , abnormal gag , and dysphonia . however , patients likely to aspirate can be identified best by the presence of an abnormal voluntary cough , an abnormal gag reflex , or both . the prediction of patients at risk for aspiration was not improved by additional clinical information ( ie , presence of dysphonia or bilateral neurologic signs ) . 
central neurogenic hyperventilation : pharmacologic intervention with morphine sulfate and correlative analysis of respiratory , sleep , and ocular motor dysfunction . central neurogenic hyperventilation ( cnh ) , for which there is no effective therapy , can eventually result in respiratory fatigue and death . this report describes a patient with cnh due to a brainstem anaplastic astrocytoma who also exhibited disturbances of sleep and ocular motor function . the cnh responded clinically to morphine sulfate and methadone . analysis of ventilatory response to co2 before and after morphine demonstrated a depression of ventilatory response ( 49 to 53 % of baseline ) and occlusion pressure response ( 35 to 50 % of baseline ) to co2 , with a requirement for high doses of naloxone ( 10 mg iv ) to reverse the effect . polysomnography revealed sustained hyperventilation , elevated o2 saturation , and low end-tidal co2 throughout all stages of non-rapid eye movement ( nrem ) sleep , and absence of rapid eye movement ( rem ) sleep . ocular motor evaluation disclosed absence of horizontal and reflexive saccades with compensatory head thrusts . correlation of the clinical and physiologic data with the mri abnormalities suggested that the lesion responsible for cnh in this patient might reside in the medial tegmental parapontine reticular formation . since recurrent episodes of hyperventilation responded in a sustained fashion to iv and oral opiates , this treatment may warrant consideration in other patients with cnh . 
serologic evidence of subclinical pertussis in immunized children . incidental to a vaccine study involving 783 immunized children conducted at two study sites , inner city children had significantly higher geometric mean pertussis agglutinin titers compared with suburban children just before the fourth dose of diphtheria-tetanus-whole cell pertussis vaccine ( 47 vs. 25 ; p less than 0.001 ) . higher titers in the inner city were correlated with residence in census tracts where cases of pertussis were reported . three hundred thirty-two children in a placebo arm of the study who were clinically observed and had paired serum samples taken during a 2 - to 4-month period were analyzed for evidence of natural bordetella infection . twelve ( 11 % ) inner city children and three ( 1.3 % ) suburban children had spontaneous 4-fold or greater rises in at least two different pertussis antibodies measured ( agglutinin , antitoxin or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for igg to pertussis toxin , igg and iga to filamentous hemagglutinin ) . eighty percent of these children had iga to filamentous hemagglutinin . nine of 12 inner city children with serologic evidence of pertussis lived within 6 blocks of a case of pertussis reported within 1 month of the observed antibody rise in study subjects ; none had a household member with pertussis and none had symptomatic disease . 
current epidemiology of pertussis in japan . since the introduction of whole cell pertussis vaccine into general use as part of the routine immunization in 1947 under the preventive immunization law , a steady decrease in reported cases of pertussis was noted until 1974 . at that time the number of reported cases reached an all time low and no deaths caused by pertussis were reported . the vaccine ( diphtheria-tetanus-whole cell pertussis vaccine ) had been given to infants 12 weeks old or older in a 0.5-ml dose by deep subcutaneous injection ; three doses were given at intervals of 3 to 8 weeks and the fourth dose ( booster ) was given 12 to 18 months after the third dose . the immunization was completed with those four doses . because whole cell vaccine appeared to be associated with severe neurologic illnesses , it was temporarily suspended in 1975 . the vaccine was resumed soon thereafter but the age of administration was raised to 24 to 48 months . under these circumstances acceptance rates of pertussis occurred , reaching a peak in 1979 . although whole cell vaccine was used even after temporary suspension , it was considered to be unacceptable by the public . as a result the acellular pertussis vaccine was developed and has totally replaced whole cell vaccine since 1981 . a steady decrease in reported cases of pertussis as well as the number of deaths has been noted since 1979 in accordance with increase in vaccine acceptance rates . the national surveillance system begun in 1981 demonstrated also a steady decrease in the incidence of pertussis during the past 9 years . 
thrombocytosis after pneumonia with empyema and other bacterial infections in children . thrombocytosis is seen in association with many conditions , including infectious diseases . we studied thrombocytosis after severe bacterial infections , particularly pneumonia with empyema in children . a systematic survey of the phenomenon was conducted . twenty-seven children admitted for pneumonia with empyema were studied . thrombocytosis ( platelet counts greater than 500 x 10 ( 3 ) / microliters ) was present in 92.5 % . platelet counts reached their maximum at 15.1 + / - 3.7 days ( range , 7 to 25 ) and declined to normal after 3 weeks of illness . compared with a healthy control group , significant thrombocytosis , but of lower incidence , was also noted in children with lobar pneumonia without pleural effusion , bacterial meningitis and osteomyelitis . platelet functions were examined in seven of the children but no abnormalities were observed . bone marrow aspiration of three children with pneumonia and empyema showed megakaryocytic hyperplasia . we found no correlation between thrombocytosis , neutrophilia , fever , the clinical course , complications , prognosis or treatment . neither thromboembolic nor hemorrhagic phenomena were observed . 
immunoglobulin g subclass deficiency and predisposition to infection in down 's syndrome . serum immunoglobulins and igg subclasses were measured in 26 children with down 's syndrome using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and monoclonal antibodies . eighteen ( 69 % ) of the children had increased susceptibility to infection . none of the children had deficiencies of total igg and igm , and only one had an iga deficiency . igg4 deficiency was diagnosed in 14 ( 54 % ) children . one child had a deficiency of igg2 . there were no children with deficiencies of either igg1 or igg3 . there was a significant correlation between igg subclass deficiency and predisposition to infection ( p less than 0.05 ) . ninety percent of the patients with severe infections had low igg4 whereas only 25 % of those with no infections had low concentrations of igg4 . these results suggest that it is important to screen patients with down 's syndrome who have frequent systemic or respiratory infections for igg subclass deficiencies because this may not be apparent from the assay of total igg . 
study design considerations for ribavirin : efficacy studies . five placebo-controlled double-blind studies , each including approximately 30 subjects , have addressed the question of the effect of aerosolized ribavirin on the course of rsv lower respiratory infection in infancy . the fact that each was able to establish a beneficial effect despite the small number of subjects studied is convincing evidence that such an effect exists . the studies from rochester using oximetry and an analog illness severity scale indicate that this effect is both statistically significant and clinically relevant . these tools are reliable and easily applicable measures for multicenter studies when illness severity is selected as an outcome measure . characteristics that should be taken into consideration when assigning experimental groups include age , sex , a history of prematurity or underlying conditions and arterial oxygen saturation . future studies will address additional questions about the efficacy of ribavirin , such as its role in critically ill children , the economic benefits of its use in terms of duration of hospitalization , the usefulness of early treatment of rsv disease in high risk infants , and the impact of treatment on long-term consequences of rsv infection . these studies may require outcome variables and subject selection strategies different from those used in earlier studies . 
transbronchial biopsies in children after heart-lung transplantation . sixty transbronchial biopsies have been performed in eight children after heart-lung transplantation . the selection of fiber-optic bronchoscope or a small ( 4 mm ; 30 cm ) rigid bronchoscope was made according to the size of endotracheal tube required at surgery . if the endotracheal tube was size 7.5 or greater , a fiber-optic bronchoscope was used , whereas if the endotracheal tube size was below 7 , a rigid bronchoscope was used . for the diagnosis of lung rejection , the histology of biopsies revealed a sensitivity of 91 % and specificity of 69 % ( similar to the result in adults ) . the histology also distinguished lung infection from rejection . complications included three pneumothoraces and two clinically significant episodes of hemorrhage , one of which led to a cardiorespiratory arrest , which may have been caused by hypoxia . as a result , arterial oxygen saturation is now monitored during the procedure using a pulse oximeter . 
dexamethasone effects on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia who are dependent on artificial ventilation . a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of enterally administered dexamethasone on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . a total of 23 infants with a birth weight less than 1500 g who were dependent on artificial ventilation 3 to 4 weeks of age received dexamethasone ( n = 12 ) or saline placebo ( n = 11 ) . dexamethasone ( 0.5 mg/kg per day ) was given in tapering doses for 7 days followed by hydrocortisone ( 8 mg/kg per day ) which was progressively reduced for a total of 17 days of therapy . infants who received dexamethasone required less oxygen on days 8 and 17 ( p less than .05 ) and were more likely to extubate 8 days after therapy than infants in the control group ( respectively 8/12 vs 3/11 infants , p less than .05 ; p = .12 after yates correction ) . the use of dexamethasone significantly shortened median duration of mechanical ventilation ( 4 vs 22 days , p less than .05 ) but had no effect on length of oxygen therapy , hospitalization , home oxygen therapy , occurrence and severity of retinopathy of prematurity , rate of growth , and mortality . no significant complications resulted from dexamethasone therapy . measurements of plasma dexamethasone levels confirmed the absorption of drug from the gastrointestinal tract ( 23.7 ng/ml in dexamethasone vs 4.6 ng/ml in the control group , p less than .05 ) . dexamethasone administration resulted in short-term improvements in pulmonary function but did not ameliorate the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . 
predicting risk for bronchopulmonary dysplasia : selection criteria for clinical trials early identification of neonates in whom bronchopulmonary dysplasia is most likely to develop permits appropriate enrollment into clinical trials testing early intervention therapies for the prevention or treatment of bronchopulmonary dysplasia . analysis of 160 neonatal intensive care unit survivors to 28 days revealed that supplemental oxygen requirement at 28 days could be predicted by a logistic regression including ( 1 ) birth weight , gestational age , 5-minute apgar score , and peak inspiratory pressure at 12 hours for 12-hour-old neonates and ( 2 ) birth weight , gestational age , peak inspiratory pressure at 12 hours , and mean airway pressure at 10 days for 10-day-old neonates . these two regression analyses were applied prospectively to three new data sets totaling 238 neonates to test their predictive ability . neonates were classified into low - , moderate - , or high-risk groups on the basis of their predicted probability of requiring oxygen supplementation at 28 days ; low = probability of less than 25 % , moderate = probability of 25 % to 75 % , and high = probability greater than 75 % . although these populations were demographically distinct from the original group , the regression analyses performed well . the regression analysis for 12 hours of age classified 125 neonates at low risk of whom 9 % required supplemental oxygen at 28 days , and the regression analysis for 10 days classified 141 neonates at low risk of whom 7 % required supplemental oxygen . the 12-hour regression analysis classified 80 neonates at moderate risk of whom 33 % required supplemental oxygen at 28 days and the 10-day regression analysis classified 49 neonates at moderate risk of whom 24 % required supplemental oxygen . 
surfactant replacement therapy with a single postventilatory dose of a reconstituted bovine surfactant in preterm neonates with respiratory distress syndrome : final analysis of a multicenter , double-blind , randomized trial and comparison with similar trials . the surfactant-ta study group . the effects of a single dose of surfactant ta were assessed in premature neonates ( birth weight 750 to 1749 g ) with respiratory distress syndrome ( rds ) in a multicenter , double-blind , randomized clinical trial . only neonates with surfactant deficiency and without ultrasonographic evidence of intracranial hemorrhage greater than or equal to grade ii were enrolled . fifty-four patients received surfactant ( 100 mg of phospholipid per kilogram of body weight ) and 46 patients received an air placebo within 8 hours of life . treatment with this surfactant resulted in a significant reduction in the severity of rds with a concomitant increase in the proportion of neonates with mild disease . the frequency of pulmonary interstitial emphysema and of pneumothorax was significantly lower in treated neonates compared with control neonates ( 2 % vs 26 % , p = .0008 , and 7 % vs 39 % , p = .0004 , respectively ) . the frequency of intracranial hemorrhage was significantly lower in the surfactant group compared with the control group ( 20 % vs 54 % , p = .0008 ) and was also reduced for the smallest neonates in the surfactant group ( 13 % vs 73 % , p = .00008 ) . when categorized according to severity of intracranial hemorrhage and severity of bronchopulmonary dysplasia , the surfactant group was at a significant advantage ( adjusted cochran-mantel-haenszel x2 = 10.72 , p less than .001 and x2 = 4.43 , p = .036 , respectively ) . the proportion of neonates surviving without intracranial hemorrhage and/or bronchopulmonary dysplasia was 63 % in the surfactant group vs 26 % in the control group ( p = .0004 ) ; as for the smallest neonates , it was 58 % in the surfactant group vs 4 % in the control group ( p = .0002 ) . there were no differences between the groups with respect to the frequency of patent ductus arteriosus ( 46 % vs 37 % ) , pulmonary hemorrhage ( 6 % vs 7 % ) , necrotizing enterocolitis ( 0 % vs 2 % ) , sepsis ( 4 % vs 2 % ) , retinopathy of prematurity ( 13 % vs 22 % ) , or death ( 15 % vs 22 % ) . it is concluded that treatment with the single-dose surfactant regimen used in this study reduces the severity of respiratory distress during the 48 hours after treatment and decreases the major pulmonary morbidity and intracranial hemorrhage in premature neonates with rds . further studies are needed to determine whether ( 1 ) treatment at birth or as soon as after rds is diagnosed and ( 2 ) the use of multiple dose of this surfactant would result in any additional benefits . 
pulmonary and acid-base assessment . with increased technology , increased patient longevity , and burgeoning health care knowledge , pulmonary assessment of clients has become more complex , and nurses are now challenged to develop more comprehensive skills . these include a more focused patient history on selected clients as well as careful inspection , palpation , percussion , and auscultation . additional techniques such as voice sounds provide the nurse with even more assessment data . an understanding of common pathologic pulmonary problems and their corresponding assessment findings as well as knowledge about acid-base imbalances will result in more effective professional nursing care . 
dyspnea . a multidimensional model of dyspnea that includes sensation , perception , distress , response , and reporting components is presented . assessment tools currently available are evaluated as are recent research findings for pharmacologic , oxygen , physical , and psychologic treatments . this article concludes by suggesting a role for the nurse in dyspnea amelioration . 
let 's stop the comeback of tuberculosis . best drug regimens for prevention and treatment . tuberculosis has been on the increase in recent years , so physicians need to be aware of it once again . very effective drugs are available to treat the disease . pharmacokinetics , dosing schedule , and adverse reactions of each anti-tuberculous agent need to be considered . a short ( 6-month ) course of therapy is now recommended : isoniazid , rifampin ( rifadin , rimactane ) , and pyrazinamide are given for the initial 2 months , followed by isoniazid and rifampin for 4 months . if drug resistance is a factor , a fourth drug is added to the initial regimen , and therapy may have to be extended . chemoprophylaxis with isoniazid is very important to reduce the incidence of tuberculosis . it should be given to all high-risk persons . 
viral pneumonias . a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge . viral pneumonias are both a diagnostic and a therapeutic challenge for primary care physicians . the illness should be suspected when an upper respiratory tract infection progresses to include dyspnea and cyanosis . rapid diagnostic tests are now available to detect most of the viruses that cause pneumonias . fortunately , viral pneumonias usually resolve without specific antiviral therapy ; however , ribavirin is indicated for respiratory syncytial virus pneumonia in children and ganciclovir sodium ( cytovene ) for cytomegalovirus pneumonia in immunocompromised patients . acyclovir ( zovirax ) is indicated for pneumonias due to herpes simplex virus and varicella-zoster virus infections . a high index of suspicion for bacterial superinfections is essential to reduce the risk of death from this complication . 
breathing exercises for the medical patient : the art and the science . the art of breathing exercises can be traced to the late 1800s . in the past 10 years , the increased demand for treatment for respiratory muscle failure of dysfunction has resulted in numerous studies evaluating methods of treatment or training . this article provides an overview of research and practice , focused on treating the medical patient experiencing dyspnea or loss of respiratory muscle strength and endurance . 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is indeed a multifaceted illness . the obstructive picture is the result of multiple pathologic processes . the most common cause is cigarette smoking . the key to decreasing the incidence of this disease is education to prevent people from starting to smoke and to educate those who do smoke to stop . the therapeutic management involves numerous medications , oxygen , and physiotherapy . unfortunately , the pharmacologic management remains largely empiric with sympathomimetics , anticholinergics , methylxanthines , and corticosteroids . these agents , especially methylxanthines and corticosteroids , are not without considerable toxicity . therefore , embarking on a pharmacologic plan requires weighing the risk to benefit ratio carefully and having a comprehensive plan to assess subjectively and objectively the efficacy and toxicity of the chosen therapy . 
pharmacotherapy of asthma and allergic rhinitis . it has become easier to treat and control the symptoms of asthma , while the treatment of allergies remains directed toward the prevention and blockade of histamine-induced symptoms . this article details treatment options , including beta-2 selective sympathomimetic agonists , methods of delivery , theophylline , cromolyn , corticosteroids , antihistamines , decongestants , and intranasal steroids . 
bacterial tracheitis : report of eight new cases and review . bacterial tracheitis , previously referred to as nondiphtheritic laryngitis with marked exudate , was commonly discussed in pediatric textbooks before 1940 . it seemed to disappear as a clinical entity after that time , but it has been recorded with increasing frequency in the pediatric literature since 1979 . we describe eight new cases and review 110 previously described cases . the clinical course consists of a prodromal upper respiratory illness with stridor , fever , and a variable degree of respiratory distress . unlike patients with croup , patients with bacterial tracheitis do not respond to aerosolized racemic epinephrine . most patients require endotracheal intubation ; some require tracheostomy . reported complications include pneumonia , pneumothorax , formation of pseudomembranes , toxic shock syndrome , and cardiopulmonary arrest . bacterial tracheitis is a secondary bacterial infection following a primary viral respiratory infection . the most common preceding viral infection is parainfluenza . staphylococcus aureus and haemophilus influenzae are the predominant causes of bacterial tracheitis . secondary bacterial infection may occur as a result of tracheal mucosal injury or impairment of normal phagocytic function due to viral infection . 
acute respiratory disease in spain : seven years of experience the clinical and epidemiologic features of viral and nonviral pathogens involved in acute respiratory diseases are described in the context of cases of infection ( especially atypical pneumonia and bronchiolitis ) studied at the centro nacional de microbiologia , virologia e immunologia sanitarias in madrid during a 7-year period ( 1979-1986 ) . these etiologies were demonstrated in 1,637 ( 36.2 % ) of 4,521 cases . among viruses , respiratory syncytial virus most frequently infected children ; influenza virus showed the same pattern of circulation as in other european countries . of nonviral agents , mycoplasma pneumoniae and c. burnetii were most often involved in lower respiratory tract infections , with a variable predominance in patients of different ages . a high proportion of cases of m. pneumoniae infection occurred in infants and children aged less than 1 year , and most of these cases occurred during spring and summer . the majority of q fever cases , including those observed in two outbreaks , occurred in the northern region . 
resolution of lung abscess due to pseudomonas aeruginosa with oral ciprofloxacin : case report . a case of lung abscess due to pseudomonas aeruginosa is presented that did not resolve with the use of conventional antipseudomonal antibiotics , including tobramycin with ticarcillin-clavulanate and ceftazidime with gentamicin and ticarcillin-clavulanate . oral ciprofloxacin was administered for 12 weeks , and the infection was resolved . no resistance occurred , and there was no recurrence of abscess within 18 months following therapy . 
pulmonary and disseminated infection due to mycobacterium kansasii : a decade of experience . fifty-five patients with mycobacterium kansasii isolates ( 47 pulmonary and eight disseminated ) were identified at a large texas hospital from 1975 to 1985 . the mean age of patients was 60 years , and there was a slight male predominance . isolation of m. kansasii usually represented disease . the great majority of patients with pulmonary infection due to m. kansasii had underlying pulmonary diseases , and 70 % had nonpulmonary predisposing factors . m. kansasii pulmonary disease clinically and radiographically resembled pulmonary tuberculosis . disseminated m. kansasii infection occurred in severely immunocompromised patients , who frequently had pulmonary predispositions as well . disseminated infection most of ten involved the lung , reticuloendothelial system , bone , joint , and skin and presented with signs and symptoms related to these organs . despite only moderate in vitro susceptibility of m. kansasii to routine antituberculous drugs , most patients responded to rifampin-containing regimens . the prognosis of patients with m. kansasii disease was determined primarily by their underlying diseases . 
early treatment with acyclovir for varicella pneumonia in otherwise healthy adults : retrospective controlled study and review . the effect of early acyclovir therapy on the course of varicella pneumonia in previously healthy adults was assessed . medical records from five university-affiliated medical centers were retrospectively reviewed ; included were all immunocompetent adults with a clinical diagnosis of primary varicella , a chest radiograph consistent with varicella pneumonia , and an arterial blood gas measurement indicating significant hypoxia . of the 38 patients who met the study criteria , 11 had had a course of intravenous acyclovir initiated within the first 36 hours of hospitalization ; the mean time from admission to initiation of therapy in this early-treatment group was 9.6 hours . the group that received early acyclovir treatment had a lower mean temperature beginning on the fifth day of hospitalization ( 37.0 degrees c vs. 37.7 degrees c ; p = .011 ) and a lower mean respiratory rate beginning on the sixth day of hospitalization ( 21 vs. 28 respirations per minute ; p = .004 ) . early acyclovir therapy also resulted in a significant improvement in oxygenation beginning on the sixth day of hospitalization in patients with follow-up arterial blood gas measurements ( p = .035 ) . thus , early institution of acyclovir therapy is associated with reduction in fever and tachypnea and improvement in oxygenation in otherwise healthy adults with varicella pneumonia . 
pneumonia due to legionella micdadei in bone marrow transplant recipients . legionella micdadei has previously been described as a cause of nosocomial pneumonia , particularly in kidney transplant recipients . cell-mediated immunity is the principal host defense against this pathogen . a common clinical scenario in the immunocompromised host is that of septic pulmonary embolus , but asymptomatic infections have also been reported . the organism is weakly acid-fast in clinical specimens but loses this property when grown on solid media . we report two cases of l. micdadei pneumonia , differing markedly in clinical severity and outcome , in bone marrow transplant recipients . additionally , we note the growth of the organism in liquid culture media with preservation of its acid-fast property . 
virologic and pathogenetic aspects of cytomegalovirus infection . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) is a ubiquitous agent that rarely causes disease in immunocompetent humans but is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in the immunocompromised . a number of host and viral factors are associated with pathology following cmv infection . cmv can be found at many sites in the body but only causes disease at some of these and then only in certain patient populations . in some situations the mechanism underlying disease is direct viral replication , but in others , particularly cmv pneumonitis in allogeneic transplant recipients , an immunopathologic basis is strongly implicated . an important factor in the pathogenesis of infection and the expression of symptomatic disease is the source of cmv infection-whether it arises from an exogenous source or is due to reactivation of latent endogenous virus . exogenous infection can occur in previously seronegative individuals or in those with prior exposure to the virus . in renal transplant recipients both types of exogenous infection have been associated with disease . another factor that affects the interaction between cmv and its host is the modulating effect of the virus on the host immune response , the mechanism of which remains unknown . 
cytomegalovirus infections after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection occurs in approximately 50 % of all recipients of allogeneic bone marrow transplants and is seen more frequently in cmv-seropositive patients than in cmv-seronegative patients . sources of infection include reactivation of latent endogenous virus , blood products from cmv-seropositive blood donors , and the use of marrow from a cmv-seropositive donor for a cmv-seronegative recipient . the most common and severe clinical syndrome associated with cmv infection in allogeneic transplant recipients is interstitial pneumonia , which occurs in approximately 15 % of patients . risk factors for cmv pneumonia include old age , conditioning with total-body irradiation , and severe graft-vs . - host disease . the rapid diagnosis of cmv pneumonia has been facilitated by immunochemical staining of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid or by centrifugation of cell cultures with cmv monoclonal antibodies . the treatment of cmv pneumonia remains problematic , but therapy with a combination of intravenous immune globulin ( ivig ) plus ganciclovir has resulted in survival rates substantially better than those achieved in previous trials of antiviral therapy . in cmv-seronegative patients , cmv infection and pneumonia can be prevented or modified by the use of cmv-seronegative blood products and ivig . ivig may also have the additional benefits of preventing other infectious complications and graft-vs . - host disease in patients receiving cmv-seronegative blood products . for cmv-seropositive patients , effective prophylaxis for cmv reactivation and pneumonia has not yet been established , but a clinical trial of prophylactic ganciclovir is now under way . 
cytomegalovirus infections in bone marrow transplant recipients given intensive cytoreductive therapy . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infections were studied in 785 bone marrow transplant recipients given intensive cytoreductive therapy . cmv excretion occurred in 24 % , viremia in 9 % , seroconversion in 40 % , and overall active infection in 47 % . cmv disease was much less common . retinitis , enteritis , and pneumonitis occurred in only one , five ( less than 1 % ) , and 55 ( 7 % ) of the patients , respectively . allograft recipients were more likely to develop cmv disease than were autograft patients ( p = .0001 ) despite comparable rates of active cmv infection . cmv disease was rare after primary infection in both autograft and allograft recipients ( 0 and 1 % , respectively ) . in contrast , cmv disease occurred in 16 % of seropositive allograft recipients . among allograft recipients , risk factors for cmv pneumonitis were seropositivity , age greater than 10 years , and acute graft-vs . - host disease , while the use of cyclosporine as prophylaxis against graft-vs . - host disease was protective . although active infection rates did not decrease , the rates of cmv pneumonitis in allograft recipients during successive years declined significantly ( p less than .001 ) . 
successful strategy for prevention of cytomegalovirus interstitial pneumonia after human leukocyte antigen-identical bone marrow transplantation . cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) interstitial pneumonia is a frequent and often fatal complication of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . because therapy for cmv pneumonia was , until recently , largely ineffective , prophylactic methods were explored . this study shows that the strategy of using cmv seronegative blood products for seronegative patients with seronegative donors or weekly administration of intravenous immunoglobulin for all other patients reduced the attack rate of cmv pneumonia . the results of this study are put into the perspective of previously published data . 
complications of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in neonates . in cases of severe respiratory failure , cardiopulmonary bypass has been used as support until cardiac and pulmonary recovery occurs . we report the wilford hall usaf medical center experience with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) and its associated complications . from july 1985 to march 1989 , 57 neonates were placed on membrane oxygenators . the overall survival was 79 % . technical complications encountered included catheter-related problems , mechanical complications of the pump apparatus , and hemorrhage . hemorrhagic complications were the most frequent and devastating complications encountered . intracranial hemorrhage accounted for six deaths associated with bypass . extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is successful in significantly improving survival of neonates whose predicted mortality approaches 100 % with conventional treatment . the rate of infant mortality using the membrane oxygenator is not affected by technical complications related to catheter position , mechanical problems with the circuit , or hemorrhage , excluding intracranial hemorrhage . the major cause of death of infants receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is the underlying disease process leading to cardiopulmonary failure . 
analysis of the two-team approach to anterior spinal fusion . an anterior approach to the spine via a thoracoabdominal incision offers the surgeon many advantages . the major vascular structures are visualized , stabilization of a long segment of the spine is strong , and recovery is speedy . nevertheless , this is a major operation and one with potential morbidity and mortality . at children 's hospital of new orleans , the pediatric surgery and pediatric orthopedic surgery services work together to reduce these risks and in so doing maintain an acceptable morbidity . with this two-team approach ; we operated on the spines of 39 patients between 1978 and 1988 . the most common indications for operation included idiopathic scoliosis , neuromuscular disease , and congenital abnormalities . a thoracoabdominal approach was used in 32 patients , a thoracic approach in four patients , and an abdominal approach in three patients . twenty-nine patients experienced 65 complications ; 45 of these complications were respiratory in nature . there were no postoperative deaths . factors unrelated to the incidence of postoperative complications included age , volume of crystalloid infused during operation , volume of blood replacement , and length of anesthesia . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia manifested as a hilar mass and cavitary lesion : an atypical presentation in a patient receiving aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis . a case of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) in a patient with aids was manifested radiographically as a hilar mass and cavitary lesion . the patient had been receiving aerosolized pentamidine as prophylaxis against pcp . nonuniform deposition of aerosolized pentamidine was probably responsible for this atypical radiographic appearance of pcp . 
pleuropulmonary tularemia : successful treatment with erythromycin . a 64-year-old man had community-acquired pneumonia that was retrospectively diagnosed as pleuropulmonary tularemia . he was successfully treated with erythromycin . we review the case and briefly discuss the literature on this point . 
the contributions of john b. murphy to thoracic surgery . john b. murphy was a prominent surgeon who lived in chicago from the 1880s until his death in 1916 . during his career , he was associated with both rush presbyterian and northwestern medical schools . he was responsible for popularizing the use of an artificial pneumothorax as an effective adjunct in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis . this modality was not , however , his original concept . in addition to all of the fields of general surgery , murphy undertook the management of empyema and lesions of the chest wall and also performed thoracoplasty procedures . although he had done several thoracotomy procedures in his laboratory , he rarely undertook this operation in a clinical setting . drop ether anesthesia was used for all surgical procedures . murphy did not use closed water seal drainage of the chest . his oration on thoracic surgery , given at the annual meeting of the ama , in 1898 , was an excellent monograph on the subject and undoubtedly contributed to the increased interest and progress in this field of surgery . murphy was a wise surgeon , an able technician and a scholarly teacher . the high regard in which he was held by his contemporaries is best expressed by the remark of william mayo , " ... he was the surgical genius of our generation " . 
radiologic staging of chest in testicular seminoma . we investigated the usefulness of chest x-ray ( cxr ) , conventional planar tomography ( tom ) , and computerized axial tomography ( cat ) in evaluating patients with stages i and ii testicular seminoma . all patients had a cxr , and 22 patients had either tom or cat as part of initial staging . no occult pulmonary or mediastinal nodal disease was found during initial staging , and none of the patients manifested recurrence of tumor in these sites as a first event . review of the literature corroborates our finding of a very small thoracic failure rate in early stage seminoma . routine use of cat or tom is not indicated in staging these patients . 
nasolaryngoscopy for family physicians . nasolaryngoscopy is easy to learn and safe and convenient to perform . it is readily accepted by patients and is a rich source of clinical information . the flexible nasolaryngoscope allows the physician to directly observe the anatomy of the nasal passages , pharynx and larynx . the procedure is helpful for identifying the etiology of chronic nasal complaints and hoarseness . other possible indications for nasolaryngoscopy include suspected nasal foreign body , recurrent nasal or pharyngeal bleeding , and epiglottitis . with the use of this instrument , treatment of otolaryngologic conditions may be more specific , thereby reducing unnecessary referral or delay in treatment . 
hiv disease : a review for the family physician . part ii . secondary infections , malignancy and experimental therapy . the first part of this two-part article included recommendations for the initial evaluation of patients suspected of having hiv infection , the centers for disease control 's classification scheme for hiv disease and current recommendations for the use of zidovudine . in this second part , secondary infections and malignancy are reviewed , and various experimental therapies are briefly discussed . 
effects of common illnesses on infants ' energy intakes from breast milk and other foods during longitudinal community-based studies in huascar ( lima ) , peru . to assess the effects of common infections on dietary intake , 131 peruvian infants were observed longitudinally . home surveillance for illness symptoms was completed thrice weekly , and food and breast-milk consumption was measured during 1615 full-day observations . mean ( + / - sd ) energy intakes on symptom-free days were 557 + / - 128 kcal/d ( 92.4 + / - 26.5 kcal.kg-1 . d-1 ) for infants aged less than 181 d and 638 + / - 193 kcal/d ( 77.7 + / - 25.7 kcal.kg-1 . d-1 ) for infants aged greater than 180 d. statistical models controlling for infant age , season of the year , and individual showed significant 5-6 % decreases in total energy intake during diarrhea or fever . there were no changes with illness in the frequency of breast-feeding , total suckling time , or amount of breast-milk energy consumed . by contrast , energy intake from non-breast-milk sources decreased by 20-30 % during diarrhea and fever , and the small decrements in total energy consumption during illness were explained entirely by reduced consumption of non-breast-milk foods . 
inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor ( plasma cell granuloma ) . clinicopathologic study of 20 cases with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural observations . twenty cases of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor ( imt ) were studied ; 19 involved the lung and 1 the esophagus only . the patients ' ages ranged from 3 to 72 years . there were 9 males and 11 females . involvement of a bronchus was seen in one case and of mediastinal structures in four . chest pain and dyspnea were common symptoms ; eight patients were asymptomatic . seven patients underwent lobectomy , 12 local excision , and 1 biopsy alone . the lesions were nonencapsulated and ranged from 1.2 to 15 cm . various proportions of plasma cells , histiocytes , and spindle cells were observed ; the latter corresponded ultrastructurally to fibroblasts and myofibroblasts , were immunoreactive for vimentin and actin and focally for desmin , and were negative for epithelial markers . plasma cells were polyclonal for light chains . one patient had two recurrences , and in one case a large pleural imt was found eight years after the excision of a similar lesion in the lung . all patients with follow-up ( ten ) were well as long as ten years after the diagnosis ( average , 3.7 years ) . 
survey of histologic specimens of human cancer for human papillomavirus types 6/11/16 / 18 by filter in situ hybridization . histologic specimens ( 317 ) of genital and nongenital cancers and normal tissue were analyzed for the presence of the dna of human papillomavirus ( hpv ) 6 , 11 , 16 , and 18 by filter in situ hybridization performed on paraffin-embedded , formalin-fixed tissue ( histofish ) . hpv dna was found in 73 of 172 ( 42 % ) anogenital lesions and 17 of 116 ( 15 % ) nonanogenital carcinomas . no hpv dna was found in normal mouse skin ( five samples ) , human autopsy liver ( two samples ) , or kidney ( eight samples ) , or in carcinomas of the breast ( three samples ) , bladder ( five samples ) , or colon ( nine samples ) . of the nongenital tumors , hpv dna was found in the carcinomas of the lung ( 2 of 5 ) , anus ( 7 of 18 ) , esophagus ( 9 of 39 ) , buccal cavity ( 1 of 5 ) , and larynx ( 5 of 50 ) . hpv dna was also detected in 2 of 11 histologically normal specimens of the cervix and 1 of 3 human skin lesions . the detection of hpv dna in carcinomas of the lung , larynx , and esophagus as well as in the anogenital region confirms recent suggestions that hpv types 6 , 11 , 16 , and 18 have a wider association with different types of cancer than previously believed . the study also shows that histofish is a useful method for detecting hpv-dna in histologic specimens . 
childhood deaths from toy balloons . we describe four children who died of suffocation by rubber balloons in canada between 1983 and 1988 . in the united states , at least 121 children have died in a similar manner in the 15 years between 1973 and 1988 according to a report by the us consumer product safety commission . although the highest mortality occurred among infants , 30 ( 25 % ) of the 121 deaths occurred in children 6 years of age or older . balloons account for 43 % of the approximately 15 childhood deaths related to children 's products that are documented each year by the consumer product safety commission . toy rubber balloons are thus the leading cause of pediatric choking deaths from children 's products . preventive efforts should be directed toward a ban on this type of balloon and the development of safer alternatives . meanwhile , public information campaigns should alert parents , physicians , and policymakers to the dangers of toy rubber balloons . 
use of intrapleural streptokinase in the treatment of thoracic empyema . the incidence of pleural effusions in bacterial pneumonia may exceed 40 % , a factor that may be related to increased morbidity and mortality . options in the treatment of complicated pleural effusions or empyema , when unresponsive to closed tube drainage , include repositioning of the indwelling tube thoracostomy or insertion of additional chest tubes , instillation of intrapleural streptokinase , and surgical intervention . the authors describe the course of three patients wherein the use of intrapleural streptokinase was efficacious in effecting prompt drainage of previously inadequately evacuated empyema , thus eliminating the necessity for further invasive intervention . 
pulmonary disease in aids patients . pulmonary disease remains a major complication of the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . over the past decade several changes in the pattern of disease have occurred . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) remains the most common opportunistic pathogen in aids patients , though its incidence on bronchoscopy has declined and empiric therapy often occurs without a specific diagnosis . changes in the management of patients with pcp have included different dosages and routes of administration for chemotherapy , improved overall survival , and a recent increase in the number of patients surviving episodes of respiratory failure . in addition , infection with mycobacteria tuberculosis ( m.tb . ) has emerged as a major public health problem . the pattern of m.tb . is distinct from non-immunocompromised patients though response to therapy usually occurs . 
ultrastructural localization of proteinase 3 , the target antigen of anti-cytoplasmic antibodies circulating in wegener 's granulomatosis . to investigate the distribution of proteinase 3 , the target antigen of anti-cytoplasmic antibodies ( acpa or c-anca ) , within the organelles of resting normal human polymorphonuclear leukocytes and monocytes , the authors used immunocytochemical techniques on thin frozen sections . to obtain valuable tools for immunolabeling , two murine monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) directed against the acpa antigen were produced . in neutrophils , the authors observed immunogold label for the acpa antigen , predominantly in myeloperoxidase-positive azurophil granules , and in smaller amounts on the plasma membrane . in monocytes , the acpa antigen could be detected in small granules , which occasionally also contained myeloperoxidase , and rare labeling was found on the monocyte membrane . the finding that the acpa antigen is expressed on the plasma membrane of neutrophils and monocytes , thereby becoming accessible to circulating autoantibodies , supports the supposition that acpa are not only markers of disease activity , but also are involved in the pathogenesis of wegener 's granulomatosis . 
inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor growth in the brain . suppression of endothelial cell turnover by penicillamine and the depletion of copper , an angiogenic cofactor . microvascular proliferation , a hallmark of malignant brain tumors , represents an attractive target of anticancer research , especially because of the quiescent nonproliferative endothelium of the normal brain . cerebral neoplasms sequester copper , a trace metal that modulates angiogenesis . using a rabbit brain tumor model , normocupremic animals developed large vascularized vx2 carcinomas . by contrast , small , circumscribed , relatively avascular tumors were found in the brains of rabbits copper-depleted by diet and penicillamine treatment ( cdpt ) . the cdpt rabbits showed a significant decrease in serum copper , copper staining of tumor cell nuclei , microvascular density , the tumor volume , endothelial cell turnover , and an increase in the vascular permeability ( breakdown of the blood-brain barrier ) , as well as peritumoral brain edema . in non-tumor-bearing animals , cdpt did not alter the vascular permeability or the brain water content . cdpt also inhibited the intracerebral growth of the 9l gliosarcoma in f-344 rats , with a similar increase of the peritumoral vascular permeability and the brain water content . cdpt failed to inhibit tumor growth and the vascularization of the vx2 carcinoma in the thigh muscle or the metastases to the lung , findings that may reflect regional differences in the responsiveness of the endothelium , the distribution of copper , or the activity of cuproenzymes . metabolic and pharmacologic withdrawal of copper suppresses intracerebral tumor angiogenesis ; angiosuppression is a novel biologic response modifier for the in situ control of tumor growth in the brain . 
prevalence of chronic bronchitis among us hispanics from the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey , 1982-84 . in the hispanic health and nutrition examination survey ( hhanes ) , puerto ricans had a higher age-adjusted prevalence of self-reported chronic bronchitis ( 2.9 percent , 95 % ci = 2.2 , 3.6 ) than mexican americans ( 1.7 percent , 95 % ci = 1.3 , 2.1 ) or cubans ( 1.7 percent , 95 % ci = 0.9 , 2.5 ) . the prevalence of chronic bronchitis was at least 2 times higher in smokers as compared to nonsmokers among puerto ricans and cubans , but not for mexican americans . 
admissions to the intensive care unit after complications of anaesthetic techniques over 10 years . 2 . the second 5 years compared with the first 5 years there was a 19 % increase in general anaesthetics , a 171 % increase in local and ( or ) sedation techniques and a 9 % increase in obstetric epidurals with no increase in anaesthetic staffing . in this second 5-year period , 46 patients were admitted to the intensive care unit as a result of a complication of an anaesthetic technique . these patients represented 1 in 2371 anaesthetic techniques carried out in the district compared with the previous 5 years where the incidence was 1 in 1543 . seven patients died ( 15.2 % ) . the complication was considered to be wholly or partially avoidable in 14 instances ( 30.4 % ) . four of these subjects died . 
treatment of atelectasis of upper lung lobes . selective bronchial suctioning with j-shaped catheter tip and guide mark . we developed a technique for blind bronchial suction using a curved-tip catheter with a guide mark , for the treatment of atelectasis of the lower and middle lobes of the lung . suction of the upper lobe bronchi could not be performed because of the combination of the peculiar anatomy of the upper lobe bronchi with catheter design . we treated successfully two cases of atelectasis of the right upper lobes using a rusch metras bronchography catheter with a guide mark which is not readily available . therefore we devised a j-shape tipped catheter with a guide mark . we have successfully treated 13 episodes of atelectasis of the right upper lobe in 10 patients and one episode in the left upper lobe in one patient with this new catheter . 
laryngeal oedema from a neck haematoma . a complication of internal jugular vein cannulation . laryngeal oedema occurred after formation of a neck haematoma after attempted internal jugular vein cannulation . this resulted in complete respiratory obstruction and respiratory arrest and it was impossible to ventilate her lungs manually or intubate her trachea . oxygenation of the patient was only possible using transtracheal ventilation . 
effects of famotidine and cimetidine on plasma levels of epidurally administered lignocaine . the effects of two h2-receptor antagonists , famotidine and cimetidine , on the plasma levels of epidurally administered lignocaine were studied . group a ( n = 20 ) received famotidine 20 mg orally the night before surgery and 20 mg intramuscularly 60 minutes before induction of anaesthesia . group b ( n = 15 ) received cimetidine 200 mg orally the night before the surgery and 400 mg orally 60 minutes before the anaesthetic induction . group c ( n = 20 ) received neither famotidine nor cimetidine and served as controls . twelve millilitres of 2.0 % lignocaine with adrenaline 1:200,000 was injected into the epidural space in all patients , after the establishment of general anaesthesia with nitrous oxide , oxygen , and enflurane ( 0.3-0 .5 % ) . the patients who received cimetidine showed significantly higher plasma concentrations of lignocaine compared with either group a or group c at all investigation times ( p less than 0.01 ) . the mean peak plasma concentrations were 2.4 ( sem 0.1 ) , 3.2 ( sem 0.2 ) and 2.3 ( sem 0.1 ) micrograms/ml in group a , b , and c , respectively . this study suggests that famotidine is preferable to cimetidine for control of gastric acidity before the use of lignocaine as the epidural anaesthetic . 
acid aspiration prophylaxis in 288 obstetric anaesthetic departments in the united kingdom . the choice of drugs for acid aspiration prophylaxis in 288 obstetric anaesthetic departments in the united kingdom was determined by questionnaire . the results are compared with a similar survey of anaesthetic departments 5 years ago . the prescription of sodium citrate and the h2 receptor antagonist ranitidine has superseded that of mist . magnesium trisilicate . 
emergency tracheal intubation in the postanesthesia care unit : physician error or patient disease ? inadequate airway maintenance has been a major factor in perioperative morbidity . to determine the incidence and etiology of emergency tracheal intubations in the postanesthesia care unit ( pacu ) , we retrospectively reviewed 13,593 consecutive admissions to our pacu from october 1986 through october 1988 . twenty-six patients ( 26/13 ,593 = 0.19 % ) required the insertion of an endotracheal tube while in the pacu . seventy-seven percent ( 20/26 ) of the intubations occurred within 1 h of extubation and/or admission to the pacu . intubation was more common at the extremes of age ; 54 % of those intubated were more than 60 yr old ( p = 0.003 ) ; 19 % were less than 3 yr old ( p less than 0.05 ) . twenty-three percent of the intubated patients had undergone otolaryngologic procedures ( p = 0.008 ) . interestingly , 73 % of the intubations occurred during the months of january through june ( p = 0.016 ) . median pacu admission scores were lower for the intubated group ( p less than 0.001 ) . there was no association between intubation and gender ( p = 0.74 ) , anesthetic technique ( p = 0.41 ) , or anesthetic agent ( p = 0.49 ) . of the 26 intubations , 18 ( 69 % ) were considered to be directly related to anesthetic management . despite the extremely low incidence of emergency tracheal intubation in a heterogeneous group of patients admitted to our pacu , preventable anesthesia-related etiologic factors including excessive sedative or anesthetic effect , inappropriate fluid management , persistent muscle relaxant effect , and upper airway obstruction contributed to the majority of these intubations . 
local and global function of the right ventricle in a canine model of pulmonary microembolism and oleic acid edema : influence of ventilation with peep . right ventricular ( rv ) dysfunction may occur due to increased rv afterload and , hence , might also contribute to the decrease in cardiac output following institution of peep in patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) . to test this hypothesis , the authors examined the influence of peep on local and global rv function in 12 anesthetized dogs with experimental ards ( eards ) induced by pulmonary microembolization with glass beads and oleic acid . local rv function was analyzed in the rv inflow tract ( rvit ) and rv outflow tract ( rvot ) by assessing both diastolic segment length , systolic segment shortening , and segment work ( sonomicrometry ) . global rv contractility was quantified by measuring maximum rate of pressure rise ( drvp/dtmax ) and maximum velocity of contractile element shortening ( vmax ) . in eards , despite a fivefold increase in pulmonary vascular resistance , there was no change in cardiac index ( ci ) , global rv contractility , rvit and rvot work , and rvit shortening , whereas rvot shortening decreased from 12.4 to 7.4 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . diastolic segment length increased in rvit ( p less than 0.05 ) but not in rvot . peep of 10 cmh2o did not alter global rv contractility , rvit and rvot shortening , and rvit work but reduced rvot work ( -35 % ; p less than 0.01 ) and ci ( -11 % ; p less than 0.001 ) . cardiac index further decreased during peep of 20 cmh2o ( -38 % ; p less than 0.001 ) , while global rv contractility remained intact despite decreased rvit and rvot shortening ( -32 % and -69 % ; p less than 0.05 ) and work ( -26 % and -59 % ; p less than 0.01 ) in the presence of reduced fiber preload in both regions . from these findings , it was concluded that 1 ) the decreased ci during mechanical ventilation with peep at constant right ventricular end-diastolic pressure ( rvedp ) is not caused by depressed global rv contractility in dogs with eards and a normal myocardium prior to insult . decreased diastolic segment length and segment shortening during peep suggest that 2 ) peep reduces stroke volume by the starling mechanism rather than by ischemia of the rv free wall . finally , regionally incongruent changes of fiber preload indicate that 3 ) local differences in rv wall compliance are likely to occur subsequent to eards and peep . 
manual translaryngeal jet ventilation and the risk of aspiration in a canine model . study objectives : manual translaryngeal jet ventilation ( tljv ) is a safe and effective method of maintaining normal ventilation in apneic subjects . little data exist on the amount of airway protection afforded with this technique of airway management . we sought to evaluate the risk of aspiration during manual tljv . setting : data were collected in a laboratory animal model . design : a prospective , nonrandomized , controlled trial was performed . participants : seventeen adult apneic mongrel dogs were enrolled . interventions : intratracheal gastrograffin was instilled and radiographic changes assessed during ventilation using a 0 to 3 scale ( none to severe ) . thirty-six trials were performed , with equal numbers at both 30 degrees and 45 degrees head elevation . the three groups studied were animals without airway protection ( control ) , animals with a cuffed endotracheal tube ( tube ) , and animals with a percutaneous tljv cannula and a 50-psi oxygen source ventilated at a rate of 20 breaths per minute ( jet ) . measurements and main results : significantly less radiographic evidence of aspiration was noted in the jet and tube groups at 30 degrees and 45 degrees compared with control animals ( p = .002 each ) . at 45 degrees head elevation a trend toward increased aspiration scores in the jet group compared with the tube group ( p = .065 ) was observed . conclusion : in our model , manual tljv at 20 breaths per minute and an i : e ratio of 1:2 provided protection from aspiration comparable to that observed with a cuffed endotracheal tube at 30 degrees head elevation . at 45 degrees elevation , this protection was diminished . 
prehospital administration of inhaled metaproterenol . study objectives : we conducted a study of the prehospital use of inhaled metaproterenol . design , setting , type of participants , and interventions : advanced life support ( als ) providers were trained with a standardized curriculum to identify patients likely to benefit from prehospital inhaled metaproterenol administration . unit doses of metaproterenol were used in a small-volume nebulizer . we prospectively included 122 patients in an initial study ( 71 men ; age , 63 + / - 19 years ) to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of metaproterenol in the field , and 150 patients ( including the original 122 ) in an additional study to evaluate patient selection criteria . measurements and main results : the treatments resulted in an increase in peak flows , a decrease in respiratory rates , and no change in heart rates . in 62 % of patients , the increase in peak flow exceeded 15 % . wheezing improved in 59 % of the patients , worsened in 4 % , and did not change in the remainder . air entry by auscultation improved subjectively in 59 % of patients . mild tremor occurred in 8 % of patients , moderate tremor occurred in 1 % , and no tremor occurred in the remainder . significant dysrhythmias did not occur . conclusions : als providers correctly identified patients for this therapy . no technical problems were encountered in the field with this treatment approach . we conclude that als providers can be taught to identify patients likely to benefit from inhaled metaproterenol , that inhaled metaproterenol can be administered in the field , and that metaproterenol is both safe and effective when used in the prehospital setting . 
atypical presentation of pulmonary embolism . today we have discussed an interesting patient with an atypical presentation of pulmonary embolism . we have outlined a suggested algorithm to aid in the diagnosis and management of this disease . references 8 through 24 in the reference section are suggested readings that offer further insight into the diagnosis and management of this entity . 
characterization of distal bronchial microflora during acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis . use of the protected specimen brush technique in 54 mechanically ventilated patients . to obtain accurate information on distal bronchial microflora during acute exacerbation in patients with chronic bronchitis , we prospectively studied 54 such patients who had been receiving mechanical ventilation because of hypercapnic respiratory failure . fiberoptic bronchoscopy using a protected specimen brush ( psb ) was performed on each patient within the first 24 h after admission . cultures of protected brush specimens demonstrated no growth in 27 patients ( 50 % ) . with the exception of fever ( 38.2 + / - 0.8 versus 37.7 + / - 0.6 degrees c ; p less than 0.05 ) , the initial severity of the episode of exacerbation was similar in patients with and without infection . a total of 44 organisms were isolated in the 27 patients with positive cultures ; the predominant pathogens were hemophilus spp . and streptococcus spp . ( involved in 74 % of cases ) , but other organisms were isolated in 12 of 27 patients . mortality rates , duration of mechanical ventilation , and duration of hospitalization were not significantly different between patients with bronchial microflora treated with appropriate antimicrobial therapy ( n = 27 ) and patients without bronchial microflora either receiving empirical antibiotic therapy ( n = 18 ) or not ( n = 9 ) . these data suggest that distal bronchial infection due to the usual pathogens , as far as shown by protected specimen brush cultures , may not be the sole or even the predominant cause of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis in patients requiring mechanical ventilation . 
distinguishable types of dyspnea in patients with shortness of breath . dyspnea frequently accompanies a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities . although dyspnea is often considered a single sensation , alternatively it may encompass multiple sensations that are not well explained by a single physiologic mechanism . to investigate whether breathlessness experienced by patients represents more than one sensation , we studied 53 patients with one of the following seven conditions : pulmonary vascular disease , neuromuscular and chest wall disease , congestive heart failure , pregnancy , interstitial lung disease , asthma , and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . patients were asked to choose descriptions of their sensation ( s ) of breathlessness from a dyspnea questionnaire listing 19 descriptors . cluster analysis was used to identify natural groupings among the chosen descriptors . we found that patients could distinguish different sensations of breathlessness . in addition , we found an association between certain groups of descriptors and specific conditions producing dyspnea . these findings concur with those in an earlier study in normal volunteers in whom dyspnea was induced by various stimuli . we conclude that different types of dyspnea exist in patients with a variety of cardiopulmonary abnormalities . furthermore , different mechanisms may mediate these various sensations . 
a family study of the variability of pulmonary function in alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency . quantitative phenotypes . a group of 52 alpha 1-antitrypsin-deficient individuals of phenotype pi z and 117 of their relatives underwent a protocol including pulmonary function testing , completion of a questionnaire , and blood donation . our population permitted a minimum frequency estimate ( 7 x 10 ( -4 ) ) for pi null alleles . five quantitative phenotypes were measured , including fev1 , fef25-75 , total serum alpha 1at , oxidized serum alpha 1at , and total serum ige . we found that ( 1 ) total alpha 1at levels were higher in pi z subjects with lung function impairment ( fev1 less than or equal to 65 % of predicted ) than in pi z subjects who were not impaired ; ( 2 ) pi z subjects with lung function impairment had elevated serum levels of oxidized alpha 1at ; and ( 3 ) ige levels were relatively elevated in first-degree pi mz relatives of impaired pi z subjects . moreover , fev1 tended to be relatively reduced in heterozygous parents of impaired pi z subjects , suggesting that a subset of pi mz individuals are at risk for development of lung disease because of familial factors . these results represent an initial step toward the development of intermediate phenotypes that will be predictive of a severe course in alpha 1at deficiency ; they suggest that , in addition to cigarette smoking , atopic predisposition and undetermined familial factors may be important codeterminants of lung disease progression . 
pulmonary denervation in humans . effects on dyspnea and ventilatory pattern during exercise . the role of the pulmonary autonomic nerves in the mediation of respiratory sensation is unclear . pulmonary neurogenic mechanisms may contribute to dyspnea either directly or indirectly via an influence on the pattern of ventilation . using human heart-lung transplantation as a model of pulmonary denervation , we studied the ventilatory response , respiratory drive ( p0 .1 ) , and sensation of breathlessness ( modified borg scale ) during maximal incremental bicycle exercise . the subjects were four female heart-lung transplant recipients 3 to 9 months post-transplant and 10 age-matched control subjects . the ventilatory response to increasing co2 output ( vco2 ) was higher ( p less than 0.001 ) in transplant recipients than in control subjects , such that ventilation at peak exercise was similar in the two groups despite a lower peak vco2 in transplant recipients . the ratio of tidal volume to inspiratory capacity increased with increasing ventilation in a similar fashion in both groups . although the respiratory rate increased more quickly in transplant recipients , it was similar at peak ventilation in the two groups . ventilatory timing and duty cycle at half-peak and peak ventilation were similar in transplant recipients and control subjects . dyspnea ratings were not different between the two groups at similar levels of ventilation . dyspnea as a function of p0 .1 was also similar in transplant and control groups . these results indicate that pulmonary neurogenic mechanisms play a role in determining the level , but not the pattern , of ventilation during exercise . furthermore , these pathways do not appear to contribute significantly to the perception of breathlessness in normal humans . 
the role of mucous glycoproteins in the rheologic properties of cystic fibrosis sputum . cystic fibrosis ( cf ) is characterized by excessive amounts of thick and tenacious mucous secretions that obstruct organ ducts and passages . in the respiratory tract this is associated with chronic infection resulting in the hypersecretion of purulent sputum , which the patient finds difficult to clear . we have studied the rheologic properties of purulent sputum from six patients with cf and five patients with chronic bronchitis to assess whether cf is associated with increased sputum viscoelasticity . in addition , we have isolated the major rheologic determinants , mucous glycoproteins , from cf and chronic bronchitis sputa and , using a magnetic microrheometer , investigated the possibility that the altered properties of mucus in cf are associated with abnormalities in these glycoproteins . creep compliance analysis indicated that the cf sputa possessed raised levels of both elasticity ( p less than 0.01 ) and viscosity ( p less than 0.01 ) . these increases in both rheologic parameters were found to be associated with increases in the dna content ( p less than 0.01 ) and dry weight ( p less than 0.05 ) . mucous glycoproteins were isolated from cf and chronic bronchitis sputum samples by gel filtration on sepharose cl4b , followed by concentration to form 8 % wt/wt gels . in the absence of other sputum components , no abnormality in the rheologic properties of cf mucin gels could be detected . however , when dna was added , the cf gels responded with increases in both elasticity and viscosity of as much as 30 % ( p less than 0.05 ) , an effect not observed in the chronic bronchitis gels . these results suggest that a subtle abnormality may exist in cf mucous glycoproteins and that this could have a role in the altered physical properties of mucous secretions in cf. 
frequency and clinical implications of monoclonal antibody detection of tumor-associated antigens in serum of patients with lung cancer . we previously showed that a panel of monoclonal antibodies ( mab ) ( 5e8 , 5c7 , and 1f10 ) that detect serum tumor-associated antigens ( taa ) could distinguish patients with lung cancer from those without to a highly significant degree . however , among patients with lung cancer , the frequency and clinical importance of serum taa expression were not established . therefore , we analyzed the serum and initial clinical characteristics of 52 philadelphia va patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer seen over a 13-month period . a modified semiquantitative elisa was employed to determine mab reactivity . our cohort was characterized by a mean age of 65 + / - 9 year ( sd ) and mean karnovsky score of 74 + / - 10 ; marked weight loss was present in 28 subjects , and 39 presented with either stage iii or iv disease . the panel detected taas in 38 of 52 cases ( sensitivity 73 % ; 95 % cl , 60-83 % ) , including 13 of 22 squamous cell , 9 of 12 adenocarcinoma , 10 of 11 undifferentiated , and 6 of 7 small cell carcinomas . no significant differences were found between the reactive and nonreactive patients in terms of age , stage at presentation , histologic subtype , performance status , or weight loss . however , 1f10 and 5c7 were each associated with a greater risk of early death by cox proportional hazard analysis ( p = 0.017 and 0.006 , respectively ) even when other prognostic variables are accounted for . we conclude that specific serum taa can be detected in the majority of lung cancer patients with all major histologic subtypes in a cohort with advanced tumors and poor prognostic indices . 
determination of serum concentrations of type iii procollagen peptide in mechanically ventilated patients . pronounced augmented concentrations in the adult respiratory distress syndrome . type iii procollagen peptide ( pcp ) is a byproduct of type iii collagen synthesis and a potential marker of collagen secretion . in chronic diffuse interstitial lung diseases , elevated pcp concentrations have been found in serum as well as in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid . it has been proposed that pcp is a marker of early , active stages of fibrosis . as severe fibrosis is a frequent complication in adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) , we investigated pcp in patients with ards and compared the results with those from patients requiring mechanical ventilation because of heart failure and after neurosurgical and surgical interventions , and those from spontaneously breathing patients , including healthy volunteers and patients with pneumonia , liver cirrhosis , and renal failure . pcp concentrations in patients with ards were extremely elevated compared with those in control subjects ( p less than 0.001 ) and correlated positively with fio2 ( r = 0.71 , p less than 0.01 ) . these results support the pathophysiologic concept of early fibrogenesis in ards . as preventing pulmonary fibrosis in ards is essential in improving survival rate , we believe pcp can be a valuable diagnostic tool in ards . 
effect of pentoxifylline on hemodynamics , alveolar fluid reabsorption , and pulmonary edema in a model of acute lung injury . we investigated the effect of pentoxifylline ( ptx ) on the development of pulmonary edema in a model of adult respiratory distress syndrome in rabbits . lung injury was induced by repeated saline lavages in adult rabbits weighing 2.5 to 3.5 kg . rabbits pretreated with ptx ( 20 mg/kg bolus followed by 20 mg/kg/h infusion ) developed significantly lower amounts of lung edema 4 h after saline lavage ( extravascular lung water to dry weight ratio [ w/d ] , 6.9 + / - 0.6 sd versus 8.9 + / - 0.5 in control animals ) . ptx produced a 25 % increase in cardiac output , but there were no differences between treated and untreated groups in calculated pulmonary vascular resistance or microvascular pressure . to determine whether ptx could have lowered pulmonary venous resistance and thus lowered effective microvascular pressure for fluid filtration , we directly measured pulmonary artery and left atrial pressures , and measured by micropuncture the pressure in 20 to 40 microns subpleural venules in four open-chested rabbits 3 to 4 h after lavage . venous resistance was low ( venous pressure drop 0.9 + / - 0.1 mm hg ) and was unchanged by ptx infusion . to determine if ptx decreased lung water by accelerating active alveolar fluid reabsorption , a single 60-ml aliquot of saline was instilled into the lungs of normal rabbits treated with saline or ptx . both groups had a similar decrease in lung water content 1 and 4 h later . our data indicate that ptx reduces edema formation in rabbits after saline lavage , not by lowering microvascular pressures for fluid filtration or by acceleration alveolar fluid reabsorption , but possibly by its anti-inflammatory effect on neutrophil function . 
persistent lower respiratory tract inflammation associated with interstitial lung disease in patients with tropical pulmonary eosinophilia following conventional treatment with diethylcarbamazine . tropical pulmonary eosinophilia ( tpe ) presents as an acute syndrome with dyspnea , fluffy infiltrates , and rounded opacities on the chest radiograph , reduced lung function , marked eosinophilia in the blood and lower respiratory tract , and high titers of specific ige and igg antifilarial antibodies . the standard therapy for tpe is a 3-wk course of diethylcarbamazine ( dec ) following which there is almost always a marked improvement in all parameters . however , clinical observations suggest that the disease can persist despite dec therapy and lead to chronic dyspnea with restrictive lung impairment . to evaluate the concept that dec therapy is not completely " curative " for tpe , but rather leaves most individuals with a mild , chronic form of tpe defined by persistent inflammation of the lower respiratory tract , we evaluated 23 individuals an average of 12 + / - 2 months following a standard 3-wk course of diethylcarbamazine for acute tpe . in the majority there were mild , persistent symptoms referrable to the lung , chest x-ray abnormalities , blood eosinophilia , and elevated serum ige and filarial specific igg . on the average , lung function was consistent with the presence of chronic , mild interstitial lung disease . when the inflammatory cells from the lower respiratory tract were examined , there was a persistent eosinophilic alveolitis ( tpe/post-dec 1769 + / - 376 eosinophils/microliters epithelial lining fluid ; normal subjects 256 + / - 38 , p less than 0.02 ) . evaluation of the lower respiratory tract inflammatory cells recovered from the tpe/post-dec-treated individuals demonstrated spontaneous release of exaggerated amounts of o2 - . and h2o2 compared to normal subjects ( p less than 0.05 , both comparisons ) . 
the penetration of aminoglycosides into the alveolar lining fluid of rats . the effect of airway inflammation . the concentration-time profile of gentamicin and tobramycin in the alveolar lining fluid ( alf ) of rats was determined after intravenous bolus injection using bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) . bal can be used for evaluating the penetration of both aminoglycosides into the alf if highly sensitive detection methods are used , and an endogenous marker ( urea ) can be applied to avoid the unpredictable dilutional effect of the lavage procedure . the concentration of gentamicin and tobramycin in alf reached a peak after 5 and 10 min , respectively , and remained high when plasma concentrations were declining , suggesting an accumulation reservoir in the lung acini . the ratio of the auc of the concentration-time profile in alf and plasma was 0.67 and 0.45 for gentamicin and tobramycin , respectively . the penetration of both aminoglycosides into the alf was significantly higher after induction of airway inflammation by inhalation of endotoxin . the ratio of the auc in alf and plasma in the endotoxin-exposed animals was 0.76 and 0.55 for gentamicin and tobramycin , respectively . the ratio of the auc of the concentration-time profile of gentamicin in alf to that of tobramycin was 1.27 without inflammation and 1.44 after endotoxin exposure . thus , both with and without inflammation , gentamicin penetrates better into the alf than does tobramycin . 
bronchodilator response to ipratropium bromide in infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . although the muscarinic antagonist ipratropium bromide is used clinically as a bronchodilator in infants ventilated because of bronchopulmonary dysplasia ( bpd ) , no studies have compared the response or efficacy of different dosages or its effectiveness in combination with beta-adrenergic agonists . we measured the response of respiratory system mechanics in 10 ventilated infants ( 25 + / - 2 days of age ) to 75 , 125 , and 175 micrograms ipratropium bromide ( ib ) , 125 micrograms ib plus 0.04 mg salbutamol ( sal ) , 175 micrograms ib plus 0.04 mg sal , and saline vehicle , delivered via nebulizer into the ventilator circuit . respiratory system resistance ( rrs ) and compliance ( crs ) were measured by the passive flow-volume technique . rrs and crs were measured before and at 1 to 2 h and at 4 h after delivery of the five drug dosages or saline . all six studies were completed within a 72-h period . saline had no significant effect on mechanics . significant responses to ipratropium alone were seen only after 175 micrograms where rrs decreased 20 + / - 3 % ( sem ) ( p less than 0.05 ) at 1 to 2 h and 16 + / - 5 % ( p less than 0.05 ) at 4 h. after 125 micrograms ib + sal and 175 micrograms ib + sal , rrs was significantly decreased both at 1 to 2 h and at 4 h , and crs was significantly increased 20 + / - 6 % and 20 + / - 4 % , respectively , at 1 to 2 h. the greatest decrease in rrs ( 26 + / - 6 % ) was seen 1 to 2 h after 175 micrograms ib + salbutamol . 
formoterol , a new inhaled beta-2 adrenergic agonist , has a longer blocking effect than albuterol on hyperventilation-induced bronchoconstriction . the duration of effect of inhaled formoterol ( 24 micrograms ) was compared with that of a placebo and that of inhaled albuterol ( 200 micrograms ) in 12 adult asthmatic subjects who underwent hyperventilation tests with cold dry air ( -20 degrees c ) on 4 study days . on the control day , they were subjected to four hyperventilation tests to ensure functional stability . on the 3 remaining days , after a first hyperventilation test , they inhaled placebo , albuterol , or formoterol in randomized , double-blind fashion . the hyperventilation test was repeated 1 , 4 , and 8 h and , if the blocking effect was still present , 12 and 24 h after the drug had been administered . the dose of hyperventilation of cold air causing a 20 % fall in fev1 ( pd20 ) was interpolated on the dose-response curve . the magnitude of the blocking effect at each time interval on each study day was assessed by comparing the changes in pd20 from baseline with the within-day variability of pd20 ( standardized change in pd20 ) . the acute bronchodilator effect was not significantly different as assessed 15 min ( 21 + / - 14 % for albuterol and 18 + / - 18 % for formoterol ) and 1 h ( 20 + / - 13 % for albuterol and 18 + / - 17 % for formoterol ) after administering the medication . the duration of the blocking effect , defined as the return to 2 sd from the standardized change in pd20 , was significantly more prolonged for formoterol ( 8.0 + / - 3.4 h ) than for albuterol ( 3.0 + / - 1.7 h ) ( t = 4.2 , p less than 0.0001 ) . 
respiratory health effects of the indoor environment in a population of dutch children . the effect of indoor exposure to nitrogen dioxide on respiratory health was studied over a period of 2 yr in a population of nonsmoking dutch children 6 to 12 yr of age . lung function was measured at the schools , and information on respiratory symptoms was collected from a self-administered questionnaire completed by the parents of the children . nitrogen dioxide was measured in the homes of all children with palmes ' diffusion tubes . in addition , information on smoking and dampness in the home was collected by questionnaire . there was no relationship between exposure to nitrogen dioxide in the home and respiratory symptoms . respiratory symptoms were found to be associated with exposure to tobacco smoke and home dampness . there was a weak , negative association between maximal midexpiratory flow ( mmef ) and exposure to nitrogen dioxide . fev1 , peak expiratory flow , and mmef were all negatively associated with exposure to tobacco smoke . home dampness was not associated with pulmonary function . lung function growth , measured over a period of 2 yr , was not consistently associated with any of the indoor exposure variables . the development of respiratory symptoms over time was not associated with indoor exposure to nitrogen dioxide . there was a significant association between exposure to environmental tobacco smoke in the home and the development of wheeze . there was also a significant association between home dampness and the development of cough . 
pulmonary fibrosis in aluminum oxide workers . investigation of nine workers , with pathologic examination and microanalysis in three of them . epidemiologic surveys have indicated an excess of nonmalignant respiratory disease in workers exposed to aluminum oxide ( al2o3 ) during abrasives production . however , clinical , roentgenographic , histologic , and microanalytic description of these workers are lacking . this is a report of nine al2o3-exposed workers with abnormal chest roentgenograms ( profusion greater than or equal to 1/0 , ilo/uc ) from a plant engaged in the production of al2o3 abrasives from alundum ore . mean duration of exposure was 25 yr , and time since first exposure was 28 yr . in a subgroup of three , the severity of symptoms , reduction in the forced vital capacity ( 67 % predicted ) and diffusing capacity ( 51 % predicted ) , and progressive roentgenographic changes ( profusion greater than or equal to 2/2 ) prompted open lung biopsy . lung tissue was analyzed by scanning electron microscopy and electron microprobe analysis . in each of the three biopsies , interstitial fibrosis with honeycombing was seen on routine section . in one biopsy , silica and asbestos fiber counts were at the low end of the range seen with silicosis and asbestosis ; however , the absence of asbestos bodies and silicotic nodules suggested that the fibrosis was due to another cause . metals occurred in amounts several orders of magnitude above background , and the majority was aluminum as al2o3 and aluminum alloys . the findings in these nine workers suggests a common exposure as the possible cause . the nonspecific pathologic findings , absence of asbestos bodies and silicotic nodules , and the striking number of aluminum-containing particles suggest that al2o3 is that common exposure . the possibility of " mixed dust " fibrosis should also be considered . 
computerized tomography in the evaluation of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis . allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis ( abpa ) is a destructive disease of the lung characteristically associated with central bronchiectasis . this study was designed to determine if high-resolution computerized tomography ( ct ) could be used to define bronchiectasis in patients with suspected disease . sixteen patients with asthma were studied . all demonstrated immediate cutaneous reactivity to common aeroallergens including aspergillus fumigatus . eight patients had clinical and immunologic evidence of abpa . six to 12 high-resolution ct sections ( 1.5 mm ) were obtained at 1 - to 2-cm intervals from the aortic knob to the dome of the diaphragm . all radiographs were evaluated separately by two readers in a blinded fashion and graded as to the presence and type of bronchial dilatation and bronchial wall thickening . bronchial dilatation was seen in 41 % of lung lobes in the abpa group compared to 15 % in the non-abpa asthmatic control group . upper lobe involvement and bronchial wall thickening was common to both groups . the presence of bronchiectasis in the control group may indicate that asthma is a more destructive lung disease than is currently appreciated . high-resolution ct of the chest has been shown in previous studies to have a sensitivity and specificity approaching that of bronchography , and the current findings support its use in the detection of bronchiectasis in patients with asthma suspected of having abpa . 
pulmonary histiocytosis x with mediastinal lymph node involvement . in this report , we describe a patient with the classic histology of pulmonary histiocytosis x , who had bilateral reticulonodular densities and mediastinal lymph node involvement . the diagnosis was confirmed by the use of electron microscopy and immunohistochemical markers ( ps100 , hla-dr , and cd1 ) , which allowed us to recognize the lymph node infiltration of x histiocytes . an association of mediastinal lymph node enlargement with pulmonary histiocytosis x has been reported but it has never been histologically documented . 
flexible bronchoscopic removal of radioccult polyurethane foam , with pneumonitis in a hyperventilated lobe . an intellectually delayed adult ingested and aspirated a large quantity of polyurethane foam , developing acute respiratory failure in association with partial airway obstruction . the foam was identified by flexible bronchoscopy and successfully removed from the bronchus intermedius and left mainstem bronchus with a retrieval basket . this facilitated normalization of blood gases and eventual recovery . however , the unobstructed right upper lobe became infiltrated radiographically , presumably resulting from regional hyperinflation and/or occult focal aspiration . 
colobronchial fistula : a rare complication of crohn 's colitis . a 29-yr-old white woman presented with chronic pneumonia in the left lower lobe and with left pleural effusion . she was known to have inflammatory bowel disease , but she was asymptomatic under maintenance treatment with 5-asa . she received numerous antibiotic regimens according to susceptibility testing of microorganisms cultured from sputum and bronchial lavage and on an empiric basis was also given antituberculosis treatment , but there was no clinical improvement or change in the chest radiographic findings . sputum was repeatedly examined and yielded , among other organisms , clostridium inocuum , enterobacter , klebsiella pneumoniae , proteus mirabilis , and staphylococcus aureus . on one microscopic examination of sputum , the presence of feculent material was suspected . a subsequent gastrografin enema revealed a cologastric and colobronchial fistula between the splenic flexture of the colon and the greater curve of the stomach and the bronchial system . segmental resection of the colon and resection of the lower lobe of the left lung were performed . histologic findings of the resected colon were consistent with crohn 's disease . after a long period of postoperative recovery , the patient returned to good general health and well-being . to our knowledge , a colobronchial fistula caused by crohn 's colitis has not been previously reported . 
the rise of tuberculosis in america before 1820 . bills of mortality , newspaper and gazette articles , journals , and other records with specific references to " consumption , " " phthisis , " and other terms for tuberculosis were reviewed to determine the occurrence and importance of tuberculosis in the american colonies before 1820 . review of these sources indicates a marked increase in the proportional mortality from tuberculosis in the united states in the 18th century . " consumption " may have been the leading cause of death in adult american colonists . 
six-month isoniazid-rifampin treatment for pulmonary tuberculosis in children . one hundred and seventeen children with pulmonary tuberculosis underwent treatment with a 6-month daily regimen of rifampin ( 15 mg/kg/day ) and isoniazid ( 10 mg/kg/day ) . the criteria for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis were ( 1 ) clinical symptoms and signs in 93 children ( 79 % ) , ( 2 ) history of direct contact with an adult with tuberculosis in 106 children ( 91 % ) , ( 3 ) tuberculin reaction of 5 mm or more , without previous bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) , in 45 children ( 38 % ) , ( 4 ) suggestive radiologic alterations in all patients , and ( 5 ) positive bacteriology or histology in four patients ( 3 % ) . the treatment was completed by 97 children ( 83 % ) . the mean weight gain during therapy was 2,145 g. there was an excellent clinicoradiologic response to the treatment , and improvement in chest roentgenograms was observed in all patients at the end of therapy . no relapses occurred among the patients followed for an average of 21.4 months . this study indicates that the treatment of primary pulmonary tuberculosis in children with a combination of rifampin and isoniazid daily for 6 months is efficacious and does not result in any relapse . 
tumor cell lines established in vitro : an independent prognostic factor for survival in non-small-cell lung cancer . objective : to determine the relation between in-vitro establishment of tumor cell lines and survival in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer . design : cohort study . setting : single-institution tertiary care center . patients : one hundred twenty-three consecutive patients with non-small-cell lung cancer from whom a viable tumor specimen could be obtained . intervention : tumor tissue was removed at the time of entry into a therapeutic protocol . the tumor tissue was processed in the laboratory for attempted cell-line establishment . patients classified as potentially curable ( stages i , ii , and iiia ) were treated with surgical resection , radiation therapy , or a combination . patients suitable for palliative therapy only ( stages iiib and iv ) were treated with radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy . chemotherapy was based on in-vitro drug sensitivity when available . cell-line establishment was correlated to clinical outcome . measurements and main results : univariate analysis of survival was done using the log-rank test ; multivariate analysis was done by cox modeling step-up and step-down techniques . cell lines were established from the tumor specimens of 25 patients ( 20 % ) . those patients experienced a median survival of 7 months compared with 18 months in patients from whom cell lines could not be established ( p less than 0.001 ) . in the 61 patients with potentially curable disease , 8 patients ( 13 % ) with cell lines established had a median survival of 8 months compared with 32 months for those without cell lines established ( p = 0.001 ) . in the 62 palliative group patients , the median survival of the 17 patients ( 27 % ) from whom tumor cell lines were established was 5 months compared with 7 months for those without cell lines ( p = 0.15 ) . multivariate analysis in both groups showed cell-line establishment to be a significant indicator of prognosis ( p less than 0.0001 for curable group ; p less than 0.01 for palliative group ) . conclusion : in-vitro tumor growth is related to decreased patient survival , which in turn reflects the biologic aggressiveness of cancers giving rise to these tumor cell lines . 
systems architecture for quantification of dynamic myoelectric and kinematic activity of the human vocal tract . this paper describes a systems architecture useful for scientific investigations that require the acquisition and analysis of multiple , time-synchronous signals in large volume . the architecture has recently been developed by this group to enhance our capability to research and quantify central nervous system function in the production of normal and pathologic speech . the architecture utilizes modern advances in desktop microcomputers and has been designed so that vocal motor control laboratories ( or similar settings ) with modest funding can more fully participate in comprehensive investigations of speech production . research experiments organized with this architecture may involve many more subjects and measures than previously possible without significant increases in time and personnel resources . this paper will demonstrate the technique and practicality of this architecture as it is being used to successfully guide research to map hierarchic central nervous system regions of involvement in two speech disorders : spasmodic dysphonia and stuttering . the architecture has broad usefulness to many areas of otolaryngology and health science . 
peak inspiratory pressure requirements in infants born weighing less than 750 g. the possibility that peak inspiratory pressure requirements or the arterial : alveolar oxygen ratio can predict the clinical outcome in infants weighing less than 750 g at birth was explored in a consecutive series . nine of 10 infants ( 90 % ) with a peak inspiratory pressure requirement of more than 18 cm h2o at 48 hours or more than 16 cm h2o at 72 hours from age subsequently died later of respiratory causes ( defined as death after 72 hours of pulmonary interstitial emphysema , bronchopulmonary dysplasia , or cor pulmonale ) . twenty of 21 remaining infants ( 95 % ) survived until discharge . using these data a 95th centile for peak inspiratory pressure requirement during the first 72 hours of life was constructed . the potential value of this centile in predicting later death of respiratory causes was examined in a separate series . twelve of 15 infants ( 80 % ) whose peak inspiratory pressure requirements remained below the 95th centile , or were not ventilated ( n = 6 ) , survived . in contrast , 11 of 12 ( 92 % ) infants whose requirements crossed the 95th centile died later of respiratory causes . the infants who died had more radiological changes and higher mean arterial carbon dioxide pressure than survivors suggesting that the severity of the initial lung disease rather than the way that ventilation was managed determined prognosis . peak inspiratory pressure requirement was more useful than arterial : alveolar oxygen ratio in clearly distinguishing between survivors and infants who died later of respiratory causes . 
thoracoplasty : current application to the infected pleural space thoracoplasty , once commonly used in the management of cavitary pulmonary disease , continues to find application in the obliteration of infected pleural spaces . this study reports a series of 13 patients receiving thoracoplasty between 1976 and 1989 . five patients had chronic apical empyema spaces without prior resection of lung tissue . two of the empyemas were due to tuberculosis , two were due to atypical mycobacteria , and one was due to postpneumonic empyema . all patients had extensive destruction of upper lobe tissue . eight patients had undergone prior pulmonary resection ; 3 had persistent infected spaces in the early postoperative period , 3 had development of empyemas and bronchopleural fistulas late ( 5 to 19 years ) after pulmonary resection , and 2 had postpneumonectomy empyema . all patients had rigid cavity walls preventing space obliteration by rib removal alone and required concomitant resection of the thickened pleura and intercostal muscle tissues . bronchopleural fistulas were present in 11 patients and were closed with adjacent nonintercostal muscle . all patients survived and had successful obliteration of the infected spaces with acceptable physiological and cosmetic results . we conclude that thoracoplasty remains a useful procedure in the management of the infected pleural space in select patients . 
strategy for lymphadenectomy in lung cancer three centimeters or less in diameter we have surgically treated 221 patients with a primary lung cancer 3.0 cm or less in diameter . there were 8 patients with a tumor 1.0 cm or less in diameter ( group a ) , 84 with a tumor 1.1 to 2.0 cm in diameter ( group b ) , and 129 with a tumor 2.1 to 3.0 cm in diameter ( group c ) . the incidence of n0 , n1 , and n2 disease was 100 % , 0 % , and 0 % , respectively , for patients in group a ; 83 % , 5 % , and 12 % in group b ; and 62 % , 12 % , and 25 % in group c ( n0 versus n2 , p less than 0.01 ) . for the 63 patients with regional lymph node involvement , " skipping " metastasis was present in 28.6 % . the 5-year survival rate was 80 % for group a , 74 % for group b , and 51 % for group c ( group b versus group c , p less than 0.01 ) . of the 121 patients who underwent complete resection and were followed up for 5 years , 41 % had recurrence , 8 % with local recurrence and 33 % with distant metastasis . therefore , it is important to do as complete a resection as possible together with mediastinal lymphadenectomy . efforts to detect systemic spread should be made at the time of preoperative evaluation , even when the lung tumor is small . 
prognostic determinants in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for respiratory failure in newborns . extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) is becoming an accepted therapeutic modality for newborn respiratory failure , but there is little information available regarding the prognostic determinants with this technique . one hundred thirty-five newborns treated with ecmo over a 4-year period were critically analyzed with regard to the influence that birth weight , gestational age , age at initiation of ecmo , best blood gases before ecmo , number of hours on ecmo , renal failure , intracerebral hemorrhage , and long-distance air transport had on survival . infants with meconium aspiration and those undergoing long-distance transfer showed significant differences in blood gases before ecmo , with survivors having more normal ph and carbon dioxide tension values . intracerebral hemorrhage and renal failure that developed during ecmo were grave prognostic signs , with few survivors in either group . these data show that ability to ventilate patients before ecmo , giving normal carbon dioxide tension and ph values , is an important prognostic sign in infants with meconium aspiration and undergoing long-distance transfer for ecmo , whereas renal failure and intracerebral hemorrhage are usually lethal complications of ecmo . each center performing ecmo should continually reevaluate this invasive technique and its results and complications . 
surgical management of pulmonary metastatic leiomyosarcoma with gross endobronchial extension . metastatic leiomyosarcoma occasionally is seen with gross endobronchial extension without invasion of the bronchial wall . these patients have major airway obstruction and partial or total atelectasis of the lung . precise bronchoscopic assessment coupled with intraoperative bronchotomy allows the surgeon to determine the origin of the tumor and to save uninvolved pulmonary parenchyma . our experience with 4 such patients illustrates the possibility of saving lung tissue despite total bronchial obstruction . 
giant chest wall tumor resulting from tissue reaction to foreign bodies . three patients are reported in whom chest wall tumors developed 19 to 28 years after thoracoplasty and increased in size with time . the tumors could be removed operatively with good results . all tumors were composed of hematoma and necrotic material , and in all cases they revealed foreign bodies microscopically . diagnosis and possible etiological factors are discussed . 
thoracoscopic treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax using carbon dioxide laser . in an effort to improve the success rate of the previously described thoracoscopic electrocautery ablation technique of spontaneous pneumothorax , the carbon dioxide laser was evaluated in 12 patients . the recurrent ( 5 patients ) or persistent ( 7 patients ) spontaneous pneumothoraces were caused by rupture of ( 1 ) blebs in 6 patients , ( 2 ) intrapulmonary apical type ii bullae in 3 patients , and ( 3 ) diffuse bullous emphysema , type iii , in 3 . the air leaks were successfully sealed in all but 1 patient with ruptured type ii bulla . surgical specimen from this single failure suggested that the entire inner lining of the bullae must be thermocoagulated . this technical modification led to successful outcome in 2 subsequent cases . with the use of carbon dioxide laser , it was possible to treat not only small blebs but all types of bullae causing spontaneous pneumothorax . laser thoracoscopy is effective and safe in treating spontaneous pneumothorax . 
pulmonary resection combined with cardiac operations . surgical management of patients with concomitant critical cardiac disease and resectable lung lesions is controversial . during a 7-year period ( 1982 to 1988 ) , 21 patients underwent combined cardiac and pulmonary operations . patients had cardiac symptoms only ; the lung lesions were found on preoperative chest roentgenograms . the pathological diagnosis was established in only 2 of the patients before operation . all underwent concurrent pulmonary resection during cardiac operations requiring extracorporeal circulation . the pulmonary operations included 17 wedge resections and four lobectomies . the final diagnoses in 8 patients with stage i non-small cell lung cancer included epidermoid carcinoma ( 4 ) , adenocarcinoma ( 3 ) , and bronchoalveolar carcinoma ( 1 ) . postoperatively , 1 patient required a permanent pacemaker and 1 patient died . the actuarial survival at 5 years for all patients who underwent combined procedures was 95 % . the 5-year survival for the 8 patients with lung cancer was 88 % compared with 100 % for those with benign pulmonary pathology ( p = 0.172 ) . this experience suggests that combining pulmonary resection with cardiac operations is safe and offers a favorable prognosis to a select group of patients . 
tracheal reconstruction with polytetrafluoroethylene graft in dogs . use of prosthetic materials for long-segment tracheal reconstruction has been limited owing to infection , graft migration , ingrowth of fibrous tissue , and stenosis . polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) is flexible and porous , and it may resist infection more than previously used materials . we evaluated ptfe for use in long-segment tracheal reconstruction . a 5-cm segment of trachea was resected in 9 dogs and replaced with a 20-mm reinforced ptfe graft using 4-0 vicryl sutures . in 2 control dogs , one tracheal arch was resected and a primary anastomosis was performed . the animals were followed up with weekly bronchoscopy and endoscopic photography . euthanasia was performed at 16 weeks or when signs of respiratory distress developed . at postmorten examination , the anastomoses were examined grossly and with light and scanning electron microscopy . in all 9 dogs that underwent tracheal replacement with ptfe , granulation tissue developed at the anastomoses resulting in airway obstruction after 3 to 8 weeks . no epithelial growth occurred over the graft between the anastomoses . the control animals did well . we conclude that granulation tissue formation at the anastomosis and the lack of respiratory epithelial ingrowth across the graft makes ptfe unsuitable for long-segment tracheal reconstruction . 
long-term results of operation for non-small cell lung cancer in the elderly . we surgically treated 185 patients with non-small cell lung cancer who were 70 years old or older . the operative mortality rate was 3 % , and the 5-year survival rate was 48 % . the mortality and prognosis were similar to those in younger patients . the number of elderly patients who smoked heavily or who had ventilatory defects was high , but the incidence of pneumonectomy was low . there were no differences based on age in regard to histological type , tnm classification , and curability . pulmonary complications occurred in 21 % of the elderly patients and were correlated with preoperative pulmonary function and smoking habits . when the elderly are to undergo elective pulmonary resection for lung cancer , the preoperative evaluation of pulmonary function should be thorough , and both preoperative and postoperative physical therapy should be given . if postoperative pulmonary function is predicted to be less than 0.8 l/m2 of vital capacity and 0.6 l/m2 of forced expiratory volume in 1 second , a limited resection or nonsurgical therapy should be considered . 
pleuropulmonary morbidity : internal thoracic artery versus saphenous vein graft . although use of the internal thoracic artery ( ita ) for coronary artery bypass grafting results in superior graft patency and improved patient survival , our initial clinical observations suggested an increased incidence of pleuropulmonary morbidity with its use . one hundred consecutive patients with left ita grafts were studied prospectively and compared with a consecutive retrospective group of 100 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting with saphenous vein grafts only . preoperative , postoperative day ( pod ) 2 , pod 6 , and postoperative week 8 chest roentgenograms were analyzed for atelectasis and effusion . postoperative left lower lobe atelectasis was common in both groups on both pod 2 ( saphenous vein , 43 % , versus ita , 53 % ; not significant ) and pod 6 ( saphenous vein , 40 % , versus ita , 41 % ; not significant ) . there was a significantly higher incidence of pleural effusion on pod 6 in the ita group ( 84 % versus 47 % ; p less than 0.05 ) but most of these were small . there was more chest tube drainage ( 1,413 versus 1,028 ml ; p less than 0.01 ) and a greater need for secondary thoracostomy or thoracentesis ( 4 % versus 0 % ) in the ita group . the left pleural space was opened in 67 of the 100 ita patients but pleurotomy did not appear to influence postoperative morbidity . we conclude that use of the internal thoracic artery for coronary artery bypass grafting results in a small but significant increase in pleuropulmonary morbidity . 
management of aortobronchial fistula with graft replacement and omentopexy . massive hemoptysis due to a recurrent aortobronchial fistula after repair of a thoracic aortic aneurysm developed in a 64-year-old woman . the infected aortic tissue was resected and replaced with an in situ dacron graft covered by omentum . the patient is alive and well 15 months later . 
congenital tracheoesophageal fistula associated with carcinoma of the lung in an adult . a rare case of adult congenital h-type tracheoesophageal fistula was diagnosed . subsequently , at operation , large cell , undifferentiated carcinoma of the right middle lobe with extension to the right lobe and adherence to the diaphragm was documented . the diagnosis , surgical intervention , and 4-year follow-up are presented . 
bronchial anomaly of the right upper lobe . this case report presents a rare anomaly of right upper lobe bronchial anatomy . during routine right upper lobe resection for carcinoma , a common right upper and middle lobe bronchus was found . the resection was completed as a right upper and middle bilobectomy . knowledge of this uncommon variant was beneficial in performing the pulmonary resection . a review of the literature is presented . 
left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis : an unusual presentation of histoplasmosis . a case of histoplasmosis seen as left recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis in a 49-year-old man is described . the patient had roentgenographic findings of a solitary , noncalcified left upper lobe mass and mediastinal adenopathy . tissue diagnosis of histoplasmosis was obtained using a thoracotomy , allowing institution of appropriate treatment . 
job 's syndrome : a rare cause of recurrent lung abscess in childhood . a clinical syndrome characterized by recurrent staphylococcal infection of the skin and respiratory tract from birth was described in 1966 and referred to as job 's syndrome . marked hyperimmunoglobulinemia e was later found to be associated with this syndrome . this article describes a case of job 's syndrome as a cause of recurrent lung abscess during childhood necessitating lung resection . 
lower extremity weakness as the initial manifestation of lung cancer [ published erratum appears in arch phys med rehabil 1991 jan ; 72 ( 1 ) :61 ] a 55-year-old woman had progressive lower extremity weakness . she had an 80-pack-per-year history of cigarette smoking . electromyographic findings were consistent with the lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome . despite a normal chest x-ray , normal laboratory studies , and negative bronchoscopy , investigation for lung cancer was pursued . the final thoracotomy and pathology reports indicated a diagnosis of oat cell carcinoma . after treatment with chemotherapy and radiation therapy , clinical and electrophysiologic findings have resolved . two years after diagnosis , the patient remains in good health without evidence of recurrence . 
diffusing capacity of the lung and nifedipine in systemic sclerosis . lung involvement in systemic sclerosis may be due in part to a functional abnormality of the pulmonary vasculature . to investigate the possible role of a pulmonary vasospastic process in this disorder , 21 non-smoking patients who had no evidence of cardiac disease or pulmonary hypertension were evaluated with pulmonary function tests prior to administration of nifedipine , 30 minutes after a single oral dose of nifedipine ( 20 mg ) , and after 4 weeks of treatment with nifedipine ( 10 mg 3 times daily ) . treatment with nifedipine did not significantly change any of the pulmonary function values , except for the carbon monoxide diffusing capacity ( dlco ) . the linear trend between the individual dlco values at baseline and their changes immediately following the initial 20-mg dose of nifedipine ( r = -0.603 , p = 0.02 ) and after 4 weeks of treatment ( r = -0.636 , p = 0.01 ) showed that the lower the dlco value at baseline , the greater the improvement caused by nifedipine . these findings support the hypothesis of a potentially reversible pulmonary vasospasm in systemic sclerosis and suggest that nifedipine may be useful in the treatment of lung disease in these patients ; however , further studies are needed . 
leiomyosarcoma of the sinonasal tract . a clinicopathologic study of nine cases . the clinicopathologic features of nine cases of sinonasal tract leiomyosarcoma ( sntl ) referred to the armed forces institute of pathology , washington , dc , during the period from 1970 through 1988 are described . this report represents the largest study to date on sntl , and our results are compared with the 21 previously reported cases of sntl . of the nine cases described , patients ranged in age from 22 to 86 years ( mean , 55 years ) . the most frequent clinical presentation was nasal obstruction unilaterally . the neoplasms were limited solely to the nasal cavity in four cases ( 44 % ) and involved both the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses in the remaining five cases . light microscopic , immunocytochemical , and ultrastructural features served to characterize these tumors as malignant neoplasms of smooth-muscle origin . in contrast with previous studies , immunocytochemistry was employed to differentiate sntl from other spindle cell malignancies of the region , using newly available monoclonal antibodies to smooth-muscle antigens . treatment was surgical . radiotherapy or chemotherapy did not appear to affect the progression of the disease . furthermore , no relationship was found between the aggressiveness of sntl and morphologic parameters ( eg , mitotic count and tumor size ) . instead , prognosis was dependent on the distribution of disease at presentation . of all 30 patients with sntl described to date , 10 had the neoplasm confined solely to the nasal cavity . the 10 neoplasms did not recur . we conclude that sntl may best be regarded as a locally aggressive neoplasm with only limited metastatic potential and that it could be curable by complete surgical excision . 
metastasizing pleomorphic adenoma of the nasal septum . pleomorphic adenoma is the most common benign tumor of glandular tissue occurring in the head and neck region . there have been several reports of metastasis of this benign-appearing tumor from the salivary glands to distant sites , suggesting hematogenous spread and implantation . although occurrence of pleomorphic adenoma on the nasal septum has been described , to our knowledge this is the first reported case of recurrent septal pleomorphic adenoma with histologically benign tissue in an enlarged metastatic ipsilateral submandibular lymph node , suggesting lymphatic spread . the literature concerning the subject is reviewed . wide septal excision and modified neck dissection is the recommended treatment . 
glucocorticoids inhibit neurogenic plasma extravasation and prevent virus-potentiated extravasation in the rat trachea . capsaicin increases the permeability of blood vessels in the rat tracheal mucosa through a mechanism involving the release of tachykinins from sensory nerves . this capsaicin-induced increase in vascular permeability is potentiated by viral infections of the respiratory tract . the present study was done to determine whether this " neurogenic plasma extravasation " can be inhibited by glucocorticoids , to learn the time course of this inhibition , and to determine whether glucocorticoids can prevent the potentiating effect of viral respiratory infections on neurogenic plasma extravasation . groups of pathogen-free f344 rats were treated with dexamethasone for 2 or 8 h ( 4 mg/kg i.p. ) or 48 or 120 h ( 0.5-4 mg/kg per d i.p. ) . another group of rats was treated with dexamethasone for 120 h following the intranasal inoculation of sendai virus . the magnitude of plasma extravasation produced by capsaicin or substance p was assessed after this treatment by using monastral blue pigment and evans blue dye as intravascular tracers . we found that dexamethasone reduced , in a dose-dependent fashion , the magnitude of plasma extravasation produced in the rat trachea by capsaicin and substance p. significant inhibition was produced by a dose of dexamethasone as small as 0.5 mg/kg i.p. the effect of dexamethasone had a latency of several hours and reached a maximum after 2 d of treatment . furthermore , dexamethasone prevented the potentiation of neurogenic plasma extravasation usually present after 5 d of sendai virus respiratory infection . 
transforming growth factor-beta activity in sheep lung lymph during the development of pulmonary hypertension . chronic pulmonary hypertension is associated with extensive structural remodeling of the pulmonary arterial bed . the structural changes in the arterial walls include increased production of extracellular matrix components and smooth muscle cell hypertrophy , changes that have been similarly induced by transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) in culture . in the present study , experiments were performed to determine whether tgf-beta is present in sheep lung lymph , and whether tgf-beta levels were altered in an animal model of chronic pulmonary hypertension induced by continuous air embolization . several standard biological assays for tgf-beta activity were used for these determinations including soft agar assays , inhibition of epithelial cell proliferation , and a tgf-beta-specific radioreceptor assay . in each case , control lung lymph contained high concentrations of tgf-beta ( 100 ng/ml ) which required transient acidification for detection . samples of lung lymph from hypertensive sheep showed a transient and early two - to threefold increase in concentrations of latent tgf-beta . this activity could be partially blocked by tgf-beta antibodies . these studies indicate that sheep lung lymph contains tgf-beta and that the level of tgf-beta increases early during the development of pulmonary hypertension . thus , tgf-beta may contribute to the development of the structural changes in the pulmonary arteries that occur during the onset of chronic pulmonary hypertension . 
avoiding a wrapped endotracheal tube in laser laryngeal surgery : experiences with apneic anesthesia and metal laser-flex endotracheal tubes . ninety-one laser laryngeal procedures using the apneic technique of anesthesia were performed in 28 patients between 2 months and 64 years of age . seventy-two procedures ( 79 % ) were performed on children and 19 on adults . there were no complications . eight laser laryngoscopies were performed using a new metal laser-flex endotracheal tube . obstruction of the endotracheal tube with a mucous plug occurred in one case . the apneic technique described in this paper provides a laser operative field free of an endotracheal tube , virtually eliminating the danger of a laser fire . it is a relatively safe and effective means of performing laser laryngeal surgery . in addition , the laser-flex endotracheal tube appears to be an acceptable alternative to a metallic tape-wrapped endotracheal tube . 
a palmar dermatosis linked to occult carcinoma of the upper thorax , head and neck : bazex 's syndrome and tripe palm . an unusual , persistent , corregated-to-honeycombed thickening of the palms accompanied by tenderness around the fingernails was found to be a cutaneous marker for internal malignancy . this combination of signs and symptoms has been reported under two clinical entities : bazex 's syndrome and tripe palm . this paraneoplastic syndrome is of interest to head and neck surgeons due to the location of the primary tumor , the site of metastatic disease , and the ability to cure the cutaneous disease by surgical removal of the primary tumor . in our patient , a squamous cell carcinoma of the lung not detectable on chest x-ray presented as a cervical mass accompanied by cutaneous changes on the palms and fingernails . recognition of the relationship of the dermatologic changes to malignancy of a specific body region eventually led to the detection of the primary tumor . the characteristics of these paraneoplastic syndromes were reviewed in this report . 
trends in lung cancer incidence and mortality -- united states , 1980-1987 [ published erratum appears in mmwr morb mortal wkly rep 1990 dec 14 ; 39 ( 49 ) :906 ] lung cancer is the most common fatal malignant neoplasm in the united states . based on current smoking patterns , the substantial public health burden of smoking-related lung cancer will continue during the next several decades . this report describes trends in lung cancer incidence from 1980 through 1986 and lung cancer mortality from 1980 through 1987 . 
bronchoscopy in critically ill patients . when is it appropriate ? fiberoptic bronchoscopy is a valuable diagnostic and therapeutic tool for use in carefully selected patients with serious pulmonary disease . the authors review the benefits and risks of fiberoptic bronchoscopy and discuss the essentials of nursing care before , during , and after the procedure . 
emergent signs of cancer . recognizing them early in the office or er . primary care physicians have a crucial role in recognition of potentially emergent conditions in patients with known or suspected cancer . this task presents a significant challenge because the initial manifestations of these conditions are usually nonspecific . in most cases , therapy is far more effective when diagnosis is made at the earliest possible point . thus , physicians should become familiar with conditions commonly seen in cancer patients , such as superior vena cava syndrome , malignant pericardial effusion , spinal-epidural metastasis , and altered mentation from brain metastases , metabolic encephalopathy , or hypoglycemia . 
surgical treatment for secondary retracted nose . this surgical technique is presented to correct nasal tip retraction , which is frequently associated with other surgical sequelae that can be corrected simultaneously . it is based on the use of a shield , an anchor , or half an anchor of otocartilage , with one or two posterior supports that are sutured together forming a small l and are fixed to the bed to project the nasal tip and , if necessary , to correct the unilateral or bilateral alar collapse . 
small cell lung cancer : staging with mr imaging . small cell lung cancer is an aggressive neoplasm ; metastases are detected in two-thirds of patients at diagnosis with use of conventional staging , which includes bilateral bone marrow biopsy , bone scintigraphy , and computed tomography ( ct ) of the head and abdomen . in 25 patients , small cell lung cancer was staged prospectively with both conventional staging and a magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging protocol that included 1.5-t mr imaging of the pelvis , abdomen , spine , and brain . according to conventional staging , 14 patients had extensive disease and 11 patients had limited disease ; according to staging with mr , 19 patients had extensive disease and six had limited disease . all metastatic disease sites seen with conventional staging were identified on mr images . mr images showed additional metastatic involvement in bone ( four patients ) and liver ( three patients ) not detected at conventional staging . a low-attenuation hepatic lesion on a ct scan was identified as a hemangioma on mr images . these preliminary data suggest that small cell lung cancer may be accurately staged with use of a single mr imaging study . 
small nodular lesions in the lung periphery : new approach to diagnosis with ct . to evaluate relationships between lesions in the lung periphery and surrounding structures , particularly vessels and bronchi , axial multiplanar reconstruction ( ampr ) computed tomography ( ct ) was used to study 26 patients who underwent surgical resection of pulmonary nodules less than 3 cm in diameter . findings at ampr ct , conventional ct , and digital radiographic tomography were compared with findings obtained at evaluation of the resected specimen with regard to the ability to display the relationships between vessels , bronchi , and lesions . ampr ct was significantly superior to conventional ct and digital radiographic tomography in detecting involvement of pulmonary vessels ( p less than .001 ) . involvement of pulmonary veins was seen in all lung cancers , whereas such involvement was seen in only one of eight nonneoplastic lesions . thus , involvement of pulmonary veins is strongly suggestive of malignancy . ampr ct permits three-dimensional visualization and morphologic assessment of pulmonary nodules . 
search and nonsearch protocols for radiographic consultation . six radiologists , acting as radiograph reviewers , used two different consultation protocols to differentiate among 292 ambiguous chest radiographic findings : 120 simulated nodules and 172 normal findings ( previous readers ' false-positive reports of nodules ) . the nonsearch protocol identified each finding ( by film location ) , and reviewers rated the likelihood of each finding 's being a pulmonary nodule . the search protocol asked reviewers to report and rate all locations regarded as possible nodules on each radiograph and assigned a default negative rating to any unreported finding ( nodule or normal structure ) . receiver operating characteristic analyses demonstrated a significantly higher accuracy for each reviewer 's search-protocol discriminations between these nodules and ambiguous normal findings . this superiority-of-search result suggests that radiologists ' second opinions about suspected lesions might be more accurate when consultants follow a search protocol , independently reviewing radiographs without prior knowledge of the specific findings that concerned the primary radiograph readers . 
potential usefulness of an artificial neural network for differential diagnosis of interstitial lung diseases : pilot study . an artificial neural network approach was applied to the differential diagnosis of interstitial lung diseases . the neural network was designed to distinguish between nine types of interstitial lung diseases on the basis of 20 items of clinical and radiographic information . a data base for training and testing the neural network was created with 10 hypothetical cases for each of the nine diseases . the performance of the neural network was evaluated by means of receiver operating characteristic analysis . the decision performance of the neural network was high ; it was comparable to that of chest radiologists and superior to that of senior radiology residents . the preliminary results strongly suggest that the neural network approach has potential utility in the computer-aided differential diagnosis of interstitial lung diseases . 
pulmonary masses : contrast enhancement . radiographic studies to discriminate benign from malignant pulmonary masses have previously focused on the morphologic and , more recently , the computed tomographic ( ct ) attenuation characteristics of the lung mass . experience with the use of an intravenously administered iodinated contrast medium in examining the enhancement properties of lung masses was reviewed . distinctive differences in the vascularity , pathophysiologic features , and pharmacodynamics of malignant versus benign pulmonary masses were identified . forty-five patients with peripheral pulmonary masses were examined . enhancement was evaluated by means of optical density values measured on trispiral tomograms of the lung masses before and after bolus injection of contrast medium . results suggest that contrast enhancement of pulmonary masses can be measured on sectional images and that this may become a feasible diagnostic method in the detection of lung cancer . ct offers a simplified technique that is now being explored by the authors . 
diagnosis and treatment of pneumonia in the surgical intensive care unit [ published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 apr ; 172 ( 4 ) :324 ] it is often difficult to detect the onset of parenchymal pulmonary infection ( pneumonia ) in a surgical intensive care unit ( sicu ) setting . clinical and laboratory parameters that usually indicate the presence of pneumonia , such as fever , elevated white blood cell count and abnormal sputum culture , may also be present in patients with nonpneumonic infection . prompt diagnosis is particularly important for patients in sicu because the mortality rate associated with pneumonia in these patients may be as high as 50 per cent . in the sicu setting , pneumonia is best diagnosed using well-defined roentgenologic criteria . treatment should consist of a broad-spectrum antibiotic regimen to which all sputum pathogens are sensitive . such a regimen significantly reduces the mortality rate for patients with pneumonia in an sicu setting . aztreonam has been found to be as effective against susceptible gram-negative bacilli as traditional agents , such as the aminoglycosides , and to have a significantly milder side effect profile . 
aqueductal ( pencil ) glioma presenting as neurogenic pulmonary edema : a case report . a case of neurogenic pulmonary edema due to hydrocephalus , without initial neurological deficit , is described . computed tomography demonstrated a ring enhancing lesion in the tectum of the mesencephalon obstructing the aqueduct of sylvius . the lesion , on autopsy , was a rare mesencephalic glioma described in the literature as a " pencil glioma " of the aqueduct . 
amiodarone : a postmarketing evaluation of monitoring for drug-induced toxicity . amiodarone , an antiarrhythmic drug with predominantly class iii effects , has demonstrated serious adverse drug reactions and interactions . the departments of pharmacy and cardiology retrospectively evaluated the monitoring parameters at this institution . criteria based on current literature were developed . twenty-six patients were administered amiodarone , qualifying for entry into the audit . of these patients , seven were excluded because their medical records were unavailable or incomplete . the 19 eligible patients were hospitalized during initiation of therapy and followed in the outpatient cardiology clinic . the collected data extracted from the medical charts were compared with the following elements of the criteria selected : baseline evaluation prior to the start of therapy ; monitoring for signs of pulmonary , hepatic , thyroid , cardiac , ophthalmologic , neurologic , and dermatologic toxicity ; and evaluation of potential drug interactions with digoxin and warfarin-type anticoagulants . the percentage of criteria elements appropriately monitored on each patient ranged from 82 to 100 percent , with an average of 91 percent . the most frequently overlooked parameters were warning the patient of a possible photosensitivity reaction , decreasing the digoxin dose if the patient was concurrently taking amiodarone , and performing a slit-lamp examination every six months . frequent examination of the patient 's total organ system and laboratory tests , in addition to patient education , are essential to safe monitoring of amiodarone therapy . 
ability of calcium-entry blockade by felodipine to disclose different pathogenetic mechanisms behind hyperventilation-induced myocardial ischemia in men . to verify that myocardial ischemia occurring during either the overbreathing or recovery phase of the hyperventilation test is based on different pathogenetic mechanisms , 2 consecutive series of patients , selected on the basis of their response to a run-in hyperventilation test , were studied . group i comprised 15 patients who developed st-segment depression early during overbreathing , whereas group ii consisted of 12 patients showing st-segment depression late during the recovery phase . a single oral dose of felodipine 10 mg or of placebo was administered on 2 consecutive days according to a randomized , double-blind , crossover design , and the hyperventilation test was repeated , on both days of the study , 3 to 5 hours after drug intake . in group i , st-segment depression occurred after placebo in all patients during overbreathing , with an increase in rate pressure product ( from 112 + / - 31 at baseline to 168 + / - 55 mm hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of st-segment depression ; p less than 0.01 ) . after felodipine , 13 patients continued to show st-segment depression during overbreathing , together with an increase in rate pressure product ( from 107 + / - 24 at baseline to 158 + / - 46 mm hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of electrocardiographic changes ; p less than 0.01 ) . in group ii , all 12 patients showed st-segment depression during recovery after placebo , with a rate pressure product comparable to baseline conditions ( 112 + / - 35 at baseline vs 102 + / - 27 mm hg x beats/min/100 at the onset of st-segment depression ; difference not significant ) . after felodipine , no patient developed st-segment depression or chest pain . 
angiocentric lymphoma with histologic features of neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis presenting with predominant respiratory and hematologic manifestations . report of a case and review of the literature neoplastic angioendotheliomatosis ( nae ) is a rare fatal disease characterized by widespread intravascular proliferations of neoplastic mononuclear cells . clinically , dermatologic and bizarre neurologic manifestations usually predominate . the origin of the neoplastic cells remains still undetermined . the authors report a patient with nae peculiar with respect to the following points : ( 1 ) the patient predominantly manifested respiratory symptoms and hematologic findings and lacked cutaneous or neurologic manifestations ; and ( 2 ) immunohistochemical and molecular genetic studies showed the b-cell nature of the neoplastic cells , although previous cases with predominant respiratory or hematologic manifestations were reported to be of endothelial origin . despite the rarity , this type of nae or angiocentric lymphoma should be recognized because it is easily confused with other disorders , particularly vasculitis or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . 
midfacial hypoplasia associated with long-term intubation for bronchopulmonary dysplasia . six preterm infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia were nasotracheally intubated for 68 to 243 days . gestational age at birth ranged from 24 to 35 weeks . endotracheal tube size was changed to account for growth and varied from 2.5 to 4.0 mm . these infants developed features of midfacial hypoplasia , namely , depressed nasal bridge , small-tipped nose , long philtrum , underdeveloped malar areas , and carplike mouth . these features have not been associated with long-term intubation in premature infants . we suggest that features of prolonged nasotracheal intubation , such as direct compression by the tube and the method of tube fixation , decreased air flow through the developing nares and sinuses and reduced faciomuscular activity , resulting in the observed midfacial hypoplasia . the degree to which growth corrects these deformations is unknown . 
cardiogenic hepatorenal syndrome . a variant of hepatorenal syndrome occurring in patients with chronic congestive heart failure following an episode of cardiogenic pulmonary edema , and in the absence of hypotension , is described . this was observed in 13 patients during an eleven-year period . the clinical picture is characterized by hepatic injury and functional renal impairment . increase of serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase levels as high as 2100 iu ; prolongation of prothrombin time ; elevation of serum bilirubin , creatinine , blood urea nitrogen , and potassium levels ; decrease in urinary sodium excretion ; and a normal urinary sediment are the salient laboratory abnormalities of this entity . treated with conventional medication , the patients ' course was fatal in 4 cases . when the splanchnic vasodilator dopamine was added to the patients ' management , 5 of 9 patients recovered . cardiogenic hepatorenal syndrome is a severe but potentially reversible complication of heart failure . the apparently beneficial effect of low-dose dopamine needs further evaluation . 
lymphangiomyomatosis -- newer concepts in pathogenesis and management -- case reports . lymphangiomyomatosis was first reported more than forty years ago . although its incidence is rare , its occurrence is being increasingly recognized and has been the subject of a growing number of cases reports in recent years . this study adds 2 more cases to the file . both cases involved young women with the characteristic symptoms of dyspnea , cough , abdominal discomfort and swelling , chest pain , and hemoptysis , with abundant formation of refractory chylous , serous ascites . although the progression of the disease differed in each case , pulmonary function was affected in a similar way by the presence of obstructive and restrictive defects and a decrease in diffusing capacity . underlying abnormalities were dilated lymphatics , thickened lymphatic walls , and muscular proliferation of leiomyomatous origin , leading to bronchial restriction . the authors point to the subtlety required in arriving at a differentiated diagnosis of lymphangiomyomatosis lymphangioleiomyomatosis and the difference between the two conditions . they also make particular recommendations in respect to the importance of preliminary hormone receptor tests and to the wisdom to be exercised in ligating a main lymphatic duct in the chest to control the formation of ascites . pneumothorax , a frequent manifestation of lymphangiomyomatosis , is found to be the result of chronic air trapping due to a combination of narrowing of conducting airways and disruption of normal lung parenchyma . 
masqueraders in clinical allergy : laryngeal dysfunction causing dyspnea [ published erratum appears in ann allergy 1991 jan ; 66 ( 1 ) :22 ] the allergist may be called upon to evaluate patients with dyspnea that is labeled " refractory asthma . " in some patients , the site of origin of their dyspnea is the larynx . the diagnosis of laryngeal disorders requires a thorough understanding of the normal function of the laryngeal anatomy and physiology . some patients with asthma may have a component of their airway obstruction in the larynx and large airways . paradoxical vocal cord motion occurs when the true vocal cords approximate during inspiration , and although severe subjective dyspnea may occur , in most cases there is no evidence of hypoxia , hemoglobin desaturation , or an abnormality of the arterial-alveolar oxygen gradient . provocative tests with methacholine are negative in this group of patients . patients with pvcm are usually female and may have an affiliation with the medical profession . many have psychologic difficulties , and the foundation of treatment is speech therapy and psychotherapy if indicated . other disorders that may produce dyspnea from laryngeal dysfunction include meige syndrome , abductor spastic dysphonia , and laryngospasm . recognition of these disorders will expedite timely , accurate diagnosis and treatment . 
mast cell heterogeneity in chronic idiopathic urticaria . patients with chronic urticaria are more sensitive to codeine skin testing than other allergic individuals . nonlesional skin in most patients with chronic urticaria was found to contain increased numbers of both total and atypical mast cells . the presence of increased mast cell density was found to correlate with the degree of clinical ( dermatographism ) and functional ( codeine skin test ) skin sensitivity . 
the association of selected cancers with service in the us military in vietnam . iii . hodgkin 's disease , nasal cancer , nasopharyngeal cancer , and primary liver cancer . the selected cancers cooperative study group as part of a series of investigations into the health of vietnam veterans , we conducted case-control studies involving 310 men with hodgkin 's disease , 48 with nasal carcinoma , 80 with nasopharyngeal carcinoma , 130 with primary liver cancer , and 1776 controls between 1984 and 1988 . all men born between 1929 and 1953 and diagnosed in an area covered by eight cancer registries were considered eligible as cases ; controls were recruited by random-digit dialing . whereas the study had excellent power ( 96 % ) to detect a twofold increase in risk for hodgkin 's disease among vietnam veterans , its ability to detect a similarly elevated risk in the other cancers was limited , ranging from 38 % ( nasal carcinoma ) to 75 % ( primary liver cancer ) . analyses showed that risks among vietnam veterans relative to other men were 1.1 ( hodgkin 's disease ) , 0.7 ( nasal carcinoma ) , 0.5 ( nasopharyngeal carcinoma ) , and 1.2 ( primary liver cancer ) . none of these relative risks was significantly different from 1.0 . similar results were obtained if vietnam veterans were compared with ( 1 ) other veterans or ( 2 ) men who never served in the military . an examination of several attributes of military service in vietnam ( eg , branch , duration of service , and other characteristics that may have been associated with the use of agent orange ) failed to identify any groups of veterans who were at increased risk for hodgkin 's disease . small numbers limited further analyses of nasal , nasopharyngeal , and liver cancer . these results provide no evidence that , 15 to 25 years following service in vietnam , the risk of these malignant neoplasms is higher among veterans . 
decision analysis , public health policy , and isoniazid chemoprophylaxis for young adult tuberculin skin reactors . as part of a plan to eliminate tuberculosis in america , tuberculin skin testing was advised for all us citizens , with isoniazid chemopreventive therapy administered to appropriate positive reactors . implementation of this plan , however , may be limited by concerns over which skin test reactors should receive isoniazid therapy . recent decision analyses suggest that , contrary to american thoracic society guidelines , asymptomatic skin test reactors under age 35 years with normal chest roentgenograms and no predisposing conditions to tuberculosis reactivation will not benefit from isoniazid chemopreventive therapy . repeated analysis of these studies reveals that calculated life expectancy depends on estimates of the probability of certain chance outcomes . if the isoniazid-related hepatitis case-fatality rate is below 1 % , isoniazid chemopreventive therapy appears to be beneficial . a literature review suggests that this rate is indeed this low . if the tuberculosis case-fatality rate is above 6.7 % , also supported by the literature , the advantages of isoniazid therapy are further increased . this repeated analysis should reassure physicians that isoniazid chemoprophylaxis for tuberculin skin test reactors is beneficial to the individual and consonant with public health policies . 
clindamycin vs penicillin for anaerobic lung infections . high rate of penicillin failures associated with penicillin-resistant bacteroides melaninogenicus . thirty-seven adult patients with anaerobic lung infections ( 27 lung abscesses and 10 necrotizing pneumonias ) were submitted to transthoracic needle-aspiration and/or bronchoscopic specimen brush cultures before therapy and thereafter in all cases considered to be failures . patients were randomly assigned to receive either clindamycin , 600 mg intravenously every 6 hours , or penicillin g , 2 million u every 4 hours for no less than 8 days , until clinical and radiological improvement became apparent . treatment was continued orally with clindamycin , 300 mg every 6 hours , or penicillin v , 750 mg every 6 hours , until completing a minimum of 4 weeks . ten of the 47 anaerobes initially isolated from the lung ( nine bacteroides melaninogenicus and one bacteroides capillosus ) were resistant to penicillin , but none were resistant to clindamycin . five of the nine patients harboring these penicillin-resistant bacteroides received penicillin , and all failed to respond to therapy . overall , eight of the 18 patients in the penicillin group and one of 19 in the clindamycin group failed to respond to therapy . these drugs were equally well tolerated in both groups . the presence of penicillin-resistant bacteroides is a frequent cause of penicillin failure in patients with anaerobic lung infections . in this setting , clindamycin appears to be the current therapy of choice for initial treatment . 
spectrum of invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease in adults . a prospective nationwide surveillance of invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease among adults ( greater than or equal to 16 years old ) was conducted in finland during 1985 through 1988 . thirty-one cases were identified ( annual incidence , 0.22 / 100,000 ) . of these infections , 71 % occurred in patients with severe underlying conditions . the overall case fatality rate was 26 % . septicemia ( 13 patients ) and pneumonia ( seven patients ) were the most common clinical manifestations of h influenzae type b infection ; the others were epiglottitis ( six patients ) , meningitis ( three patients ) , and arthritis ( two patients ) . epiglottitis occurred in significantly younger patients , all of whom were women and four of whom were previously healthy . subtyping of the h influenzae type b isolates according to the major outer membrane protein subtype , biotype , and lipopolysaccharide serotype showed that patterns that were uncommon ( 14 % ) among children were more common ( 27 % ) in the adults . 
barotrauma associated with high-frequency jet ventilation for hypoxic salvage . most reports describe reduction in proximal airway pressures with high-frequency jet ventilation . this led us to speculate that high-frequency jet ventilation might reduce barotrauma by providing alveolar ventilation at lower airway pressures . we describe a group of patients in whom a high incidence of barotrauma was observed after institution of high-frequency jet ventilation despite reduction in measured airway pressures . fifteen hypoxic patients who could not be treated with conventional ventilation and who had no roentgenographic evidence of barotrauma were entered into the study . airway pressures were measured during conventional ventilation and at 2 and 24 hours after high-frequency jet ventilation . despite significant reduction in peak inspiratory and mean airway pressures , pneumothorax developed in seven of the 15 patients , an average of 21 hours after initiation of high-frequency jet ventilation . five patients had bilateral pneumothorax and three developed tension pneumothorax . despite reductions in proximal airway pressures , barotrauma is a significant potential complication of high-frequency jet ventilation in patients with noncompliant lungs . we currently place bilateral prophylactic thoracostomy tubes in patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome prior to initiation of high-frequency jet ventilation . 
visualization of acute pulmonary emboli by transesophageal echocardiography . this report describes a patient who became hypoxic and hypotensive while awaiting cardiac surgery . an urgent transesophageal echocardiogram in the operating room showed a mass at the junction of the main and right pulmonary arteries consistent with thrombus . the thrombus was removed surgically , and the patient then had a successful aortic valve replacement . transesophageal echocardiography is therefore useful in the evaluation of the critically ill patient . 
combined modality therapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma . multi-modality treatment consisting of cisplatin , vp-16 , and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy given concomitantly with external beam radiation was used to treat 64 patients with locally advanced stage iii non-small cell lung carcinoma . this regimen was used in a preoperative fashion for four cycles in patients considered surgically resectable and with curative intent for six cycles in the remainder of patients . the clinical response rate for the entire group was 84 % and the overall local control rate was 74 % . the median survival was 13 months with a median follow-up for live patients of 19 months . the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates were 30 % and 23 % , respectively . histologic complete response was 39 % and appeared to predict for survival . the 3-year actuarial survival and disease-free survival rates for 23 resected patients were 69 % and 45 % , respectively , with the complete histologic responders having a disease-free survival of 78 % . the pattern of first recurrence did not appear to differ by histology or presence of lymph nodes in this subset of patients . the actuarial 3-year survival and disease-free survival rates for inoperable patients receiving six cycles of treatment were 18 % and 23 % , respectively . the local control was 67 % with the majority of these patients having stage iiib disease . the mountain international staging system appeared to predict for operability , local recurrence , and survival . this concomitant treatment regimen is feasible , with the major toxicities being leukopenia , nausea , and vomiting . 
angiocentric immunoproliferative lesion/t-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome : a case report and review of the literature . the lesions known as lymphocytic vasculitis , polymorphic reticulosis ( midline malignant reticulosis , lethal midline granuloma ) , lymphomatoid granulomatosis , and angiocentric lymphoma form what have been collectively termed the angiocentric immunoproliferative lesions ( ail ) . because of recent reports demonstrating clonal rearrangements of the t-cell receptor in these lesions , the ail are now thought to represent a continuous spectrum of post-thymic t-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) . nhl associated with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) represents intermediate or high-grade b-cell malignancies in hiv-infected patients that may be etiologically related to the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) . there have been reports of ebv-associated t-cell nhl , ail , and large granular lymphocyte ( lgl ) proliferations , as well as hiv-associated t-cell neoplasia , lgl/t-cell proliferations , and ail . we describe a case of polymorphic reticulosis ( lethal midline granuloma ) arising in an hiv-infected individual , who later progressed to aids , and review the literature on hiv-associated and ebv-associated t-cell neoplasia , lgl/t-cell proliferations , and ail . the etiology of this ail/t-cell nhl , especially in relation to ebv and hiv , is discussed . 
chylothorax after posterior spinal instrumentation and fusion . chylothorax occurred in a 16-year-old girl after posterior spinal fusion and instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis . nonoperative management , including chest tube drainage for 26 days and total parenteral nutrition , successfully treated this unusual complication after a posterior spinal fusion . 
swallowing disorders in patients with prolonged orotracheal intubation or tracheostomy tubes . eleven patients were tested for swallowing dysfunction after prolonged orotracheal intubation . ten had a tracheostomy tube . mean duration of orotracheal intubation was 19.9 days , mean age 65 yr , and no patient had a concomitant neurologic deficit . all patients had a modified barium swallow with videofluoroscopy . all patients had at least one defect of 11 defects characterized . there was a mean of six defects/patient . the most common defects were delayed triggering of the swallow response ( present in all patients ) and pharyngeal pooling of contrast material ( n = 9 ) . follow-up videofluoroscopy was performed in five patients ( all had improved ) with mean defects decreasing from 6.1 to 2.8 / patient . with one exception , no patient had any defect that was worse than mild in severity . we concluded that prolonged orotracheal intubation with or without tracheostomy may cause prolonged and severe swallowing dysfunction . the deficits improve with time . the presence of a gag reflex does not confer protection against aspiration of pharyngeal contrast . 
does prematurity alter the course of respiratory syncytial virus infection ? we compared previously healthy prematurely born infants with full-term infants hospitalized with respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) infection to evaluate the role of prematurity on the clinical course of the illness . during a 5-yr period ( 1984 to 1989 ) , 484 previously healthy patients were admitted to the hospital with rsv infection . no differences were found in the presenting symptoms of respiratory distress , cough , fever or shock , although the premature group was more likely to present with apnea ( p less than .001 ) . chest roentgenograms revealed that premature infants had a higher incidence of atelectasis/infiltrate and hyperinflation ( p less than .05 ) . premature infants had longer hospital stays as well as a higher physiologic stability index and therapeutic intervention score ( p less than .001 ) . they were also more likely to receive supplemental oxygen , icu admission , mechanical ventilation , and nothing by mouth status ( p less than .001 ) . we conclude that premature birth increases the risk of more severe and prolonged rsv disease . 
respiratory response and pharmacokinetics of intravenous salbutamol in infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . the effects of iv salbutamol on respiratory mechanics were studied in six infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . salbutamol was infused at a dose of 30 micrograms/kg over 30 min in five infants ; a sixth infant received 66.7 micrograms/kg over 4 min . salbutamol caused improvement in total respiratory system compliance and in airflow resistance . there was no correlation between salbutamol serum concentration and pulmonary function . elimination half-time appears to be dictated in these infants more by the distribution volume ( vd ) than by clearance ( cl ) . the area under concentration-time curve of salbutamol correlated inversely to the change in heart rate ( hr ) . there was a significant positive correlation between vd and percent hr change . these data provide evidence that preterm infants have measurable activity of bronchiolar beta 2 receptor responsive to salbutamol . 
incidence of colonization , nosocomial pneumonia , and mortality in critically ill patients using a trach care closed-suction system versus an open-suction system : prospective , randomized study . eighty-four intubated , mechanically ventilated patients were prospectively evaluated for incidences of colonization and nosocomial pneumonias dependent on whether they received endotracheal suctioning by an " open " suction method vs. " closed " suction ( trach care closed suction system ) method . results show that closed suctioning is associated with a significant ( 67 % vs. 39 % p less than .02 ) increase in colonization compared with open suctioning . however , difference in the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia was not significantly ( 26 % vs. 29 % ) different between closed and open suctioning . differences in severity of illness ( acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ii and therapeutic intervention scoring system ) , age , sex , presence of ng tubes , use of h2 antagonists or antacids , use of antibiotics , and history of smoking were all nonsignificant . survival analysis demonstrated that the probability of survival without developing nosocomial pneumonia was greater among closed-suctioning patients vs. open-suctioned patients ( p less than .03 ) . this study shows that suctioning performed via the trach care closed-suction system increases the incidence of colonization but not the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia , and may actually decrease mortality when compared with open-suction systems . 
pentoxifylline attenuates edema formation in proteolytic enzyme-induced lung injury . ex vivo canine lung lobes were exposed to a pancreatic proteolytic enzyme ( chymotrypsin ) alone or chymotrypsin after pretreatment with a continuous infusion with pentoxifylline . the lobes exposed to chymotrypsin gained 133 g , while the pentoxifylline-treated lobes gained only 65 g ( p less than .05 ) over the 3-h experimental period . these results suggest that pentoxifylline significantly attenuates the lung weight gain associated with chymotrypsin . 
continuous , in vivo pulmonary venous admixture from fiberoptically measured hemoglobin saturations . in six anesthetized swine , pulmonary venous admixture ( qsp/qt ) was calculated by four methods : a ) qsp/qt 1 , fiberoptically measured arterial and mixed venous hgb saturation ( sao2 and svo2 ) , pao2 and pvo2 derived from saturations ; b ) qsp/qt 2 , fiberoptically measured sao2 and svo2 , pao2 and pvo2 measured by blood gas analysis ; c ) qsp/qt 3 , pao2 and pvo2 measured by blood gas analysis , sao2 and svo2 derived from tensions ; d ) qsp/qt 4 , sao2 and svo2 measured by bench oximetry , pao2 and pvo2 derived from saturations . input from the fiberoptic catheters was fed into a computer programmed to calculate qsp/qt 1 every 20 sec . fifty-eight of these values were compared with simultaneously calculated qsp/qt 2 , 3 , and 4 . there was no difference between fiberoptic and derived sao2 or fiberoptic and cooximetric svo2 . correlations and slopes for qsp/qt 1 with qsp/qt 2 , 3 , and 4 were significant ( p less than .05 ) . comparing mean differences , qsp/qt 1 was significantly different only from qsp/qt 3 ( p less than .01 ) . we conclude that dual oximetry reliably tracks qsp/qt . 
prototype volume-controlled resuscitator for neonates and infants . twenty-five infants receiving assisted ventilation in an icu were manually ventilated for 5-min periods using either a new prototype volume-controlled resuscitator ( vcr ) or a standard self-inflating resuscitator ( sir ) . variables monitored during these 5-min periods included heart rate , respiratory rate , mean arterial pressure , mean airway pressure ( paw ) , end-tidal co2 ( petco2 ) , pulse oximetry oxygen saturation , pao2 , and paco2 . significant differences in posttrial values for the following variables were : a ) petco2 ( 31.2 + / - 9.1 vs. 25.6 + / - 8.2 torr , p less than .001 ) ; b ) paco2 ( 38.0 + / - 4.9 vs. 33.2 + / - 6.7 torr , p less than .01 ) ; and c ) ph ( 7.4 + / - 0.6 vs. 7.5 + / - 0.1 , p less than .04 ) at comparable paw ( 9.5 + / - 7.6 vs. 8.0 + / - 6.0 , ns ) . eighty-four percent ( 21/25 ) of infants in the vcr group had normal paco2 values ( 35 to 45 torr ) while only 44 % ( 11/25 ) in the sir group achieved normocarbia ( p less than .001 ) . measurements of the highest ( pmax ) and lowest ( pmin ) inspiratory pressure ( cm h2o ) in 15 patients demonstrated marked variation in pmax with the sir . differences in pmax ( sir minus vcr ) were significant ( 10.8 + / - 3.7 , p less than .02 ) but not in pmin ( 0.5 + / - 3.5 , ns ) . our study demonstrates that ventilation with the vcr resulted in less hyperventilation with minimal pressure variability as compared with the sir . further studies in the neonate are warranted . 
utility of fiberoptic bronchoscopy in nonresolving pneumonia although fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( fob ) has been traditionally used to evaluate nonresolving pneumonia , its efficacy is unknown . we , therefore , reviewed fob in 35 consecutive patients who had ( 1 ) a roentgenographic infiltrate , ( 2 ) cough , ( 3 ) either temperature greater than 38.1 degrees c , leukocytosis , sputum production , ( 4 ) symptoms present for at least ten days , and antibiotic therapy for at least one week . known lung cancer and aids were excluded . fiberoptic bronchoscopy was diagnostic in 86 percent ( 12/14 ) in whom a specific cause was found . no patient had endobronchial cancer . two patients with nondiagnostic fob and persistent systemic symptoms had open lung biopsy specimens showing wegener 's granulomatosis and bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonia ( boop ) . twenty-one patients with nondiagnostic fob had no final diagnoses other than community-acquired pneumonia . we conclude that fob is extremely useful in finding a specific diagnosis for a nonresolving pneumonia when a specific diagnosis can be made . fiberoptic bronchoscopy was most likely to yield a specific diagnosis in nonsmoking patients with multilobar infiltrates of long duration and could have been avoided in older , smoking , or otherwise compromised patients with lobar or segmental infiltrates with no decrease in diagnostic yield in our series . 
acute lobar atelectasis . a comparison of two chest physiotherapy regimens . fourteen cases of acute lobar atelectasis were alternately allocated to one of two chest physiotherapy regimens for treatment . treatment in group 1 comprised positioning , vibrations , hyperinflation , and suction , and in group 2 , treatment consisted of hyperinflation and suction alone . treatment in either group was given hourly for six hours . patients in group 1 had a significantly higher mean percentage resolution of their atelectasis ( mean value , 60.1 percent ) , as seen on chest roentgenogram , after one treatment intervention than patients in group 2 ( mean value , 7.6 percent ; p less than .006 ) . after the intensive six-hour treatment period , the difference between the groups was marginally statistically significant , still favoring group 1 over group 2 ( p less than .055 ) . follow-up roentgenograms at 24 and 48 hours revealed no significant difference between the treatment groups ( p greater than .10 and greater than .20 , respectively ) . these results suggest that , at least initially in the course of acute lobar atelectasis , positioning and vibrations add to the efficacy of a treatment of hyperinflation and suction alone . 
diagnostic value of maximal exercise tidal volume . though breathing pattern is frequently analyzed during clinical exercise testing , there is little information regarding its usefulness in the differential diagnosis of impaired exercise tolerance . this study tested the hypothesis that differences in peak tidal volume during exercise between patients with different cardiorespiratory diseases are related largely to differences in severity of respiratory mechanical impairment ( vital capacity ) , not to differences in disease state . patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , restrictive lung disease , bronchial asthma , and heart disease ( mitral valve disease or left ventricular dysfunction ) were studied . subjects selected had one and only one of the above diagnoses . all subjects performed maximal ( symptom-limited ) incremental exercise on a cycle ergometer . multiple linear regression of all subjects ( n = 30 ) in all four groups showed a significant correlation between vtmax and vc : vtmax = 0.55 , vc -0.09 l ( r = 0.827 , p less than 0.0001 ) . the vtmax/vc ( x 100 ) was ( mean + / - sd ) 44 + / - 15 , 54 + / - 11 , 56 + / - 11 , and 54 + / - 12 for the copd , rld , ba and hd patients respectively . there was no significant difference between any of the groups . we concluded that differences in vtmax between different patients are related largely to differences in vc ( ie , differences in severity of respiratory mechanical impairment ) , not to differences in disease state . measurement of vtmax or the vtmax/vc ratio has little value in the differential diagnosis of exertional dyspnea . 
systemic hypertension in sleep apnea syndrome . relationship with sleep architecture and breathing abnormalities . to examine the possible relationship between systemic ht and sas we compared 21 hypertensive ( ht + ) and 29 normotensive ( ht - ) patients for morphologic characteristics , sleep disturbances and respiratory events monitored during a full night polysomnography . there was no significant difference between ht + and ht - patients with respect to age , weight , bmi , sleep stage distribution and disorganization , apnea-hypopnea index ( number of episodes per hour of sleep ) and duration ( minutes per hour of sleep ) nor o2 saturation indices : mean nocturnal and minimum o2 saturation . we conclude therefore that ht in sas patients is not directly related to morphologic characteristics , sleep disturbances and breathing abnormalities . 
atypical presentations of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients receiving inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis . inhaled pentamidine is used commonly to prevent pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection . case reports indicate that pcp can recur in patients who receive inhaled pentamidine and that clinical features may be atypical . to determine the magnitude of this problem , we reviewed retrospectively the medical records of patients with proven pcp during a 30-month period at two hospitals . four ( 31 percent ) of 13 patients with previous pcp who received inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis had recurrent p carinii infection , including one patient with widely metastatic extrapulmonary disease . chest roentgenographic findings included cavities , pneumothoraces , bilateral and upper lobe interstitial infiltrates , and pleural effusion . false-negative bronchoalveolar lavage and induced sputum examinations were frequent . we conclude that recurrent pcp in patients maintained on a regimen of inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis occurs frequently , causes chest roentgenographic abnormalities other than interstitial infiltrates , and may be difficult to diagnose . clinicians who choose to use this effective and convenient mode of prophylaxis should be aware of the problems attendant to its use . 
rapid diagnosis of lung cancer from palpable metastases by needle thrust . this study encourages the use of percutaneous fnb to diagnose and stage advanced lung cancer in patients with palpable metastases in supraclavicular lymph nodes or soft tissues . percutaneous fnb of metastases is much easier to learn than transthoracic needle aspiration : the superficial target is anchored and sampled with multiple passes using a short needle grasped directly in the fingers . it is fast , accurate , economical and nearly free of risk and pain . the technique saves time and money because it is the only procedure needed by many patients with palpable disease in stage iiib and iv . bronchoscopy , transthoracic needle aspiration and open surgical biopsy thus can be avoided in most patients with palpable metastases . prompt diagnosis by fnb of metastases speeds palliation for patients with urgent need . tumor cell type from fnb correlated with cytologic findings from sputum samples , bronchoscopy specimens and autopsy results . 
elevated prostaglandin e2 levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of patients with bronchogenic carcinoma . understanding local pulmonary immunoregulatory mechanism ( s ) in patients with carcinoma of the lung is an important step towards the development of innovative methods of treatment . prostaglandin e2 plays an integral role in immunoregulation . therefore , we evaluated pge2 concentrations in balf from 18 patients with bronchogenic carcinoma , compared to that from six patients with pulmonary diseases other than carcinoma and ten normal smokers of similar age . the level of pge2 in patients with lung carcinoma ( 158.1 + / - 88.7 pg/ml ) was significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) higher than the other two groups ( 16.2 + / - 6.9 and 4.4 + / - 3.4 pg/ml ) . levels of pge2 also varied among patients with carcinoma of different cell types . patients with sqca had significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) higher levels of pge2 ( 242.7 + / - 29.4 pg/ml ) than patients with adca or scca ( 82.3 + / - 27.9 and 66.3 + / - 15.2 pg/ml , respectively ) . furthermore , there was a marked difference in pge2 concentration between carcinomatous lung and clinically noninvolved lung in patients with sqca and adca . further study is warranted to determine the interactions between pge2 and other cytokines ( interleukin-1 , il-2 , and tumor necrosis factor ) , as well as the activity of cytolytic lymphocytes ( lak cells ) in the lungs of patients with bronchogenic carcinoma . 
pulmonary vascular steal in chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension . after pulmonary thromboendarterectomy , performed for relief of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension , perfusion lung scans have frequently disclosed new perfusion defects in segments served by undissected pulmonary arteries . our hypotheses were that these new postoperative defects occurred with great frequency and did not represent postoperative vessel occlusion . we retrospectively reviewed the preoperative and postoperative perfusion scans of 33 consecutive patients undergoing pulmonary thromboendarterectomy . new postoperative perfusion defects were noted in 23 of 33 patients . the incidence of new defects was increased tenfold in segments that had ( 1 ) normal preoperative angiographic findings , ( 2 ) normal preoperative radionuclide perfusion , and ( 3 ) not been entered at the time of surgery . postoperative angiograms , available in 15 of 33 patients , documented the nonembolic , nonocclusive nature of the new perfusion scan defects . the most plausible alternate explanation for this previously undescribed finding is a redistribution of pulmonary arterial resistance induced by the thromboendarterectomy , namely , a pulmonary vascular " steal . " . 
pathologic dependence of oxygen consumption on oxygen delivery in acute respiratory failure secondary to aids-related pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . oxygen consumption is pathologically dependent on oxygen delivery in ards and sepsis . we asked whether oxygen consumption is dependent on oxygen delivery in severe acute respiratory failure secondary to aids-related pcp . in five patients who had aids-related pcp , diffuse bilateral pulmonary infiltrates , no evidence of bacterial infection , and acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation with arterial oxygen tensions less than 75 mm hg while breathing at least 50 percent oxygen , and peep greater than 10 cm h2o , we determined oxygen delivery and consumption by calculation from thermodilution cardiac output and arterial and mixed venous oxygen contents . oxygen delivery was increased using transfusion of two units of packed red blood cells over one hour . oxygen delivery increased 22 percent ( 638 + / - 204 to 778 + / - 201 ml/min . m2 , p less than or equal to 0.006 ) . oxygen consumption increased 11 percent ( 134 + / - 34 to 149 + / - 29 ml/min . m2 , p less than or equal to 0.02 ) . the oxygen extraction ratio did not change . we conclude that similar to ards and sepsis , oxygen consumption may be pathologically dependent on oxygen delivery in patients who have severe acute respiratory failure secondary to aids-related pcp . 
prostacyclin but not phentolamine increases oxygen consumption and skin microvascular blood flow in patients with sepsis and respiratory failure . inadequate tissue oxygenation may occur in critically ill patients with sepsis despite an apparently adequate o2 transport ( qo2 ) , and this may contribute to the development of an o2 debt and also to multiple organ failure . it has been shown that increasing qo2 by infusing a vasodilator may reveal this o2 debt in septic patients . to investigate whether the site of action of vasodilators may be of importance in unmasking such an o2 debt , we administered prostacyclin , a prostaglandin with a preferential effect on the microcirculation , and phentolamine , an arteriolar vasodilator , in 11 patients studied during the first 48 hours after the onset of sepsis , and compared their effect on whole body oxygen consumption ( vo2 ) and skin microvascular blood flow . the results demonstrated that increasing qo2 by prostacyclin but not by phentolamine significantly increases vo2 in critically ill patients with sepsis . the site of action of vasodilators may therefore play an important role in their ability to unmask an o2 debt . 
selection and evaluation of recipients for heart-lung and lung transplantation . heart-lung and lung transplantation is being successfully performed with increasing frequency in patients with end-stage cardiopulmonary and pulmonary disease . transplantation must now be considered as a therapeutic option in selected patients , and physicians are required to understand the principles involved for determining suitable candidates and operative procedures of choice . indications , contraindications , and choice of operation with respect to underlying disease are discussed herein , as are methods of evaluation and appropriate timing for transplantation . special considerations regarding specific patient populations are also addressed . in properly selected patients , heart-lung and lung transplantation provide a viable therapeutic option in those with end-stage disease who are unresponsive to conventional management . 
pneumothorax following cytotoxic chemotherapy in malignant lymphoma . pneumothorax occurring as a complication of the antitumor effect of cytotoxic chemotherapy has been reported in occasional cases of a variety of tumors . its occurrence in malignant lymphoma has not been reported heretofore . in this report , we describe two cases of this complication in patients with malignant lymphoma and discuss the possible pathophysiologic mechanisms involved . because pulmonary involvement with the tumor was found in both cases , pneumothorax could be attributed to the anti-tumor effect of cytotoxic agents on underlying lung involvement in patients with malignant lymphoma . 
tracheal stenosis and failure to wean from mechanical ventilation due to herpetic tracheitis . a 64-year-old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease presented with pneumococcal pneumonia that progressed to respiratory failure within one week , requiring mechanical ventilation . despite a low minute ventilation and clear chest roentgenogram , multiple weaning attempts failed . bronchoscopy revealed significant narrowing of the distal trachea with erythema , edema , and ulceration of the mucosa . cytology of tracheal washings was consistent with herpes simplex virus , and the patient was successfully extubated following treatment with intravenous acyclovir . bronchoscopy following acyclovir therapy demonstrated resolution of the inflammation and narrowing . herpetic tracheitis is a rarely recognized reversible cause of tracheal stenosis , especially in a nonimmunocompromised patient . it should be suspected in patients without an obvious cause of failure to wean from mechanical ventilation , and can be successfully treated with acyclovir . 
septic pulmonary embolism complicating a central venous catheter . bacteremia is a recognized complication in patients with indwelling central venous catheters . more recently pulmonary embolism in such patients has also been described . despite abundant clinical experience with these devices , to our knowledge , septic pulmonary embolism has not been reported in adult patients . this case illustrates such a complication . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome due to blastomycosis during pregnancy . a 23-year-old healthy woman in her third trimester of pregnancy developed adult respiratory distress syndrome secondary to blastomyces dermatitides . pregnancy-related immunosuppression was believed to be responsible for the fungal infection . following emergency delivery of the infant and a full course of amphotericin b therapy , the patient made an uneventful recovery . although the fetal and maternal sides of the placenta demonstrated fungal spores , the child remained healthy . to our knowledge , this is the first report of blastomycosis-associated adult respiratory distress syndrome occurring during pregnancy . 
phrenomediastinal echinococcosis . a patient with the rare presentation of posterior mediastinal echinococcosis is reported . magnetic resonance imaging ( mr ) demonstrated the extension of a primary retroperitoneal cyst into the posterior mediastinum which was subsequently confirmed surgically to be of echinococcal origin . such a case of phrenomediastinal echinococcosis has been described only once before in literature . 
pneumomediastinum , pneumothorax and subcutaneous emphysema following the measurement of maximal expiratory pressure in a normal subject . mediastinal and subcutaneous emphysema have been reported as a consequence of deliberate manipulations of the breathing pattern producing a valsalva-like maneuver in healthy subjects . we present a case of pneumomediastinum , pneumothorax and subcutaneous emphysema occurring in a normal volunteer after repeated measurements of the pemax . 
ear involvement in the yellow nail syndrome . recognized features of the yellow nail syndrome include yellow nails , lymphedema , and pleural effusions . we report a patient with the additional feature of keratosis obturans , which may be a manifestation of this syndrome in the external ear . 
bilious pleural effusion following liver biopsy . pleural effusions in patients with chronic liver disease are common and usually are of little consequence . bilious pleural effusion can occur following percutaneous biopsy or cholangiography procedures if the pleura is traversed . this report emphasizes the role of biliary tract obstruction in the development of a bilious effusion and the importance of biliary tract decompression in treatment . we discuss the laboratory evidence supporting the diagnosis of bilious effusion and review the reported experience with this complication . 
acute bronchitis : general practitioners ' views regarding diagnosis and treatment . a survey was conducted among 800 dutch general practitioners to establish their views on the diagnosis and treatment of bronchitis and related disorders with reference to 12 theoretical patients . the answers of the 467 respondents ( response rate 60 % ) showed no clear relationship between signs and symptoms of the patients and the diagnosis made . in the authors ' opinion the diagnosis of pneumonia was made too often . the decision whether or not to prescribe an antibiotic for a coughing patient was based in part on the diagnosis made , but in part it was also made on the basis of the signs and symptoms , irrespective of the diagnosis . the authors have the impression that general practitioners tend to prescribe antibiotics too quickly to coughing patients . there is a need for guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of patients with acute bronchitis and related conditions . 
enteric neuronal autoantibodies in pseudoobstruction with small-cell lung carcinoma . severe gastrointestinal dysmotility is a newly recognized paraneoplastic syndrome that occurs with small-cell lung carcinoma . thirty-four patients with small-cell carcinoma , of whom 5 had chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction and 29 had no digestive symptoms , were studied serologically . four of the 5 patients with gut dysmotility had immunoglobulin g antibodies reactive with neurons of the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of jejunum and stomach in an indirect immunofluorescence assay . antibodies of this type were not found in any of the 29 patients who had no gut dysmotility , nor were they found in patients with chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudoobstruction ( n = 8 ) , ovarian cancer ( n = 20 ) , or epilepsy ( n = 4 ) or in normal subjects ( n = 9 ) . in 4 of the patients with paraneoplastic pseudoobstruction , antibodies in highly diluted serum ( 1:4000 -1:8000 ) bound selectively to nuclei and cytoplasm of neuronal elements in the gut . this novel autoantibody activity suggests that intestinal pseudoobstruction occurring in patients with small-cell carcinoma may have an autoimmune basis . from a clinical standpoint , serological testing offers a simple means for determining which patients with gut dysmotility syndromes may have associated small-cell carcinoma , thereby enabling earlier diagnosis and treatment of the tumor . 
segmental vascular resistance in postobstructive pulmonary vasculopathy . chronic unilateral pulmonary arterial ligation has been touted as a model of arteriopathy resulting in a tremendous increase in anastomotic bronchial flow ( qbr ) via collaterals . to investigate its effects on the pulmonary vasculature , we ligated the left main pulmonary artery of seven dogs and 120 days later pump perfused their left lower lobes ( lll ) via a cannula in the pulmonary artery at pulmonary arterial flow ( qpa ) of 250 ml/min . we measured qbr ( 330 ml/min ) and compared lll with control contralateral right lower lobes ( rll ) and three lll from normal dogs . pressure-flow ( p-q ) curves were obtained by varying qpa . with arterial and venous occlusion we measured total , arterial , venous , and middle segment resistances under baseline conditions , after serotonin and histamine , either with or without qpa and with antegrade and retrograde qbr . light microscopy was done postmortem . the slope of the p-q curve was 33.4 mmhg.l-1 . min in the ligated lobes compared with 15.9 in the controls , attributable by the occlusion technique mainly to a rise in arterial resistance ( 22.4 mmhg.l-1 . min compared with 7.4 in the controls ) with a small rise in venous resistance . this was explained by significant arterial medial muscle thickening and some loss of lll volume . the arterial segment was markedly hypersensitive to serotonin , and the venous segment was mildly hypersensitive to histamine compared with controls . the occlusion data also enabled us to model the point of entry of the bronchial circulation into the pulmonary circuit at the precapillary level and to calculate bronchial vascular resistance . we conclude that postobstructive vasculopathy substantially raises pulmonary vascular resistance , mainly upstream from the site of entry of the bronchial circulation . the role of the latter may be to keep it from rising excessively in the segments it perfuses , i.e. , the middle and venous ones . 
altered function of pulmonary surfactant in fatty acid lung injury . to determine whether acute fatty acid lung injury impairs pulmonary surfactant function , we studied anesthetized ventilated rabbits given oleic acid ( 55 mg/kg iv , n = 11 ) or an equivalent volume of saline ( n = 8 ) . measurements of pulmonary mechanics indicated a decrease in dynamic compliance within 5 min of injury and a decrease in lung volume that was disproportionately large at low pressures , consistent with diminished surfactant activity in vivo . bronchoalveolar lavage fluid obtained 1 h after injury had significantly increased erythrocytes and total leukocytes , largely polymorphonuclear cells . the phospholipid content and composition of the cell-free fraction had only minor changes from those of controls , but the protein content was increased 35-fold . measurements of lavage surface activity in vitro showed an increase in average minimum surface tension from 1.3 + / - 0.4 ( se ) dyn/cm in controls to 20.2 + / - 3.9 dyn/cm in injured animals . the alterations in static pressure-volume curves and decrease in lavage surface activity suggest a severe alteration of surfactant function in this form of lung injury that occurs despite the presence of normal amounts of surfactant phospholipids . 
pulmonary blood volume and edema in postpneumonectomy lung growth in rats . after pneumonectomy in young animals , the contralateral lung undergoes compensatory growth and generally attains the same weight and air space volume as both lungs in age-matched controls . in this study , we determined the contribution of lung edema and increased blood volume to the weight gain in rats . three weeks after pneumonectomy ( n = 18 ) or sham pneumonectomy ( n = 17 ) , the pulmonary blood volume and the extravascular water and albumin were evaluated by use of 51cr-labeled erythrocytes and 125i-labeled albumin . the air space volume , blood-free lung weights , and dna and protein content were also compared . the data show that the total pulmonary blood volumes and the blood volume per gram of blood-free dry lung were similar in pneumonectomized and age-matched sham controls . the total extravascular albumin and the extravascular albumin per gram of blood-free dry lung were also similar as well as the extravascular lung water , wet-to-dry weight ratios , dna and protein content , and air space volumes . these data indicate that the increased weight of the postpneumonectomy lung was due to cellular and stromal proliferation . the blood volume and interstitial fluid increased in proportion to the increase in lung parenchyma . neither vascular congestion nor increased extravascular protein and water contributed to the observed weight gain . 
physiology of aging related to outcome in the adult respiratory distress syndrome . thirty-nine patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) were enrolled in a study to identify potential age-related changes in organ system function that may help explain the apparent association between age and poor outcome in these patients . criteria for enrollment included an arterial po2-to-inspired o2 concentration ratio less than or equal to 200 in a clinical setting consistent with ards . patients were excluded if they were less than 18 yr old , had clinical manifestations of congestive heart failure , were seropositive for the human immunodeficiency virus , or had stage ii metastatic lung cancer . patients were divided into two groups : those less than 60 yr old ( mean 42 + / - 3 yr , n = 17 ) and those greater than or equal to 60 yr old ( 73 + / - 2 yr , n = 16 ) . a group of six patients was analyzed as a separate subset based on a body temperature less than or equal to 97.5 degrees f at enrollment ( hypothermic patients , 73 + / - 4 yr old ) . sepsis was present in 67 % of the nonhypothermic patients and in all the hypothermic patients . mortality rates were 12 % in the patients less than 60 yr and 69 % in the nonhypothermic patients greater than or equal to 60 yr . all the hypothermic patients died . sequential data obtained over 6 days were compared within and between groups . the following results were obtained . 1 ) the ratio of arterial po2 to inspired o2 fraction was greater and the positive end-expiratory pressure used was significantly less in the patients greater than or equal to 60 yr old compared with the younger group . 
congenital midline nasal masses : diagnosis and management . congenital midline nasal masses ( cmnms ) are rare lesions most commonly caused by dermoids , hemangiomas , nasal gliomas or encephaloceles . we report a case of nasal glioma and discuss the embryologic development , evaluation , and management of such cmnms . 
effects of prostaglandin e1 on platelet attenuation of oxidant-induced edema in isolated rabbit lungs . numerous studies suggest that platelets may contribute to preservation of normal endothelial cell permeability in models of lung injury . we have previously shown that washed human platelets prevent xanthine oxidase-induced edema in the isolated perfused lung and that protective mechanisms depend on the platelet glutathione redox cycle . it is uncertain , however , whether platelets preserve endothelial function by reducing toxic oxygen metabolites or by aggregating and releasing endothelial cell supportive factors-an activity that may require the glutathione redox cycle . in this study , we present data demonstrating that platelet prevention of oxidant lung injury occurs independent of platelet aggregation and release . isolated rabbit lungs perfused with a cell-free medium were instilled with purine ( 2 mmol/l ) and xanthine oxidase ( 0.003 u/ml ) to generate oxidant lung edema . the infusion of washed human platelets ( 1 x 10 ( 10 ) cells ) prevented lung edema formation as measured by lung weight gain , wet-to-dry lung weight ratios , and lung histology . incubation of platelets with prostaglandin e1 ( pge1 ) , a potent inhibitor of platelet aggregation and release , did not inhibit platelet attenuation of lung edema . additionally , with the instillation of pge1 into the perfusate to further inhibit platelet aggregation , no prevention of lung protection by pge1-treated platelets was seen when these results were compared with those from studies in which lungs were infused with xanthine oxidase and pge1 . aggregometry studies documented that the inhibitory effect of pge1 on platelet aggregation persisted for up to 60 minutes , which was the duration of the isolated lung protocol . we conclude that platelet aggregation and release of platelet factors is not required for platelet attenuation of oxidant lung edema . 
the effect of rifampicin on rhinoscleroma : an electron microscopic study . twenty-five cases suffering from rhinoscleroma were divided into two groups . the first group consisted of 15 patients treated with rifampicin systemically . the other group consisted of 10 patients treated locally with rifampicin in the form of ointment . electron microscopic study of the pathological changes in the lesions showed that rifampicin is highly effective both systemically and locally in the treatment of rhinoscleroma . 
radiological diagnosis of aspirated foreign bodies in children : review of 343 cases . in our series of 400 chinese children with foreign body aspiration ( fba ) , 343 cases were evaluated by fluoroscopy and/or plain chest x-rays before endoscopic removal of the foreign bodies . the majority of the foreign bodies ( fbs ) were organic ( 378/400 , 94.5 per cent ) . the results showed that mainstem bronchial foreign bodies were diagnosed correctly in 68 per cent of cases compared with 65 per cent correct diagnoses with segmental bronchial foreign bodies , but only 22 per cent correct diagnoses with tracheal , and 0 per cent correct diagnosis in those with laryngeal foreign bodies . eighty per cent ( 32/40 ) of the children with laryngotracheal fbs had normal x-ray findings , whereas 67.7 per cent ( 205/303 ) of the children with bronchial fbs had abnormal chest x-ray findings . the most common positive radiological signs in the children with tracheobronchial fbs were obstructive emphysema ( 131/213 , 62 per cent ) and mediastinal shift ( 117/213 , 55 per cent ) . the incidence of major complications was related not only to the size of the foreign body and its location but also the duration since aspiration . the most common types of bronchial obstructions by airway fbs are discussed . 
chronic sinusitis and the yellow nail syndrome . diagnosing syndromes that include chronic sinusitis can expedite the management of both conditions . yellow nail syndrome is usually described as the combination of yellow nails , lymphoedema and often respiratory manifestations such as chronic sinusitis , bronchiectasis and pleural effusions . the pathology responsible for the syndrome is believed to be lymphatic hypoplasia . diagnosis of yellow nail syndrome is clinical not requiring any specialized tests . in the two cases described , the respiratory tract manifestations required the most active investigation and management . the significance of this syndrome to the otolaryngologist is discussed . 
rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure . the pathogenesis and therapy of respiratory failure in the rigid spine syndrome are discussed in two cases who improved with respiratory assistance . in both cases , the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide were reversed in arterial blood gas analysis and % vc was less than 30 % . remission from respiratory failure has been obtained by the use of a ventilator during the night . the cause of the respiratory failure in both cases was severe restrictive respiratory dysfunction due to extreme flattening of the chest and fixation of the thorax during respiration as a result of contracture of costovertebral joints . all the previously reported cases of the rigid spine syndrome with respiratory failure died . appropriate use of the ventilator can improve the prognosis . 
high-frequency oscillatory ventilation compared with conventional intermittent mechanical ventilation in the treatment of respiratory failure in preterm infants : neurodevelopmental status at 16 to 24 months of postterm age . the hifi study group . the high-frequency intervention trial was a 10-center randomized clinical trial to test the efficacy and safety of high-frequency oscillatory ventilation ( hfo ) in the treatment of neonates weighing 750 to 2000 gm ; 327 infants were assigned to hfo and 346 to conventional intermittent mechanical ventilation ( imv ) . survival and lung morbidity rates were the same in the two groups . bayley psychometric evaluations and cns examination were performed at 16 to 24 months of postterm age in 77 % of the survivors ( 185 hfo and 201 imv ) . there was no difference in growth or respiratory status at follow-up . cerebral palsy was diagnosed in 19 ( 10 % ) hfo-treated infants and 23 ( 11 % ) imv-treated infants . there was no difference in severity between the two groups . a significantly higher incidence of hydrocephalus ( 12 % vs 6 % ) was present in the hfo group ( p less than 0.05 ) . bayley index scores greater than 83 were scored in 57 % of hfo-treated infants compared with 66 % of imv-treated infants . the proportion of children at follow-up with a normal neuro-developmental status ( i.e. , bayley score greater than 83 and no major cns defect ) was significantly less in the hfo than in the imv group ( 54 vs 65 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . both treatment groups showed a strong association between the presence of grade 3 or 4 intraventricular hemorrhage and the development of major cns or cognitive defects . no significant long-term beneficial or deleterious effects were demonstrated in the use of hfo versus imv for the treatment of respiratory failure in low birth weight premature infants , except that there were slightly more neurologic deficits in the hfo group related to the higher proportion of survivors with major intraventricular hemorrhage . 
improved outcome at 28 days of age for very low birth weight infants treated with a single dose of a synthetic surfactant two identical double-blind , controlled , randomized trials were initiated to determine whether the administration of a single 5 ml/kg dose of a synthetic surfactant ( exosurf neonatal ) , soon after the delivery of infants with birth weights 700 to 1350 gm , would improve rates of survival without bronchopulmonary dysplasia . both trials were terminated before enrolling their planned sample sizes because of the availability of exosurf under the provisions of a treatment investigational new drug program . we report the combined results of these trials . study infants were stratified according to birth weight and gender before random assignment to a treatment regimen . one hundred ninety-two infants received exosurf and 193 received an air placebo . the study groups were similar when a variety of demographic features describing the mothers , their pregnancies , the circumstances of the births , and the infants were compared . exosurf-treated infants required significantly less oxygen and respiratory support during the first 3 days of life in comparison with the air-treated infants . fewer infants in the exosurf group had pulmonary interstitial emphysema ( 26 vs 13 ; p = 0.028 ) . in the exosurf group , there was a significant reduction in the combined outcome , neonatal death or survival with bronchopulmonary dysplasia ( 57 vs 39 ; p = 0.042 ) , and there was a significant increase in rates of survival without this disease ( 128 vs 137 ; p = 0.042 ) . there were no differences between treatment groups in the incidences of a variety of complications of prematurity , including apnea , patent ductus arteriosus , intraventricular hemorrhage , and necrotizing enterocolitis . we conclude that improvements in respiratory physiology after a single prophylactic dose of exosurf result in an increased likelihood of neonatal survival without bronchopulmonary dysplasia . 
effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation on survival of infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia . to determine the effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) on the survival of infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia , we undertook a retrospective review of 31 infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia treated at children 's national medical center . infants were categorized by means of the bohn quadrant analysis to determine the impact of ecmo on infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia and a " poor prognosis . " all infants assigned to the bohn 100 % mortality quadrant required ecmo . the survival rate in this group was 86 % ( 6/7 ) when assessed preoperatively and 67 % ( 6/9 ) when assessed postoperatively . comparison of the change occurring in ventilation index and arterial carbon dioxide pressure demonstrated that after repair the clinical condition of 48 % of infants deteriorated , 40 % improved , and 12 % remained unchanged . of the 12 infants whose condition was worse after surgery , 11 eventually required ecmo . our review demonstrates that ecmo improved survival significantly in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia who had a " poor prognosis " by the criteria of bohn et al . we recommend consideration of ecmo for all infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia for whom maximal medical therapy has failed . 
national survey of the pattern of care for carcinoma of the lung . a national survey of the patterns of care for carcinoma of the lung sponsored by the commission on cancer of the american college of surgeons has documented continuing changes in epidemiology , treatment , and outcome . the project consisted of a long-term study of 15,219 patients whose diagnosis was made in 1981 and a short-term study of 19,074 patients whose diagnosis was made in 1986 . the male/female incidence ratios have continued to decrease and the decrease has moved into the older age groups . although the percentage of adenocarcinoma is increasing at the expense of squamous carcinoma , the latter is still the most prevalent histologic type . the accuracy of percutaneous needle biopsy and transbronchial biopsy of lung nodules reported from this group of 941 hospitals was high and equal to that reported by single institutions . the percentage of patients having a resection did not increase from 1981 to 1986 , but for smaller lesions a move was apparent toward more lung-sparing resections . little change has occurred in the use of adjuvant radiotherapy , particularly in stage iii disease , where approximately 50 % of the patients received postoperative irradiation . an improvement in the overall 5-year survival when compared with surveillance , epidemiology , and end results data was noted . whether this is a true improvement in survival or is the result of selection because of an unrecognized change in the pattern of care for patients with a carcinoma of the lung is unknown . 
carcinosarcoma and spindle cell carcinoma of the lung . clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical studies . we examined pulmonary carcinomas with prominent sarcoma-like lesions both clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically . grossly , two tumors had predominantly endobronchial growths , four bulky parenchymal growths , and two endobronchial , parenchymally mixed growths . in these eight patients , six tumors were completely resected , one patient was given irradiation only , and one patient died in the early postoperative period . on the basis of specific differentiation of the sarcoma-like lesions , the tumors were separated into three groups : two with " true " sarcoma differentiated into soft tissues such as striated muscle or osteoid tissue ; three with a fibromatous sarcoma resembling atypical pseudosarcomatous stroma ; and three with spindle cell carcinoma with evidence of epithelial differentiation . the prognosis was poor , and tumors with specific differentiation into rhabdomyosarcoma , chondrosarcoma , or spindle cell carcinoma progressed more rapidly than did those with a fibromatous sarcoma . because the fibromatous sarcoma-like lesions were found to relate to a longer survival time for the patients , we wish to emphasize that a distinction of sarcomatous components should be made with regard to assessing the prognosis of pulmonary carcinoma with sarcoma-like lesions . 
utility of frozen-section evaluation of lymph nodes in the staging of bronchogenic carcinoma at mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy . we conducted a retrospective analysis of the utility of frozen-section diagnoses in determining lymph node status at mediastinoscopy in 122 consecutive patients with bronchogenic carcinoma . thirty-five of 122 patients had one or more lymph nodes with frozen-section evaluation positive for metastatic carcinoma . subsequent nodal sections not in the original frozen-section study revealed metastatic carcinoma in two additional patients . the false-negative rate was 1.6 % . sensitivity was 94.6 % . predictive value of negative frozen-section evaluation results was 97.7 % . because there were no false-positive frozen-section results , specificity and predictive value for positive results of frozen-section evaluation were 100 % . the statuses of individual lymph nodes from these 122 patients were also evaluated . six hundred twenty lymph nodes were sampled from the mediastinum at mediastinoscopy . frozen-sections in 47 lymph nodes were positive . subsequent nodal sections not in the original frozen-sections examination revealed metastatic carcinoma in four additional lymph nodes . the false-negative rate was 0.6 % . sensitivity was 92.2 % . predictive value of negative results from frozen-section evaluation was 99.3 % . because there were no false-positive frozen-section results , specificity and predictive value for positive results of frozen-section examination were 100 % . we conclude that frozen-section evaluation of lymph nodes at mediastinoscopy reliably indicates lymph node status , thus enabling the physician to decide whether to proceed to thoracotomy . thus staging of the carcinoma and definitive surgery can be accomplished during a single anesthetic procedure . combining mediastinoscopy and thoracotomy with frozen-section diagnostic control also reduces both the length and cost of hospitalization . 
primary osteosarcoma of the lung . report of two cases and review of the literature . two cases of primary osteosarcoma of the lung are presented . in one case , the radiologic , clinical , and cytologic findings led to a preoperative diagnosis of undifferentiated carcinoma of the lung . in the second case , a lung nodule was discovered during postchemotherapy follow-up in a patient with lymphoma . fine needle aspiration in the second case showed lymphoma , and further chemotherapy was instituted ; however , persistent growth of the nodule prompted a resection . microscopic examination of the resected tumors in both cases revealed histologic features of high-grade osteosarcoma . flow cytometric analyses of the primary tumors showed abnormal hyperdiploid deoxyribonucleic acid populations in accordance with those seen in high-grade malignant neoplasms . immunohistochemical studies supported a mesenchymal origin for these tumors . these tumors shared clinical features with other reported cases of primary osteosarcoma of the lung such as large size at diagnosis , occurrence in older individuals , and aggressive behavior . 
inhibition of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction by mk-571 , a potent leukotriene d4-receptor antagonist background . exercise is a common stimulus of bronchoconstriction in subjects with asthma , who also have bronchoconstriction after inhaling the sulfidopeptide leukotriene d4 ( ltd4 ) . the purpose of this study was to investigate the importance of ltd4 as a mediator of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction . methods . in a double-blind , randomized , crossover study , 12 subjects with stable asthma were treated intravenously with mk-571 ( 160 mg ) , a selective and potent ltd4-receptor antagonist , or placebo , 20 minutes before each of two challenges involving exercise at a level previously demonstrated to cause a fall of at least 20 percent in the forced expiratory volume in one second ( fev1 ) . the two exercise challenges were separated by one week . the results of the challenges were expressed as both the maximal fall in fev1 after exercise and the time to recovery from bronchoconstriction . results . treatment with mk-571 attenuated exercise-induced bronchoconstriction in all the subjects . the mean ( + / - sem ) maximal percent decrease in fev1 after exercise was 25.2 + / - 3.5 percent in the subjects taking placebo and 9.2 + / - 2.5 percent in the subjects taking mk-571 ( p less than 0.001 ) . the mean percent inhibition for the entire group was 69.5 percent . the mean time to recovery after exercise was 33.4 + / - 4.0 minutes in the placebo group and 8.4 + / - 2.5 minutes in the mk-571 group ( p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions . this study demonstrates that pretreatment with a potent and selective ltd4 antagonist markedly attenuates exercise-induced bronchoconstriction , and it suggests that ltd4 is a major mediator of this type of bronchoconstriction . 
reduced allergen-induced nasal congestion and leukotriene synthesis with an orally active 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor background and methods . the clinical importance of leukotrienes in human allergy has not been defined , in part because there have been no selective 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors that have been effective and safe for use in humans . to address the hypothesis that stimulated leukotriene synthesis causes symptoms of immediate-hypersensitivity reactions in vivo , i investigated the effects of a new 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor , a-64077 , on provoked allergic nasal symptoms and mediator release in a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled study . eight subjects with allergic rhinitis underwent nasal challenge on two occasions after an oral dose of 800 mg of a-64077 or an identical-appearing placebo . results . allergen-induced nasal congestion was significantly attenuated ( p less than 0.02 ) by a-64077 ; peak levels of leukotriene b4 ( median , 684 pg per milliliter ) and 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( median , 704 pg per milliliter ) in nasal-rinse fluids were markedly reduced ( to 67 and 185 pg per milliliter , respectively ; p less than 0.01 ) , whereas levels of prostaglandin d2 were not . histamine release and sneezing were not reduced significantly by a-64077 , but there was a significant correlation ( p less than 0.01 ) between the changes in these variables within subjects . the mean ( + / - sem ) stimulated synthesis of leukotriene b4 in whole blood ex vivo was markedly reduced by a-64077 ( from 153 + / - 19 to 20 + / - 9 ng per milliliter , p less than 0.01 ) , and the specificity of a-64077 for 5-lipoxygenase inhibition was verified by its lack of effect on the synthesis of serum thromboxane b2 or 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid . conclusions . these results provide direct evidence of an important role for the 5-lipoxygenase products of arachidonic acid in allergic rhinitis and support the notion that further experiments in this area may lead to new therapeutic approaches to allergic disorders . 
late pulmonary sequelae of bronchopulmonary dysplasia background . bronchopulmonary dysplasia is a chronic lung disease that often develops after mechanical ventilation in prematurely born infants with respiratory failure . it has become the most common form of chronic lung disease in infants in the united states . the long-term outcome for infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia has not been determined . methods . we studied the pulmonary function of 26 adolescents and young adults , born between 1964 and 1973 , who had bronchopulmonary dysplasia in infancy . we compared the results with those in two control groups : 26 age-matched adolescents and young adults of similar birth weight and gestational age who had not undergone mechanical ventilation , and 53 age-matched normal subjects . results . sixty-eight percent of the subjects with bronchopulmonary dysplasia in infancy ( 17 of the 25 tested ) had airway obstruction , including decreases in forced expiratory volume in one second , forced expiratory flow between 25 and 75 percent of vital capacity , and maximal expiratory flow velocity at 50 percent of vital capacity , as compared with both control groups ( p less than 0.0001 for all comparisons ) . twenty-four percent of the subjects with bronchopulmonary dysplasia in infancy had fixed airway obstruction , and 52 percent had reactive airway disease , as indicated by their responses to the administration of methacholine or a bronchodilator . hyperinflation ( an increased ratio of residual volume to total lung capacity ) was more frequent in the subjects with a history of bronchopulmonary dysplasia than in either the matched cohort ( p less than 0.0006 ) or the normal controls ( p less than 0.0004 ) . six of the subjects who had bronchopulmonary dysplasia in infancy had severe pulmonary dysfunction or current symptoms of respiratory difficulty . conclusions . most adolescents and young adults who had bronchopulmonary dysplasia in infancy have some degree of pulmonary dysfunction , consisting of airway obstruction , airway hyperreactivity , and hyperinflation . the clinical consequences of this dysfunction are not known . 
n-ras 61 oncogene mutations in hurthle cell tumors . mutations of ras oncogenes are believed to play an important role in the initiation or progression of human tumors . in thyroid tumors the incidence of ras activation by specific point mutations has been reported to range from 33 % in follicular adenomas up to 60 % in anaplastic carcinomas . because of our long-standing interest in hurthle cell tumors , we began a study of 70 such cases to determine the incidence of ras mutations and their clinical correlates . analysis of n-ras sequences at condon position 61 , with the polymerase chain reaction method and oligonucleotide probe hybridization , showed point mutations of the normal codon caa * in eight tumor samples . one was a mutation from caa to aaa , one from caa to cta , * and six from caa to cga . these mutations would result in amino acid substitutions of lysine , leucine , or arginine for the normal glutamine at position 61 in the n-ras protein . identical ras mutations in two tumors and some of their surrounding thyroid tissue may indicate that activating ras point mutations are an early event in carcinogenesis . the incidence of mutations was 1 of 24 ( 4 % ) of the histologically benign tumors , 5 of 34 ( 15 % ) of the intermediate tumors ( with vascular or capsular permeation ) , and 2 of 12 ( 17 % ) in the malignant group . four of these eight patients died of metastatic thyroid disease and four are alive without evidence of recurrence . 
role of small calibre chest tube drainage for iatrogenic pneumothorax . a 2 mm teflon catheter was used as a chest tube in 28 patients with iatrogenic pneumothorax . frequent aspirations through the catheter were performed in 16 of the patients . in the remaining 12 patients the catheter was connected to a one way flutter valve . the treatment was successful in 27 of the 28 patients -- one patient required a large calibre chest tube . the mean drainage time was 48 hours . the small catheter technique is superior to the use of a large intercostal drain as it is much less traumatic and troublesome . the small calibre chest tube with a one way valve is recommended as a safe and easy technique . 
intraluminal irradiation for the palliation of lung cancer with the high dose rate micro-selectron . fifty patients with inoperable , symptomatic endobronchial carcinoma were treated by a single exposure of intraluminal radiotherapy . a high dose rate afterloading system ( the micro-selectron-hdr ) was used to minimise radiation exposure for staff . haemoptysis was relieved in 24 of 28 patients , breathlessness in 21 of 33 patients , and cough in nine of 18 patients . radiological collapse resolved in 11 of 24 patients . treatment was given on an outpatient basis and was well tolerated . intraluminal radiotherapy appears to offer an effective alternative to conventional fractionated external beam radiotherapy . 
granulomatous pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a patient with an unusual granulomatous response to infection with pneumocystis carinii is described . the diagnosis was made by open lung biopsy after two negative bronchoalveolar lavages . 
bronchoalveolar lavage via a modified stomach tube in intubated patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and diffuse pneumonia . a simple non-bronchoscopic bronchoalveolar lavage method was used in 30 patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome undergoing assisted ventilation for respiratory failure . a modified argyle levin stomach tube was passed via the endotracheal tube and lavage performed . the lavage was well tolerated and performed quickly and easily , required little training , and had a high degree of sensitivity ( 73 % -- a diagnosis in 22 of the 30 cases ) . 
giant lymph node hyperplasia of the lung ( castleman 's disease ) associated with recurrent pleural effusion . a case of giant lymph node hyperplasia ( castleman 's disease ) of the lung presented with pleural effusion ( which was recurrent ) , an unusual complication . the patient was treated with pneumonectomy and has survived for three years without relapse . this is the first report of the disease from black africa . 
asymptomatic rhabdomyolysis of unknown etiology . a 7-year-old boy developed rhabdomyolysis with a peak creatine phosphokinase level of 261,400 iu/l after his appendectomy . these abnormalities occurred following a 2-3-day illness consisting of upper respiratory tract symptoms , fever , and abdominal pain mimicking acute appendicitis . at the time of operation , a normal appendix was removed , and mesenteric lymphadenitis was noted . the myoglobinuria and elevation of creatine phosphokinase were transient , and the patient remained asymptomatic . we review various causes of right lower quadrant pain and rhabdomyolysis and address the roles of malignant hyperthermia and infectious agents . the possible cause of the phenomena observed in this patient is discussed . 
malignant melanoma presenting as nasal obstruction . mucosal melanomas arising in the nasal cavity are rare tumors comprising less than 1 percent of all melanomas . often , the common clinical symptom is nasal obstruction . grossly , they may or may not be pigmented and frequently attain large sizes . histologic diagnosis of these tumors may be difficult , requiring immunohistochemical or electron microscopic confirmation . aggressive surgical management is the treatment of choice in clinical stage i disease . subsequent surveillance for recurrence is mandatory . markers such as 5-s-cysteinyldopa may prove useful in staging , prognosticating , and postoperative surveillance for early recurrence , but their exact role has yet to be delineated . ultimate prognosis is poor . 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis . the lung is constantly exposed to a wide variety of environmental insults . in its defense against these environmental challenges , however , the lung responds through a limited number of pathophysiologic mechanisms . this is well illustrated by a group of diseases which are collectively referred to as hypersensitivity pneumonitis . this syndrome includes a very large number of different diseases . however , in the united states , only farmer 's lung , bird-breeder 's lung , and ventilation hypersensitivity pneumonitis occur with any significant frequency . each of these is characterized by flu-like symptoms , in conjunction with a pneumonitis consisting of lymphocytic granulomatous infiltration of the alveoli and terminal bronchioles . this disease is caused by the inhalation of antigenic material which usually originates from the dusts of organic material . a host of different dusts and antigens have been described in conjunction with hypersensitivity pneumonitis but each leads to the same characteristic clinical syndrome . thus , each of the diseases shares similar clinical features but differs primarily with respect to the nature of the exposure and causative antigens . the clinical features , pathogenesis , course , prognosis , and treatment of these related diseases are reviewed . 
capillary haemangioma presenting as a lung pseudocyst . a girl who developed a lung cyst at 24 hours of age during gentle ventilation for respiratory distress syndrome is reported . instead of resolving as expected of a pseudocyst it continued to expand . resection at 1 year of age showed a cyst entirely surrounded by capillary haemangioma . aspiration of this cyst would have been dangerous . 
corticosteroids in primary tuberculosis with bronchial obstruction . the usefulness of prednisolone in combination with the modern potent antituberculous drugs has been studied in 29 children with primary lung tuberculosis and hilar adenopathy causing bronchial obstruction . these children were divided at random in two groups of 15 and 14 patients . both groups were treated similarly except that one group received prednisolone . both groups were very similar before the onset of treatment for most variables . tuberculous infection healed in both groups but the group on steroids improved earlier and had significantly fewer complications , both on radiography and bronchoscopy . only two of the patients on steroids still had progressive lesions : a very young baby probably because he developed two severe viral infections consecutively , and another infant of 7 months whose treatment was unreliable , as the parents were not very compliant . some patients initially not treated with prednisolone improved only after it was given . prednisolone treatment is not recommended when the reliability of the treatment can not be guaranteed , as the hazard of harm would exceed the expected benefit . 
ventilator dependency in the united kingdom . there are 24 children who are currently long term ventilator dependent in the uk . nine of these are cared for entirely at home . an additional 11 children have been long term ventilator dependent since march 1983 . the prevalence of these children appears to be increasing . the financial and manpower resources needed for these children whether at home or in hospital is considerable . there are reasons to suppose that the apparent increase in prevalence will continue . 
air leaks and vasopressin release . eleven very low birthweight babies being ventilated for respiratory problems during the first week of life developed air leaks on 22 occasions . on 16 out of 19 occasions the infants showed increases in urinary excretion of vasopressin after these events and on 10 occasions out of 13 there was a rise in the plasma arginine vasopressin concentration . the peripheral signs of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone release were seen on only one occasion in response to the sometimes high vasopressin concentrations . 
crohn 's disease of the lung two years after developing colonic crohn 's disease , a 17 year old boy presented with focal pulmonary consolidation . a lung biopsy specimen showed areas of non-caseating epithelioid granuloma . although some respiratory abnormalities appear to be associated with inflammatory bowel disease , granulomatous disease affecting the lung has not previously been reported in a child . 
nasal valve malfunction resulting from resection of cancer . following cancer resection of the nasal unit , nasal valve malfunction is manifested by the symptoms of nasal stuffiness or difficulty getting air into the nostril . these symptoms occur in cases in which the resection is in the alar crease at the junction with the lateral sidewall of the nose . wound scar contracture elevates the alar margin and causes the alar and lateral cartilages to move inward forming a visible and palpable shelf on the lateral wall of the nasal vestibule . this displacement of the alar and lateral cartilages and the rigid scar formed between these cartilages render the nasal valve immobile . since it is easier to prevent nasal valve malfunction than to repair it later , wounds that bridge the alar crease or are located in either the alae or lateral sidewall and come within 1 mm of the alar crease with a total diameter of 1.0 cm should be repaired to prevent nasal valve malfunction . in the process of repairing deep defects , the overlapping region of the lateral crus of the alar cartilage and the lateral cartilage may be stabilized by a conchal cartilage graft . this cartilage graft may be used in combination with reconstruction of the nasal skin with a forehead flap and repair of the nasal lining . in the event that the nasal lining is intact , the cartilage graft may be used with a full-thickness skin graft . 
complications of nasotracheal intubation in neonates , infants and children : a review of 4 years ' experience in a children 's hospital . a computerized database was set up to study the incidence and outcome of complications of nasotracheal intubation in a paediatric hospital . we studied 2953 intensive care admissions over a 4-yr period . the overall complication rate was 8 % . accidental extubation and tube blockage were the most frequent events , accounting for a mean of 3.5 % and 2.6 % of the complications per year , respectively . complications were more common in smaller children and there were differences between fields of intensive care . none of the complications was fatal or resulted in serious sequelae . none of the children in the study showed clinical symptoms of acquired subglottic stenosis before discharge from hospital , and none has been readmitted for this condition subsequently . 
acute pulmonary oedema following administration of ornithine-8-vasopressin . we report the case of a patient who developed acute pulmonary oedema following a short and uneventful surgical procedure . among the differential diagnoses , the role of ornithine-8-vasopressin is emphasized . 
effect of oral omeprazole on intragastric ph and volume in women undergoing elective caesarean section we have studied in obstetric patients the efficacy of omeprazole in increasing intragastric ph to more than 2.5 and reducing volume to less than 25 ml . omeprazole 40 mg was given orally the night before and again on the morning of surgery to 30 asian women scheduled to undergo elective caesarean section . after induction of anaesthesia , a gastric tube was inserted and intragastric contents aspirated . volume and ph were recorded and measurements were repeated on completion of surgery . the median ( range ) volume was 2 ( 1-13 ) ml before surgery and 4 ( 0-14 ) ml at the end of surgery . there was insufficient volume to measure ph in all patients . the median ( range ) ph was 6.7 ( 4.6-7 .4 ) before surgery in 20 patients and 6.6 ( 4.6-7 .8 ) at the end of surgery in 28 patients . no adverse drug reactions were noted in mothers or neonates . omeprazole 40 mg orally twice before elective caesarean section appeared to be effective in reducing intragastric volume and acidity to acceptable values . 
what causes cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis ? a case-control study of environmental exposure to dust . objective -- to investigate the role of occupational and domestic exposure to dust in the aetiology of cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis . design -- matched case-control study . subjects -- 40 patients with cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis and 106 community controls matched for age and sex who responded to a questionnaire . main outcome measure -- responses to self administered questionnaire asking about lifetime exposure to dust , animals , and smoke at home and at work . results -- the patients with cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis were more likely to report occupational exposure to metal dust ( matched odds ratio 10.97 ( 95 % confidence interval 2.30 to 52.4 ) , p less than 0.001 ) or wood dust ( 2.94 ( 0.87 to 9.90 ) , p = 0.08 ) , to have worked with cattle ( 10.89 ( 1.24 to 96.0 ) , p = 0.01 ) , and to have lived in a house heated by a wood fire ( 12.55 ( 1.04 to 114 ) , p = 0.009 ) . a history of smoking and social class based on occupation were not significantly related to disease state . conclusion -- environmental exposure to dust may be an important factor in the aetiology of cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis . 
rising mortality from cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis . objective -- to determine the pattern of mortality ascribed to cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis and to identify factors that might be important in the aetiology of the disease ; and to assess the validity of death certification of the disease . design -- a retrospective examination of mortality ascribed to cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis in england and wales between 1979 and 1988 with analysis , by multiple logistic regression , of independent effects of age , sex , region of residence , and social class as indicated by occupation on data for 1979-87 ; also a retrospective review of hospital records of patients certified as having died of cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis in nottingham and of the certified cause of death of patients known to have had the disease . main outcome measures -- time trends in mortality nationally ; effects on mortality of age , sex , and region of residence ; validity of death certification in nottingham . results -- the annual number of deaths ascribed to cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis doubled from 336 in 1979 to 702 in 1988 , the increase occurring mainly at ages over 65 . mortality standardised for age for both sexes likewise increased steadily over the period . deaths due to cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis were commoner in men ( odds ratio 2.24 , 95 % confidence interval 2.11 to 2.33 ) and increased substantially with age , being 7.84 ( 7.24 to 8.49 ) times higher in subjects aged much greater than 75 than those aged 45-64 . odds ratios of death due to cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis adjusted for age and sex were increased in the traditionally industrialised central areas of england and wales ( p less than 0.02 , maximum odds ratio between regions 1.25 ) , but no significant increase in odds of death was found for manual occupations . of 23 people whose deaths were registered in nottingham as having been due to cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis , 19 were ascertained from clinical records to have had the disease . only 17 of 45 patients known to have had cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis in life were recorded as having died from the disease . conclusions -- the diagnostic accuracy of death certification of cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis is high , but the number of deaths recorded as being due to the disease may underestimate the number of patients dying with the disease by up to half . mortality due to the disease is increasing , and the male predominance and regional differences in mortality suggest that environmental factors are important in its aetiology . 
clinical and prognostic assessment of patients with resected small peripheral lung cancer lesions . one hundred fifteen patients with small ( less than or equal to 2 cm in diameter ) peripheral lung cancer lesions underwent surgical treatment in the department of surgery , the research institute for chest diseases and cancer , tohoku university , miyagi prefecture , japan . the authors investigated several prognostic factors of these cases . the 5-year survival rate of these 115 patients was 70 % . various factors such as histologic type , nodal involvement , pleural involvement , pathologic stage , and curativity of the operation were revealed to affect survival significantly . in patients with and without nodal involvement , there was no significant difference between the survival rate of patients with lung cancer lesions smaller than 2 cm and those with lesions 2.1 to 3 cm . however , the rate of lymph node metastasis was significantly different in the group with lesions smaller than 2 cm compared with those with lesions 2.1 to 3 cm ( 21 % versus 43 % , respectively ) . 
pulmonary problems in pregnancy . pregnant women with asthma and pulmonary infections should be treated essentially the same as nonpregnant women with similar disease severity . definitive diagnosis and prompt treatment with heparin should be used for patients with pulmonary thromboembolism . 
childhood pulmonary function following hyaline membrane disease . hyaline membrane disease per se is not associated with abnormal lung function or increased nonspecific airway reactivity in childhood or adulthood . very-low-birth-weight infants who survive almost routinely in neonatal icus are at risk , however , for developing airflow obstruction and having airway hyperreactivity as children , and for having recurrent bouts of wheezing , cough , and respiratory infections . neonates who develop bpd have the greatest risk of abnormal pulmonary function as children . continued research into the prevention of premature birth and into the causes of neonatal lung injury , combined with improvements in the neonatal icu and follow-up treatment , will undoubtedly contribute to improvement in the clinical course of premature infants . 
the adult respiratory distress syndrome . the adult respiratory distress syndrome remains an enigmatic disorder with a high mortality rate , although it can sometimes be managed effectively . recognizing the conditions with which it is associated is the first step in preventing its occurrence . decreasing the risk factors of developing ards remains the fundamental goal of initial management . once the syndrome has developed in a particular patient , the clinician 's goals in management are to stabilize the patient , avoid further insults , maximize the support therapies available , and be cognizant of and avoid the potential adverse effects of these supportive therapies . 
approaches to the patient with aspiration and swallowing disabilities . aspiration , or soiling of the tracheobronchial tree , can produce life-threatening pulmonary disease . intermittent or persistent aspiration may cause symptoms including cough , intermittent fever , recurrent tracheobronchitis , atelectasis , pneumonia , and/or empyema . the pulmonary disease may be associated with weight loss , cachexia , and dehydration . in many cases the aspiration is caused by laryngeal dysfunction , allowing pulmonary contamination by swallowed material . in other cases the aspiration is caused by a dysfunction of the oral , pharyngeal , or esophageal phases of swallowing . in some cases the aspiration is caused by a combination of laryngeal and swallowing dysfunction . geriatric patients are more likely to experience aspiration , since muscle weakness causing mechanical disability and neurologic impairment are more common in this age group . therefore , with the ever-increasing aging of our population , these disabilities will be on the rise , with an associated increase in pulmonary disease and death . the approach to evaluation and management of these disorders must be based on an understanding of the underlying functional impairment . 
effects of a multidisciplinary management program on neurologically impaired patients with dysphagia . dysphagia is a major problem in patients with neurologic disorders . aspiration pneumonia and impaired nutritional status are consequences of dysphagia that result in high morbidity and mortality rates . assessment and treatment of the dysphagic patient by a multidisciplinary team have been advocated but to date the effects of such an approach have not been demonstrated quantitatively . this prospective study was conducted to determine if a dysphagia program would improve patients ' caloric intake and body weight , decrease the instances of aspiration pneumonia , or improve patients ' feeding ability . patients were referred from a 26 bed neurology/neurosurgery unit . a time series design was utilized . the control group consisted of 15 patients ( mean age = 46.1 years ) , managed according to the existing ward routine . subsequently , nursing staff attended a dysphagia training program . following this , the treated group of 16 patients , ( mean age = 49.3 years ) was assessed by the dysphagia team , using bedside and videofluoroscopic examinations to determine the specific swallowing disorder . an individualized treatment program was designed for each patient . the groups were compared on the basis of deviation from their baseline weight , deviation from ideal energy intake , and the incidence of aspiration pneumonia . statistical analysis revealed that the groups were comparable in age , number of days on the study , and glasgow coma scale score ; and that a significant weight gain and increase in caloric intake occurred in the treated group . no incidence of aspiration pneumonia was reported in either group . we speculate that this may have been influenced by the meticulousness of the care delivered in an acute unit as well as greater attention to prevention given in both groups . 
bolus versus infusion regimens of etoposide and cisplatin in treatment of non-small cell lung cancer : a study of the north central cancer treatment group in an effort to test clinically the hypothesis that the duration of cellular exposure to etoposide ( vp-16 ) and cisplatin ( cddp ) is an important determinant of cytotoxicity , we performed a phase iii randomized trial comparing an outpatient bolus regimen of combined vp-16 and cddp with a sequential infusion over 72 hours of these same two drugs . all patients had stage iv non-small cell lung cancer , and survival was the primary end point . of 113 patients randomly allocated to the study , 108 were assessable for response , survival , and toxicity . a major response was observed in 20 ( 37 % ) of 54 patients on the bolus regimen and in 16 ( 30 % ) of 54 patients receiving infusion therapy . the median time to progression was 61 and 88 days for bolus and infusion therapy , respectively . the median survival time was 148 and 157 days , respectively ( p = .71 ) . study results were not consistent with the possibility that infusion therapy could be associated with a 50 % improvement in median survival , i.e. from 5 months to 7 1/2 months . toxicity was primarily myelosuppression and was significantly greater with the infusion regimen . we conclude that infusion therapy as tested in this protocol with vp-16 and cddp does not offer any advantage in response rate , time to disease progression , or survival as compared with bolus therapy . in addition , infusion therapy is associated with a greater degree of neutropenia and more treatment-related deaths . 
immune-competent cells of regional lymph nodes in colorectal cancer patients : ii . immunohistochemical analysis of leu-7 + cells . distribution of leu-7 + cells in cancer tissues and regional lymph nodes was immunohistochemically examined to estimate the role of nk cells in colorectal cancer patients . leu-7 + cells were rarely observed both in the primary and distant metastatic lesions , but the number of these cells was large in the germinal center of the lymph nodes . studies of leu-7 + cell population in the lymph node indicated that intermediate nodes in n0 and n1 groups showed significantly higher values than those in the control group . comparative study of the population in identical patients revealed a significantly higher rate in the intermediate nodes than in the paracolic nodes both in n0 and n1 groups . these data suggest that leu-7 + cells might be related to the defense mechanism of regional lymph nodes against tumor . 
carcinoid tumors . the authors carried out a retrospective study of 32 patients ( 23 m , 9 f ) with carcinoid tumors who were diagnosed and treated at harlem hospital center , new york , from 1967 to 1988 . all the patients were black and the commonest sites were the ileum ( 28.1 % ) , rectosigmoid and rectum ( 21.9 % ) , and the appendix and lung ( 15.6 % each ) . metastasis correlated with site , size , and depth of the primary tumor and occurred in 12 patients ( 38 % ) , most frequently to the regional lymph nodes and liver . carcinoid syndrome developed in 12.5 % ( 3 f , 1 m ) . surgical resection for cure or palliation was the mainstay of treatment . overall 5 year survival rate was 66 % , and for those with metastases was 0 % . the poorer survival rates are probably related to the socioeconomic status of our patient population . the only observed racial difference compared to other series is the preponderance of males , and the disproportionately higher ratio of females with the carcinoid syndrome . 
congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system : a new clinical classification . the numerous clinical presentations of congenital abnormalities of the lymphatic system in children and the confusing terminology used to describe their pathologic diagnoses impede the physician 's understanding of the condition . the clinical classification based on the actual symptoms of the congenital problems we have presented here should help the physician identify the specific abnormality and a potential treatment . future research should concentrate on the specific causes and the treatment of these congenital abnormalities . 
hospitalization decision in patients with community-acquired pneumonia : a prospective cohort study . purpose : to identify a low-risk subset of patients with community-acquired pneumonia that could safely be treated in the ambulatory setting ; and to assess how clinicians make the hospitalization decision . patients and methods : we performed a prospective , observational study of 280 ambulatory and hospitalized adults with clinical and radiographic evidence of pneumonia . patients were followed to assess all potential morbid complications and 6-week mortality . physicians responsible for managing these patients were surveyed to assess the reasons for treating in a hospital or ambulatory setting and the therapies that dictate hospitalization . results : sixty-one percent ( 170 of 280 ) of patients did not have an indication for admission at presentation using modified appropriateness evaluation protocol criteria ( a severe vital sign abnormality , alteration in mental status , suppurative complication , arterial hypoxemia , severe laboratory abnormality , or an acute coexistent medical problem requiring admission independent of the pneumonia ) . among these 170 patients , 38 % had a complicated course defined as death within 6 weeks , development of a new suppurative or medical complication due to pneumonia , intensive care unit admission , persistent fever or use of intravenous fluids or oxygen beyond 3 days , hospitalization lasting more than 3 days , or subsequent hospitalization in patients initially treated in the ambulatory setting . five predisposing factors for a complicated course were identified in logistic regression models . the odds ratio for age more than 65 years was 2.7 ; for comorbid illness , 3.2 ; for temperature more than 38.3 degrees c ( 101 degrees f ) , 4.1 ; for immunosuppression , 12.0 ; and for a high-risk etiology , 23.3 . the risk of a complicated course increased linearly with the number of risk factors , from 12 % with none to 100 % with four or more factors ( p less than 0.001 ) . physicians most often relied on the general clinical appearance of the patient when making the triage decision , and most commonly cited intravenous antibiotics and chest physical therapy as treatments requiring hospitalization . conclusions : if validated , our findings could improve physicians ' assessment of prognosis , and may identify a low-risk subset of patients with community-acquired pneumonia who could safely be managed in the ambulatory setting . 
ofloxacin treatment of chlamydia pneumoniae ( strain twar ) lower respiratory tract infections . purpose : limited data suggest that tetracycline or erythromycin is the antibiotic of choice for treating chlamydia pneumoniae infection , but they are not always effective or well tolerated . because the fluoroquinolone ofloxacin is effective for chlamydia trachomatis infections , we investigated its role in treating c. pneumoniae infections . patients and methods : eighty-seven patients were enrolled in a randomized trial of antibiotic therapy for acute lower respiratory tract infections . the patients were randomly assigned to oral treatment with either ofloxacin ( 400 mg twice a day ) or erythromycin ( 400 mg four times a day ) for 10 days . frozen acute and convalescent serologic specimens were tested for twar antibody by microimmunofluorescence . susceptibility testing of c. pneumoniae to ofloxacin was also performed . results : four patients who received ofloxacin were retrospectively identified as having c. pneumoniae pneumonia ( two ) or bronchitis ( two ) . within 2 weeks of starting ofloxacin therapy , all were cured or markedly improved . the minimum inhibitory concentrations of ofloxacin for three previously isolated clinical strains of c. pneumoniae were determined to be 1.0 to 2.0 micrograms/ml , well within the achievable serum levels ( 3 to 5 micrograms/ml ) with ofloxacin therapy . conclusion : ofloxacin may be an effective alternative antibiotic treatment for c. pneumoniae respiratory infections . 
failure to limit quantities of benzodiazepine hypnotic drugs for outpatients : placing the elderly at risk . purpose : the long-term use of benzodiazepine hypnotics by the elderly is associated with serious side effects , and prescriptions of large quantities of these agents allow such use . therefore , we determined the quantities of these agents prescribed to outpatients in our veterans administration teaching hospital , and the relationship of patient age to total number of doses prescribed per prescription . patients and methods : pharmacy and patient records related to 655 consecutive prescriptions for triazolam ( halcion ) and flurazepam ( dalmane ) were reviewed . only 266 ( 41 % ) of the prescriptions were for 30 or fewer doses , while 178 ( 27 % ) were written for 180 or more doses . results : thirty-six percent of prescriptions for patients aged 65 years or older were for 180 or more doses , compared with 24 % for those aged 45 to 64 years old , and 16 % of the prescriptions for patients less than 45 years old ( p less than 0.0001 ) . in a multivariate analysis controlling for six other factors related to the total number of doses prescribed , patients aged 65 years or older were still more likely to receive a prescription for 180 or more doses ( relative risk 1.9 , 95 % confidence interval 1.3 , 2.8 ) . conclusion : we conclude that inappropriately large quantities of benzodiazepine hypnotics were commonly prescribed , and that patients aged 65 years or older were at greatest risk for receiving such prescriptions . 
role of systemic therapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer . increasing evidence supports the investigation of chemotherapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) . randomized studies in patients with stage iv disease have shown increased survival in chemotherapy-treated patients compared to best supportive care and indicate the ability of chemotherapy to alter the natural history of this disease . randomized studies involving adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemotherapy have also shown encouraging results . these studies and results of recent pilot studies utilizing neoadjuvant chemotherapy and concomitant chemoradiotherapy indicate a potential benefit from the use of chemotherapy in patients with nsclc and call for its continued intensive investigation in clinical trials . 
admission and mid-stay medisgroups scores as predictors of death within 30 days of hospital admission . we examined the ability of medisgroups , a severity measure based on clinical data abstracted from the medical record , to predict mortality 30 days following admission . medisgroups measures severity both on admission and approximately one week into the hospital stay . the data base was a random sample of 20,985 admissions of medicare beneficiaries with one of six conditions from 833 hospitals in seven states between january 1985 and may 1986 . in all six conditions , higher admission and mid-stay severity scores were generally associated with higher risk of death . across the six conditions , the r-squared values for predicting death using admission scores ranged from 0.01 to 0.16 ; r-squared values using mid-stay scores ranged from 0.03 to 0.34 ; and r-squared values from combining admission and mid-stay scores ranged from 0.05 to 0.41 . admission medisgroups score was thus only modestly predictive of 30-day mortality . while the mid-stay score was more powerful , it may not be an appropriate severity adjuster to screen for quality using hospital mortality rates because it could be influenced by substandard care . 
perioperative blood transfusion adversely affects prognosis of patients with stage i non-small-cell lung cancer . it has been speculated that blood transfusion might adversely affect prognosis in cancer patients by immunosuppression . to avoid the confounding affect of advanced disease , we tested this hypothesis in 117 patients with stage i non-small-cell lung cancer . mean and median follow-up were 49.7 months and 47 months , respectively . patients who died during the postoperative period were not included . perioperative transfusion was defined as administration of whole blood or packed cells within 30 days of operation . the overall cumulative 5-year disease-free survival rate was 67 % . in patients with transfusion , it was 53 % and in patients without transfusion it was 81 % ( p = 0.0055 ) . a multivariate analysis was performed that included patient age , race , sex , cell type , extent of operation ( pneumonectomy versus lobectomy/segmentectomy ) , operative blood loss , admission hematocrit , discharge hematocrit , and the presence or absence of perioperative transfusion . the only variable that significantly correlated with 5-year disease-free survival was the presence or absence of perioperative transfusion ( p = 0.0278 ) , and this effect was not related to the number of transfusions . retrospective analysis of long-term results of patients surviving curative operation for stage i lung cancer shows that any perioperative transfusion significantly worsens the patient 's prognosis and suggests very strongly that this association is due to an adverse effect of the transfusion rather than the transfusion serving as a marker for another risk factor . 
life-threatening complications during anaesthesia in a patient with a ventriculo-atrial shunt and pulmonary hypertension [ published erratum appears in anaesthesia 1991 mar ; 46 ( 3 ) :241 ] a 6-year-old patient with hydrocephalus who underwent revision of a ventriculo-atrial shunt is described . anaesthesia was complicated by the occurrence of systemic hypertension and arterial hypoxaemia . the patient was subsequently found to have pulmonary hypertension secondary to recurrent pulmonary thromboembolism . the pathophysiological mechanisms for the patient 's deterioration are discussed and the anaesthetic management of children with pulmonary hypertension is outlined . it is concluded that patients with a ventriculo-atrial shunt who present for surgery should be screened carefully for the presence of pulmonary hypertension . 
isolated lung transplantation for pulmonary fibrosis . the peri-operative anaesthetic management of 11 patients with pulmonary fibrosis undergoing single-lung transplantation is presented . intra-operative problems , the early postoperative phase of recovery and intensive care , and other incidents in which general anaesthesia was required for the management of complications , are featured . results , both short - and long-term , are mentioned . major intra-operative events that cause concern appear to be related to the severity of the presenting illness and the development of respiratory failure . others have reported the development of intra-operative cardiac failure . all cases were successfully managed operatively using conventional one-lung anaesthesia , although resort to partial cardiopulmonary bypass may have been indicated in some . the indications and attitudes to utilising cardiopulmonary bypass in the evolution of techniques for facilitating single-lung transplantation are reviewed . 
intact epithelial barrier function is critical for the resolution of alveolar edema in humans within 15 min of endotracheal intubation , the resolution of pulmonary edema was studied over the next 12 h in 34 mechanically ventilated patients by ( 1 ) serial measurements of the alveolar-arterial oxygen difference , ( 2 ) the extent of edema on the initial and follow-up chest radiograph , and ( 3 ) by an initial and final measurement of total protein and albumin concentration in sequential samples of pulmonary edema fluid . based on the oxygenation and chest radiographic data , 24 patients clinically improved and 10 patients did not improve . in the 10 patients who did not clinically improve ( 3 , hydrostatic edema ; 7 , permeability edema ) , there was no change in the final edema fluid protein concentration ( 4.1 + / - 1.1 g/100 ml ) compared with the initial edema fluid protein concentration ( 4.2 + / - 1.0 g/100 ml ) ( p = ns ) . however , in the 24 patients who clinically improved ( 15 , hydrostatic edema ; 9 , permeability edema ) , there was an increase in every patient 's final edema protein concentration ( 5.6 + / - 2.3 g/100 ml ) compared with their initial edema protein concentration ( 3.8 + / - 1.2 g/100 ml ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . in 13 of these 24 patients , the final edema fluid concentration ( 7.3 + / - 1.6 g/100 ml ) exceeded the final plasma protein concentration ( 5.6 + / - 0.8 g/100 ml ) by a mean value of 1.7 g/100 ml protein . the data provide the first evidence in humans to support the hypothesis that active ion transport across the alveolar epithelial barrier is the primary mechanism for clearance of edema fluid from the air spaces of the lung . 
the effect of corticosteroid or methotrexate therapy on lung lymphocytes and macrophages in sarcoidosis . methotrexate appears to be an effective alternative to corticosteroid therapy for some patients with sarcoidosis . the mechanism of action of methotrexate as an immunosuppressive is unknown . patients with symptomatic pulmonary sarcoidosis underwent pulmonary function tests and bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage . patients were treated with 10 mg methotrexate or prednisone weekly for at least 6 months and repeat studies were performed . a comparison was made between those patients receiving methotrexate ( 12 patients ) and those receiving prednisone ( 12 patients ) . for both groups , there was a significant improvement in the vital capacity with therapy ( prednisone : pre = 2.5 + / - 0.14 l ( mean + / - sem ) ; post = 3.1 + / - 0.18 l , p less than 0.01 ; methotrexate : pre = 2.4 + / - 0.14 l ; post = 2.8 + / - 0.18 l , p less than 0.01 ) . in addition , the percentage of lymphocytes in the lavage fell significantly for both the prednisone ( pre : 30 + / - 3.5 % ; post : 16 + / - 2.7 % , p less than 0.001 ) and methotrexate ( pre : 37 + / - 3.4 % ; post : 13 + / - 2.9 % , p less than 0.001 ) groups . alveolar macrophages from the symptomatic sarcoid patients were found to be spontaneously releasing hydrogen peroxide and tumor necrosis factor . after treatment with either prednisone or methotrexate , alveolar macrophages retrieved by lavage spontaneously released less of either macrophage product . we found that effective doses of methotrexate for sarcoidosis led to significant changes in lymphocyte and macrophages retrieved by lavage . 
surfactant replacement improves lung recoil in rabbit lungs after acid aspiration . we tested the hypothesis that surfactant replacement would be beneficial in the acid-aspiration model of acute lung injury . hcl ( 0.1 n , 2 ml/kg ) was injected into the trachea of excised rabbit lungs ( n = 8 ) . control lungs ( n = 4 ) had no intervention . all were perfused with tyrode 's solution mixed 1:1 with autologous whole blood at 40 ml/min/kg for 30 min , and then degassed . a modified natural surfactant ( survanta , ross laboratories ) was then injected into the trachea of four lungs injured with hcl ( 100 mg/kg at 25 mg/ml ) . two quasi-static pressure-volume curves were determined . the mean alveolar pressures at 50 , 60 , 70 , 80 , and 90 % of tlc were greater in the hcl group than in the control group ( p less than 0.05 ) . however , no difference was observed between the control lungs and those that received hcl + survanta . in 13 anesthetized , paralyzed , and ventilated rabbits , deflation pressure-volume curves were determined from tlc to frc ( measured by helium dilution ) . then , 0.1 n hcl ( 3 ml/kg ) was injected into the trachea and , in seven , survanta was instilled 5 min later . the mean alveolar pressures at 60 , 70 , 80 , and 90 % tlc were higher at 15 and 60 min in the hcl group compared with their pre-hcl time point ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the hcl + survanta group , no differences were seen at 15 min , and only slight increased were seen at 60 min . no effect of surfactant replacement on arterial blood gases was observed . hcl aspiration increased recoil in both excised and in vivo lungs , and surfactant replacement with survanta returned recoil to normal . 
inspiratory flow dynamics during mechanical ventilation in patients with respiratory failure . we studied the effect of inspiratory flow rate on respiratory resistance during mechanical ventilation in 15 patients with acute respiratory failure ( arf ) . resistance was measured by both constant flow inflation and occlusion methods as inspiratory flow rates were increased from 0.66 to 2.0 l/s . endotracheal tube resistance was subtracted from total resistance to obtain respiratory resistance . in contrast to the flow-dependent increase in endotracheal tube resistance , respiratory resistance decreased continuously as flow rate and airway pressure increased , except in four of six patients with asthma in whom respiratory resistance increased as flow increased . mechanical airway dilatation , tissue resistance , stress relaxation , and time-constant inequalities may contribute to the decrease in respiratory resistance . in status asthmaticus , however , the effects of turbulence , noncompliant airways , and/or " reflex " bronchoconstriction may be sufficient to cause a flow-dependent increase in resistance . 
nasal and oral flow-volume loops in normal subjects and patients with obstructive sleep apnea . because flow-volume loops ( fvls ) are clinically useful in evaluating upper airway ( ua ) obstruction and the fact that patency of the nasopharyngeal ventilatory pathway is important to the prevention of obstructive sleep apnea ( osa ) , the present study examined the role of nasal compared with oral fvls in evaluating patients with osa . fourteen obese male patients 56 + / - 3 yr of age with a mean apnea plus hypopnea index ( ahi ) of 51 + / - 9/h were studied along with 14 nonobese , healthy , age - and sex-matched control subjects whose mean ahi was 6 + / - 1/h . nasal and oral fvls obtained in the normal subjects indicated the nose behaved like a variable resistor , with flow limitation during inspiration but not during expiration . in the patient group , flow limitation was observed during expiration as well as inspiration indicating nondistensibility of the nasopharyngeal ventilatory pathway in the patients compared to the control subjects . a change in body position from upright to supine in the osa group was associated with small reductions in expiratory but not inspiratory flow rates . the area under the nasal supine flow-volume loop ( fvlanasup ) was found to be highly correlated with awake resting pao2 ( r = 0.80 ) and paco2 ( r = -0.83 ) in the patient group . in addition , multiple linear regression analysis revealed that pao2 and the area under the nasal fvls independently contributed to the prediction of ahi with a multiple r of 0.89 . these results suggest that limitations to ventilation via the nasopharynx may significantly influence both gas exchange and the frequency of sleep-disordered breathing in patients with osa . 
decreased ventilation and hypoxic ventilatory responsiveness are not reversed by naloxone in lhasa residents with chronic mountain sickness . persons with chronic mountain sickness ( cms ) hypoventilate and are more hypoxemic than normal individuals , but the cause of the hypoventilation is unclear . studies of 14 patients with cms and 11 healthy age-matched control subjects residing in lhasa , tibet , china ( 3,658 m ) were conducted to test the hypothesis that hypoventilation , blunted hypoxic ventilatory responsiveness ( hvr ) , and hypoxic ventilatory depression of cms were due to increased endogenous opioid production . patients with cms compared with control subjects exhibited hypoventilation ( end-tidal carbon dioxide pressure [ petco2 ] = 36.6 + / - 1.0 versus 31.5 + / - 0.5 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) , lower tidal volume ( vt = 0.54 + / - 0.02 versus 0.61 + / - 0.02 ml btps , p less than 0.05 ) , blunted hvr ( shape parameter a = 17 + / - 8 versus 114 + / - 22 mm hg/l btps/min , p less than 0.05 ) , and a depressant effect of ambient hypoxia on ventilation ( delta petco2 with acute hyperoxia = -3.5 + / - 0.5 versus -1.0 + / - 0.6 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) . reduced forced expiratory volume in 1 s to vital capacity ratios ( fev1/vc ) and a higher proportion of cigarette smokers in the group of patients with cms compared with control subjects suggested that at least some patients with cms had mild airway obstructive lung disease . naloxone infusion ( 0.14 mg/kg ) to six patients with cms did not change resting vt , petco2 , hvr , or sao2 . 
radiologic detection of pleural thickening . the purpose of this study was to investigate four aspects of the radiologic detection of pleural thickening : the specificity of chest x-rays read by b readers , the effects of threshold definitions of positivity , the extent of variability among different x-ray readers , and the effect of film quality . a series of 421 chest x-rays corresponding to consecutive autopsies was reviewed by six b readers working independently and using modified international labour organization forms . the prevalence of true pleural thickening was approximately 6 % . using a strict definition of positivity , the average specificity was 0.85 . specificity decreased when a more liberal definition was used . ( the average sensitivity was 0.32 , which appeared to increase with a more liberal definition of positivity ; because of small numbers of true positives , the sensitivity estimates were unstable . ) kappa statistics for interreader agreement ranged from 0.06 to 0.40 , suggesting considerable interreader variability . decreasing film quality was associated with decreasing sensitivity , but specificity was not affected by film quality . because the chest x-ray has suboptimal test characteristics in the diagnosis of pleural thickening and because there is considerable interreader variability , we conclude that caution is required in interpreting radiologic detection of pleural thickening using ilo procedures . 
the south karelia air pollution study . the effects of malodorous sulfur compounds from pulp mills on respiratory and other symptoms . the paper mills in south karelia , the southeast part of finland , are responsible for releasing a substantial amount of malodorous sulfur compounds such as hydrogen sulfide ( h2s ) , methyl mercaptan ( ch3sh ) , and methyl sulfides [ ( ch3 ) 2s and ( ch3 ) 2s2 ] , into ambient air . in the most polluted residential area the annual mean concentrations of hydrogen sulfide and methyl mercaptan are estimated to be 8 and 2 to 5 micrograms/m3 and the highest daily average concentration 100 and 50 micrograms/m3 . the annual mean and highest daily concentrations of sulfur dioxide ( so2 ) are very low . we studied the effects of malodorous sulfur compounds on eye , nasal and respiratory symptoms , and headache in adults . a cross-sectional self-administered questionnaire was distributed in february 1987 and responded to by 488 adults living in a severely ( n = 198 ) , a moderately ( n = 204 ) , and a nonpolluted community ( n = 86 ) . this included questions about occurrence of the symptoms of interest during the previous 4 wk and 12 months and individual , behavioral , and other environmental determinants of the symptoms . the response rate was 83 % . the odds ratios ( or ) for symptoms experienced often or constantly in severely versus nonpolluted and moderately versus nonpolluted communities were estimated in logistic regression analysis controlling potential confounders . the odds ratios for eye ( moderate exposure or 11.70 , cl95 % 2.33 to 58.65 ; severe exposure or 11.78 , cl95 % 2.35 to 59.09 ) and nasal symptoms ( or 2.01 , cl95 % 0.97 to 4.15 ; or 2.19 , cl95 % 1.06 to 4.55 ) and cough ( or 1.89 , cl95 % 0.61 to 5.86 ; or 3.06 , cl95 % 1.02 to 9.29 ) during the previous 12 months were increased , with a dose-response pattern . 
methacholine responsiveness among working populations . relationship to smoking and airway caliber . it has been suggested that the development of bronchial hyperresponsiveness ( bhr ) in some smokers may be an intermediate event in the progression to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in this group . if this is true , prevalence data on bhr in a general population should show an independent association between bhr and smoking status . to test this , we analyzed bhr to inhaled methacholine in 654 white men without known asthma , in relation to smoking , skin-test reactivity , type of work ( office versus industrial ) , and indicators of baseline airway caliber ( fev1 % predicted and fev1/fvc ) . bhr was measured in the traditional way ( pc20 ) and as the slope of fev1 versus the methacholine concentration ( linear scale ) . a pc20 of less than 16 mg/ml was considered " responsive " for analyses of this outcome . we found that although a positive skin test , smoking , and being an industrial worker all appeared to be significant predictors of increased bhr ( p less than 0.05 ) , once fev1 ( % predicted ) and fev1/fvc % were taken into account , none of these variables alone remained significantly associated with bhr . the strongest predictors of bhr were prechallenge fev1 and fev1/fvc ( both p less than 0.01 ) . the combination of smoking , atopy , and work groups , which identified a small subgroup of atopic smokers who were office workers , also remained significantly associated with increased bhr . we also used a regression model that allowed for comparison of predictors for bhr between the most responsive subset of the population ( n = 84 ) and the remainder of the study population . 
cigarette smoke causes physiologic and morphologic changes of emphysema in the guinea pig . to investigate the long-term effect of cigarette smoke on pulmonary structure and function , we exposed groups of guinea pigs to the smoke of 10 cigarettes each day , 5 days per week , for 1 , 3 , 6 , and 12 months . we found that the guinea pigs developed progressive lung destruction ( emphysema ) and alterations in their pulmonary function tests similar to that seen in humans with cigarette smoke-induced chronic obstructive lung disease . this method of smoke-induced lung destruction should provide a good model for the study of the early changes of emphysema . 
a rat model of prolonged pulmonary infection due to nontypable haemophilus influenzae . pulmonary colonization and infection with nontypable ( unencapsulated ) haemophilus influenzae ( nthi ) occurs commonly in the setting of chronic lung diseases . because the study of nthi pulmonary infection in animal models has been limited by the rapid clearance of organisms , a model of persistent pulmonary infection was developed . groups of rats were inoculated by transtracheal instillation of viable nthi suspended in broth or semisolid agar . some rats had received hexamethylphosphoramide ( hmp ) in drinking water before inoculation to cause respiratory epithelial mucosal damage . groups of animals were sacrificed serially . lungs were cultured quantitatively and their gross and microscopic anatomy examined . nthi was recovered in small quantities from few broth-inoculated rats after the first day of infection and in none after day 7 . in contrast , nthi was recovered from the majority of animals and in greater amounts through 2 wk after agar-borne inoculation . hmp pretreatment further enhanced recovery through 4 wk after inoculation with an agar vehicle . the pulmonary inflammatory reaction was brief in broth-inoculated rats . the longer persistence of gross and histologic changes seen in agar-infected lungs paralleled the enhanced recovery of nthi . abscess formation occurred at 7 to 14 days in some agar-inoculated animals . thus pulmonary inoculation of nthi in a viscous vehicle resulted in perpetuation of infection and inflammatory response , and previous damage to respiratory mucosal epithelium induced by hmp further enhanced such infection . 
bilateral intrapulmonary hematomas . a 67-yr-old man , known to have chronic obstructive lung disease , developed bilateral localized pulmonary densities on chest radiographs after cardiopulmonary resuscitation . an autopsy disclosed bilateral intrapulmonary hematomas without communication with bronchi , pulmonary arteries , or pleural cavities . we suggest blunt pulmonary injury is the most probable cause of the hematomas and discuss its pathogenic mechanism . intrapulmonary hematomas should be considered in the differential diagnosis of pulmonary densities developing after a vigorous resuscitation . 
bombesin stimulation of mitogenesis . specific receptors , signal transduction , and early events . quiescent cultures of swiss 3t3 cells can be stimulated to recommence dna synthesis by polypeptide growth factors , neuropeptides , and various pharmacologic agents that act via multiple signal transduction pathways . neuropeptides of the bombesin family provide potent mitogens to elucidate these pathways . these peptides bind to specific receptors that have been characterized by radioligand binding and sensitivity to antagonists and identified as glycoproteins with a mr of 75,000-85 ,000 by chemical cross-linking . after binding , bombesin elicits a cascade of early molecular events including stimulation of phosphorylation of the acidic mr 80,000 cellular protein , which is a major substrate of protein kinase c ; ca2 + mobilization mediated by ins ( 1,4,5 ) p3 , na + and k + fluxes , transmodulation of egf receptor , enhancement of camp accumulation , and expression of the proto-oncogenes c-fos and c-myc . studies using membrane preparations and permeabilized 3t3 cells indicate that g proteins play a role in the transduction of the mitogenic signal triggered by the binding of bombesin to its receptor . a pertussis toxin-insensitive g protein couples the bombesin receptor to the generation of a signal that activates protein kinase c , whereas a pertussis toxin-sensitive g protein mediates cross-talk between transmembrane signaling pathways . bombesin-mediated mitogenesis can be blocked by different antagonists and by interrupting the signal-transduction process at various postreceptor levels . thus , prolonged treatment with vasopressin causes heterologous desensitization to the mitogenic action of bombesin . this mitogenic block is mediated by uncoupling the receptor from its signaling system . loss of responsiveness to bombesin-stimulated dna synthesis is also induced by down-regulation of protein kinase c. 
gene amplification in human lung cancer . the myc family genes and other proto-oncogenes and growth factor genes . the development of human lung cancer may require multiple genetic deletions affecting a number of chromosomes , e.g. , 1 , 3 , 11 , 13 , and 17 . these genetic aberrations may induce the activation of proto-oncogenes ( c-jun , ras , c-raf1 ) and the loss of tumor suppressor genes ( p53 ) . some of the activated proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes are more selectively expressed or absent in small-cell lung cancer ( l-myc , c-myb , c-scr , rb gene ) or non-small-cell lung cancer ( c-erbb-2 , c-sis , c-fes ) . these genes may thus be of importance for selection of differentiation pathway . the c-myc oncogene is frequently amplified in small-cell lung cancer cell lines in a much higher frequency than in vivo . this indicates that c-myc seems to be related to tumor progression and a relatively late event in the lung cancer development . the uncontrolled production of multiple growth factors has been identified in human lung cancer cell lines . these factors can promote and inhibit the proliferation via paracrine and autocrine loops via specific receptors . the products from some of the activated proto-oncogenes ( c-sis , c-erbb-2 ) are sequences homologous to a certain growth factor ( pdgf ) and a receptor ( egf ) identified in lung cancer . the production and action of these growth factors may be of major importance for further activation of proto-oncogenes via intracellular signal transduction and specific oncogenic activation leading to further tumor progression . 
the ras oncogenes in human lung cancer . the three well-characterized genes of the ras gene family h-ras , k-ras , and n-ras , code for closely related 21-kd proteins that have a role in the transduction of growth signals . the ras proteins acquire transforming potential when a point mutation in the gene leads to replacement of an amino acid in one of the critical positions 12 , 13 , or 61 . overexpression of the normal protein , usually associated with gene amplification , can have similar effects . the detection of mutationally activated ras genes has been facilitated by the development of oligonucleotide hybridization assays that allow the identification of each possible mutation at the critical sites . employment of the polymerase chain reaction has greatly increased the sensitivity of these assays . studies of human lung cancer have shown that adenocarcinoma is the only subtype associated with ras mutations . these occur in about 30 % of primary tumors . in almost all cases , the mutation is present in codon 12 of the k-ras gene . no mutations have been observed to date in tumors of nonsmokers , suggesting that the mutation may result from exposure to carcinogenic ingredients of tobacco smoke . amplifications of ras genes were shown to be very uncommon in clinically early stages of lung cancer . analysis of the clinical data of patients who were operated on for adenocarcinoma of the lung shows that k-ras mutations are not associated with particular histologic characteristics of the tumors or with specific presenting features . patients with k-ras mutations , however , had significantly worse survival than did those without an activation . 
the beta-type transforming growth factor . mediators of cell regulation in the lung . an increased interest in the role of growth factors in the regulation of processes concerning normal and pathologic lung physiology has spurred a flurry of research in this area . peptide growth factors are known to control not only cell proliferation but other events such as differentiation , chemotaxis , and matrix deposition as well . the transforming growth factor beta ( tgf beta ) family of regulatory peptides serves as a prime example to illustrate the multiplicity of effects elicited by peptide growth factors in various lung-derived cell types . at present , the tgf beta family consists of at least 17 proteins and , based on sequence analysis , they can be divided into two groups : a cluster that shows very high sequence similarity to tgf beta 1 , the closely related group , and a cluster that shows weaker sequence similarity to tgf beta 1 , the distantly related group . the purpose of this brief review is to summarize the salient features of tgf beta structure and regulatory abilities of the closely related group . in addition , we will outline the evidence suggesting a role for tgf beta in normal lung development and physiology . emphasis will be placed on studies with the closely related members tgf beta 1 and tgf beta 2 because , until recently , purified protein was available only for these two proteins . 
positive and negative regulation of proliferation and differentiation in tracheobronchial epithelial cells . the lung ( in particular the bronchial epithelium ) is a major site for tumor formation in humans . environmental factors in conjunction with genetic factors are important determinants in this disease . the acquisition of defects in the control of proliferation and differentiation appears to constitute crucial steps in the transition of a normal to a neoplastic cell . several factors have been identified that control positively or negatively the proliferation and differentiation of tracheobronchial epithelial cells . these factors include egf/tgf alpha , tgf beta , insulin/igfi , kgf , certain cytokines , retinoids , and activators of protein kinase c. studies with neoplastic cells have identified several protooncogenes and tumor suppressor genes whose gene products are involved in the regulation of cell growth of normal tracheobronchial epithelial cells , and when mutated , lost , or activated , bring about a neoplastic phenotype . future studies on the precise function of these genes will help to elucidate the mechanisms by which proliferation and differentiation in normal tracheobronchial epithelial cells are regulated and help to understand the molecular changes involved in diseases such as cancer . 
genetic strategies of tumor suppression . the evaluation of the cancer cell is a complex multigene process . tumor suppressor genes that are lost or inactivated , as well as genes that are overexpressed , play key roles in tumor progression . the identification of overexpressed genes has been expedited by the presence of transforming genes in some animal retroviruses . however , tumor suppressor genes have been difficult to identify and isolate because of their loss or inactivation during tumorigenesis . by a variety of methods , summarized in this review , a few tumor suppressors have been cloned and characterized , and many more have been recognized indirectly . the general finding at this time is that the same tumor suppressors ( and oncogenes ) are found associated with many different tumors , that several different altered genes are found typically in the same tumors , and that other oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes seem to be characteristically altered in particular tumor types as well . functions of tumor suppressor genes include the control of normal cell activities such as proliferation and differentiation as well as senescence , which is a special kind of differentiation in which cells lose their ability to divide . the genetic basis of senescence and identification of genes involved in overcoming senescence , leading to immortalization ( i.e. , indefinite growth potential ) , are important areas of current investigation . our laboratory is engaged in senescence/immortalization studies as a result of our discovery that normal human mammary epithelial cells can be immortalized by dna of the human papilloma virus . these new studies are summarized here . 
recessive oncogenes in lung cancer . the observation that carcinogen exposure is strongly associated with the probability of developing pulmonary neoplasms has suggested for many years that acquired somatic mutations play a key role in the genesis of these environmentally induced cancers . with the advent of new techniques in cytogenetics and in the molecular analysis of dna extracted from lung tumors , it has now become possible to test this hypothesis and to search for candidate genes that may be targeted by the chronic exposure of these environmental insults . early work in this field , studying lung tumors of different histologic types , appears to implicate several distinct chromosomal loci ( at chromosomes 3p , 13q , 17p , and others ) , suggesting that sequential genetic events occur during the initiation and progression pathways to pulmonary tumorigenesis . identifying the candidate gene products and understanding the chronology and stringency of mutational events at these loci will be an essential goal to understanding the cellular basis of lung tumors and for developing strategies for the next generation of diagnostic and therapeutic studies . 
src expression in small-cell lung carcinoma and other neuroendocrine malignancies . the proto-oncogene c-src codes for two tyrosine kinases , pp60c-src and pp60c-srcn . the latter protein appears to be exclusively expressed in neurons and neuronally differentiated tumors . in cell lines derived from neuroblastoma and small-cell lung carcinoma , src expression correlates positively with neuroendocrine differentiation . however , pp60c-srcn is expressed only in highly differentiated neuroblastomas . although c-src expression in neuroendocrine tumors probably reflects and is the result of the differentiation stage at which the tumors have been arrested , high c-src expression and kinase activities in non-neuroectodermal tumors , e.g. , colon carcinoma , breast carcinoma , might instead be a part of the malignant phenotype and contribute to the development of these tumors . 
aggravation of myasthenia gravis by erythromycin . erythromycin is not currently recognized as causing clinical aggravation of myasthenia gravis . we report the case of a patient who experienced exacerbations of myasthenia gravis subsequent to each of several doses of intravenous erythromycin . we suggest that erythromycin can cause clinical worsening in patients with disease of the neuromuscular junction . 
pulmonary capillaritis and glomerulonephritis in an antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-positive patient with prior granulomatous aortitis . a 59-year-old man showed asynchronous development of noninfectious granulomatous aortitis with aneurysm , followed 9 months later by pulmonary capillaritis and glomerulonephritis in association with elevated serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody levels . to our knowledge , the combination of large artery vasculitis and small vessel systemic vasculitis ( capillaritis ) has not been previously reported . this case may represent a hybrid type of systemic vasculitis combining features of giant cell arteritis and wegener 's granulomatosis . 
pulmonary malakoplakia in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . differential diagnostic considerations . malakoplakia is an unusual inflammatory condition characterized histopathologically by accumulations of benign macrophages , or von hansemann 's cells , that are associated with diagnostic intracellular and extracellular calcospherites , termed michaelis-gutmann bodies . currently believed to represent an acquired defect of macrophage digestion , malakoplakia most commonly occurs in the urinary tract and is associated with a variety of infectious agents , notably gram-negative bacilli . we describe a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who presented with a cavitating lingular mass . a transbronchial biopsy specimen revealed pulmonary malakoplakia , the seventh reported case of this condition and the second reported occurrence of pulmonary malakoplakia in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . microbiological cultures were positive for rhodococcus equi . the significance of this finding , and the differential diagnosis of intra-alveolar histiocytic proliferations in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , is discussed . 
extramedullary hematopoiesis in a bronchial carcinoid tumor . an unusual complication of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia . a case of bronchial carcinoid tumor with foci of extramedullary hematopoiesis is presented . the patient had a 6-year history of agnogenic myeloid metaplasia and hepatosplenomegaly . all three hematopoietic cell lines were represented in different areas of the bronchial tumor . to our knowledge , this is the first case of extramedullary hematopoiesis described in a bronchial carcinoid and only the fourth report of hematopoietic cells in a neoplasm of otherwise unrelated origin . the pathogenesis of this uncommon finding is discussed and the literature is reviewed . 
the role of indium-labelled leukocyte imaging in pyrexia of unknown origin . indium-111-labeled white blood cell scanning is often used in the investigation of pyrexia of unknown origin ( puo ) to locate an otherwise occult source of sepsis . from a series of 166 white blood cell studies performed for sepsis , 28 cases of true puo were identified and reviewed . the sensitivity was 60 % and specificity 70 % , with a positive predictive value of 38 % and negative predictive value of 90 % . only 11 % of studies revealed a pyogenic cause for puo . these results are discussed and the potential role of gallium scanning in puo is raised . 
nicardipine reduces the cardio-respiratory toxicity of intravenously administered bupivacaine in rats . the purpose of our study was to examine the effect of intravenous ( iv ) nicardipine pretreatment ( 30 micrograms.kg-1 ) , given three minutes before an iv bolus of bupivacaine to determine its effect on the incidence of fatal bupivacaine cardio-respiratory toxicity in adult male sprague dawley rats anaesthetized with intraperitoneal pentobarbital . fifty rats were divided into four groups . groups i and ii ( n = 10 each ) received 3.5 mg.kg-1 0.5 per cent bupivacaine and groups iii and iv ( n = 15 each ) received 5.0 mg.kg-1 , 0.5 per cent bupivacaine . groups i and iii received pretreatment with normal saline before bupivacaine , whereas groups ii and iv were given pretreatment with nicardipine , 30 mg.kg-1 . there was no difference in the incidence of survival between the nicardipine pretreatment group and the saline placebo pretreatment group given 3.5 mg.kg-1 , 0.5 per cent bupivacaine ( no fatalities in either group ) . however , there was significant protection by nicardipine pretreatment in the group given 5 mg.kg-1 , 0.5 per cent bupivacaine ( 13 of 15 survived , compared with only 4 of 15 in the saline pretreatment group , p less than 0.001 ) . in conclusion , our data demonstrate that in rats given 0.5 per cent bupivacaine , 5 mg.kg-1 , nicardipine pretreatment protected against fatal cardio-respiratory toxicity . 
an adherent subline of a unique small-cell lung cancer cell line downregulates antigens of the neural cell adhesion molecule . small-cell lung cancer ( sclc ) lines are distinguished from non-small-cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) lines by their growth in floating aggregates , in contrast to the adherent monolayers formed by nsclc cells in culture . of 50 well-characterized sclc lines recently described by the national cancer institute ( nci ) - navy medical oncology branch , only four variant cell lines ( sclc-v ) grew as adherent monolayers . one line , nci-h446 , was unique in growing long-term with coexisting floating and surface adherent subpopulations . we have physically segregated these two populations over many passages in vitro to enrich for relatively pure cultures of floating and adherent cells . no differences in c-myc expression , keratin pattern , or cytogenetic appearance were found between the adherent and floating sublines . however , expression of the neuroendocrine marker neuron-specific enolase in the floating cells was three times that found in the adherent cells . the floating subline also had much greater surface expression of neuroendocrine tumor antigens detected by monoclonal antibodies uj13a and hnk-1 , which have been recently shown to detect the neural cell adhesion molecule ( ncam ) on sclc cells . two other adherent sclc-v lines were also found to be unreactive with uj13a and hnk-1 , generalizing the association between ncam expression and the growth of most sclc cultures as floating aggregates . in conclusion , we have an interesting model to study expression of ncam as related to the adhesive properties of sclc cells . 
causes of death in the elderly and their changing pattern in hisayama , a japanese community . results from a long-term and autopsy-based study . the causes of death for the elderly were prospectively studied in hisayama , japan , a rural community . we compared 1,621 subjects , aged 40 years or over , recruited in 1961 , and 2,053 subjects recruited in 1974 . each cohort was studied in a follow-up that lasted 10 years ; they had autopsy rates of 82.1 % and 86.1 % during each 10-year period , respectively . the most common causes of death for those aged 70 years or over were cerebrovascular disease , malignant neoplasms , and pneumonia . deaths due to cerebrovascular disease tended to decrease in the recent cohort , but the proportion of decline was more prominent in cases aged 40 to 69 years . there was a sex difference in the changing pattern of mortality from heart diseases including ischemic heart disease . deaths by both heart diseases and ischemic heart disease increased in the more recent cohort of aged women , whereas they decreased in the aged men . pneumonia was an important cause of death for the elderly in both cohorts . deaths due to " senility " were rare , being only 1 % of the deceased aged 70 or over . with prolonged lifespan , especially for women , the impact of atherosclerosis and its related disorders on the recent japanese aged population appears to have increased . 
leukocyte larceny : spurious hypoxemia confirmed with pulse oximetry leukemic patients with extremely high white blood counts may exhibit the phenomenon of leukocyte larceny , in which white blood cells metabolize plasma oxygen in arterial blood gas samples ( abg ) producing a spuriously low oxygen tension . we report the case of a leukemic patient with a white blood count in excess of 500,000 in whom multiple abgs documented hypoxemia out of proportion to his clinical picture . pulse oximetry was used to confirm higher hemoglobin oxygen saturation to establish the leukocyte larceny . 
the electrocardiogram in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . the electrocardiogram is often abnormal in patients who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . the most frequent abnormalities are a rightward p-wave axis ( greater than or equal to 70 degrees ) and a rightward qrs axis ( greater than or equal to 90 degrees ) . in addition , low voltage in the limb leads , an s1s2s3 pattern , poor r-wave progression , a posterior-superior terminal qrs vector or other changes may be present . transient atrial and ventricular dysrhythmias are common . knowledge of the usual electrocardiographic manifestations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease enables the clinician to recognize uncharacteristic abnormalities , which often represent the effects of superimposed illnesses or drug toxicity . 
microscopic wegener 's disease : a particular form of wegener 's granulomatosis . we describe a case of wegener 's granulomatosis in which the disease was manifested with crescentic glomerulonephritis , upper airway ulcerations , and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia with consumptive coagulopathy . no granuloma was identified but antibodies to cytoplasmic components of neutrophils were strongly positive with a diffuse pattern . because microscopic vessels were predominantly involved ( capillaritis ) , and granuloma were absent , were refer to this particular form of the disease as " microscopic wegener 's disease . " . 
multiple organ failure : inflammatory priming and activation sequences promote autologous tissue injury . systemic inflammation promotes multiple organ failure through the induction of diffuse microvascular leak . inflammatory cells such as neutrophils propagate this process . tissue injury by neutrophils may be viewed as a normal process , inflammation , that has become uncontrolled and generalized . multiple inflammatory stimuli synergistically promote neutrophil-mediated tissue injury in priming and activation sequences . in some settings , cellular priming is mediated by platelet-activating factor and can be prevented by platelet-activating factor antagonists . inhibiting cellular priming could be efficacious in the therapy of multiple organ failure . 
endotoxin requirements for alveolar macrophage stimulation . acute pulmonary failure or ards in severely injured patients continues to be a significant problem . the most important clinical risk factor identified is sepsis syndrome . sepsis syndrome is the clinical correlate of a malignant systemic inflammatory process and is directed in large part by the tissue-fixed macrophage ( m phi ) , such as the alveolar m phi . the m phi is capable of producing most of the central inflammatory mediators responsible for the pathophysiology seen during sepsis and organ injury . two major mediators are procoagulant activity ( pca ) , leading to diffuse microvascular thrombosis , and tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , causing much of the physiologic derangement of sepsis . endotoxins ( lps ) derived from gram-negative bacterial cell walls are the primary inflammatory stimulus for the tissue-fixed m phi production of inflammatory mediators . it is not completely known how lps interacts with its various cellular targets , but it is hoped that knowledge of the molecular interactions involved in stimulation of the m phi by endotoxin will lead to therapies to modulate the response and prevent deleterious processes such as ards . in the present studies , lps from e. coli 0111 : b4 was shown in a dose response to stimulate large levels of both pca and tnf in alveolar m phi . lps from bacteroides fragilis and lipid x ( the monosaccharide precursor of endotoxin ) were unable to cause stimulation of the m phi in vitro . however , both moieties , b. fragilis lps and lipid x , were able to effectively and specifically compete with e. coli lps and block m phi stimulation . 
neutrophil disorders in burn injury : complement , cytokines , and organ injury . because of the association of burn injury with subsequent bacterial infection , numerous studies have been performed characterizing neutrophil function in burn injury . these studies provide a picture of intravascular complement activation , neutrophil-c5a interactions , and consequent disordered cellular function . neutrophil dysfunction includes suppressed random and c5a-directed migration and hyperresponsiveness to oxidative stimuli . these observations do not explain the histologic and functional involvement of neutrophils in ards and perhaps other organ failure states . circumstantial and extrapolated information suggests that macrophage-lineage cells function as regulators of neutrophil function within matrix environments in burn injury . elevated endotoxin levels have been found in burned patients , which would support the notion of endotoxin-stimulated monocytes/macrophages as inducing neutrophil migration into connective tissue matrices ( ltb4 and il-8 ) , inducing prolonged oxidant production ( tnf-alpha , gm-csf ) , and inducing neutrophil release of regulatory substances from neutrophils ( g-csf ) . this information suggests a variety of experimental approaches to testing this hypothesis . 
a lethal complication of papaverine-induced priapism . a large series of patients was treated for impotence with intracorporeal injections of papaverine and phentolamine with no major complications and no deaths reported . we report on a 45-year-old black man with advanced multiple sclerosis who died after such therapy . when the first self-administered injection of phentolamine and papaverine failed to produce an adequate erection the patient injected a second dose that resulted in priapism and death of massive pulmonary embolism . 
