trisomy 13 : a new recurring chromosome abnormality in acute leukemia . a new recurring chromosome abnormality was identified in 8 of 621 consecutive successfully karyotyped adults with de novo acute leukemia . these eight patients had trisomy 13 as the sole cytogenetic abnormality . on central morphologic review , five cases were classified as subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia , one as acute mixed lymphoid and myeloid leukemia , one as acute lymphoid leukemia , and one as acute undifferentiated leukemia . blasts of all eight cases expressed one or more myeloid differentiation antigens . three also expressed t-lineage-associated antigens ; however , none of these had rearrangement of the t-cell receptor beta , gamma , or delta genes . four of six cases tested were tdt positive . all eight patients with trisomy 13 were treated with intensive induction chemotherapy ; only three entered a short-lived complete remission . survival of patients with trisomy 13 ranged from 0.5 to 14.7 months , and was significantly shorter than that of the remaining patients ( median 9.5 v 16.2 months , p = .007 ) . we conclude that trisomy 13 is a rare , recurring clonal chromosome abnormality in acute leukemia associated with a poor prognosis . malignant transformation of an immature hematopoietic precursor cell is suggested by the expression of antigens characteristic of both the myeloid and lymphoid lineage , the high incidence of tdt positivity , and the morphologic heterogeneity in these leukemias . 
b-cell differentiation following autologous , conventional , or t-cell depleted bone marrow transplantation : a recapitulation of normal b-cell ontogeny . the circulating lymphocytes of 88 consecutive patients following autologous , conventional , or t-cell depleted bone marrow transplantation were serially analyzed for b-cell surface antigen expression and function . in the majority of patients , except for those who developed chronic graft-versus-host disease , the number of circulating cd20 + b cell normalized by the fourth posttransplant month . the earliest detectable b cells normally expressed hla-dr , cd19 , surface immunoglobulin ( slg ) , cd21 , leu-8 , and lacked expression of cd10 ( calla ) . in addition , the circulating b cells expressed cd1c , cd38 , cd5 , and cd23 for the first year following transplant , antigens that are normally expressed on a small percentage of circulating b cells in normal adults , but highly expressed on cord blood b cells . similar to cord blood b cells , patient b cells isolated during the first year following transplant , proliferated normally to staphylococcus aureus cowan strain i ( sac ) , and produced igm , but minimal or no igg when stimulated with pokeweed mitogen and sac , unlike normal adult b cells that produce both . the similar phenotype and function of posttransplant and cord blood b cells , and their similar rate of decline in patients and normal children adds further evidence to support the hypothesis that b-cell differentiation posttransplant is recapitulating normal b-cell ontogeny . 
transmission of htlv-i by blood transfusion and its prevention by passive immunization in rabbits . to determine the minimum volume of blood required to transmit human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) , heparinized blood was collected from a virus-infected female rabbit and aliquots of 10 , 5 , 1 , 0.5 , 0.1 , and 0.01 ml were transfused into groups of two male rabbits each . all 10 rabbits transfused with 10 to 0.1 ml and 1 of 2 rabbits transfused with 0.01 ml seroconverted for htlv-i after 2 to 4 weeks . htlv-i-producing lymphoid cell lines of recipient origin were established from one seroconverted rabbit of each aliquot group . to determine the ability of passive immunization to protect against htlv-i infection , two groups of three rabbits were first transfused with 5 ml of blood from the same virus-infected rabbit and then infused after 24 or 48 hours with 10 ml of htlv-i immune globulin ( 77 mg/ml of igg ) prepared from seropositive healthy persons . none of the 24-hour immunization group seroconverted for htlv-i during the observation period of six months ; however , all of the 48-hour immunization group became seropositive after 2 to 4 weeks . these results indicate that htlv-i can be transmitted with as little as 0.01 ml of virus-infected blood , and that passive immunization is effective in preventing cell-to-cell infection of htlv-i when given within 24 hours of transfusion of virus-infected blood . 
adrenaline and nocturnal asthma . objective -- to determine whether the nocturnal fall in plasma adrenaline is a cause of nocturnal asthma . design -- double blind placebo controlled cross-over study . in the first experiment the nocturnal fall in plasma adrenaline at 4 am was corrected in 10 asthmatic subjects with an infusion of adrenaline after parasympathetic blockade with 30 micrograms/kg intravenous atropine . in the second experiment 11 asthmatic subjects showing similar variations in peak expiratory flow rate had the nocturnal fall in plasma adrenaline corrected by infusion before atropine was given . patients -- asthmatic subjects with a diurnal variation in home peak expiratory flow rate of greater than 20 % for at least 75 % of the time in the two weeks before the study . main outcome measures -- peak expiratory flow rate and plasma adrenaline . results -- correction of the nocturnal fall in plasma adrenaline at 4 am to resting 4 pm levels did not alter peak expiratory flow rate either before or after parasympathetic blockade with atropine . conclusion -- a nighttime fall in plasma adrenaline is not a cause of nocturnal asthma . 
prevalence of hiv antibody and pregnancy in tayside , 1984-9 : background to screening . objective -- to determine age specific prevalence of hiv antibody , incidence of pregnancy , and likelihood of detection and correct assignment to risk category by antenatal screening of women known to be positive for hiv antibody , from 1984 to 1989 . design -- retrospective analysis of reproductive history and risk behaviour of women positive for hiv antibody and prediction of detection by screening on the basis of blood group samples , guthrie tests , and rubella tests . setting -- city of dundee , where the prevalence of hiv is high , since the appearance of hiv in 1984 , predominantly among heterosexual intravenous drug users . patients -- all ( 61 ) women known to be positive for hiv antibody who had had clinically indicated tests , for whom case notes were available for 60 . main outcome measures -- risk assessment according to case notes and reported to the laboratory , incidence of infection , geographical location , age , date of positive test result , and reproductive history . results -- with 61 infected women the overall minimum prevalence among women within the city of dundee was 0.67 / 1000 and 2.9 / 1000 among women in their third decade . of the 60 women whose reproductive history was available , 35 had 57 pregnancies , 36 of which occurred after seroconversion was known to have taken place , representing 8.7 % of the total number of affected pregnancies reported for the united kingdom . if antenatal screening for hiv had been performed between 1984 and 1989 it could not have detected positivity for hiv antibody in 25 ( 42 % ) women who had no pregnancies during this time . among the remaining 35 women , screening samples taken for blood grouping could have identified a maximum of 34 ( 57 % ) , samples taken to check rubella susceptibility a maximum of 22 ( 37 % ) , and blood spots on guthrie cards a maximum of 19 ( 32 % ) . retesting would have occurred in 14 women 33 times with samples taken for blood grouping , but three and four women would have been tested twice using samples taken for rubella testing and guthrie cards respectively . anonymous screening would have been unable to determine risk category as a history of intravenous drug use was known in 47 ( 79 % ) women before testing but this was increased by a further 5 ( 8 % ) who admitted to it after the test result was known . conclusion -- interpreting the results of antenatal screening programmes will be complex and will underestimate overall prevalence of hiv antibody among women ; this will be exaggerated by strategies based on anonymous testing with guthrie cards or on samples taken for rubella testing , which do not include women who have had an earlier loss of pregnancy . only open testing with consent will permit satisfactory attribution to . 
failure of nutritional recovery after total gastrectomy . malnutrition is reported to be an inevitable consequence of total gastrectomy , although there are few data to support this contention . six patients of median age 63 years underwent total gastrectomy for malignancy . at follow-up ( median 45 months , range 25-60 months ) each patient was clinically tumour-free and underwent dietary assessment , faecal fat and nitrogen measurement and routine haematological testing . protein and fat stores , measured by neutron activation analysis and the tritiated water dilution technique , were compared with the same measurements made before operation and with predicted values . mean ( s.d. ) dietary intake ( 2224 ( 381 ) kcal day-1 and 81 ( 15 ) g protein day-1 ) met the patients ' estimated requirements . mean ( s.d. ) serum albumin and faecal nitrogen values were normal but there was notable steatorrhoea ( 21 ( 17 ) g day-1 ) . body composition measurements revealed profound deficiencies of body-weight ( p less than 0.02 ) , protein ( p less than 0.01 ) and fat ( p less than 0.02 ) before operation which were not corrected by an apparently curative total gastrectomy ( p less than 0.05 ) , although further deterioration was prevented . 
physicians ' perception of personal risk of hiv infection and aids through occupational exposure . physicians ' response to acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) is poorly understood and often attributed to fear of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection through occupational exposure . we surveyed 268 physicians from three geographic regions in north american with different specialties and responsibilities for hiv-positive patients . an important difference was found between the published risk and the physicians ' perceived risk of infection after a single occupational exposure . almost half of the respondents stated that they feared contracting aids more than other diseases . the physicians who perceived themselves to be at high physical risk were more likely than the others to report that aids had changed the way they interact with their patients ( r = 0.26 , p less than 0.001 ) . no relation was found between the perception of physical risk and the number of hiv-infected patients ( r = -0.07 , p = 0.15 ) . however , the perception of social risk showed a small inverse correlation ( r = -0.15 , p less than 0.02 ) , in which the physicians with more hiv-infected patients reported less concern about negative social consequences . the physicians who perceived themselves to be at high personal risk were more likely than the others to report that surgeons have the right to refuse patients who do not wish to undergo hiv antibody testing ( r = -0.16 , p less than 0.01 for physical risk ; r = -0.29 , p less than 0.001 for social risk ) . multiple regression analyses indicated that physicians ' perception of physical risk was not related to age or sex but was modestly related to income source . the perception of social risk was related to sex and income source . physicians ' perception of personal risk is a crucial , yet often unacknowledged , component of the fight against aids . our findings suggest that lack of attention to this issue is seriously compromising initiatives designed to facilitate physician participation in aids care . 
gastrointestinal function and structure in hiv-positive patients . we examined 19 patients ( 17 men ) with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and gastrointestinal symptoms to determine whether those symptoms were due to either a gastrointestinal tract infection or a defect in mucosal absorption because of an enteropathy . the erythrocyte folate and serum vitamin b12 levels were within normal limits in all of the patients . the serum ferritin level was elevated in 12 . the xylose absorption test results were abnormal in 8 of the 13 patients able to complete the study . none of the duodenal aspirates yielded a pathogen . light microscopy revealed nonspecific lymphocytic inflammation without infection in the stomach ( in seven patients ) , the esophagus ( in five ) , the duodenum ( in two ) and the rectum ( in two ) . however , biopsy specimens were positive for candida albicans in the esophagus ( four patients ) , cytomegalovirus in the esophagus ( one ) and the rectum ( two ) , helicobacter pylori in the antrum ( two ) , treponema infection in the rectum ( two ) and mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in the small intestine ( one ) . only three patients had a normal series of biopsy specimens . all of the patients had similar ultrastructural changes at the epithelial-stromal junction of the antral glands and in the intestinal crypts . we conclude that abnormal biochemical and endoscopic findings are common in hiv-positive patients with gastrointestinal symptoms . defects in carbohydrate absorption and ultrastructural changes may be responsible for some aspects of hiv enteropathy . 
augmentation of monocyte chemotaxis by 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 . stimulation of defective migration of aids patients . preincubation for 20 h with 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 ) markedly augmented the chemotactic responsiveness of human blood monocytes to the classical chemoattractant , fmlp . a modest enhancement of monocyte spontaneous locomotion in the absence of chemoattractants was also observed . maximal increase of monocyte migration was observed after pretreatment with 10 ( -9 ) m 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 and was detectable at fmlp concentrations ranging from 10 ( -10 ) to 10 ( -7 ) m. pretreatment with 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 augmented the number of monocyte high affinity fmlp receptors ( 1500 + / - 220 and 3800 + / - 300 sites per cell for untreated and 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3-pretreated cells , respectively ) with no significant changes in kd values ( 2 + / - 0.5 nm and 4 + / - 1 nm , for untreated and 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3-pretreated monocytes ) . enhanced chemotaxis was not restricted to fmlp , because 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3-treated monocytes showed enhanced migration also in response to activated c components and chemotactic cytokines . in agreement with previous observations , monocytes from aids patients showed defective migration capacity . in vitro exposure to 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 stimulated monocyte migration in all 10 patients examined with considerable quantitative differences among individuals . regulating the responsiveness of mature monocytes to chemo-attractants , 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 , produced systemically or in situ by immunocompetent cells , could play a role in the regulation of the recruitment of monocytes at sites of inflammation , cell-mediated immunity , or bone resorption . the potential of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 as a restorative agent under conditions of defective phagocyte recruitment deserves further exploration . 
in vivo effects of anti-il-4 monoclonal antibody on neonatal induction of tolerance and on an associated autoimmune syndrome . the role of il-4 in the cellular interactions leading to the induction of ctl tolerance to h-2b alloantigens and to the development of a lupus-like autoimmune disease in balb/c mice after neonatal injection with ( c57bl/6 x balb/c ) f1 cells was investigated in vivo by using an anti-il-4 mab . treatment of f1 cell-injected balb/c mice with 15 mg of anti-il-4 mab was shown to interfere with tolerance induction , as assessed by the high percentages of h-2b target cell lysis and the very low or undetectable levels of b cell chimerism markers observed in these mice . treatment with 4.5 mg of anti-il-4 mab interfered with tolerance induction only in one-third of f1 cell-injected balb/c mice , but that dose induces specific modulations of the autoimmune manifestations in all mice , leading to the nearly complete prevention of the disease . in particular , the production of anti-ssdna igg1 and of total igg1 and ige antibodies was seriously affected by the treatment , as well as the proliferation and membrane ia and k expression of f1 donor splenic cells and thymic apc . treatment of f1 cell-injected balb/c mice between 24 and 48 h of life with 0.5 mg of anti-il-4 mab did not interfere with tolerance induction , but had similar effects on the autoimmune syndrome as treatment with 4.5 mg . these results suggest that , after f1 cell injection of newborn mice , il-4 plays an important role in the cellular interactions leading to the induction of tolerance to the corresponding alloantigens and to the development of the associated autoimmune syndrome . 
loss of epidermal integrity by t cell-mediated attack induces long term local resistance to subsequent attack . ii . thymus dependency in the induction of the resistance . our previous study showed that in cutaneous graft-vs-host disease ( gvhd ) induced by intradermal injection of autoreactive t cells the epidermal structures spontaneously recovered from the destruction became resistant to the subsequent attempts to induce the cutaneous gvhd and that the resistance correlated well with a 30-fold increase in the number of thy-1 + epidermal cells ( thy-1 + ec ) . we show that the resistance to the cutaneous gvhd was never induced in athymic nude mice and adult thymectomy lethal radiation and bone marrow reconstitution ( atxbm ) mice under the same conditions , indicating that the induction of the resistance is dependent on the presence of thymus . a great increase in the number of thy-1 + ec was similarly observed in the epidermis of the athymic nude and atxbm mice that spontaneously recovered from the cutaneous gvhd and that remained susceptible to the induction of the cutaneous gvhd . however , the results with b10thy-1 .1 ---- b6 radiation chimeras clearly demonstrate that the vast majority of the increased thy-1 + ec found in the " susceptible " epidermis of the atxbm mice were of donor bone marrow origin and there was no increase in the number of host-derived thy-1 + ec , whereas in the " resistant " epidermis of the xbm mice both thy-1 + ec populations were equally increased . the overall results indicate that the expansion of thy-1 + ec that mature in the thymus is crucial to the induction of the resistance , although the migration of bone marrow-derived thy-1 + ec precursors to the epidermis occurs quite independently of the presence of thymus . 
intact antigen receptor-mediated generation of inositol phosphates and increased intracellular calcium in cd4 cd8 t lymphocytes from mrl lpr mice . the predominant t lymphocytes that accumulate in the peripheral lymphoid tissues of mice homozygous for the lpr gene bear the phenotype cd3 + cd4-cd8 - . by certain functional criteria these cells would appear to have impaired cd3-mediated signal transduction , in that they do not respond to alloantigen and produce little if any detectable il-2 or other lymphokines . however , the signal pathway appears adequate for achieving other t cell functions , including induction of high affinity il-2r , and thymic deletion . to clarify the basis of this seeming discrepancy , we examined transmembrane signal transduction in t cell subsets of lpr/lpr ( lpr ) and + / + mice , as defined by increased [ ca2 + ] i and the generation of inositol phosphates ( insps ) . stimulation of lpr cd4-cd8 - cells with anti-cd3 antibody produced prompt and sustained increases in the concentration of [ c2 + ] i and in insps . similar responses occurred in mature t cells from lpr and + / + mice , except for the somewhat slower kinetics of their increased [ ca2 + ] i. in marked distinction to the anti-cd2-mediated response , con a , even in high doses , could not stimulate any increase of [ ca2 + ] i in lpr cd4-cd8 - cells , and only modest increases in insps . mature t cells , whether of lpr or + / + origin , yielded normal increased [ ca2 + ] i with con a. the reason for the differences in signal transduction between anti-cd3 and con a stimulation of lpr cd4-cd8 - cells may relate to the absence of surface structures on these immature t cells that are required for activation by con a but not by anti-cd3 . the data demonstrate that the cd3 complex in lpr cd4-cd8 - t cells can couple to phospholipase c to hydrolyze phosphoinositides . these activation properties of lpr cd4-cd8 - t cells have interesting functional parallels to thymocytes at the time of thymic selection , as well as tolerance induction of mature t lymphocytes . 
human severe combined immunodeficiency disease : phenotypic and functional characteristics of peripheral b lymphocytes . human severe combined immunodeficiency disease ( scid ) includes an x-chromosome-linked type characterized by a complete absence of mature t cells , hypogammaglobulinemia but normal or elevated number of b cells , suggesting that the disease results from a block in early t cell differentiation . it has been shown that b cells from obligate carrier women of this disorder exhibit the preferential use of the nonmutant x chromosome as the active x ( as shown for t cells ) , suggesting that the scid gene product has a direct effect on b cells as well as on t cells . to examine this question , we analyzed the phenotypic and functional characteristics of peripheral b cells from nine infants with scid . we found a constant absence of spontaneously expressed activation ag on b cell membrane from all scid patients tested which contrasts with the phenotypic pattern exhibited by age-matched infants whom all cells bearing surface ig express the 4f2 ag and to a lesser extent the transferrin receptor . concurrently , b cells from scid patients have a profound impairment in their responses to stimuli that induce in vitro b cell proliferation and differentiation . although ril-2 and low-mr b cell growth factor are potent inducers of proliferation on age-matched infants ' b cells , they are poorly efficient in inducing proliferation of anti-mu-activated scid b cells . this impairment is not related to the resting b cell phenotype of scid b cells as shown by comparison with normal resting b cells . furthermore , we observed an apparent block in b cell differentiation inasmuch as neither ril-2 nor ril-6 could support sac-activated scid b cell differentiation , both lymphokines being very efficient in inducing sac-activated age-matched infants ' b cell or purified resting b cell differentiation . these results suggest that the scid gene defect has a direct effect on b cells and is required during b cell maturation . 
resistance to infection by hiv-1 of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from hiv-1-infected patients is probably mediated by neutralizing antibodies . we have investigated whether pbmc of hiv-1-seropositive subjects are as susceptible to in vitro infection by hiv-1 as are pbmc from seronegative controls . accordingly , stimulated pbmc from 19 hiv-1-infected subjects were inoculated with four different variants of hiv-1 . none of these cultures produced either detectable quantities of viral reverse transcriptase activity or p24 ag following inoculation with hiv-1 . in contrast , in five of six cases in which these pbmc were depleted of b cells by antibody plus complement prior to viral inoculation , the presence of viral reverse transcriptase and p24 ag was detected . the presence of normal levels of cd4-ag at the surface of the cd4 + cells in these populations was established by flow cytometry . analysis by an immunoblot assay revealed that anti-hiv antibodies were present in the sera obtained from these infected donors ; in addition , 7 of 10 culture fluids derived from the nondepleted pbmc were shown to contain virus-neutralizing antibodies . cultures which were depleted of b cells did not contain detectable levels of antiviral antibodies . confirmation that the virus produced by the pbmc which had been depleted of b cells was of the strain used to infect the cultures , rather than that which initially caused patient infection , was provided on the basis of differential susceptibility to antibody neutralization . these results suggest that antibodies produced by b cells in cultures of pbmc from seropositive donors may restrict infection by hiv-1 of such cultures under laboratory conditions . 
inhibition by dexamethasone of histamine production in allergic inflammation in rats . in an allergic inflammation model of air pouch type in rats , histamine level in the pouch fluid and histidine decarboxylase activity of pouch wall tissues in the postanaphylaxis phase were increased . although treatment with dexamethasone failed to inhibit histamine release from mast cells in the anaphylaxis phase , histamine production in the postanaphylaxis phase was inhibited dose dependently . histamine production-increasing activity in the pouch fluid collected 8 h after the ag challenge , which was estimated by an activity to stimulate histamine production by bone marrow cells , was decreased by the administration of dexamethasone at the time of the ag challenge . the addition of steroidal antiinflammatory drugs , dexamethasone , prednisolone , or hydrocortisone , into the incubation medium inhibited the pouch fluid-induced histamine production by bone marrow cells . hydrocortisone mesylate antagonized the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone on histamine production by bone marrow cells . however , hydrocortisone mesylate failed to recover the decrease in histamine production-increasing activity of the pouch fluid collected from dexamethasone-treated rats . in addition , the dialyzed sample of pouch fluid obtained from dexamethasone-treated nonsensitized rats did not reduce the stimulated histamine production by the pouch fluid sample obtained from the sensitized rats . however , increase in histamine production of bone marrow cells stimulated by the pouch fluid was not inhibited by cyclosporin a that inhibited histamine production induced by con a. this observation indicates that the pouch fluid has no effect to induce production of the histamine production-increasing factor by bone marrow cells . consequently , it is suggested that dexamethasone inhibits not only the production of histamine production-increasing factor but also the response of histamine-producing cells to this factor . 
vesicular changes in the myopathies of aids . ultrastructural observations and their relationship to zidovudine treatment . six patients with aids and aids related complex ( arc ) who developed neuromuscular symptoms associated with vesicular changes in muscle fibres are reported . two patients in the advanced stages of aids , who did not receive zidovudine , developed proximal limb weakness and wasting : both had a necrotising myopathy with an unusual segmental vesicular change of myofibres . there were numerous vesicles 0.1 to 2 microns in diameter produced by dilatations of the sarcoplasmic reticulum in fibres depleted of myofibrils . four patients developed a myopathy while receiving zidovudine for aids . one of these had an inflammatory myopathy which showed the development of vesicular change due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria . the three other patients with arc developed muscle pains or weakness and elevated serum ck while on zidovudine . these patients also showed vesicular changes due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria associated with disruption of sarcomeres and the presence of cytoplasmic bodies . the muscular symptoms resolved when ziduvodine was stopped and repeat biopsy in one case revealed no abnormalities . 
hemiparetic multiple sclerosis . eight patients are described who presented with hemiparesis which involved the face in seven . six of the eight subsequently developed clinically definite multiple sclerosis and in the remaining two patients multiple sclerosis was the likely diagnosis . magnetic resonance imaging gave useful information about the site of the lesions responsible for the presenting syndrome and provided additional information in support of a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis . 
hepatic venoocclusive disease in autologous bone marrow transplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas . retrospective review of 291 solid tumor and lymphoma patients undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) was performed to determine the influence of pretransplant characteristics and preparative regimen to the development of hepatic venoocclusive disease ( vod ) . twelve patients ( 4.1 % ) developed a clinical syndrome of right upper quadrant ( ruq ) tenderness or hepatomegaly , jaundice , and ascites , with or without encephalopathy , within 40 days of marrow reinfusion . evidence of metastatic liver disease was the only pretransplant characteristic predictive for vod ( p = .0002 ) . sex , age , histology , hepatitis b serology , and elevated liver function tests were not predictive . no individual preparative agent had a significant effect on the development of vod . however , a single 2-hour infusion of carmustine ( bcnu ) ( greater than or equal to 450 mg/m2 ) led to an increased incidence of vod when compared with the same dose administered in a fractionated schedule ( p = .0258 ) when given with two other chemotherapeutic agents . seven of eight autopsy specimens confirmed the clinical diagnosis of vod . the four patients in whom clinical vod resolved had lower median peak bilirubins ( 7.3 v 15.9 mg/dl ) , lower median peak creatinines ( 2.1 v 4.1 mg/dl ) , and relatively quick engraftment of neutrophils ( mean , 18.7 days ) . one of the four patients in whom vod resolved had other grade 4 ( life-threatening ) toxicities in contrast to eight of eight who succumbed . in summary , vod is an uncommon complication in autotransplantation of solid tumors and lymphomas . our data suggest caution in selecting patients with known metastatic liver disease and consideration of a fractionated bcnu schedule especially in combination with other alkylating agents . 
a surgeon 's risk of aids . a probabilistic model is used to estimate the cumulative risk to surgeons from human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . recent data suggest that the probability of infection following percutaneous inoculation is about 1 in 250 cases . several studies suggest that the frequency of percutaneous injury in surgery is at least 1 in 40 cases , for some as high as 1 in 20 cases . assuming that on the average a surgeon will perform 350 operations per year and will practice for 30 years , the cumulative risk of hiv infection will depend on the prevalence of hiv infection in the surgical population . for hiv prevalences of 1 in 100 to 1 in 10 , the cumulative risk per surgeon ranges from 1 in 100 to 1 in 5 , respectively . based on these risk estimates , it is crucial to decrease the frequency of percutaneous injury . the case is made for substantial improvements in barrier protection and modification of surgical technique . 
use of ct and mr imaging to distinguish intracranial lesions and to define the need for biopsy in aids patients to explore the potential usefulness of imaging studies in the diagnosis of focal central nervous system ( cns ) lesions associated with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , the authors retrospectively examined the radiographic studies of 149 aids patients who presented with signs and symptoms of the three most common focal cns lesions . of these patients , 74 ( 50 % ) had toxoplasma abscesses , 45 ( 30 % ) had primary cns lymphoma , and 30 patients ( 20 % ) had progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( pml ) . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was more sensitive than computerized tomography ( ct ) in detecting lesions , especially in cases of pml . whereas ct was unable to distinguish mass lesions caused by toxoplasmosis from those caused by lymphoma , 71 % of the solitary lesions seen on mr images were lymphomas . these results indicate that empirical treatment for toxoplasmosis , the most common initial treatment for aids patients with neurological symptoms stemming from mass lesions , is not likely to be successful for patients with solitary lesions on mr images . rather , early biopsy is advisable . if the presence of lymphoma is confirmed , the rapid initiation of treatment can allow prolonged high-quality survival . 
impairment of neutrophil chemotactic and bactericidal function in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and partial reversal after in vitro exposure to granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor . because polymorphonuclear neutrophils are the most important component of host defense against bacteria , we assessed their function in 13 children with asymptomatic and 12 with symptomatic infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) , and compared their values with healthy adult control values . the functions assessed were ( 1 ) chemotaxis , ( 2 ) bacterial phagocytosis , ( 3 ) superoxide generation , and ( 4 ) bactericidal activity . chemotaxis of polymorphonuclear neutrophils toward the chemoattractant n-formylmethionyl leucyl phenylalanine ( fmlp ) was significantly decreased in symptom-free infected children compared with control subjects ( p less than 0.0001 ) , but was increased in children with symptomatic infection ( p less than 0.025 ) . bactericidal activity of the neutrophils against staphylococcus aureus was defective in 8 of 12 children with asymptomatic infection ( p = 0.016 ) , and in 8 of 9 children with symptomatic infection ( p less than 0.00001 ) . superoxide generation by polymorphonuclear neutrophils on stimulation with fmlp and phagocytosis of s. aureus were normal . serum from patients with symptomatic hiv-1 infection was not as efficient in low concentrations as normal serum in the ability to opsonize s. aureus . the in vitro bactericidal defect was partially corrected by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) . the results suggest that both cellular ( neutrophils ) and humoral defects contribute to the increased incidence of bacterial infections in hiv-1-infected children , and that gm-csf may improve the defective bactericidal activity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in these patients . 
growth and neuroendocrine dysfunction in children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome to assess whether neuroendocrine dysfunction is present in children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and growth failure , we evaluated the thyroid , adrenal , and growth hormone-insulin-like growth factor i ( igf-1 ) axes in nine children with aids and failure to thrive . basal thyroid-stimulating hormone , free thyroxine , and triiodothyronine levels were normal in eight of the nine children and indicated primary hypothyroidism in one child ; thyroxine levels were elevated in four and normal in five children . thyroxine-binding globulin levels were elevated in all children . serial measurements of thyroid-stimulating hormone , made hourly from 2 to 6 pm and from 10 pm to 2 am , revealed a flat diurnal rhythm of thyroid-stimulating hormone in six children , which may indicate early central hypothyroidism , and a normal nocturnal rise in the remaining three children . basal plasma corticotropin and aldosterone levels were normal in all children , plasma renin levels were normal in three and elevated in six children , and cortisol levels were normal or elevated in all children . corticotropin-stimulated cortisol levels exceeded 500 nmol/l ( 18 micrograms/dl ) in all children except one , who was receiving treatment with ketoconazole . thus adrenocortical function appeared to be grossly intact . the peak growth hormone responses to provocative testing was normal ( greater than 7 ng/ml ) in eight children and low in one child . the plasma level of insulin-like growth factor i was normal in eight of the nine children and low in one child . we conclude that growth failure in children with aids does not usually result from a recognized endocrine cause and that adrenal function is usually normal . however , endocrine deficiency may contribute to morbidity in some children with aids . 
patterns of food hypersensitivity during sixteen years of double-blind , placebo-controlled food challenges . for 16 years the double-blind , placebo-controlled food challenge ( dbpcfc ) has been used at the national jewish center for immunology and respiratory medicine to determine whether adverse reactions to foods do occur in children . the objective of these studies was to explore these reproducible adverse reactions and to characterize them . although skin testing was performed on all subjects , a history of an adverse reaction to food and to subsequent dbpcfc were the only criteria for entry into this study . of 480 children studied , 185 ( 39 % ) have had positive dbpcfc results . in these 480 children , 245 ( 24 % ) of 1014 dbpcfcs showed positive results . egg , peanut , and cow milk accounted for 73 % of the positive dbpcfc reactions , but many foods produced reactions . skin test results were positive in most children with a positive dbpcfc reaction , but the large number of patients with asymptomatic hypersensitivity limited the accuracy of a positive skin test result alone as a predictor of clinical symptoms during food ingestion . evaluation of results in this large number of children for a prolonged period revealed reproducible patterns of symptoms , timing , and incriminated foods . placebo reactions were rare . the procedure was safe . twelve youngsters with a negative dbpcfc result subsequently had positive reactions to open challenges when large amounts of the challenge food were used . in each of these cases the reactions were limited to areas of direct contact with the food or could be explained by the larger amount of food ingested during the open challenge . multiple food hypersensitivity has been a rare finding . the dbpcfc should be the " gold standard " for both research and clinical diagnostic evaluations until it is superseded by methods that have yet to be developed . 
ibuprofen suspension in the treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . pediatric rheumatology collaborative study group . ninety-two children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis were randomly assigned to treatment in a multicenter , double-blind , 12-week trial designed to compare the efficacy and safety of a liquid formulation of ibuprofen at a dosage of 30 to 40 mg/kg/day versus those of aspirin at a dosage of 60 to 80 mg/kg/day . no significant intergroup differences in response rates or in the amount of improvement in articular indexes of disease activity were observed . more children treated with aspirin discontinued treatment early because of adverse reactions . after this trial , 84 additional patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis entered a 24-week , multidose ( 30 , 40 , and 50 mg/kg/day ) , open trial of ibuprofen suspension . favorable response rates for the three groups were similar , and continued improvement was observed throughout the 24-week period . a dose-response relationship was observed with respect to adverse reactions of the upper gastrointestinal tract . we conclude that ibuprofen suspension is an effective nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug and that its tolerability in children is acceptable . 
safety and efficacy of methotrexate therapy for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis twenty-nine children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis were studied to determine the safety and efficacy of methotrexate therapy . the initial dose of methotrexate averaged 7.1 mg/m2/wk and was given as a single , oral weekly dose or as three divided doses , each separated by 12 hours . current antiinflammatory medications were continued ; 25 of 29 children had had lack of efficacy , and 8 of 29 had toxic effects , with one or more prior drugs such as intramuscularly or orally administered gold , hydroxychloroquine , or d-penicillamine . intolerable corticosteroid dependency or toxic effects were present in 18 of 29 cases . methotrexate-treated patients were examined monthly ; minimum treatment duration required to assess efficacy and toxicity was 6 months . the range of treatment duration was 8 to 39 months ( mean 18.5 months ) . efficacy was assessed by comparing pretreatment versus posttreatment fever and rash , swollen-joint counts , articular indexes , duration of morning stiffness , functional class , hemoglobin levels , and platelet counts . treatment with methotrexate effectively controlled fever and rash in 83 % of children with systemic juvenile rheumatoid arthritis , reduced morning stiffness by 63 % , eliminated recalcitrant joint restriction in 48 % , and reduced numbers of swollen joints and swelling indexes by 46 % and 52 % , respectively . no significant toxic effects were observed . juvenile rheumatoid arthritis of long duration , or with major erosions , was more likely to be refractory to methotrexate therapy . we recommend earlier consideration of methotrexate in place of other slow-acting antirheumatic drugs for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis not responding well to usual therapy . future studies should address potential methotrexate toxic effects in the lungs and reproductive system , as well as outcome after discontinuation of methotrexate treatment . 
naproxen-induced pseudoporphyria : a distinctive photodermatitis . a distinctive photodermatitis developed in 22 children who had been receiving naproxen for prolonged periods . the eruption was marked by erythema , vesiculation , or increased skin fragility characterized by easy scarring of sun-exposed skin . results of biochemical studies for porphyria were normal , and other causes of photosensitivity were believed to be unlikely . of the 22 patients , 21 had juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ; one patient had systemic lupus erythematosus . twenty of the patients had fair skin and blue eyes . in each case , all findings except scarring resolved when naproxen was discontinued . attention must be paid to complaints suggesting photosensitivity in children receiving naproxen . 
immunologic and pathologic manifestations of the infection of rhesus monkeys with simian immunodeficiency virus of macaques . the striking similarities between simian immunodeficiency virus ( siv ) - induced disease in macaque monkeys and hiv-induced disease in humans make the siv-induced macaque monkey an extraordinarily important model for the study of aids . the most significant difference between these lentivirus-induced syndromes is the more rapid progression of disease in siv-infected monkeys . the immunologic and pathologic manifestations of siv infections in rhesus monkeys are described . 
on the use of laboratory markers as surrogates for clinical endpoints in the evaluation of treatment for hiv infection . there are strong ethical and practical reasons for hastening decision-making about the efficacy of new treatments for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . one strategy is to use early markers of disease progression , such as cd4 + lymphocyte levels , as surrogates for ultimate clinical endpoints , such as the development of acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) or death , in the evaluation of new therapies . we used a simple model of transitions among three health states ( well ; alive but with an adverse marker ; and having experienced a definitive clinical endpoint ) to examine the extent to which treatment comparisons based on the surrogate endpoint predict ultimate clinical benefits . with parameters chosen to model the treatment of hiv infection , computer simulations of clinical trials demonstrated substantial time savings by use of the surrogate endpoint . however , reliance on the surrogate led to serious overestimates of ultimate clinical benefit if treatment entailed delayed toxicity or had only transient beneficial effects . likewise , reliance on the surrogate led to serious underestimates of ultimate clinical benefit when the treatment had no effect on the transition from well to the marker state but did reduce the rates of transition from the marker state to the ultimate clinical endpoint and directly from the well state to the ultimate clinical endpoint . 
relationship between aids latency period and aids survival time in homosexual and bisexual men . we identified 277 homosexual and bisexual men diagnosed with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) whose estimated human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) seroconversion dates , ranging from 1977-85 , could be well approximated . these men were from a cohort of 6,705 homosexual and bisexual men originally recruited for studies of sexually transmitted hepatitis b in san francisco in 1978-80 . we compared the time from hiv seroconversion to the initial disease diagnostic of aids ( aids latency period ) with the time from first aids diagnosis to death ( aids survival time ) and found no significant overall correlation between latency period and survival time . both kaplan-meier and cox proportional hazard stepwise analyses found the initial aids diagnosis to be significantly associated with latency period , with individuals first diagnosed with kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) having a shorter latency but longer survival than those first diagnosed with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) or other aids diagnoses . individuals with ks tended to be diagnosed earlier in the epidemic compared to those with pcp and other non-ks diagnoses . the aids survival time was significantly associated with the initial aids diagnosis but not with the estimated year of seroconversion , the year of first aids diagnosis , age at seroconversion , or racial/ethnic group . the information presented here on the relationship between the aids latency period and survival times suggests a model for the pathogenesis of hiv infection in which there is continual deterioration of the immune system . the wider use of antiviral and prophylactic therapies both preceding and following a diagnosis of aids may change this model as both latency and survival times are improved . 
monte carlo simulation of hiv infection in an intravenous drug user community . intravenous drug users are crucial to the understanding and control of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) transmission . we have developed a population-based simulation of a community of intravenous drug users . this model was implemented using monte carlo techniques , which permit great flexibility in creating realistic social structures , to describe the needle-sharing network of drug users . we present the baseline behavior of this model in a generic community and demonstrate the model 's utility for assessing public health interventions . our early results demonstrate the powerful effects of social networks on hiv transmission and the importance of prevalence levels in assessing the effectiveness of interventions in the drug-injecting community . 
the risk of development of htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis among persons infected with htlv-i . using data obtained in national surveys of human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) - associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis ( ham/tsp ) conducted in japan in 1987 and 1988 , we estimated the yearly and lifetime risk that ham/tsp will develop in an htlv-i-infected person . " definite " ham/tsp was defined as slowly progressive myelopathy with antibodies to htlv-i in both serum and cerebrospinal fluid . estimates of htlv-i infection rates in eight endemic prefectures , by age group and sex , were obtained from serologic studies of blood donors ; population figures , by age group , sex , and prefecture , were obtained from the census . of 589 definite cases of ham/tsp reported nationally , 397 occurred in residents of the eight endemic prefectures ; of these , 170 reported onset of illness during the years 1982-1988 ( average incidence , 24.3 cases/year ) . using the estimated htlv-i infection rates and the 1985 census figures , we estimated the number of htlv-i-infected persons in the eight prefectures in 1985 at 794,800 . we therefore estimated the incidence of ham/tsp among htlv-i-infected persons at 3.1 x 10 ( -5 ) cases/year ; assuming a lifetime of 75 years , the lifetime incidence is approximately one quarter of 1 % . this estimate is important in counseling persons such as blood donors found to be infected with htlv-i . 
a study of htlv-i and its associated risk factors in trinidad and tobago . seroprevalence of human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-i ) among a sample of persons selected from a government register of businesses in trinidad was 3.2 % in 1,025 persons of african descent compared to 0.2 % among 487 persons of asian descent and 0 % among 46 persons of european-descent . in tobago , from a coastal village , among persons of african ancestry ascertained as part of a cardiovascular survey , the rate was 11.4 % , which was significantly higher when corrected for age and race than the rate in trinidad . the seroprevalence rate of antibodies to hepatitis a and b was also significantly elevated in tobago compared to trinidad . htlv-i seroprevalence rates were higher in females than males while hepatitis a and b rates were not significantly different in the two sexes . for males , age was a significant determinant of htlv-i seropositivity , while for females , age , markers of poor sanitation , and hepatitis b were each independently linked to htlv-i seropositivity . the frequent occurrence of multiple infectious exposures in persons of lower socioeconomic circumstances in this tropical environment may result in immune activation that heightens susceptibility to htlv-i infection . 
prevalence of hiv infection among patients with leprosy in african countries and yemen . screening for human immunodeficiency viruses types 1 and 2 ( hiv-1 and hiv-2 ) antibodies was carried out in the serum of 1,245 leprous patients and 5,731 controls selected in nine different centers from the congo , ivory coast , senegal , and yemen arab republic . in yemen , all sera were negative . in the congo , the seropositivity among patients and controls was , respectively , 3.8 and 5.2 % ; in senegal , it was 1.3 and 0.6 % ; and in the ivory coast 4.8 and 3.9 % . differences were not statistically significant , even considering lepromatous or tuberculoid forms ( 3.6 % and 3.7 % , respectively ) . hiv-2 antibodies were only detected in subjects from the ivory coast and senegal . using appropriate criteria for seropositivity ( confirmation by western blot , reactivity to hiv envelope glycoproteins ) and a large selection of patients ( several countries with several centers ) , it appears that leprosy ( and specially the lepromatous form ) is not a factor for hiv infection . 
beneficial effects of long-term treatment with sk&f 105685 in murine lupus nephritis . mrl/mp-lpr/lpr ( mrl/lpr ) mice were studied from 6 to 19 weeks of age . proteinuria began to increase at 15 weeks , and continued to increase until the animals were sacrificed at 19 weeks . this proteinuria was associated with lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly , as well as changes in lymph node cell phenotype and histologic changes in the glomeruli . oral administration of sk&f 105685 starting at 12 weeks of age prevented the increased urinary protein loss , inhibited the histologic changes in the glomeruli , reduced the increase in spleen and lymph node weight and modified the phenotypic profile of the lymphoid cells . sk&f 105685 appears to act by increasing the number/activity of nonspecific suppressor cells in mrl/lpr mice . on the basis of this evidence , we conclude that sk&f 105685 can attenuate the progression of renal damage in mrl/lpr mice by exerting a unique effect on cells which may be involved in the autoimmune process . 
immunoadsorbent plasma perfusion in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus extracorporeal treatment of acute systemic lupus erythematous ( sle ) by plasmapheresis has been reported for more than 10 years . risks of plasmapheresis include unselective procedure , an immunoadsorbent plasma perfusion by im-p column . eight of 10 patients evaluated improved through 3 treatments of a 2-liter perfusion . analysis of proteins removed during plasma perfusion showed a semiselectivity of the im-p column for circulating immune complexes and anti-dsdna antibodies . after perfusion of 2 liters of plasma , these substances were reduced by about 35-40 % , whereas whole protein was lowered by less than 10 % and immunoglobulins by about 18 % . our results in severe sle indicate that immunoadsorption having the advantage of lowering side effects by dispensing wih foreign protein substitution . 
cd5 positive b lymphocytes in seronegative juvenile arthritis . we investigated the levels of circulating cd5 + b cells in 43 patients with seronegative , hla-b27 negative juvenile arthritis , 7 patients with juvenile dermatomyositis ( dm ) and 16 children with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . we found that cd5 + b cell levels were high in juvenile arthritis ( p less than 0.01 ) , normal in juvenile dm and decreased in sle ( p less than 0.01 ) compared to 33 age matched controls . in juvenile arthritis , the increase of cd5 + b cells appeared to be independent of discuss activity and was present in all the onset types except in a subset of patient with late onset pauciarthritis . 
prevalence and concentration of igm rheumatoid factor in polyarticular onset disease as compared to systemic or pauciarticular onset disease in active juvenile rheumatoid arthritis as measured by elisa . the prevalence and concentration of igm rheumatoid factor ( rf ) in children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ( jra ) and its major disease onset groups remains uncertain . in our study enzyme linked immunoabsorbent assay ( elisa ) of 68 children with active jra showed igm rf in the area of 67 % ( 16/24 ) of those with polyarticular onset disease , 26 % ( 7/27 ) of those with systemic onset disease , and 6 % ( 1/17 ) of those with pauciarticular onset disease . the median igm rf concentration was 50-fold higher in polyarticular disease compared to systemic disease . the prevalence of igm rf in polyarticular disease was greater in those with severe disease ( functional classes and 3 and 4 ) , with 90 % ( 9/10 ) seropositive . by agglutination assay , the prevalence of igm rf in jra was significantly less than by elisa , with 33 % of the polyarticular group positive for igm rf , and none of the systemic group positive , relatively low concentration igm rf similar to that seen in systemic jra was also found in high prevalence in the area of children with non-jra , systemic rheumatic disease ( n = 8 ) . in summary , our study shows by elisa that high concentrations of igm rf are found essentially only in the sera of children with polyarticular onset jra and especially in those with severe disease . 
morbidity associated with childhood systemic lupus erythematosus . a complete analysis of the outcome of childhood onset systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) requires determination of survival statistics and consideration of disease and treatment morbidity . the course of 32 patients with sle diagnosed at or prior to age 16 and followed from 1979-1988 was analyzed with emphasis on the morbidity of pediatric sle . clinical characteristics were similar to those in previous studies . five year survival , calculated by life-table analysis , was 85.3 % , comparable to recent studies . treatment consisted of corticosteroids ( 32 patients ) , antimalarials ( 14 ) , cyclophosphamide ( 9 ) or azathioprine ( 2 ) . eighty-four percent of patients experienced a noninfectious drug related complication . a major infection contributed in all 5 patients who died . higher total corticosteroid dose was associated with more severe infections . eighty-eight percent of patients were left with chronic organ dysfunction . survival in childhood onset sle has improved , but morbidity remains a significant problem from organ dysfunction and complications of therapy . our study is the first to address the issue of morbidity in childhood sle . 
systemic lupus erythematosus presenting as thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . we describe a 10-year-old girl , who presented with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) and shortly thereafter developed systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . the association between ttp and sle is known , but this is the first report of sle presenting as ttp . 
connective tissue disease in southeast georgia . a community based study of immunogenetic markers and autoantibodies . hla antigens , c4 allotypes and t cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) beta dna polymorphisms were determined in a community based study of connective tissue diseases ( ctd ) . hla-b8 , dr3 and c4a null phenotypes occurred frequently in caucasian patients with ctd , especially those with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) , but were also more commonly found among healthy white controls of this southeast georgia community . tcr beta gene polymorphisms also showed differential segregation patterns between patients with sle and scleroderma . high frequencies of ana and anti-ssdna antibodies occurred among apparently healthy family members and local controls . genetic factors predisposing to ctd in a community setting appear to be similar to those reported from referral centers . 
the heterogeneity of anticentromere antibodies in immunoblotting analysis . we tested anticentromere antibody positive sera from 37 patients by immunoblotting techniques . three antigenic polypeptides were recognized when immunoblotted against protein extracts from hela cell nuclei or from chromosomal segments enriched with centromere region . these were a 17 kda ( cenp-a recognized by 34 sera ) , an 80 kda ( cenp-b recognized by 33 sera ) , and a 140 kda polypeptide ( cenp-c recognized by 26 sera ) . there was no disease specific pattern of antigenic polypeptides , although raynaud 's phenomenon was frequent in patients with anti-cenp-b reactivities ( p less than 0.01 ) . the heterogeneity of the anticentromere antibody response in japanese patients shows anticentromere antibody may not be a disease specific autoantibody and diagnostic marker . 
decreased number of peripheral blood cd4 + cd29 + lymphocytes and increased in vitro spontaneous production of anti-dna antibodies in patients with active systemic lupus erythematosus . flow cytometric 2-color analysis of peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) showed a reduction of relative and absolute number of cd4 + cd29 + cells compared to matched healthy individuals . this abnormality was more marked in patients with active/very active disease . absolute number of cd4 + cd29 + cells was negatively correlated with spontaneous anti-dna ig production that we demonstrated to be a laboratory index strongly correlated with a clinical disease activity score . a decrease of the percentage of cd8 + cd29 + lymphocytes in patients with active disease was also observed . 
lack of gene deletion for complement c4a deficiency in japanese patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . the frequency of c4a gene deletion was studied in japanese patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) and was compared with healthy controls . dna preparations were extracted from peripheral blood leukocytes from 59 patients with sle and from 166 healthy persons , and digested by restriction enzymes . they were hybridized with c4 complementary dna by the southern blotting method and the deletion of c4a gene was judged from restriction fragment length polymorphism . at the same time phenotypic c4a deficiency ( c4aq0 ) was measured . our results showed that the frequency of phenotypic c4a deficiency was 44.1 % in japanese patients with sle and this value was comparable with that ( 43.2 % ) in caucasian patients . on the other hand the deletion of c4a gene was not found in japanese patients with sle ( 0 % ) , or in healthy controls ( 0.6 % ) . our results indicate that c4aq0 may contribute to the pathogenesis of sle beyond the ethnical differences but japanese patients with sle have a different genetic background from caucasian patients with the c4a gene deleted . 
adult still 's disease : a multicenter survey of japanese patients . a comprehensive survey of japanese patients with adult still 's disease was made by questionnaire which was sent to major institutions with rheumatology units in japan . of 146 cases from 32 institutions , 90 were judged to be definitely diagnosed as adult still 's disease . the major clinical features in these 90 patients consisted of high fever , polyarthralgia , rash , increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate , negative autoantibodies , leukocytosis , liver dysfunction , and hyperferritinemia . the incidence of several features showed significant differences between these cases and previous nonjapanese cases . 
growth and differentiation of b lymphocytes of patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . we studied growth and differentiation of b lymphocytes of patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ( jra ) using b cell enriched populations . mitogen stimulation led to similar proportionate increases in proliferation and immunoglobulin ( ig ) secretion in cultures of patient and control lymphocytes . while there was no increase in proliferation , igg secretion was increased in the absence of mitogen . nonmitogen activated ig synthesis could be reduced by replacing culture medium with fresh medium after 16-20 h in culture . it was partly reconstituted by addition of recombinant cytokines , interleukin ( il ) , il-2 , il-4 , or il-6 . our results suggest there may be a population of b circulating b cells in patients with jra and other rheumatic diseases which is sufficiently mature to differentiate and secrete ig in response to cytokines alone . 
clonal analysis of joint fluid t lymphocytes in patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . synovial fluid ( sf ) lymphocytes from 4 patients with pauciarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ( jra ) and 4 patients with polyarticular jra were examined for their phenotypic and functional characteristics . in all 8 patients there was a high proportion of activated sf t cells , together with an increased proportion of cd2 + cd3 - and the presence of cd3 + cd4-cd8-wt31 - lymphocytes . the functional analysis at the clonal level in 5 patients ( 427 clones ) showed a relevant proportion of cytotoxic t cell clones , which were not confined to typically cytolytic phenotypes , but were also present among cd3 + cd4 + cd8 - cultures . compared to those with pauciarticular jra , patients with polyarticular disease had a significantly higher proportion of t cell clones with cytotoxic activity . although derived from a limited number of patients , our data suggest a direct involvement of t cells in the pathogenetic mechanisms that originate and maintain the articular damage , and the possibility of different or more pronounced t cell reactivities in the clinically more diffuse jra types . 
hiv associated systemic necrotizing vasculitis . the spectrum of hiv associated rheumatic syndromes continues to expand as does our experience with the disease . the following is a case of hiv associated systemic necrotizing vasculitis documented by rectal biopsy . the patient was treated successfully with corticosteroids alone , and after 9 months of followup has no evidence of progression to frank aids . 
acute central nervous system symptoms caused by ibuprofen in connective tissue disease . we describe 2 cases of acute encephalopathy in patients with connective tissue disease caused by small doses of ibuprofen . in addition to aseptic meningitis , both patients had altered mental status and focal neurologic signs , ophthalmoplegia in one and hemiparesis in the other . the spectrum of neurologic manifestations of ibuprofen hypersensitivity is reviewed . 
rapidly progressive calcific periarthritis occurring in a patient with lupus nephritis receiving chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . we present a patient who developed rapidly progressive calcific periarthritis while receiving chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . she developed chronic renal failure on the basis of lupus nephritis . hydroxyapatite crystals were isolated from periarticular deposits and identified using phase contrast light microscopy and electron microscopy . conservative management using phosphate binding agents and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was unsuccessful and lesions were excised surgically . 
transmission of hiv-1 infections from mothers to infants in haiti . impact on childhood mortality and malnutrition . the cds/jhu aids project team . of 4588 pregnant women in a high-risk haitian population , 443 ( 9.7 % ) were serologically positive for the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive were more likely to be premature , of low birth weight , and malnourished at 3 and 6 months of age than were infants born to women who were hiv-1 seronegative . increased mortality was observed in infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive by 3 months of age . at 12 months of age , 23.4 % of the infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive had died compared with 10.8 % of the infants born to women who were hiv-1 seronegative ; at 24 months of age , the mortality rates were 31.3 % and 14.2 % , respectively . maternal hiv-1 infections resulted in an 11.7 % increase in the overall infant mortality rate in this population . the estimated mother-to-infant hiv-1 transmission rate in these breast-fed infants was 25 % , similar to the rates reported for non-breast-fed populations in the united states and europe . 
european experience of bone-marrow transplantation for severe combined immunodeficiency . the outcome of bone-marrow transplantations ( bmt ) carried out between 1968 and march 1 , 1989 , in 183 patients with severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) was analysed . recipients of hla-identical bmts ( 70 ) had a 76 % probability of survival ( median follow-up 73 months ) . of the 32 treated since 1983 , 97 % have been cured ( median follow-up 41 months ) . this good prognosis was associated with rapid development of t and b cell function . hla-non-identical , t-cell-depleted , bmt ( n = 100 ) gave significantly lower survival ( 52 % ; median follow-up 47 months ) . factors associated with poor prognosis were the presence of a lung infection before bmt , absence of a protected environment , and use of female donors for male recipients . use of a conditioning regimen significantly increased the frequency of sustained engraftment ( 86 % vs 50 % for non-conditioned bmt ) and resulted in more frequent engraftment of donor b lymphocytes and myeloid cells . donor b-cell chimerism was strongly associated with the development of normal b-cell function . 
measurement of airborne mite antigen in homes of asthmatic children the airborne concentration of major house dust mite antigen der p1 was measured by low volume sampling ( 2 litres/min ) in the homes of 68 allergic , asthmatic children . the presence of detectable airborne antigen was strongly associated with sensitivity to the mite , whereas there was no significant relation between sensitivity and the previously recommended threshold level of 2 micrograms der p1 per g carpet dust . there was a significant association with lower threshold levels in carpet dust ( 0.5 microgram/g ) but at no level was the association as strong as that with air measurements . concentrations of airborne antigen were higher in rooms with wool carpets than in those with synthetic carpets or hard floors , but there was no significant difference between the dust levels of der p1 in the two carpet types . air sampling is a more appropriate method of assessing antigen exposure than dust sampling for asthmatic patients . 
preliminary report : complement activation in wasp-sting anaphylaxis . the generation of the anaphylatoxin c3a was measured after a wasp-sting challenge in eight patients with previous anaphylactic reactions to wasp stings . whereas there was no change in c3a in one patient who showed no reaction and only a slight rise in three patients with mild reactions , c3a rose substantially in the four patients with severe anaphylactic reactions . this complement activation is the first in-vitro variable which correlates with the severity of wasp-sting anaphylactic reactions . a role for complement activation in the pathophysiology of wasp-sting anaphylaxis is therefore suggested . 
surgery for sinusitis and aspirin triad . an 11-year retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the surgical treatment of sinusitis in aspirin-triad patients . twenty-five patients were selected for surgery when their sinus disease and asthma progressed despite intense medical treatment . sixteen patients had radiographic evidence of severe ethmoid disease , and their initial surgical procedures were limited ( i.e. , bilateral intranasal ethmoidectomies ) . of these 16 patients , 6 required subsequent surgery for recurrent sinusitis . nine of the 25 patients had radiographic evidence of severe antral , as well as ethmoid , disease . their initial surgical procedures were radical , i.e. , bilateral caldwell-luc operations with intranasal and transantral sphenoethmoidectomies . none of these 9 patients required further surgical treatment for control . this review indicates that if antral and sphenoid disease are detected in association with ethmoid involvement , a radical surgical approach is the operation of choice . 
aids and pediatric neurology . human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) , the etiologic agent of aids , causes a wide spectrum of disease in children owing to its selective tropism for the immune system , nervous system , and perhaps other organs . by 1991 , there may be as many as 10,000 to 15,000 children with symptomatic hiv-1 infection in the united states . this article reviews the current knowledge of the clinical , neuroradiologic , and neuropathologic features of hiv-1-related central nervous system involvement in infants and children with symptomatic hiv infection . 
a randomized controlled trial of a reduced daily dose of zidovudine in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . the aids clinical trials group . background . the initially tested dose of zidovudine for the treatment of patients with advanced disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv ) was 1500 mg . although this dose is effective , it is associated with substantial toxicity . methods . to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a reduced dose , we conducted a randomized controlled trial in 524 subjects who had had a first episode of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . the subjects were assigned to receive zidovudine in either a dose of 250 mg taken orally every four hours ( the standard-treatment group , n = 262 ) or a dose of 200 mg taken orally every four hours for four weeks and thereafter 100 mg taken every four hours ( the low-dose group , n = 262 ) . results . the median length of follow-up was 25.6 months . at 18 months the estimated survival rates were 52 percent for the standard-treatment group and 63 percent for the low-dose group ( p = 0.012 by the log-rank test ) . at 24 months the estimated survival rates were 27 percent for the standard-treatment group and 34 percent for the low-dose group ( p = 0.033 ) . in both groups , 82 percent of the subjects had another opportunistic infection , and the length of time to that infection was similar in the two groups ( p = 0.56 by the log-rank test ) . cd4 t-lymphocyte counts improved transiently in both groups , and serum levels of hiv antigen decreased in the subjects with antigenemia . the hemoglobin level declined to less than 5 mmol per liter ( 80 g per liter ) in 101 subjects in the standard-treatment group and in 77 in the low-dose group ( 39 vs. 29 percent , p = 0.0009 by the log-rank test ) . the neutrophil count declined to less than 0.750 x 10 ( 9 ) per liter in 134 subjects in the standard-treatment group and in 96 in the low-dose group ( 51 vs. 37 percent , p = 0.0001 ) . conclusions . the reduced daily dose of zidovudine used in this study was at least as effective as the standard dose and was less toxic ; however , with the use of a four-week induction period with a high dose followed by low-dose treatment , severe anemia and neutropenia were common complications of treatment with zidovudine . 
eosinophilic inflammation in asthma background and methods . the importance of eosinophils in the pathogenesis of bronchial asthma is not established . in an attempt to evaluate the role of eosinophilic inflammation in asthma , we compared 10 normal subjects with 43 patients with chronic asthma , 19 of whom had severe disease as assessed by a clinical scoring method described by aas and by pulmonary-function tests . eosinophils were counted in peripheral blood and bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid , and in biopsy specimens obtained from the patients and post mortem from 8 subjects without asthma , but not from the 10 normal controls . eosinophil cationic protein was titrated by radioimmunoassay in the bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid from all subjects and studied by immunohistochemistry in the biopsy specimens . results . there was a significant increase in the number of peripheral-blood eosinophils in the patients that was correlated with the clinical severity of asthma ( p less than 0.001 ) and pulmonary function ( p less than 0.03 ) . levels of eosinophils and eosinophil cationic protein were increased in the bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid from the patients and were also correlated with the severity of asthma ( p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.002 , respectively ) . hematoxylin-eosin staining of bronchial-biopsy specimens showed that intraepithelial eosinophils were present only in patients with asthma . immunohistochemical analysis of eosinophil cationic protein revealed that normal subjects had only a few nondegranulated eosinophils deep in the submucosa , whereas all the patients had degranulated eosinophils beneath the basement membrane and among epithelial cells . in some patients there was a relation between the presence of degranulated eosinophils and epithelial damage . conclusions . eosinophilic inflammation of the airways is correlated with the severity of asthma . these cells are likely to play a part in the epithelial damage seen in this disease . 
the scid mutation in mice causes a general defect in dna repair . mice homozygous for the scid mutation on chromosome 16 have a severe combined immune deficiency as a result of their inability to correctly rearrange their immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor genes . in scid mice , when precursors for b and t lymphocytes reach the stage of development requiring expression of these surface receptors , a defective recombinase system aberrantly cuts and rejoins the receptor gene segments greatly reducing the efficiency of producing functional receptors . as a result , most scid mice have no detectable b or t lymphocytes . we have demonstrated that the scid defect is not specific to lymphocyte development . myeloid cells and fibroblasts from scid mice show a marked increase in sensitivity to ionizing radiation , indicating that the scid mutation leads to an inability to repair dna damage induced by ionizing radiation as well as interfering with rearrangement of the immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor genes . 
multiple sclerosis sibling pairs : clustered onset and familial predisposition . we evaluated 48 relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis ( r/r ms ) sibling pairs derived from 44 families for age and date of onset of ms symptoms , clinical course , and family history of ms. age - and sex-matched r/r ms clinic patients provided a statistical comparison group . the age of onset tended to cluster within multiplex families . the initial symptom of ms occurred within 5 years of age in 30/48 sibling pairs compared with 16/48 controls . a positive family history of ms ( other than siblings ) was present in 43 % of the multiplex families compared with 20 % among simplex controls . in 1st - , 2nd - , and 3rd-degree relatives who had lived into the age at risk , 22/1 ,134 family members of multiplex sibling pairs had probable or definite ms compared with 10/1 ,215 control family members . age of onset clustering in siblings concordant for r/r ms and an increased risk of ms in other family members suggest that factors influencing disease onset may be in part inherited in these kindreds . 
diffuse cns involvement in systemic lupus erythematosus : intrathecal synthesis of the 4th component of complement . in extracerebral systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) , the complement system plays a prominent pathogenic role , and decreased serum concentration of the 4th component ( c4 ) is a reliable indicator of systemic disease activity . in diffuse cns-sle , however , the pathogenic role of complement is less clear . in 12 patients with active diffuse cns-sle presenting with delirium ( 4 ) , organic personality syndrome ( 3 ) , or generalized seizures ( 5 ) , we determined the csf indexes of the complement components c3 , c4 , and factor b , and of igg , iga , and igm . there was a significant increase of the c4 index in these patients compared with controls and a significantly higher csf c4 index in patients with an increased igm index . we conclude that intrathecal c4 is being produced in diffuse cns-sle . 
ascites not due to congestive heart failure in a fetus with lupus-induced heart block . hydrops developing in fetuses with lupus-associated heart block has usually been assumed to result from congestive heart failure . we present a case in which fetal ascites associated with complete heart block resolved promptly after administration of betamethasone and prednisone to the mother , who had anti-ssa and who developed clinical lupus erythematosus . this resolution occurred with no demonstrable change in fetal cardiac function . we conclude that an immune mechanism , rather than congestive heart failure , was responsible for the fetal ascites . 
progressive osseous destruction as a complication of hiv-periodontitis . a pathologic condition is described , characterized by rampant necrosis of gingival mucosa , periodontium , and related osseous structures associated with systemic infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . it is believed that this condition is an extension beyond the normal clinical course of hiv-periodontitis ( hiv-p ) and manifests itself in three progressive stages : ( 1 ) hiv-associated gingivitis , ( 2 ) hiv-p , and ( 3 ) an extension of hiv-p to osseous necrosis . two cases of osseous destruction attending hiv-p are reported , one of which led to initial diagnosis of hiv infection . they represent the final stage of disease progression with localized necrosis of gingiva , periodontium , and alveolar bone . 
periapical lesions of mandibular bone : difficulties in early diagnostics . it is often difficult to establish a correct diagnosis on the basis of initial clinical and roentgenologic symptoms in mandibular bone disease . in this paper these problems are discussed , and some suggestions are made to overcome them . the discussion is based on cases of osteogenic sarcoma , histiocytic lymphoma , and chronic osteomyelitis . the patients were a boy and two middle-aged women , all of them with primary clinical symptoms of pain and swelling , diffuse roentgenologic changes in mandibular bone , uncertain response to treatment , and an unusual progress of the disease . 
igg subclass concentrations in absolute , partial and transient iga deficiency in childhood . sixty-seven children with symptomatic iga deficiency were studied on two separate occasions . eighteen had aigad at presentation , and 49 had pigad . iga concentrations had risen to the normal range for age in 22.2 % of children presenting with aigad and 77.6 % presenting with pigad when restudied at a median interval of 3.2 and 3.0 years , respectively . igg subclass concentrations were measured by enzyme immunoassay in serum samples collected at enrollment from 12 children with aigad and 22 children with pigad . igg2 and igg4 concentrations for these 34 children were below the 5th centile for age and sex more frequently than expected ( igg2 : chi square 5.8 , p less than 0.025 ; igg 4 : chi square 18.4 , p less than 0.0005 ) . the prevalence of igg2 deficiency or igg4 deficiency did not differ significantly between those with aigad and those with pigad . igg2 concentrations remained below the 5th centile more frequently than expected when retested in 31 children whose pigad had resolved ( chi square 4.6 , p less than 0.05 ) . children with aigad at presentation had igg1 and igg2 concentrations above the 95th centile more frequently than expected ( igg1 : chi square 19.7 , p less than 0.0005 ; igg2 : chi square 13.5 , p less than 0.001 ) but this was not seen for igg3 and igg4 concentrations . children with pigad did not have elevated igg1 or igg2 concentrations at presentation . high igg1 and igg2 concentrations in aigad may be a compensatory mechanism to afford protection from infection or could be part of a selective secondary response to repeated episodes of infection . 
nebulized albuterol in acute childhood asthma : comparison of two doses . thirty-three children and adolescents from 5 to 17 years of age with moderate to severe acute asthma were given nebulized albuterol therapy in either a high ( 0.30 mg/kg body weight ) or standard ( 0.15 mg/kg ) dose administered at three hourly intervals in a randomized double-blind study . the high-dose hourly regimen resulted in significantly greater improvement in the forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( fev1 ) . furthermore , patients receiving the high dose showed a steady improvement in the fev1 from the start to the end of the study , whereas fev1 plateaued after the second dose in the standard-dose group . although a rise in heart rate and a fall in serum potassium level occurred , neither of these changes nor other side effects were different in the two groups . the high-dose therapy resulted in much higher serum albuterol levels than the standard dose . there was no correlation between the drug levels and side effects or initial and subsequent fev1 . it is concluded that occasional hourly high-dose albuterol therapy should be considered for some pediatric patients with acute asthma of moderate severity , especially those who relapse between doses . 
reactions to iodinated radiographic contrast agents . how to identify and manage patients at risk . systemic adverse reactions to iodinated radiographic contrast material are infrequent but can be dramatic . the number of patients experiencing such reactions can be minimized by selecting the most appropriate diagnostic study for each patient and by identifying patients at increased risk . pretreatment with corticosteroids and use of low-osmolality contrast materials can minimize the number of severe reactions in high-risk patients . 
productive human immunodeficiency virus infection levels correlate with aids-related manifestations in the patient . mononuclear cells were obtained from 71 human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) seropositive subjects presenting and first visit either as asymptomatic or with minor symptoms and with cd4 lymphocytes greater than 550 per mm3 ( group a , 35 patients ) or as patients with aids , aids-related illnesses , or cd4 lymphocytes less than 400 per mm3 ( group b , 36 patients ) . after 1-5 years of follow-up , 13 patients of group a had essentially retained their initial status ( asymptomatics ) ; the 22 others had suffered clinical or immunological deterioration ( progressors ) . frozen cells were thawed and submitted to lethal gamma-irradiation in vitro ( 4500 rads ; 1 rad = 0.01 gy ) before they were cultured with normal phytohemagglutinin-stimulated lymphocytes to determine radiation-resistant hiv expression ex vivo ( r-hev ) . hiv antigenemia correlated with r-hev values in 142 samples ( r = 0.92 , p less than 0.001 ) but was a less sensitive predictor of disease than r-hev . r-hev was detected in all specimens from patients with major aids-related illnesses or hiv-associated cd4 lymphopenia . in 77 % of the progressors from group a , r-hev detection preceded the onset of aids-associated disease or cd4 lymphopenia by 1 year ( average ) . conversely , r-hev was low or was not detected in 36 sequential specimens from the 13 patients who remained asymptomatic over the following 2-5 years . thus , persistently low hiv expression in vivo predicted a nondiseased state , whereas higher hiv expression levels seemed necessary for disease to occur . these data indicate that r-hev is related to productive hiv infection in vivo , the latter acting as a determinant of aids-related illnesses . in view of this , measurement of hiv expression levels in the patient should be useful in antiviral efficacy trials . 
polymerase chain reaction evidence for human immunodeficiency virus 1 neutralization by passive immunization in patients with aids and aids-related complex . we tried to assess the long-term safety and potential efficacy of passive immunization in aids-related-complex ( arc ) and aids patients . we also wanted to establish whether hyperimmune plasma from healthy human immunodeficiency virus 1 ( hiv-1 ) - infected individuals clears the cell-free virus from circulation . using the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) , we were able to provide conclusive evidence that hyperimmune plasma is effective and maintains long-term neutralization of viremia . using the cell test , we found that in most patients the total antibody level was maintained ; in one of the arc patients , it actually increased 8-fold and has remained at that level for nearly 2 years . the cd4 + cell count decreased in the aids patients but was stable in the arc patient . clinically , there was an initial improvement in all patients , but five of six of the advanced/terminal aids patients had died by month 17 . our studies suggest that passive immunization may be safe in arc and aids patients . it reduces hiv-1 viremia to levels undetectable even by pcr . to advanced/terminal patients , the benefit is of limited duration , while to arc patients it may be long-term . therefore , passive immunization should start early in the disease . 
adoptive transfer of autoimmune diabetes and thyroiditis to athymic rats . we describe the induction of autoimmune diabetes , insulitis , and thyroiditis in athymic rats following injections of major histocompatibility complex compatible spleen cells . lymphocytes with these capabilities were found in normal rats of the yos , wag , pvg , and diabetes-resistant bb strains , and in diabetes-prone bb rats . adoptive transfer was facilitated by prior in vivo depletion of rt6 .1 + regulatory t cells and in vitro mitogen activation of donor spleen cells . by rt6 depleting diabetes-resistant donors and using nude recipients , transfer of diabetes and thyroiditis was accomplished by using fresh , unstimulated spleen cells . the data suggest that organ-specific autoreactive cells may be present to various degrees but suppressed to a variable extent in many rat strains . the equilibrium between autoreactive and regulatory cells appears to determine the expression of autoimmunity . 
concurrent and construct validity of the pediatric evaluation of disability inventory . the purpose of this study was to determine the validity of the development edition ( pilot version ) of the pediatric evaluation of disability inventory ( pedi ) in groups of disabled and nondisabled children . the pedi is a new functional assessment instrument for the evaluation of disabled children aged 6 months to 7 years . the pedi has been developed to identify functional status and change along three dimensions : 1 ) functional skill level , 2 ) caregiver assistance , and 3 ) modifications or adaptive equipment used . the pedis were administered as a parental-report questionnaire , and the results were compared with data obtained by the battelle developmental inventory screening test ( bdist ) . the bdist is a standardized assessment with developmental and adaptive content . subjects were 20 children between the ages of 2 and 8 years with arthritic conditions and spina bifida and 20 nondisabled children matched for age and sex . all subjects ' scores on the bdist cognitive domain were no greater than 1.50 standard deviations below the mean for their age group . concurrent validity was supported by moderately high pearson product-moment correlations between bdist and pedi summary scores ( r = .70 -.80 ) . construct validity was supported by significant differences between the disabled and nondisabled groups ' pedi scores and by discriminant analysis identifying the pedi scores as better group discriminators than the bdist scores . results validate the developmental edition of the pedi and support the further development and standardization of the final version . use of the pedi in clinical pediatric physical therapy practice is discussed . 
oral findings in hiv-infected patients attending a department of internal medicine : the contribution of intraoral examination towards the clinical management of hiv disease the occurrence of oral mucosal lesions was studied in 70 consecutive human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients , including 35 patients with aids , who had been admitted to a department of internal medicine . lesions of the oral mucosa were observed in 52 patients ( 74 per cent ) . oral candidiasis ( 50 per cent ) , hairy leukoplakia ( 14 per cent ) , periodontal disease ( 13 per cent ) , and oral kaposi 's sarcoma ( 4 per cent ) were the most common lesions . oral mucosal lesions suggestive of hiv infection were present in ten of 12 patients of unknown hiv status in whom pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was suspected . close cooperation between the medical and dental professions is recommended since accurate intraoral examination can make a valuable contribution towards the clinical management of hiv-infected patients and may influence the cdc classification of this disease . 
pulmonary neoplastic and lymphoproliferative disease in aids : a review . kaposi sarcoma and lymphoma are the most common forms of neoplastic disease encountered in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . pulmonary involvement is fairly common with kaposi sarcoma , while lymphoma only rarely involves the lungs . there has been a significant increase in the number of aids patients who develop kaposi sarcoma , especially male homosexuals . there has also been an increase in the incidence of high-grade ( aggressive ) lymphoma in male homosexuals ( and young men in general ) . lymphoid interstitial pneumonia is a chronic condition that primarily affects adults and is becoming more common in patients with aids . when present in children less than 13 years old , lymphoid interstitial pneumonia is considered to be an indication of aids . bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue and a condition resembling angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy are also being found in children with aids . a review of the literature on neoplastic and lymphoproliferative disease in aids suggests that a variety of lymphoproliferative disorders in aids can be expected in the future . 
a prospective necropsy study of arthritis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . thirty-two knee and 23 sternoclavicular joints from 35 subjects with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome were examined prospectively at necropsy . there were two instances of opportunistic infectious arthritis : one caused by staphylococcus aureus , the other by sporothrix schenckii . in five other subjects , para-articular bone was infiltrated by granulomatous or neoplastic sequelae of the human immunodeficiency virus infection . there was no immunohistochemical ( p24 antigen ) or other evidence for existence of a specific acquired immunodeficiency syndrome arthritis . 
environmental illness . a controlled study of 26 subjects with ' 20th century disease ' environmental illness is a polysymptomatic disorder believed by " clinical ecologists " to result from immune dysregulation brought on by common foods and chemicals . we systematically evaluated 26 subjects who had been assigned a diagnosis of environmental illness . the subjects indicated a strong interest in their diagnosis , were generally satisfied with their clinical ecologist , and were dissatisfied with traditional medical approaches . subjects reported varying treatments , including dietary restrictions , avoidance of offending agents , and physical treatments . using the diagnostic interview schedule , we found that 15 ( 65 % ) of 23 subjects met criteria for a current or past mood , anxiety , or somatoform disorder compared with 13 ( 28 % ) of 46 age - and sex-matched community controls . we conclude that patients receiving this diagnosis may have one or more commonly recognized psychiatric disorders that could explain some or all of their symptoms . 
t-cell-directed hepatocyte damage in autoimmune chronic active hepatitis . to investigate the function of activated t lymphocytes in autoimmune chronic active hepatitis , 7 of 15 t-cell clones from the peripheral blood of 8 patients were studied . these clones showed specificity for liver-membrane antigen with proliferation when stimulated by rabbit liver cell membranes . 6 of these clones reacted with liver-specific lipoprotein complex , and 1 clone ( and 3 subclones ) responded to the asialoglycoprotein receptor ( asgpr ) , both known targets of immune attack in autoimmune chronic active hepatitis . 2 of these clones stimulated autologous b lymphocytes to produce liver-membrane-specific autoantibodies and antibody to the asgpr . these results suggest that liver-membrane-specific activated t lymphocytes in peripheral blood may be important in the autoimmune attack of chronic active hepatitis . 
serological and molecular survey for htlv-i infection in a high-risk middle eastern group . to define the extent of human t-cell leukaemia virus ( htlv-i ) infection among a group of jewish immigrants to israel with an increased frequency of adult t-cell leukaemia , various serological and molecular screening methods , including enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) for anti-htlv-i , elisa for antibody to recombinant htlv-i p40tax protein , and molecular detection of infection by polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) amplification of htlv-i proviral dna from peripheral blood mononuclear cell dna , were used . by htlv-i elisa the overall rate of infection was 12 % ( 24 of 208 ) among immigrants from khurusan , northeastern iran ; no htlv-i carriers were detected among 111 unselected jewish immigrants from other parts of iran . there was unexplained clustering of htlv-i infection within a cohort of 32 elderly women of similar geographic origin in a home for old people -- 14 were seropositive by elisa and 19 of 29 were positive by pcr . the findings in this newly identified high-risk population suggest that in addition to elisa , other screening techniques may be required to detect all carriers in high-risk populations . 
a randomized study of the effect of withdrawing hydroxychloroquine sulfate in systemic lupus erythematosus . the canadian hydroxychloroquine study group background . the antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine is thought to be effective in controlling some of the manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus , but its effectiveness has not been demonstrated conclusively . methods . we conducted a six-month , randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study of the effect of discontinuing hydroxychloroquine sulfate treatment in 47 patients with clinically stable systemic lupus erythematosus . the patients were randomly assigned to continue their same dose of hydroxychloroquine ( n = 25 ) or to receive placebo ( n = 22 ) for 24 weeks . ten patients in each group were also taking prednisone . results . the relative risk of a clinical flare-up , defined as the development of specific clinical manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus or an increase in their severity , was 2.5 times higher ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.08 to 5.58 ) in the patients taking placebo than in those continuing to take hydroxychloroquine ( 16 of 22 patients vs. 9 of 25 had flare-ups ) , and the time to a flare-up was shorter ( p = 0.02 ) . the relative risk of a severe exacerbation of disease that required withdrawal from the study was 6.1 times higher ( 95 percent confidence interval , 0.72 to 52.44 ) for the patients taking placebo ( 5 of 22 patients vs. 1 of 25 had severe exacerbations of disease ) . changes in the dose of prednisone were not different in the two groups . conclusions . patients with quiescent systemic lupus erythematosus who are taking hydroxychloroquine are less likely to have a clinical flare-up if they are maintained on the drug . 
human t-cell leukemia virus type i infection as an oncogenic and prognostic risk factor in cervical and vaginal carcinoma . the seroprevalence of human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) antibody in 6701 healthy females and 226 women with gynecologic malignancies , all living in an adult t-cell leukemia-endemic area in southwestern japan , was investigated to determine whether htlv-i infection was a risk factor influencing oncogenesis and prognosis . the seroprevalences in cervical carcinoma patients younger than 59 years and in vaginal carcinoma patients of all ages were significantly higher than in age-matched healthy controls . the ratios of observed to expected htlv-i seroprevalence in patients younger than 59 with cervical carcinoma and in vaginal carcinoma patients were 2.92 and 7.36 , respectively . among the patients with cervical carcinoma or vaginal carcinoma , the tumor recurrence rate in htlv-i carriers was significantly higher than that in htlv-i seronegative patients . our results suggest that htlv-i infection may be oncogenic and may affect the prognosis in some patients with cervical or vaginal carcinoma . 
large cell orbital lymphoma in a patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome . case report and review despite the protean ocular manifestations of acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) , orbital involvement is rare and only one previous case of orbital non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) has been documented . we report a second case of nhl ( large cell ) of the orbit in a 28-year-old patient with a 4-year history of aids and review the context in which this lesion presented . 
asymptomatic and neurologically symptomatic hiv-seropositive individuals : prospective evaluation with cranial mr imaging . as part of a prospective multidisciplinary study of individuals seropositive for the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , cranial magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was performed on 119 hiv-seropositive subjects ( 95 asymptomatic , 24 symptomatic ) and the results were correlated with clinical data . mr images regarded as positive included those showing atrophy and/or white matter lesions . on the basis of these criteria , 96 subjects had normal mr images and 23 had abnormal images . results of chi 2 analysis revealed a statistically significant difference between the asymptomatic group ( 12 of 95 [ 13 % ] with abnormal scans ) and the symptomatic group ( 11 of 24 [ 46 % ] with abnormal scans ) ( p = .001 ) . in the asymptomatic group , positive mr images showed fewer , smaller , and/or less extensive abnormalities . the researchers conclude that ( a ) mr imaging can show indirect evidence of hiv infection early in the disease , but abnormalities will be minor and seen only in a small minority of neurologically asymptomatic subjects ; ( b ) the appearance of clinically recognizable neurologic disease correlates with the mr imaging findings of increasingly severe brain atrophy and white matter lesions ; and ( c ) in some hiv-seropositive subjects , despite neurologic disease , mr images can remain normal . results indicate that routine screening with cranial mr imaging of neurologically asymptomatic hiv-seropositive individuals would likely result in a low yield of positive findings . 
hemodialysis-related amyloidomas of bone . lytic bone lesions secondary to amyloid deposition are a recently described complication of long-term hemodialysis . the authors refer to these tumorlike deposits as amyloidomas in a review of the subject and four proved cases . this entity typically appears as multiple well-defined , juxta-articular lytic lesions without matrix calcification . the duration of hemodialysis is probably the greatest risk factor for development of these intraosseous amyloidomas . ultrastructurally , this new type of amyloid originates from beta 2-microglobulin , a low-molecular-weight serum protein that is not filtered by standard dialysis membranes . 
mr imaging of blood-borne liver metastases in mice : contrast enhancement with fe-ehpg . to determine whether iron ( iii ) ethylenebis - ( 2-hydrophenylglycine ) ( fe-ehpg ) , a prototype hepatobiliary magnetic resonance imaging agent , can enhance the liver-to-tumor contrast-to-noise ratio ( c/n ) in models of liver tumors in mice , two types of cell inoculation were used : intrahepatic implantation of m5076 sarcoma and intrasplenic injection of colon tumor ( c-26 ) or m5076 sarcoma . significant enhancement of the liver-to-tumor c/n and/or improved visualization of small lesions was consistently observed on t1-weighted images obtained after injection of the contrast material . for intrahepatic implants , the c/n on postinjection t1-weighted images was superior to that on t1 - and t2-weighted preinjection images . for the c-26 metastatic liver lesions of larger diameter ( greater than 5 mm ) , the c/n on postinjection t1-weighted studies was superior to that on preinjection t1-weighted images but was comparable to that on preinjection t2-weighted images . however , higher c/n after administration of fe-ehpg improved visualization of medium-sized ( 3-5 mm ) and small ( 1-3-mm ) metastatic lesions in both m5076 and c-26 models . these results demonstrate that mr imaging with appropriate hepatobiliary agents appears promising for early detection of liver metastases . 
bronchial hyperresponsiveness in young students of southern china : relation to respiratory symptoms , diagnosed asthma , and risk factors . a cross sectional study was carried out to determine the prevalence of bronchial hyperresponsiveness and asthma in 3067 students aged 11-17 years in an urban and a rural area of guangzhou ( canton ) , china . the methods used included a self administered questionnaire , a histamine bronchial provocation test , and allergen skinprick tests . bronchial hyperresponsiveness was defined as a 20 % fall in fev1 and peak expiratory flow at a provoking dose of histamine ( pd20 ) less than 7.8 mumol on two occasions four weeks apart . the response rate was 98.0 % and 99.2 % in the two areas . the prevalence of bronchial hyperresponsiveness was 4.1 % and of diagnosed asthma 2.4 % in the total population . there were no significant differences in prevalence between the urban and the rural area or between boys and girls . the 11-12 year group had a higher prevalence of bronchial hyperresponsiveness ( 7.6 % ) than the older groups . of the 125 with bronchial hyperresponsiveness , 12.0 % were defined as having severe or moderate ( pd20 less than 0.8 mumol ) , 26 % mild ( 0.9-3 .2 mumol ) , and 62 % slight bronchial hyperresponsiveness ( 3.3-7 .8 mumol ) . the severity of bronchial hyperresponsiveness was closely related to diagnosed asthma , wheezing , and cough , though half the students with bronchial hyperresponsiveness were symptom free . the most common allergens were house dust and house dust mite in the city , and hay dust , pollen , and feathers in the rural area . the odds ratios for having respectively slight , mild or moderate , and severe bronchial hyperresponsiveness were 5.9 , 21.0 , and 30.4 for atopy ; 1.9 , 1.9 , and 7.3 for early respiratory infection ; and 3.1 , 2.5 , and 5.6 for a history of parental asthma . 
a general practice based survey of bronchial hyperresponsiveness and its relation to symptoms , sex , age , atopy , and smoking . the prevalence and associations of bronchial hyperresponsiveness were investigated in a general practice population . the sample was obtained by using every 12th patient on the practice age-sex register , replacing non-responders with corresponding age and sex matched individuals from up to two further 1 in 12 samples . the response rate was 43 % ; 366 patients were studied . doubling concentrations of methacholine were given to a maximum of 32 mg/ml or until a 20 % fall in forced expiratory volume in one second ( fev1 ) occurred ( provocation concentration , pc20fev1 ) . bronchial hyperresponsiveness was defined arbitrarily as a pc20fev1 of 2 mg/ml or less ( or 11 mumol cumulative dose , pd20fev1 ) . the prevalence of bronchial hyperresponsiveness was 23 % . bronchial hyperresponsiveness was not associated with age but was more prevalent in women than men ( 31 % :13 % ) . it was also more common in those who had ever wheezed ( 39 % ) and in those who had had an attack of rhinitis in the preceding month ( 45 % , p less than 0.1 ) , in atopic individuals ( 30 % ) , and in smokers ( 32 % ) , but it was not associated with cough or dyspnoea . there was a positive correlation between pc20fev1 and resting fev1 ( r = 0.288 ) and a negative correlation between pc20fev1 and mean daily peak flow variability ( r = -0.356 ) . stepwise binary logistic regression analysis showed significant independent effects on pc20fev1 for mean daily peak flow variability , gender , number of positive skin test responses , resting fev1 , and mean histamine skin weal area , but no relation with smoking or mean allergen weal area . the prevalence of bronchial hyperresponsiveness was much higher than the prevalence of diagnosed asthma in the practice in 1984 ( 4.9 % ) . analysis of case notes of 169 individuals showed that those with bronchial hyperresponsiveness had not attended the practice more frequently for respiratory complaints during the previous five years . 
dietary alpha-linolenic acid and immunocompetence in humans . we examined the effect of dietary alpha-linolenic acid ( ala ) on the indices of immunocompetence in 10 healthy free-living men ( age 21-37 y ) who consumed all meals at the western human nutrition research center for 126 d. there was a stabilization period of 14 d at the start when all 10 subjects consumed basal diet ( bd ) and there were two intervention periods of 56 d each . five of the subjects consumed the basal diet and the other five consumed flax-seed-oil diet ( fd ) during each intervention period . feeding of fd suppressed the proliferation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells when they were cultured with phytohemagglutinin-p ( p = 0.041 ) and concanavalin a ( p = 0.054 ) and the delayed hypersensitivity response to seven recall antigens ( ns ) . concentrations of immunoglobulins in serum , c3 , c4 , salivary iga , the numbers of helper cells , suppressor cells , and total t and b cells in the peripheral blood were not affected by the diets . 
rice pollen allergy in taiwan . a panel of tests including intracutaneous skin testing ( st ) , radioallergosorbent test ( rast ) , immunoblotting and allergen-induced lymphoproliferation was done to study rice pollen allergy in asthmatic children and to characterize the allergens . of the 312 asthmatic patients skin tested , 29 ( 9.3 % ) had positive reactions ( wheal greater than or equal to 6 mm ) to rice pollen extract at a concentration of 10 ( -5 ) g/ml and the remaining 283 ( 90.7 % ) were negative . while eight ( 34.8 % ) of the 23 st-positive patients were also rast-positive , rast was negative in all 34 st-negative patients and 20 normals . immunoblotting revealed three major allergens , with molecular weights of 16 kd , 26 kd , and 32 kd , respectively . interestingly , rast-positive patients showed ige responses to most allergens but only a few of them had igg antibodies , while normal controls had stronger igg responses to the same allergens , particularly to 32 kd , but none had ige antibody . the preliminary results of rice pollen protein induced-lymphoproliferation were not informative ; thus , rice pollen proteins do elicit a specific response in asthmatic children and normals , but its pathogenic role in bronchial asthma needs further study . 
asthma and pregnancy : responsibility of physicians and patients the successful management of asthma during pregnancy requires a cooperative approach between the obstetrician , the physician managing the asthma , and the patient . this is emphasized by a case report describing a patient with uncontrolled asthma subsequently managed with appropriate medical and obstetrical care . concern for maternal and fetal health and reassurance of patients are primary concerns . guidelines for physicians and patients are outlined as are the safety of drugs and therapy in pregnant patients . physicians must have knowledge of appropriate use of medications during pregnancy . 
anaphylaxis to pinon nuts a 21-year-old white male developed life threatening systemic anaphylaxis within seconds of ingesting a small amount of a cookie containing pinon nuts . skin testing , elisa , and basophil histamine release studies demonstrated pinon nut-specific ige . electrophoresis of the pinon nut extract demonstrated 30 bands , three of which ( in the 66 to 68,000 dalton range ) bound ige in the patient 's serum in an immunoblot . ingestion challenge was not performed due to the severity of the patient 's reaction . although used for centuries in certain cultures , pinon nuts are now being eaten more frequently in the american diet . physicians should be aware of the potential for anaphylactic reactions following ingestion of this food . 
bronchial challenge to house dust can induce immediate bronchoconstriction in allergic asthmatic patients . the goal of the study was to evaluate whether natural exposure to house dust could elicit immediate bronchoconstriction . two groups of asthmatic patients were studied : 12 asthmatics allergic to house dust mites and seven nonallergic asthmatics . the baseline fev1 was similar in the two groups . each subject was challenged through a nasal mask connected to nebulizer filled with house dust . patients were randomly assigned to inhale dust with high or low group i allergenic level . all allergic patients had an fev1 drop larger than 20 % of the baseline value . this drop was maximal at the 30th minute after challenge . fev1 remained unchanged in nonallergic asthmatics . allergic patients challenged with high group i allergenic house dust ( 8.4 micrograms/g ) had a mean fev1 drop larger ( p less than .01 ) than those challenged with the low group i allergenic house dust ( 0.66 micrograms/g ) . late asthmatic reactions were found in only two patients who were challenged with the high group i allergenic house dust . these two patients had immediate fev1 drops greater than 50 % of the baseline value . occurrence of symptoms during the test and the drop in fev1 were correlated ( r = .3 ; p less than .05 ) . natural exposure to house dust can induce immediate bronchial in allergic asthmatics in a dose-dependent manner . 
relationship between asthma and seasonal allergic rhinitis in schoolchildren . the relationship between sensitization to common allergens and the development of asthma and seasonal allergic rhinitis ( sar ) was investigated in a total of 419 schoolchildren in a farming community where allergens of both dermatophagoides farinae ( df ) and orchard grass ( og ) pollen predominate . twelve subjects ( 2.9 % ) were found to have asthma and 35 subjects ( 8.4 % ) sar . there was no significant association between occurrences of asthma and sar . the incidence of asthma correlated with df-specific ige levels but not with og-specific ige levels , whereas that of sar correlated with og-specific ige levels but not with df-specific ige levels . no significant correlation was detected between ige antibody levels against df and og . these results suggest that asthma occurs independently of sar . 
outcome of prophylactic therapy for idiopathic anaphylaxis . objective : to determine the efficacy of a prophylactic regimen ( prednisone , h1 blockade , and sympathomimetic amine therapy ) in patients with idiopathic anaphylaxis . design : clinical trial before and after treatment . setting : referral-based allergy clinic at a major medical center . patients : fifty-three patients with a history compatible with idiopathic anaphylaxis for at least 6 months before presentation to the allergy service and with subsequent management by the service for at least 6 months . interventions : patients with frequent life-threatening symptoms were treated with a prophylactic regimen . patients with infrequent episodes of idiopathic anaphylaxis were only treated acutely for each episode of anaphylaxis . measurements and main results : the results favored prophylactic treatment with prednisone for patients who were classified as generalized-frequent in the clinical outcome measures of frequency ( per patient per year ) of episodes ( mean before treatment , 7.31 + / - 6.46 ; after treatment , 3.61 + / - 4.73 ; p less than 0.02 ) and emergency room visits ( mean before treatment , 1.94 + / - 3.42 ; after treatment , 0.21 + / - 0.44 ; p less than 0.005 ) and for patients classified as angioedema-frequent in the frequency of episodes ( mean before treatment , 14.93 + / - 15.89 ; after treatment , 2.58 + / - 2.18 ; p less than 0.003 ) and emergency room visits ( mean before treatment , 0.76 + / - 1.01 ; after treatment , 0.07 + / - 0.11 ; p less than 0.025 ) . no statistically significant difference was found for patients classified as generalized-infrequent in the frequency of episodes ( mean before treatment , 2.01 + / - 1.30 ; after treatment , 1.36 + / - 1.79 ) or of the emergency room visits ( mean before treatment , 0.56 + / - 0.71 ; after treatment , 0.32 + / - 0.75 ) or for patients classified as angioedema-infrequent in the frequency of episodes ( mean before treatment , 1.94 + / - 1.55 ; after treatment , 2.03 + / - 2.16 ) or of emergency room visits ( mean before treatment , 0.27 + / - 0.44 ; after treatment , 0.37 + / - 0.59 ) . conclusions : prophylactic treatment with prednisone and h1 antihistamines with or without sympathomimetic amines improves clinical outcome in patients who are classified as idiopathic anaphylaxis-angioedema frequent and idiopathic anaphylaxis-generalized frequent . 
regressing atypical histiocytosis . aberrant prothymocyte differentiation , t-cell receptor gene rearrangements , and nodal involvement . two cases of regressing atypical histiocytosis were studied . new findings reported include the presence of cd1 epitope on large atypical histiocytoid cells and apparent early lymph node involvement . because regressing atypical histiocytosis may demonstrate aberrant thymic differentiation antigen expression and t-cell receptor gene rearrangements , initial lymph node involvement , and eventuation in conventional lymphoma in some cases , the alternative term regressing-phase anaplastic lymphoma is proposed as a more accurate designation for this entity . 
bone marrow transplantation with interleukin-2-activated bone marrow followed by interleukin-2 therapy for acute myeloid leukemia in mice . we have investigated approaches to induce graft-versus-leukemia ( gvl ) effect in autologous bone marrow transplantation ( abmt ) without graft-versus-host disease to improve survival and cure in leukemia . the present study shows that bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) using syngeneic bone marrow activated with interleukin-2 ( abm ) for 24 hours in vitro , followed by interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) therapy , was superior to bmt with fresh , syngeneic bone marrow ( fbm ) in terms of survival and cure in mice with acute myeloid leukemia ( p less than .001 ) and led to normal hematopoietic reconstitution . addition of il-2 therapy after bmt with fbm did not improve the results over bmt with fbm alone ( p = .98 ) . these results suggest that the gvl effect of abmt can be enhanced by using abm for bmt followed by il-2 therapy without compromising engraftment . 
direct relationship between remission duration in acute myeloid leukemia and cell cycle kinetics : a leukemia intergroup study . cell cycle characteristics including labeling indices ( li ) , duration of s-phase ( ts ) , and total cell cycle time ( tc ) were determined in 54 standard-risk , newly diagnosed patients with acute myeloid leukemia following an infusion of bromodeoxyuridine . remission induction therapy consisting of cytosine arabinoside and daunomycin was then administered to all patients , followed by three courses of consolidation to those who achieved complete remissions ( cr ) . older patients appeared to have more rapidly cycling cells ( p = .003 ) . no unique cell cycle characteristics were identified for patients who achieved remission versus those who had resistant disease . however , the pretherapy cell cycle characteristics were a strong prognosticator for remission duration . cr patients were divided into those whose leukemic cell tc were above median ( a ) and below median ( b ) . among 14 b patients , median duration of response was 211 days , and all relapsed by day 600 . among 18 a patients , the median has not as yet been reached , with nine patients in continuous complete remission ( log rank p = .007 , wilcoxon p = .04 ) . we conclude that cell cycle characteristics of leukemic cells play a role in determining remission duration , perhaps because the leukemic cells of the former patients regrow slowly between courses of chemotherapy . 
different effect of benzylacyclouridine on the toxic and therapeutic effects of azidothymidine in mice . it has been reported that in vitro uridine ( urd ) can reverse azidothymidine ( azt ) cytotoxicity without decreasing anti-human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) activity . our studies in mice have shown that daily oral doses of benzylacyclouridine ( bau ) , an inhibitor of urd breakdown , also reduces azt hematologic toxicity , presumably by elevating the plasma concentration of urd . we now extend these murine studies and report the effect of various doses of exogenous urd , various doses of bau , or the combination of bau and urd , administered daily , on azt-induced toxicity . in mice receiving concomitant azt , daily doses of urd of 1,000 to 2,000 mg/kg increase peripheral reticulocytes and slightly reduce azt-induced hematologic toxicity . however , the range of effective doses is narrow , and higher doses of urd ( greater than 3,000 mg/kg/d ) significantly enhance hematologic toxicity . at its most effective dose , ( 2,000 mg/kg/d ) , urd produces 28 % mortality . in contrast , bau doses up to 300 mg/kg/d reduced azt-related hematologic toxicity in a dose-dependent manner without mortality . higher daily doses of bau and the combination of bau with low doses of urd were not more effective . studies conducted in mice infected with the rauscher murine leukemia virus ( rlv ) indicate that bau does not impair the antiretroviral effect of azt when administered at doses that reduce azt-induced anemia and leukopenia . these findings may be significant for the treatment of patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and aids-related complex . 
induction of interleukin-6 during human immunodeficiency virus infection . interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) , a multifunctional cytokine produced in monocytes , fibroblasts , and other cell types , is induced by a variety of stimuli , including bacteria , viruses , and other cytokines . when normal monocyte cultures were exposed to a monocytotropic strain of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , htlv-iiiba-l , significant levels of il-6 bioactivity were detected in the culture supernatants after 12 to 43 days of incubation , at a time when there was associated evidence of hiv production . similarly , when normal monocyte cultures were cocultured with peripheral blood mononuclear cells from hiv-infected individuals , hiv replication in these cultures was associated with production of il-6 . in further studies , we determined that mean serum levels of il-6 bioactivity were abnormally elevated in hiv-seropositive individuals with stage 1/2 infection ( 25.2 x/divided by 1.8 u/ml ) and stage 3/4 infection ( 46.1 x/divided by 1.7 u/ml ) when compared with normals ( 1.6 x/divided by 1.2 u/ml ) . in contrast mean serum il-6 levels were not different from normal in stage 5/6 infection ( 2.7 x/divided by 1.6 u/ml ) . a selected group of 12 hiv-seropositive individuals ( stages 1 , 2 , and 3 ) who harbored hiv capable of replicating in t cells but not in monocyte cultures had a mean serum il-6 level of 5.3 u/ml ( x/divided by 1.5 ) , a value significantly lower ( p less than .004 ) than that measured in control hiv-seropositive individuals infected with monocytropic hiv ( 39 x/divided by 1.9 u/ml ) . in addition , serum il-6 levels in hiv-seropositive individuals ( stages 1 through 6 ) correlated directly with serum immunoglobulin g ( igg ) levels ( r = .74 , p less than .001 ) . monocytes but not t cells are capable of a high level il-6 production in vitro , and monocyte-derived il-6 stimulates ig production in activated b cells . thus , hiv-seropositive individuals who often are infected with monocytotropic hiv and often display abnormally elevated serum igg levels may exhibit these abnormalities as a consequence of abnormally elevated il-6 levels induced by hiv . 
cd11c ( leu-m5 ) expression characterizes a b-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorder with features of both chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hairy cell leukemia . chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) and hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) are two common chronic lymphoproliferative disorders , each having characteristic clinical , morphologic , and immunologic features . phenotypically , cd5 reactivity in cll and cd11c ( leu-m5 ) reactivity in hcl have characterized these two leukemias among b-cell disorders . in this study , we report 14 cases of a novel chronic lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by lymphocytosis and cd11c expression , but morphologically similar to cll . the patients ' ages ranged from 46 to 81 years ( median 62 ) . eleven had palpable splenomegaly , five with markedly enlarged spleens ; only one patient had generalized lymphadenopathy . the white blood cell count ranged from 5.2 to 131.0 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ( median 20.8 ) . the morphologic diagnosis in all cases was cll , with the cells usually having abundant cytoplasm . no morphologic features , of hairy cells were evident ; tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase cytochemistry was negative in all cases . bone marrow biopsies were available in 8 of 14 . four showed focal nodular infiltrates and two had diffuse infiltrates similar to cll ; two showed only minimal interstitial involvement . all cases expressed multiple b-cell markers , and 12 of 14 had monoclonal surface immunoglobulin . the leukemic cells of all cases strongly expressed cd11c , while cd5 was expressed in 7 of 14 ; only 1 of the 14 cases expressed the lymph node homing receptor , leu-8 . this unique group of leukemias appears to represent the malignant transformation of lymphocytes arising from a stage of lymphocyte differentiation between that found in typical cases of cll and that of hcl . cd11c is known to have an important function in cellular adhesion and may be important in determining the pattern of lymphocyte tissue distribution found in this group of patients . 
combined syngeneic bone marrow transplantation and immunotherapy of a murine b-cell lymphoma : active immunization with tumor-derived idiotypic immunoglobulin . recurrence of the underlying malignancy remains a major cause of treatment failure after autologous bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) for patients with lymphoma . in this regard , we have developed an immunotherapeutic approach designed to induce resistance against residual tumor cells persisting after bmt . previous studies in the model system of 38c13 , a lethal b-cell lymphoma of c3h origin , have shown that active immunization with purified tumor-derived surface immunoglobulin ( id ) , as a tumor-associated antigen , produces resistance to tumor growth . id immunization of lethally irradiated mice at 3 or 5 weeks after reconstitution with syngeneic bone marrow resulted in significantly prolonged survival after tumor challenge compared with nonspecifically immunized controls . low levels of idiotype-specific antibody were also demonstrated in the sera of specifically immunized mice at this early time , when other functional studies in the literature of immunocompetence after syngeneic reconstitution might have predicted incomplete recovery . immunization of mice before lethal irradiation and syngeneic marrow reconstitution also induced significant resistance to tumor challenge , suggesting the persistence of established host antitumor immunity through total body irradiation . these studies demonstrate the feasibility of id immunization in conjunction with bone marrow transplantation . 
specific antibody response to the mycobacterial 65 kda stress protein in ankylosing spondylitis and rheumatoid arthritis . immune responses to conserved , immunogenic homologues of the mycobacterial 65 kda stress protein ( sp65 ) have been implicated in inflammatory arthritis . serum anti-sp65 was measured in as , ra and healthy controls using an indirect enzyme immunoassay with recombinant sp65 . iga anti-sp65 was elevated in 19 of 59 as patients , but the elevation in median level was not statistically significant . anti-sp65 of all isotypes was increased in ra , but achieved significance ( p less than 0.01 ) for iga only . adjusting specific antibody results for elevations in total serum ig levels reduced as and ra anti-sp65 to near normal levels , suggesting that a major component of the increased anti-sp65 may be secondary to polyclonal activation . 
the lack of relationship between acetylator phenotype and idiopathic systemic lupus erythematosus in a south-east asian population : a study of indians , malays and malaysian chinese . an association of idiopathic systemic lupus erythematosus ( isle ) with genetically determined n-acetylation polymorphism has been suspected from previous studies , mainly on caucasian populations in which there is an approximate incidence of 50 % of slow and rapid acetylators . the present study is of the incidence of isle and acetylator status in a mixed population of malaysia . the results did not support an association between isle and acetylator status : the frequencies of slow acetylators in the isle patients who were malaysian chinese and malay were 13 and 38 % respectively . this did not differ significantly from the respective healthy groups ( 20 and 29 % ) . the small number of indians in the survey did not allow a valid comparison , but the figures did suggest a lack of association between isle and acetylator status . 
postpartum renal failure in systemic lupus erythematosus . the present report describes an unusual association between postpartum renal failure and systemic lupus erythematosus . two healty young women developed progressive renal failure several weeks after delivery accompanied by the presence in their serum of strongly reactive anti-nuclear antibodies and positive anti-dna antibodies . in both cases kidney biopsy disclosed light and electron microscopy pictures typical of idiopathic postpartum renal failure , with multiple intravascular thrombi and no evidence of active lupus nephritis . intrarenal microthrombi formation may represent a form of exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus after delivery . the early recognition of this syndrome may have therapeutic implications . 
association of autoimmune hepatitis with hla-bw54 and dr4 in japanese patients . human leukocyte antigen-d region-related alleles ( human leukocyte antigen dr and dq ) and human leukocyte antigen class i alleles were typed serologically in 31 japanese patients with autoimmune hepatitis . these patients had increased serum levels of ast and igg , high titers of autoantibodies , no history of blood transfusion and were negative for hbsag and antibodies to hbc . three hundred eighty-six healthy subjects and 30 patients with cryptogenic chronic hepatitis served as control groups . the frequency of dr4 was significantly higher in autoimmune hepatitis patients ( 90.3 % ) than in healthy subjects ( 38.6 % ) and in cryptogenic chronic hepatitis patients ( 30 % ) . the frequency of bw54 was significantly higher in autoimmune hepatitis patients ( 45.2 % ) than in healthy subjects ( 10.9 % ) . the risk to dr4-positive subjects for autoimmune hepatitis was 14.8 relative to healthy subjects . two of 31 patients ( 6.5 % ) with autoimmune hepatitis were positive for antibody to hepatitis c virus ; both clearly satisfied criteria for autoimmune hepatitis and both had bw54 and dr4 . this study revealed a highly significant association of autoimmune hepatitis with human leukocyte antigen bw54 and dr4 in japanese patients . among the dr4-positive patients with autoimmune hepatitis , no significant differences were seen between those positive or negative for bw54 with regard to clinical or laboratory data , relapse of disease or efficacy of prednisolone . thus human leukocyte antigen class ii alleles contribute to susceptibility and resistance to autoimmune hepatitis in japanese patients , with distinct racial differences from those in white patients . 
the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor is a target antigen for liver-infiltrating t cells in autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and primary biliary cirrhosis . autoantibodies to the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor have been found in nearly 50 % of the sera of patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and in 15 % of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis . in this study we demonstrate that the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor is also a target antigen for t cell-mediated immune responses . peripheral blood lymphocytes of 37 % ( 7 of 19 ) of patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and 33 % ( 2 of 6 ) of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis showed a proliferative response to highly purified human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor , whereas no proliferation was found with peripheral blood lymphocytes of patients with chronic viral hepatitis ( 0 of 13 ) and healthy blood donors ( 0 of 4 ) . moreover , we isolated t-cell clones from liver biopsy samples of two patients with autoimmune chronic active hepatitis and two patients with peripheral blood lymphocytes . between 2.8 % and 14.3 % of these clones showed a specific proliferative response to purified human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor . the response was restricted to autologous antigen-presenting cells and could be blocked by monoclonal antibodies against human leukocyte antigen-dr molecules . the response of t cells to the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor did not require the lectinlike activity of the asialoglycoprotein receptor . thus the human hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptor could be identified as a major target antigen of humoral and cellular immune reactions in autoimmune-mediated liver diseases . 
quantitative analysis of serum il-6 and its correlation with increased levels of serum il-2r in hiv-induced diseases . we have devised a luminescence sandwich elisa for the quantification of il-6 in both sera and cell culture supernatants , which had a detection limit of 100 fg/ml of test sample . by using the luminescence sandwich-elisa , low but measurable levels of il-6 ( 9.5 pg/ml on average ) were found in the sera from normal individuals . the serum levels of il-6 were elevated in hiv-seropositive asymptomatic carriers ( 55.5 pg/ml on average ) , and the il-6 levels were correlated with the degree of hiv-induced disease progression ( aids-related complex 106.8 pg/ml on average and ( aids 283 pg/ml ) . il-6 immunoreactivity in the sera of aids patients eluted at a 25,000 m.w. major peak , which was biologically active and heat-stable , and a 500,000 m.w. minor peak in size-exclusion hplc . interestingly , a significant correlation was observed between the serum il-6 levels and soluble il-2r levels . in vitro , hiv infection of pha-activated pbmc led to enhanced release of il-6 into the culture supernatants . moreover , soluble il-2r release was markedly increased by adding exogenous il-6 , whereas it was decreased by adding the neutralizing anti-il-6 mab to the cultures . these results demonstrate that increased il-6 levels are significantly associated with sil-2r levels , and suggest a cause of the increased levels of this receptor in patients with hiv infection . furthermore , both serum il-6 and serum il-2r levels in hiv infection reflect the stage of the hiv-induced disease . 
evidence by peptide mapping that the region cd4 ( 81-92 ) is involved in gp120/cd4 interaction leading to hiv infection and hiv-induced syncytium formation . peptide fragments of the cd4 molecule were compared in their ability to 1 ) inhibit cd4-dependent hiv-induced cell fusion ; 2 ) inhibit cd4-dependent hiv infection in vitro ; and 3 ) block gp120 envelope glycoprotein binding to cd4 . peptides from the region cd4 ( 81-92 ) , although inactive when underivatized , were equipotent inhibitors of cd4-dependent virus infection , cell fusion , and cd4/gp120 binding when derivatized via benzylation and acetylation . peptides of identical chemical composition , but altered sequence and derivatization pattern that blocked gp120 binding to either cd4-positive cells or solubilized cd4 , also blocked infection and fusion with similar potencies . those that did not block gp120/cd4 interaction were also inactive in hiv-1 infection and cell fusion assays . no other peptide fragments of the cd4 molecule inhibited fusion , infection , or cd4/gp120 interaction . the peptide cd4 ( 23-56 ) , derived from a region of cd4 implicated in binding of cd4 antibodies that neutralize hiv infection and cell fusion , had no effect on cd4-dependent cell fusion , hiv-1 infection , or cd4/gp120 binding , but did reverse okt4a and anti-leu 3a blockade of gp120 binding to cd4 . these data provide evidence that the 81-92 region of cd4 is directly involved in gp120 binding leading to cd4-dependent hiv infection and syncytium formation . previous observations with structural mutants of cd4 suggest that the cdr2-homologous region of cd4 is also involved , either directly or indirectly , in binding of gp120 to cd4 . the cdr2 - and cdr3-like domains of cd4 may both contribute to the binding of the hiv envelope necessary for hiv-1 infection and hiv-1-induced cell fusion . 
immunodominance in the graft-vs-host disease t cell response to minor histocompatibility antigens . immunodominance controls the generation of ctl in the c57bl/6by ( b6 ) anti-balb . b h-2b-matched strain combination . despite the potential of responding to numerous individual minor histocompatibility ( h ) ag on balb.b apc , the focus of the ctl response is largely specific for only a limited number of target ag . these minor h ag could be distinguished by their differential expression on a panel of target cells from the cxb recombinant inbred strains , the e , g , i , j , and k ( all h-2b ) , which express different composites of the original balb minor h ag . a hierarchy was observed in which first-order immunodominant ag were present on both cxbk and cxbg cells , whereas second-order dominant ag were found on cxbe , cxbj , and cxbi cells . to test whether immunodominance also plays a role in the development of lethal graft-vs-host disease ( gvhd ) directed to multiple minor h ag , b6 t cells were transplanted along with t cell depleted bone marrow , to irradiated ( 825 rad ) recipients of either the balb.b or cxb recombinant inbred strains . the results indicate that a hierarchy of immunodominance does exist in gvhd , but it differs from that predicted from the in vitro ctl studies . gvhd was observed in balb.b , cxbe , cxbi , and cxbj recipients , but not in cxbg and cxbk recipients . presensitization of b6 donor mice to cxbg or cxbk splenocytes 3 wk before transplant did not significantly increase the overall gvhd potential in the corresponding cxbg or cxbk recipients . evidence for second-order immunodominance was provided by the transfer of cxbe t cells and atbm to irradiated cxbg and balb.b recipients with resultant , potent gvhd . 
human and murine anti-dna antibodies induce the production of anti-idiotypic antibodies with autoantigen-binding properties ( epibodies ) through immune-network interactions . to examine the potential role of immune-network interactions in the production of lupus autoantibodies , normal nzw rabbit antibody responses were analyzed after immunization with one of the following ig preparations : human lupus serum anti-dsdna antibodies , human lupus serum anti-ssdna antibodies , a mixture of human lupus serum anti-dsdna and anti-ssdna antibodies , the mrl-lpr/lpr anti-dsdna mab h241 , and the mrl-lpr/lpr anti-ssdna mab h130 . four of five rabbits produced ig typical of lupus autoantibodies : individual rabbit ig cross-reacted with multiple autoantigens including nucleic acids , cardiolipin , smrnp , glomerular extract , laminin , and exogenous ag . rabbit anti-id against human anti-dsdna antibodies were highly specific for dsdna . notably , in each serum the autoantibody activity was confined to the anti-id ig fraction . a similar spontaneously occurring id-anti-id interaction was also found between anti-ssdna and anti-dsdna antibodies isolated from an individual lupus patient . these results indicate that lupus autoantibodies which share ag binding properties with pathogenic ig , including both cross-reactive and anti-dsdna antibodies , can induce the production of ig with similar autoantigen binding properties through immune-network interactions . this phenomenon , if unregulated , could lead to the amplification of pathogenic autoantibody production in individuals with systemic lupus . 
aberrant expression of cytokine genes in peritoneal macrophages from mice infected with lp-bm5 mulv , a murine model of aids . mice infected with lp-bm5 murine leukemia virus ( mulv ) develop a syndrome denoted as murine aids . macrophages harvested from the peritoneal cavities of these mice at 4 or 9 wk postinoculation with lp-bm5 mulv were analyzed by northern hybridization for the presence of the defective lp-bm5 virus and their ability to synthesize various cytokines upon induction with newcastle disease virus ( ndv ) or ( lps ) . neither ifn-alpha or ifn-beta was found to be constitutively expressed in lp-bm5-infected macrophages and in ndv induction studies , and the levels of biologically active ifn-alpha and its mrna were found to be lower in lp-bm5 mulv-infected macrophages than in the macrophages from uninfected controls . similarly , after ndv or lps induction , the levels of tnf mrna and tnf protein were significantly lower in lp-bm5-infected macrophages than in macrophages from uninfected mice . the lp-bm5 mulv-infected macrophages constitutively expressed low levels of il-1 beta , and when induced with lps , the relative levels of il-1 beta were significantly higher in infected than in uninfected macrophages . although no constitutive expression of il-6 was detected , the levels of il-6 mrna induced with ndv were higher in lp-bm5 mulv-infected macrophages than in controls . thus , we found alterations in the expression of selected cytokines in macrophages from mice inoculated with lp-bm5 mulv rather than a general deregulation of all cytokine expression . these results show that macrophages infected with the defective lp-bm5 virus respond differently to ndv - or lps-stimulation and suggest that aberrant expression of certain cytokine genes may play a role in the immunopathologic condition in mice with murine aids . 
induction of nf-kb during monocyte differentiation by hiv type 1 infection . the production of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) progeny was followed in the u937 promonocytic cell line after stimulation either with retinoic acid or pma , and in purified human monocytes and macrophages . electrophoretic mobility shift assays and southwestern blotting experiments were used to detect the binding of cellular transactivation factor nf-kb to the double repeat-kb enhancer sequence located in the long terminal repeat . pma treatment , and not retinoic acid treatment of the u937 cells acts in inducing nf-kb expression in the nuclei . in nuclear extracts from monocytes or macrophages , induction of nf-kb occurred only if the cells were previously infected with hiv-1 . when u937 cells were infected with hiv-1 , no induction of nf-kb factor was detected , whereas high level of progeny virions was produced , suggesting that this factor was not required for viral replication . these results indicate that in monocytic cell lineage , hiv-1 could mimic some differentiation/activation stimuli allowing nuclear nf-kb expression . 
b cell activation during hiv-1 infection . ii . cell-to-cell interactions and cytokine requirement . this study examined the mechanisms underlying the intense activation of hiv-1-specific b cells observed in peripheral blood of hiv-1-infected subjects . spontaneous in vitro synthesis of anti-hiv-1 antibodies , as well as total ig production , were dramatically reduced by accessory cell , but not t cell removal . this fall was counteracted by addition of ril-6 , but not other cytokines , to monocyte-depleted cultures ; moreover , antisera against il-6 suppressed spontaneous anti-hiv-1 antibody synthesis in a dose-dependent manner . although il-6 apparently sustained hiv-1-specific b cell activation , no increase in serum il-6 levels was observed ; pbmc from seropositive subjects did not produce increased amounts of il-6 in vitro , compared to seronegative controls , both spontaneously and in the presence of lps stimulation ; finally , no constitutive expression of il-6 gene could be documented in freshly isolated pbmc . these findings indicate that il-6 may play a central role in hiv-1-specific b cell activation in seropositive patients , and further stress the importance of this cytokine during hiv-1 infection . 
ige-dependent cytokine production by human peripheral blood mononuclear phagocytes . these studies demonstrate the ige-dependent production of il-1 beta and tnf-alpha by circulating blood monocytes . il-1 beta production was demonstrated biologically as the stimulation of proliferation of the cloned il-1-dependent murine t cell line d10.g4 .1 in the presence of a submitogenic concentration of pha . in a representative experiment , 3h-thymidine uptake increased from 57826 cpm in the presence of supernatants obtained from unstimulated cells to 200774 cpm with supernatants from monocytes stimulated by ige/alpha ige immune complexes . by elisa , ige complexes increased il-1 beta production from 0.54 + / - 0.06 ng ( per 10 ( 6 ) monocytes ) to 2.60 + / - 0.62 ng ( p less than 0.01 ; mean of eight experiments ) and tnf-alpha production from 0.17 + / - 0.10 ng to 3.00 + / - 0.54 ng ( p less than 0.01 ; mean of four experiments ) . no il-1 alpha secretion was observed . rna hybridization analysis demonstrated that il-1 beta production represented de novo synthesis of the cytokine . stimulated rna production was observed after a minimal 1/2-h incubation and was maximal at 2 h. the ige-dependent secretion of these pro-inflammatory cytokines by mononuclear phagocytic cells may contribute to the inflammation characteristic of allergic responses . 
interferon in the treatment of aids-associated kaposi 's sarcoma : the american experience . this report is intended to summarize the use of interferon in the treatment of kaposi 's sarcoma ( ks ) associated with aids . the review is basically focused on the trials in the united states , which resulted in approval by the food & drug administration ( fda ) of the use of recombinant interferon alpha for the treatment of kaposi 's sarcoma . 
photochemotherapy alone or combined with interferon alpha-2a in the treatment of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma . eighty-two patients with either mycosis fungoides ( mf ) or parapsoriasis en plaques were treated with psoralens ultraviolet a light ( puva ) . clinical and histologic parameters were followed for a period from 6 months to 10 years . complete clinical clearing of lesions was observed in 51 patients ( 62 % ) and most of them were in limited-plaque mf group or parapsoriasis en plaque . the mean total dose of puva for complete clearing was less for early mf . thirty-one patients ( 38 % ) relapsed and responded to additional puva . patients in early stages of the disease remained clear for up to 68 months after the first course of puva . post-treatment skin biopsies with early mf showed histologic clearing . a new combination therapy for mf is presented in 15 patients . recombinant interferon alpha-2a ( roferon-a ) , administered intramuscularly combined with puva were tested in a phase i trial . interferon doses were from 6-30 million units three times weekly . disease stages ranged from i-b to iv-b . complete responses were obtained in 12 of 15 patients , and partial responses seen in 2 of 15 patients , for an overall response rate of 93 % . the median duration of response exceeded 23 months ( range , 3 to 25 months ) . all responding patients have been maintained on therapy . the dose-limiting toxicities were constitutional symptoms such as fevers and malaise ( 93.3 % ) , leukopenias ( 40.0 % ) , mental status changes consisting of depression and confusion ( 33.3 % ) , and photosensitivity ( 26.6 % ) . interferon plus puva appear to be highly effective regimens for the treatment of patients with cutaneous t-cell lymphomas . 
recombinant ifn-alpha in lymphomas . the effectiveness of interferon ( ifn ) therapy in malignant lymphoma is analyzed in this review . although various treatment regimens including ifn at various dose levels have so far not proved to have curative potential , a substantial palliative effect has been noted in hairy-cell leukemia and in some non-hodgkin lymphomas of low-grade malignancy . early stages of lymphoma disease are more responsive to ifn therapy , and this holds true also for chronic lymphocytic leukemia , in which ifn treatment is usually not effective in progressed disease after chemotherapy . concepts of early-phase treatment and of remission maintenance by using ifn therapy are discussed on the basis of the data from several studies . 
serologic discrimination of human t cell lymphotropic virus infection by using a synthetic peptide-based enzyme immunoassay . synthetic peptides corresponding with unique regions of the envelope glycoproteins ( gp46 ) of human t cell lymphotropic viruses ( htlvs ) were used in an enzyme immunoassay to determine if htlv-i and - ii infections could be discriminated . two synthetic htlv-i sequence-derived peptides , env-1 ( amino acids 191-215 ) and env-5 ( amino acids 242-257 ) , reacted with 92 % and 100 % of the serum specimens ( n = 52 ) from htlv-i-infected persons , respectively . although a small percentage ( 8.6 % ) of serum specimens from persons infected with htlv-ii cross-reacted with env-1 , none of these specimens reacted with env-5 . peptide env-2 encoded by the envelope region of htlv-ii ( amino acids 187-210 ) reacted with serum specimens from both htlv-i ( 94 % ) - and htlv-ii ( 74 % ) - infected patients , whereas env-6 , another htlv-ii peptide ( amino acids 238-254 ) , reacted with less than 6 % of the specimens . therefore , the env-5 peptide with amino acid sequence serproasnvalservalproserserserserthrproleuleutyr represents an immunodominant domain of htlv-i that is recognized by serum antibodies from all htlv-i-infected persons . moreover , the env-5-based elisa allows a categorical distinction between the closely related htlv-i and - ii infections . 
detection of anti-epstein-barr virus trans-activator ( zebra ) antibodies in sera from patients with human immunodeficiency virus . patients with aids and aids-related complex often show symptoms of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) reactivation . several ebv-encoded trans-acting factors activate the ebv lytic cycle , and one , zebra ( bamhi z ebv replication activator ; also called eb1 ) , switches ebv from its latent to productive cycle . indirect immunofluorescence studies were done using human cells transfected with a recombinant dna-harboring cdna sequence spanning bzlf1 ( bamhi z left frame 1 ) that was inserted downstream of the adenovirus major late promoter . igg anti-zebra antibodies were detected in a high proportion of asymptomatic hiv carriers and in aids patients but were absent in healthy control individuals . the presence of anti-zebra antibodies in the sera of hiv-positive patients favors the hypothesis that ebv reactivates in such subjects . this finding may be of practical importance in the prognostication of aids development . 
use of a new cd4-positive hela cell clone for direct quantitation of infectious human immunodeficiency virus from blood cells of aids patients . a new cd4-positive hela cell line ( clone 1022 ) with increased sensitivity for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) isolates derived from aids patients could titer infectivity of hiv from most isolates at a level equal to that observed using normal human phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) - stimulated lymphocyte cultures . by use of this clone with a focal immunoassay ( fia ) , peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmc ) producing hiv were detected in 15 % of seropositive asymptomatic patients and 23 % of aids patients at a frequency of 1 in 2 x 10 ( 4 ) to 3 x 10 ( 6 ) pbmc . hiv detection by primary fia correlated with low cd4-positive cells counts . hiv activation in cocultures with pha blasts resulted in increasing numbers of cells releasing hiv starting 3-4 days after cocultivation . the low incidence of hiv detection by direct fia compared with the high incidence of hiv isolation after cocultivation with pha blasts provided quantitative infectivity data suggesting that hiv was in a state of latency or low expression in most pbmc of aids patients . 
iopamidol myelography : morbidity in patients with previous intolerance to iodine derivatives . the records of 1005 patients who underwent iopamidol myelography between january and september , 1988 , were reviewed . in this group , 50 patients had histories suggestive of untoward sequelae associated with iodine intake , contact , or administration . the charts of these patients were carefully reviewed , and none of them had any reactions or sequelae suggestive of toxicity or an allergic response after iopamidol myelography . it is concluded that , even in patients with a previous history suggestive of intolerance to iodine administration , iopamidol myelography is generally a safe procedure . 
elevated expression of the c-fes proto-oncogene in adult human myeloid leukemia cells in the absence of gene amplification . expression of the 93-kd tyrosine kinase encoded by the human c-fes proto-oncogene ( also known as fes ) is restricted to mature hematopoietic cells of the granulocytic and monocytic lineages , suggestive of a function essential to normal myeloid differentiation . however , recent studies have shown that c-fes can transform fibroblasts if sufficient levels of gene expression are achieved . these findings indicate that strict regulation of the c-fes gene is critical to normal myeloid development , whereas elevated c-fes expression may contribute to malignant transformation . in the present study , we compared the c-fes messenger rna ( mrna ) levels in leukemia blasts from patients with myeloid or lymphoid leukemia with those of peripheral monocytes from a normal donor with the use of a quantitative ribonuclease protection assay . the presence of c-fes mrna was readily detected in both acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) and chronic myeloid leukemia ( cml ) cells , but c-fes mrna was present in low levels or was absent in lymphoid leukemia cells . the leukemia cells of two of five aml patients and four of four cml patients expressed more c-fes mrna than monocytes from a normal donor , with more than a threefold elevation in the cells of one cml patient . no evidence of amplification or rearrangement of the c-fes gene was detectable by southern blot analysis of myeloid leukemia dna , suggesting that the variation in c-fes mrna levels are related to differences in transcriptional activity and/or message stability . these results indicate that elevated c-fes expression is a common feature of myeloid leukemia cells that could potentially contribute to the leukemia phenotype . 
headache and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . because the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) virus is neurotropic , physicians will continue to see a rise in the number of neurologic complications of this syndrome . much of this increase will be accompanied by headache , not only as a primary symptom of hiv infection or opportunistic disease but also as a result of diagnostic tests and therapeutic efforts . complete understanding of the ramifications of headache in aids will be important in the 1990s as we continue to treat a younger population , usually affected by benign vascular and muscle contraction-type headache . 
syringomyelia secondary to compression of the cervical spinal cord by an extramedullary lymphoma . a case of syringomyelia secondary to an extramedullary cervical spinal cord compression by a non-hodgkin 's lymphoma is described . after radiotherapy , the syrinx was no longer seen . the pathogenesis of this type of syrinx is discussed , and the potential benefit of radiotherapy in these cases is suggested . 
controlled trial of a home and ambulatory program for asthmatic children . care of asthmatic children is often episodic and more therapeutic than preventive . a 2-year randomized , controlled trial involving 95 children measured the impact of a comprehensive home and ambulatory program for pediatric asthma management using objective outcome measures . interventions for the study group during the first year included 3-month clinic visits , education , and home visits by a specially trained research nurse . control subjects continued to receive regular care from a family physician or pediatrician . eight-nine subjects ( 93 % ) completed the study . study subjects had less school absenteeism than control subjects ( 10.7 vs. 16.0 days , p = .04 ) and showed significantly better small airway function after 1 year . asthma severity improved in 13 study subjects and worsened in 5 . the reverse was true for control subjects . study subjects exhibited better metered aerosol technique than control subjects ( p = .0005 ) . fewer days were spent in hospital by the study subjects admitted compared with control subjects ( 3.67 vs 11.2 days , p = .02 ) . after 1 year , more study than control families ( 72.1 % vs 33.1 % , p = .006 ) reported that their asthmatic child took responsibility for the asthma management . the intervention failed to reduce exposure to secondhand smoke or to household pets . there were no significant differences in medical visits , theophylline levels , or records of asthma symptoms . one year after discontinuing the intervention , a marked " washout " effect was observed . comprehensive ambulatory programs of childhood asthma management can improve objective measures of illness severity but must be sustained . 
sympathomimetics for acute severe asthma : should only beta 2-selective agonists be used ? sympathomimetics have become a mainstay of the treatment of acute asthma . aerosolization of sympathomimetics provides as great or greater bronchodilation in acute severe asthma with fewer systemic effects than parenteral therapy . despite the broncho-selectivity achieved with this route of administration , cardiostimulation remains the major , dose-limiting factor in the safe use of sustained , high-dose therapy with these agents . this article reviews the pharmacology , adverse effects , and toxicities of selected beta agonists , as well as clinical studies relevant to the question posed in the title . although the ideal study to answer this question has not yet been performed , the authors feel that available evidence supports the preferential use of selective beta 2 agonists in patients with acute , severe asthma who will require high doses of beta agonists . 
malignant lymphomas in cynomolgus monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus . malignant lymphomas were observed in 38 % ( 9 of 24 ) of simian immunodeficiency virus ( siv ) - infected cynomolgus monkeys ( macaca fascicularis ) 5 to 15 months after inoculation with siv strain smm3 . lymphomagenesis in the siv-infected monkeys was not related directly to the siv-infectious dose given . all siv-infected animals developed severe immunodeficiency . no significant difference in immunodeficiency was observed between tumor-bearing and non-tumor-bearing animals . in contrast , no lymphomas were observed in a comparable group of hiv-2-infected monkeys , which did not develop immunodeficiency ; nor did the noninfected control monkeys . all 9 siv-related tumors were high-grade b-cell lymphoblastic or pleomorphic lymphomas with extranodal , disseminated growth . most tumors showed marked infiltration by monocytes and cd8 + t lymphocytes . occasional tumor infiltrating cells showed immunohistochemical reaction for siv . the cells of two tumors were established in vitro and shown to be of b-cell phenotype . the tumor cell cultures showed no reverse transcriptase activity and no evidence of virus infection by electron microscopy . our observations indicate that siv-induced immunodeficiency in cynomolgus monkeys also mimics hiv infection and aids in humans with regard to increased lymphomagenesis and type of lymphomas . 
discordant expression of antigens between intraepidermal and intradermal t cells in mycosis fungoides . using immunohistochemical methods , the authors studied the expression of pan-t - and majority-t-cell antigens ( cd5 , cd2 , cd3 , tcr-beta , cd7 ) and t-cell subset antigens ( cd4 , cd8 ) in cutaneous t cells in mycosis fungoides ( mf ) ( 177 biopsies from 124 patients ) and a variety of inflammatory lesions ( 45 biopsies from 45 patients ) . the authors detected the absence of pan-t - or majority-t-cell antigens , or of both t-cell subset antigens , from t cells in the epidermis but not the dermis in 15 mf biopsies ( 8 % ) from 11 mf patients ( 9 % ) , but in none of the inflammatory skin lesions . the opposite picture , characterized by lack of antigen expression by the dermal t cells only , was not seen in any of the mf or inflammatory lesions . the absence of antigen expression by epidermal but not dermal t cells , which the authors have termed antigen discordance , was most prevalent for cd5 , cd7 , and tcr-beta , each being discordant in 6 % to 7 % of mf cases or patients tested . among the mf biopsies showing antigen discordance , 14 of 15 biospies ( 93 % ) from 10 of 11 patients ( 91 % ) were discordant for two or more antigens . antigen discordance was not an artifact of treatment , because none of the patients showing discordance was receiving treatment at the time of their initial discordant biopsy . the discordance was the only immunophenotypic abnormality detected in 8 of 15 ( 53 % ) of the discordant mf biopsies . thus , this antigen discordance was an important diagnostic feature that allowed the immunophenotypic distinction of mf from a variety of inflammatory skin lesions . 
glucocorticoid level and neuropsychiatric symptoms in homosexual men with hiv infection . objective : there is a controversial literature suggesting that stress , anxiety , and depression are harmful to the immune system and therefore to health . preclinical studies indicate that activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( hpa ) axis by stress may be responsible for immunocompromise . the goal of this study was to assess this phenomenon in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . method : homosexual men in the community who did not meet modified centers for disease control criteria for acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) were recruited for the study ; 113 of the men were hiv positive and 77 were hiv negative . very few of the men studied suffered from depression or anxiety disorder at the time of the first assessment . twenty-four-hour urinary free cortisol levels were obtained from the 112 hiv-positive and 75 hiv-negative men whose 24-hour urine volumes were 500 ml or more . cortisol levels were correlated with measures of medical , immunological , neurological , and psychiatric status . results : small but significant correlations between 24-hour urinary free cortisol and medical status , level of depression , and level of anxiety were found in the hiv-positive group . there was no relationship between cortisol level and the number of cd4 + or cd8 + t lymphocytes or the cd4-cd8 ratio . conclusions : although hpa activation may be associated with stress in cases of hiv infection , it does not seem to be associated with further loss of cd4 + t lymphocytes . subjects with hiv infection with the most evidence of medical complications may also be the most anxious and depressed . 
systemic lupus erythematosus after renal transplantation : patient and graft survival and disease activity . the dutch working party on systemic lupus erythematosus objective : to determine the outcome of renal transplantation in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and end-stage renal failure and to compare disease activity after transplantation with disease activity before transplantation . design : retrospective case finding using data for an 8-year period from the central registry for renal replacement therapy in the netherlands . setting : tertiary care hospitals with facilities for renal transplantation in the netherlands . patients : twenty-eight patients who fulfilled at least four of the american rheumatology association 's criteria for the classification of systemic lupus erythematosus and who received a renal transplant . measurements : actuarial survival rates for grafts and patients after transplantation , maximal nonrenal scores on the systemic lupus erythematosus disease activity index , and time-adjusted disease exacerbation rates in all patients before and after transplantation . results : the actuarial graft survival rate at 1 year and 5 years was 68 % ( 95 % ci , 47 % to 82 % ) and 54 % ( ci , 25 % to 77 % ) , respectively , whereas the actuarial patient survival rate was 87 % ( ci , 69 % to 96 % ) at 1 and 5 years . high disease activity was not found to affect graft survival adversely before the start of renal replacement therapy or during dialysis . after transplantation , disease activity per patient and the overall incidence of disease exacerbations decreased . one case of recurrent lupus nephritis was seen . conclusions : patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and end-stage renal failure are excellent candidates for renal transplantation ; disease activity after transplantation is sporadic and low , and the recurrence of lupus nephritis is rare . 
elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor levels in patients with active multiple sclerosis . the level of soluble interleukin-2 receptor ( sil-2r ) was quantitated with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in serum and cerebrospinal fluid obtained from 24 patients with multiple sclerosis and 10 patients with other neurological disorders in whom immunological mechanisms are unlikely to participate . the sil-2r level in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid of patients with multiple sclerosis in relapse was significantly higher compared with patients with multiple sclerosis in remission and with controls . the sil-2r level , especially in the cerebrospinal fluid , showed higher sensitivity and specificity than other clinical parameters including the cerebrospinal fluid igg ratio , peripheral lymphocyte cd4/cd8 ratio , cerebrospinal fluid myelin basic protein and oligoclonal bands . our data suggest that measurement of the sil-2r level may be useful in evaluating disease activity in patients with multiple sclerosis . 
stiff-man syndrome : a gabaergic autoimmune disorder with autoantigenic heterogeneity . autoantibodies that reacted with cell bodies and axon terminals of gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) ergic neurons were present in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid in a patient with stiff-man syndrome with type i diabetes . immunoblot experiments using this patient 's serum and cerebrospinal fluid did not corroborate an earlier observation that these autoantibodies are directed against the gabaergic cytosolic enzyme , l-glutamic acid decarboxylase . while l-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoantibodies may be associated with this syndrome , they do not appear to be easily demonstrated . 
hla antigens in juvenile arthritis . pauciarticular and polyarticular juvenile arthritis are immunogenetically distinct . using dna techniques , we investigated the role of hla-dr , dq , and dp alleles in susceptibility to juvenile arthritis ( ja ) . we studied 2 groups of patients with ja having a different disease prognosis and course . the pauciarticular form is usually benign , while the polyarticular disease frequently leads to joint destruction and disability . persistent pauciarticular disease developed preferentially in patients having hla-drw13-dw18 and dqw6-dw18 , but these antigens did not confer susceptibility in patients whose disease converted to the polyarticular form . hla-dpw2 .1 was an additional susceptibility factor for patients with ja of pauciarticular onset . in the polyarticular form of ja , hla-dpw3 was the major factor for susceptibility , giving a relative risk of 10.3 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . in addition , we found that drw8 .1 and dqw4 were increased , and hla-dr4 was markedly decreased , in patients with pauciarticular and polyarticular disease . these results indicate that in addition to some shared factors , distinct hla class ii alleles are important in pauciarticular or polyarticular ja . we conclude that typing with oligonucleotide probes may be useful in predicting the outcome in some children with arthritis . 
antihistone antibodies in antinuclear antibody-positive juvenile arthritis . the binding of antinuclear antibody-positive juvenile arthritis ( ja ) sera to bovine thymus histones h1 , h2a , h2b , h3 , and h4 was studied by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . seventy-five percent of the ja patients tested positive for at least 1 antibody specificity . antihistone antibodies were predominantly igm , while igg antibodies were less common and were restricted to histones h1 or h3 . in the group of patients with ja of pauciarticular onset , antihistone antibodies were significantly more elevated in patients with past or present uveitis than in patients without a history of uveitis . anti-h1 antibodies in ja patients were found to react mostly with determinants located in the carboxyl-terminal domain of the h1 molecule . sera were also reactive with human histone h1 degree or chicken histone h5 , which are h1 variants found only in nondividing cells . 
adrenal insufficiency in two women with anticardiolipin antibodies . cause and effect ? we describe 2 women with anticardiolipin antibodies and a lupus-like disorder who developed acute adrenal insufficiency . we also review 5 similar cases reported previously . anticardiolipin antibodies appear to be a risk factor for this vascular complication . 
systemic lupus erythematosus in a boy with chronic granulomatous disease : case report and review of the literature . we describe a patient with x-linked chronic granulomatous disease ( cgd ) who developed systemic lupus erythematosus , which was characterized by photosensitivity , malar rash , glomerulonephritis , leukopenia , hypocomplementemia , antinuclear antibodies , and anti-double-stranded dna antibodies , at age 3 . the patient 's mother is an asymptomatic carrier of cgd , and her other son ( the patient 's half-brother ) also has cgd . neither the mother nor the brother has clinical or serologic evidence of systemic lupus erythematosus . previous cases of discoid lupus-like skin lesions have been reported both in carriers and in patients with cgd . our patient represents the first reported case of an individual with convincing clinical , serologic , and pathologic evidence of systemic lupus erythematosus . the association between defective host defense mechanisms and autoimmune phenomena has been described previously in patients with job 's syndrome and in patients with b cell and t cell deficiency disorders , including the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . the relationship between the known leukocyte defects in cgd and the pathogenesis of a lupus-like illness is unclear . 
seronegative juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and mast cell-associated gastritis . we describe 4 children with seronegative inflammatory arthritis who had persistent , severe nausea and abdominal pain over several months , in spite of vigorous medical therapy , including antacids and histamine h2 receptor antagonists . endoscopy and biopsy of gastric and duodenal mucosa showed antral gastritis and an increased number of mast cells in 3 of the 4 patients . in the fourth patient , urinary histamine levels were elevated . these findings suggest an association between inflammatory arthritis and localized mast cell disease in some individuals . further studies are needed to determine whether this association represents an independent syndrome or whether mast cell-related disease is secondary to long-term treatment with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in children with mild arthritis . 
restoration of the dna binding activity of estrogen receptor in mrl-lpr/lpr mice by a polyamine biosynthesis inhibitor . diverse data link estrogen influences to both the frequency and severity of systemic lupus erythematosus in humans and to murine lupus . a fundamental mechanism of action of estrogen involves the interaction of the hormone with its receptor protein , which is then transformed into the dna binding form . we measured the concentration of uterine estrogen receptor and its dna binding in normal balb/c mice , lupus-prone mrl-lpr/lpr mice , and mrl-lpr/lpr mice that had been treated with 1 % difluoromethylornithine ( dfmo ) . uterine estrogen receptor levels in 20-week-old mice from the 3 groups were not significantly different . in contrast , dna binding activity was significantly higher in balb/c mice ( mean + / - sd 775 + / - 100 fmoles/mg of dna ) than in untreated mrl-lpr/lpr mice ( 80 + / - 16 fmoles/mg of dna ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . treatment with 1 % dfmo was associated with an increase in uterine estrogen receptor dna binding ( 1,100 + / - 218 fmoles/mg of dna ) in mrl-lpr/lpr mice ( p less than 0.001 ) . polyamine levels were 2-6-fold higher in the uterine tissues of untreated mrl-lpr/lpr mice compared with the balb/c mice and were significantly reduced by dfmo treatment . our results link uterine polyamine production to a dysfunction of the estrogen receptors in mrl-lpr/lpr mice . reduction of the polyamine level by the irreversible inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase with dfmo restores estrogen receptor function . 
antibody profile of early htlv-i infection [ published erratum appears in lancet 1990 dec 22-29 ; 336 ( 8730 ) :1596 ] to define the antibody profile of early seroconversion in infection with human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) , consecutive serum samples from 10 subjects presumed to have seroconverted on the basis of the particle agglutination test were studied by three enzyme immunoassays and two confirmatory tests ( radioimmunoprecipitation and western blot ) . 3 samples positive and 1 sample indeterminate in the confirmatory tests were reactive in one enzyme immunoassay , which used recombinant envelope antigen , but not in the other two enzyme immunoassays . 2 of 38 particle-agglutination-negative samples had a prozone effect . the confirmatory tests identified 8 seroconverters ( 7 women , 1 man ) ; their serum samples were used to study the antibody reactivity by western blot assays to htlv-i specific antigens ( three recombinant proteins spanning the n-terminal , middle , and c-terminal env glycoprotein gp46 ; a recombinant transmembrane protein gp21 ; a recombinant tax protein ; and three gag proteins [ p28 , p24 , and p19 ] ) . all 8 seroconverters had antibody reactivities to the c-terminal region ( aminoacid residues 229-308 ) of gp46 and to gag p19 and p24 when their seroconversion was detected . 
impact of maternal hiv infection on obstetrical and early neonatal outcome . in a case-control study of 177 hiv-seropositive and 326 seronegative women and their newborns in nairobi , kenya , maternal hiv infection at term was independently associated with travel to other african countries [ odds ratio ( or ) 4.9 , p less than 0.0001 ] , history of a blood transfusion since 1980 ( or 3.5 , p = 0.01 ) , history of more than one sexual partner in the previous 5 years ( or 1.8 , p = 0.02 ) and unmarried status ( or 1.8 , p = 0.02 ) . neonates of hiv-positive and hiv-negative women differed little with respect to occurrence of congenital malformations , stillbirths , in-hospital mortality , sex , apgar score , or gestational age . however , the mean birth weight of singleton neonates of hiv-positive women was significantly lower than that of controls ( 3090 versus 3220 g , p = 0.005 ) , and birth weight was less than 2500 g in 9 % of cases and 3 % of controls ( or 3.0 , p = 0.007 ) . among neonates of hiv-seropositive women , birth weight was less than 2500 g in 17 % if mothers were symptomatic and 6 % if mothers were asymptomatic ( or 3.4 , p = 0.08 ) . 
monitoring hiv trends in injecting drug users : an italian experience . to examine the incidence and prevalence of hiv infection , we studied a large sample of intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) attending a drug dependency unit in rome over the period 1985-1989 . the annual prevalence of hiv antibodies remained stable over the 5-year period . however , a seroconversion study conducted on 302 subjects consistently attending the same facility showed a continued occurrence of hiv seroconversion , although the incidence declined from 8.9 per 100 person-years in 1985-1987 to 5.3 per 100 person-years in 1987-1989 . the cumulative incidence of hiv seropositivity , estimated by the kaplan-meier survival technique , was higher in female than in male ivdus . the findings show that the use of both incidence and prevalence data to monitor the trend of hiv infection allows a better understanding of the current viral spread among ivdus . 
aids in the minds of swedish people : 1986-1989 . in order to assess changes in knowledge , attitudes and behaviour related to aids , annual mail surveys ( 1986-1989 ) were sent to random samples of the general public , aged 16-44 years . in total , 16,900 individuals were sampled , with an average response rate of 71 % . knowledge about the major routes of infection was generally good during the entire study period . the fear of unverified infection risks and of contact with hiv-infected people decreased during the period studied , but still remained high in 1989 . over the entire period , respondents expressed a strong fear concerning the spread of hiv in the population . although an increasing percentage of respondents reported altered sexual habits as a result of fear of aids , overall sexual behaviour did not change sufficiently to reduce the risk of spread of any sexually transmissible disease . progress toward knowledge , attitudes , and behaviour aimed at prevention of transmission of infection and unnecessary fear and counteraction of prejudice was most rapid during the middle of the study period when public debate concerning aids was at its peak . knowledge and attitudes did not change during the last year of the study , but , in some respects , reverted to previous levels . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia treated with eflornithine in aids patients resistant to conventional therapy . eflornithine ( dfmo ) was used to treat 31 aids patients with confirmed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia who had clinically failed treatment with pentamidine , sulphamethoxazole-trimethoprim or both agents as their first-line therapy . twenty-one of 31 ( 68 % ) responded to second-line treatment with 400mg/kg per day of eflornithine . five patients discontinued treatment because of bone marrow toxicity . eflornithine appears to be a useful salvage therapy in patients failing first-line treatments . 
seroepidemiology of hiv-1 infection in a catalonian penitentiary . a seroepidemiological study of hiv-1 infection was carried out among all the subjects who were imprisoned in a correctional centre in catalonia ( spain ) between october 1987 and april 1988 . six hundred and thirty-one inmates ( male , mean age 19.1 + / - 1.7 years ) were surveyed . the overall prevalence of hiv-1 infection was 33.6 % . statistically significant differences were observed between intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) and non-ivdus ( p less than 0.0000001 ) and between regular and irregular ivdus ( p less than 0.000001 ) . the age at which the person started using drugs and the length of time spent in prison were also significantly associated with the prevalence of infection . no other variables , except the higher prevalence among the gipsy ethnic group , showed any statistically significant association with hiv-1 infection . 
human cytomegalovirus viraemia in hiv-1-seropositive patients at various clinical stages of infection . eighty-two hiv-1-seropositive subjects were examined for the presence and quantification of human cytomegalovirus ( hcmv ) in peripheral blood polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmnl ) by polymerase chain reaction , culture and immunofluorescence in order to investigate the relationship between viraemia and immunosuppression . patients were divided into three groups : ( 1 ) asymptomatic subjects with greater than 400 x 10 ( 6 ) / l cd4 lymphocytes ( n = 30 ) ; ( 2 ) asymptomatic subjects with less than 400 x 10 ( 6 ) / l of cd4 lymphocytes and zidovudine ( n = 20 ) , and ( 3 ) aids-related complex ( arc ) / aids patients on zidovudine ( n = 32 ) . evidence of hcmv infection in circulating pmnl was found in 15 out of 29 arc/aids patients examined ( 51.7 % ) , whereas no infection was detected among the 50 asymptomatic hiv-1-seropositive subjects . hcmv-related symptoms were found only where the number of infected pmnl was greater than 50 per 2 x 10 ( 5 ) cells . 
complement-mediated enhancement of hiv-1 infection of the monoblastoid cell line u937 . to assess the role of complement and complement receptors in hiv-1 infection of monocytes and macrophages , we studied the infectivity of hiv-1 , isolated from the peripheral blood of a patient with subacute aids-related encephalopathy , on the human monoblastoid cell line u937 . hiv-1 and hiv-1-infected cells were capable of activating the complement system via the classical and the alternative pathways , respectively . low concentrations of hiv-1 were able to infect u937 cells more easily in the presence than in the absence of complement . at higher virus concentrations , infectivity was no longer facilitated by the presence of complement . infection of u937 cells was reduced in the presence of any of the monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) , okt4a ( anti-cd4 ) , okm1 ( anti-cr3 ) , or m522 ( anti-cr3 ) . a combination of all three of these mabs reduced the infection by an even greater amount . these data indicate that complement receptors may be a port of entry for complement-coated hiv-1 . 
immunological and serological markers predictive of progression to aids in a cohort of hiv-infected drug users . we have performed a prospective 33-month follow-up of the evolution of hiv infection in a cohort of 76 hiv-positive intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) . we report on immunological and serological variables that proved to be highly predictive of development to aids . in a stepwise multivariate analysis of the actuarial progression rate we found the number of cd4 + lymphocytes to be the most powerful predictor of progression to aids . we found no independent predictive effects associated with any other variable with predictive power : loss of antibody to p24 antigen , anergy , hiv p24 antigenaemia , loss of antibody to p53 ( reverse transcriptase ) , decreased number of cd8 + t cells , loss of antibody to p31 , loss of antibody to p17 , beta 2-microglobulin level , loss of antibodies to gp41 and p64 , or immunoglobulin a level . we have found that our data differ from those obtained in studies in homosexual men in the different prognostic value of those predictive markers . our findings should help to identify high risk of progression to clinical aids among ivdus , thereby assisting in the selection of patients for prophylaxis and therapy . 
immunological changes in primary hiv-1 infection . homosexual men with symptomatic primary hiv-1 infection displayed a pronounced lymphopaenia with significantly depressed numbers of cd3 + , cd4 + and cd8 + cells and b cells during the first week of illness . subsequently , the cd8 + cell counts rose in parallel with numbers of cd3 + cells , atypical lymphocytes and activated ( cd38 + and hla-dr + ) cells to attain maximal levels about a month following onset of illness . in contrast cd4 + and b cell numbers remained low for an extended period of time . early signs of a host response included a transient appearance of interferon-alpha in the blood and raised levels of neopterin and beta 2-microglobulin ( beta 2-m ) . neither cd4 + / cd8 + cell ratio nor beta 2-m resumed completely normal values during a follow-up period of 2 years . these findings shed some light on pathogenetic events during early hiv-1 infection and suggest that the infection , following the acute symptomatic stage , usually enters a stage of chronic active rather than latent infection . 
heterosexual transmission of hiv-1 among employees and their spouses at two large businesses in zaire . to better understand the reasons why up to 80 % of all hiv-1 infections in zaire , but less than 5 % in north america and europe , are acquired through heterosexual transmission , and to assess the impact of hiv-1 infection on a large urban african workforce , we enrolled 7068 male employees , 416 female employees and 4548 female spouses of employees at two large kinshasa businesses ( a textile factory and a commercial bank ) in a prospective study of hiv-1 infection . the hiv-1 seroprevalence rate was higher in male employees ( 5.8 % ) and their spouses ( 5.7 % ) at the bank than among male employees ( 2.8 % ) and their spouses ( 3.3 % ) at the textile factory . at both businesses hiv-1 seroprevalence was higher among employees in managerial positions ( 5.0 % ) than among workers in lower-level positions ( 3.0 % ; p less than 0.0001 ) . in a multivariate analysis of male employees , receipt of a transfusion , a history of genital ulcer disease , working at the bank , urethritis , or being divorced or separated were independently associated with hiv-1 infection . during 1987 and 1988 , aids was the most common cause of death among recently employed workers , accounting for 20 and 24 % of all deaths at the textile factory and the commercial bank , respectively . the hiv-1 seroprevalence rate was higher among female workers ( 7.7 % ) than among the spouses of male workers ( 3.9 % ; p = 0.001 ) . in multivariate analysis of the wives of workers , having an hiv-1-seropositive spouse , receipt of a blood transfusion , or a history of genital ulcer disease were independently associated with hiv-1 infection . 
hiv-1 and pregnant women : associated factors , prevalence , estimate of incidence and role in fetal wastage in central africa . the major goals of this study were to measure the current prevalence and estimate the annual incidence of hiv-1 infection in young pregnant women from urban malawi , to identify factors that were associated with hiv-1 infection , and to examine adverse pregnancy outcomes . four hundred and sixty-one consecutive pregnant women were studied when they presented for prenatal care . the overall seroprevalence for hiv-1 infection in these urban populations was 17.6 % ( 81 out of 461 ) during early 1989 . based on previous seroprevalence in similar unselected pregnant women , the estimated annual incidence of hiv-1 seroconversion in urban pregnant women ranged from 3 to 4 % per annum between 1985 and 1987 and from 7 to 13 % between 1987 and 1989 . hiv-1 infection was significantly associated with reactive syphilis serology . reported history of sexually transmitted disease was also correlated with hiv-1 infection but was not statistically significant . other variables , such as history of transfusion , history of tuberculosis , parity or occupation were not associated with hiv-1 infection . history of spontaneous abortion was significantly associated with reactive syphilis serology , hiv-1 infection and history of sexually transmitted disease . in logistic regression analysis , hiv-1 infection remained the only significant variable that was correlated with spontaneous abortion . this study suggests that hiv-1 infection may play a role in fetal wastage . 
transition dynamics of hiv disease in a cohort of african prostitutes : a markov model approach . the progression of hiv-related disease from infection to death is represented as a staged markov model . transitions between stages are considered reversible . the model is fitted to data from a cohort of african prostitutes by means of maximum likelihood . it appears that the progression to symptomatic disease ( centers for disease control stage iv ) in this population is considerably more rapid than that reported from studies in western countries . 
factors influencing outcome of treatment with zidovudine of patients with aids in australia . the australian zidovudine study group . in a multicentre study of zidovudine therapy in australia commencing in june 1987 , 308 homosexual or bisexual men with aids started on zidovudine by 30 june 1988 . using follow-up data collected through 31 december 1988 , the outcome of the first 18 months of zidovudine therapy in these patients has been analysed in terms of efficacy , expressed as survival and as time to development of a new aids-defining condition , and in terms of safety , expressed as toxicity . median survival from time of diagnosis of aids was 124 weeks , significantly longer ( p less than 0.001 , logrank statistic ) than the median survival of 44 weeks in historical controls representing aids patients prior to the availability of zidovudine therapy . median survival time from starting zidovudine has not been reached in these patients , while 172 ( 56 % ) developed new aids-defining conditions , with median time to progression of 48 weeks . anaemia requiring transfusion was experienced by 155 patients ( 50 % ) . significant differences ( p less than 0.01 , logrank statistic ) in survival were found in favour of patients who commenced zidovudine therapy ( dx-zidovudine time ) within 12 weeks of diagnosis and had baseline karnofsky scores greater than or equal to 80 , haemoglobin greater than or equal to 11 g/dl , cd4 + cell counts greater than or equal to 50 x 10 ( 6 ) / l. therapy-related significant differences ( p less than 0.01 , logrank statistic ) in survival were found in favour of patients with no weight loss and who received the full zidovudine dose ( 1.2 g ) during the first 52 weeks of therapy . 
recreational drug use and sexual behavior change in a cohort of homosexual men . the multicenter aids cohort study ( macs ) . the relationship between use of recreational drugs and high-risk ( hiv-transmitting ) homosexual behavior was examined in the multicenter aids cohort study ( macs ) population . among the 3916 men who completed both the baseline ( 1984 ) and first 6-month follow-up evaluations and were sexually active during the 6 months prior to enrollment , self-reported use of each of 10 classes of recreational drugs in conjunction with sexual activity was analyzed for both cross-sectional and prospective relationships with pattern of sexual behavior using a four-level sexual risk behavior index . at baseline , the proportion of men in the highest risk category ( unprotected anal exposures with multiple partners ) increased from 36 to 85 % when men not using any drugs to men using three or more drugs plus volatile nitrites were examined . in multivariate logistical analyses , volatile nitrite use was significantly associated with failure to maintain or attain lower sexual risk levels after controlling for the effects of age , educational level and numbers of high-risk partners . these results suggest that volatile nitrite use may play an important role in the association between recreational drug use and high-risk sexual behavior among homosexual/bisexual men . 
neuropsychometric performance of asymptomatic hiv-infected subjects . the objective of this study was to determine whether there are measurable differences in neuropsychometric performances between hiv-positive asymptomatic subjects and high-risk hiv-negative individuals . we carried out concurrent neuropsychological testing of hiv-positive subjects screened for drug treatment protocols at a clinical research center and hiv-negative subjects seeking confidential testing . fifty hiv-negative and 33 hiv-positive subjects who did not admit to use of central nervous system ( cns ) - active drugs , more than one drink of alcohol per day , or drug use comprised the final group for analysis . a neuropsychological test battery designed to evaluate verbal memory , motor function , orientation and attention was administered to all subjects . in addition , affective state was assessed with the beck depression inventory . multivariate analysis of variance indicated no difference in the performance of the two groups . only one subtest , the wechsler adult intelligence scale digit span ( forward ) reached a level of significant difference ( p less than 0.05 ) by univariate analysis . we conclude that neuropsychometric performance of asymptomatic hiv-positive subjects can not be distinguished from that of high-risk hiv-negative subjects by a battery of traditional neuropsychological tests . 
sleep disturbances in hiv-infected homosexual men . to provide a better understanding of the etiology of subjective sleep complaints in hiv-infected individuals , a study to evaluate sleep/wake disturbances in 10 healthy hiv-infected male volunteers was performed . all subjects were hiv-infected but had no history of aids-related infections , and considered clinically asymptomatic . interviews and sleep questionnaires revealed sleep complaints in nine subjects . five healthy hiv-seronegative male subjects , with no history of sleep complaints , were also evaluated . sleep architecture analyses detected that , in comparison to published normative data and to negative controls , there was a significant increase in the total percentage of slow wave sleep ( sws ) and an increase in the percentage of sws in the later sleep cycles . when compared with normative data , an increase in stage 1 shifts , rapid eye movement ( rem ) periods , and arousals were also observed in the hiv-infected group . significant decreases in sleep latency , total percentage stage 2 sleep , and average rem durations were also observed in the hiv-infected group compared with normative data . these sleep architecture abnormalities could not be attributed to known sole primary sleep disorders , first night effect , medications , anxiety or depression . this study indicates that sleep disturbances occur early in the course of hiv infection and suggests that the observed alterations of sleep physiology may be a consequence of central nervous system involvement and/or immune defense mobilization in the early phases of hiv infection . 
infection of cynomolgus monkeys with hiv-2 protects against pathogenic consequences of a subsequent simian immunodeficiency virus infection . simian immunodeficiency virus ( siv ) infection in cynomolgus macaques leads to severe immunodeficiency with a fatal outcome . in contrast , hiv-2 infects these primates without apparently causing any immunological abnormalities . in this study three cynomolgus monkeys were experimentally infected with hiv-2 strain sbl-k135 and 168 days later challenged with 10-100 animal infectious doses of the closely related siv strain sm to study protective immunity . at the time of siv challenge the hiv-2-infected monkeys had neutralizing antibodies against hiv-2 , but virus could no longer be recovered from their peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmcs ) and no clinical symptoms or decrease in cd4 + lymphocytes were observed . follow-up for 9 months after challenge with siv showed that the hiv-2-infected monkeys were protected against siv-induced immunodeficiency ( no decrease of cd4 + lymphocytes ) and lymphadenopathy . however , they were not resistant to siv infection since virus could be recovered from their pbmcs and they developed anamnestic antibody responses . four naive control monkeys which were inoculated with the same dose of siv became persistently infected and developed a decrease of the absolute numbers of cd4 + cells and showed a marked lymphadenopathy . two out of four control animals died 58-265 days postinfection with an immunosuppressive disease . immunohistochemical examination showed abundant viral antigen in lymph-node biopsies from the siv-infected control monkeys but absence of siv or hiv-2 antigens in the biopsies from the three hiv-2-preinfected and siv-superinfected monkeys . the present study demonstrates possibilities for induction of immunity against immunodeficiency induced by a primate lentivirus , a concept with application also to hiv infection and aids in man . 
enhancement of erythrocytic adenosine deaminase following treatment of aids-related complex/aids patients with zidovudine . the levels of adenosine deaminase ( ada ) were determined in the erythrocytes of 10 patients with sexually transmitted hiv-1 infection [ five cases with aids-related complex ( arc ) and five with aids ] before and after therapy with zidovudine ( azidothymidine ; azt ) . a linear increase in ada activity was observed during the second and third months of zidovudine treatment , with a final increase of about threefold after 3 months of drug administration . the concentration of adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) was significantly lower in the erythrocytes of the same group of patients with respect to healthy controls , and a further decrease was noted after 3 months of zidovudine treatment . the results obtained indicate that treatment of arc/aids subjects with zidovudine induces metabolic changes which could be responsible for the development of anaemia , an adverse effect frequently associated with zidovudine therapy . 
world health organization quality assessment programme on hiv testing . a serum panel comprising 19 samples of known ( five positives and 14 negatives ) but undisclosed hiv-1-antibody content was distributed to 30 national reference laboratories for hiv serology . in order to simulate normal circumstances of referral , participants were asked to test the panel for hiv-1-antibody status using their normal procedures . results of testing were returned by 28 participants . there were great variations in the number and combinations of tests used . the number used ranged from one to five assays per laboratory and none of the 24 laboratories using two or more tests employed the same combination . a high average success rate of 99 % was seen with the positive samples . more errors occurred with the negative samples , with an average of 87 % correct negative reports . only four of the 14 negative specimens were reported as negative by all participants . 
ventricular tachycardia in two patients with aids receiving ganciclovir ( dhpg ) . we report two cases of patients who developed ventricular tachycardia while receiving intravenous infusions of ganciclovir [ 9 - ( 1,3-dihydroxy-2-propoxy ) methylguanine , dhpg ] . worsening cytomegalovirus infection prompted renewal of ganciclovir therapy under close cardiac monitoring in one of these patients , and ventricular tachycardia recurred . the close temporal relationship between administration of the drug and onset of the arrhythmias in conjunction with the absence of other factors known to predispose to arrhythmias suggest that ganciclovir may have played a role in the development of arrhythmias in these patients . the clinical courses of the patients are discussed , as are autopsy results . 
poverty and hiv seropositivity : the poor are more likely to be infected . we analyzed demographic and behavioral risk factors for hiv seropositivity using data from 3601 clients of the main hiv counseling and testing clinic for high-risk people in seattle , washington , usa . clients with lower income were found to be more likely to be hiv seropositive , before and after controlling for other demographic and risk factors with logistic regression . this result supports the hypothesis that the impoverished are at increased risk for hiv infection due to the physical and social circumstances in which their poverty places them . these may include poor access to risk-reduction information and less support for implementation of risk-reduction strategies . 
toxicity and efficacy of anti-t-cell ricin toxin a chain immunotoxins in a murine model of established graft-versus-host disease induced across the major histocompatibility barrier . graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) was induced across the murine major histocompatibility complex by injecting c57bl/6 ( h-2b ) bone marrow and splenocytes into lethally irradiated b10.br ( h-2k ) murine recipients . an immunotoxin ( it ) composed of a pan t-cell monoclonal antibody called anti-ly1 ( the murine homologue to human anti-cd5 ) was conjugated to ricin toxin a chain ( anti-ly1-rta ) and used to treat recipient mice . in vitro , it was as active as free rta , bound selectively , and inhibited t-cell proliferation even in the absence of potentiators . mice administered anti-ly1-rta in vivo during ongoing gvhd , at a dose of 10 micrograms/d for 5 days , showed lower numbers of splenic thy1 .2 + t cells and significantly improved survival as compared with mice given phosphate-buffered saline ( pbs ) or irrelevant control rta it . protection was transient because gvhd and weight loss occurred when injections ceased . survival could not be enhanced by crosslinking rta30 , a low oligosaccharide-containing fraction of purified rta . treatment with anti-ly1-rta caused a significant elevation in neutrophils , and higher doses were associated with mild hepatotoxicity . in contrast , infusion of identical doses and schedules of another pan t-cell immunotoxin , anti-thy1 .2 - rta , caused a significant decrease in lymphocytes , but not neutrophils ; a precipitous increase in weight ; a decrease in total plasma protein ( tpp ) ; and an increase in pleural and peritoneal effusions reminiscent of vascular leak syndrome ( vls ) . although the toxic effects of anti-thy1 .2 - rta were too severe to show a survival advantage in a gvhd model , histopathologic studies showed a definite anti-gvhd effect . the most significant decline in gvhd as compared with the pbs-treated controls was observed in skin , and to a lesser extent , in liver and lung . to investigate the cause of it toxicity , anti-thy1 .2 - rta was administered intraperitoneally to lethally irradiated b10.br ( h-2k ) recipients of syngeneic bone marrow . these recipients showed the same weight gain , hypoproteinuria , and vls observed in the gvhd model . death occurred at higher anti-thy1 .2 - rta doses ( 30 or 50 micrograms/daily injections administered days 8 through 12 posttransplant ) . anti-thy1 .2 - rta had a negligible effect on renal function , but histologic studies showed patchy dropout of the renal tubules . treatment resulted in pulmonary vascular congestion , but there was no pathologic evidence of liver , brain , or colon toxicity . weight gain was enhanced by irradiation because nonirradiated normal mice did not undergo such a precipitous weight increase . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
observations on the effect of chimeric anti-cd4 monoclonal antibody in patients with mycosis fungoides . chimeric ( murine/human ) anti-cd4 monoclonal antibody was infused into seven patients with mycosis fungoides . successive patients received doses of 10 , 20 , 40 , and 80 mg of antibody twice a week for 3 consecutive weeks . all patients had some clinical improvement , but responses were of relatively short duration . serum levels of chimeric antibody varied as a function of dose . at the 80-mg dose level , antibody was readily observed in biopsied skin lesions . although there was coating by antibody of most cd4 positive cells in the blood , there was no significant depletion of cd4 positive cells . low-level antibody responses against the mouse ig variable region and human ig allotypic constant region determinants were observed in several patients , but none were of clinical significance . all but two patients made primary antibody and t-cell proliferative responses to a simultaneously administered foreign protein test antigen . however , there was marked suppression of the mixed lymphocyte reaction . we conclude that at the dose levels studied , a chimeric anti-cd4 monoclonal antibody ( 1 ) had some clinical efficacy against mycosis fungoides ; ( 2 ) was well tolerated ; ( 3 ) had a low level of immunogenicity ; ( 4 ) had immediate immunosuppressive effects ; and ( 5 ) did not induce tolerance to a co-injected antigen . 
use of leukocyte-depleted platelet concentrates for the prevention of refractoriness and primary hla alloimmunization : a prospective , randomized trial . compared with conventional transfusion regimes a strong reduction in hla alloimmunization and refractoriness to platelet transfusions is obtained when both red blood cell concentrates ( rbcs ) and platelet concentrates ( pcs ) are depleted of leukocytes by filtration . because most of the leukocyte contamination is introduced by transfusion of rbcs , filtration of rbcs appears rational , but uncertainty exists regarding the degree of leukocyte-depletion of pcs needed for the prevention of hla alloimmunization and refractoriness . we conducted a prospective trial and randomized patients with acute leukemia to receive leukocyte-depleted pcs prepared either by centrifugation ( mean leukocyte count 35 x 10 ( 6 ) / pc of 6 u ) or by filtration ( mean leukocyte count less than 5 x 10 ( 6 ) / pc of 6 u ) . both groups received rbcs that were filtered after prior removal of the buffy coat . clinical refractoriness occurred in 46 % ( 12 of 26 ) of the evaluable patients that were transfused with centrifuged pcs and only in 11 % ( 3 of 27 ) in the filtered group ( p less than .005 ) . de novo anti-hla antibodies were detected in 42 % ( 11 of 26 ) patients in the centrifuged group and only in 7 % ( 2 of 27 ) of the patients receiving filtered pcs ( p less than .004 ) . in 8 of 11 alloimmunized patients in the centrifuged group antibodies were detected in the first 4 weeks of transfusion therapy while none of the patients in the filtered group became immunized against hla antigens during that period . we conclude that for the prevention of hla alloimmunization and refractoriness to platelet transfusions from random donors , both rbcs and pcs have to be leukocyte-depleted by filtration . 
course of hiv-i infection in a cohort of homosexual and bisexual men : an 11 year follow up study . objective -- to characterise the natural history of sexually transmitted hiv-i infection in homosexual and bisexual men . design -- cohort study . setting -- san francisco municipal sexually transmitted disease clinic . patients -- cohort included 6705 homosexual and bisexual men originally recruited from 1978 to 1980 for studies of sexually transmitted hepatitis b. this analysis is of 489 cohort members who were either hiv-i seropositive on entry into the cohort ( n = 312 ) or seroconverted during the study period and had less than or equal to 24 months between the dates of their last seronegative and first seropositive specimens ( n = 177 ) . a subset of 442 of these men was examined in 1988 or 1989 or had been reported to have developed aids . main outcome measures -- development of clinical signs and symptoms of hiv-i infection , including aids , aids related complex , asymptomatic generalised lymphadenopathy , and no signs or symptoms of infection . measurements and main results -- of the 422 men examined in 1988 or 1989 or reported as having aids , 341 had been infected from 1977 to 1980 ; 49 % ( 167 ) of these men had died of aids , 10 % ( 34 ) were alive with aids , 19 % ( 65 ) had aids related complex , 3 % ( 10 ) had asymptomatic generalised lymphadenopathy , and 19 % ( 34 ) had no clinical signs or symptoms of hiv-i infection . cumulative risk of aids by duration of hiv-i infection was analysed for all 489 men by the kaplan-meier method . of these 489 men , 226 ( 46 % ) had been diagnosed as having aids . we estimated that 13 % of cohort members will have developed aids within five years of seroconversion , 51 % within 10 years , and 54 % within 11.1 years . conclusion -- our analysis confirming the importance of duration of infection to clinical state and the high risk of aids after infection underscores the importance of continuing efforts both to prevent transmission of hiv-i and to develop further treatments to slow or stall the progression of hiv-i infection to aids . 
the evolving role of etoposide in the management of lymphomas and hodgkin 's disease . etoposide , a derivative of epipodophyllotoxin , is one of the most important new drugs that was introduced into the management of the malignant lymphomas during the past decade . a growing number of specific protocols include this useful agent in the management of malignant lymphoma , both at the time of primary treatment and at relapse . the broad activity of etoposide across several histologic subtypes of malignant lymphoma and hodgkin 's disease indicates a potential that is only now being fully exploited . used according to optimal doses and schedules , etoposide has single-agent activity that rivals earlier drugs such as the alkylating agents and doxorubicin . functioning as a protein synthesis and topoisomerase ii inhibitor , it offers the potential for non-cross-resistant cytotoxicity . after a brief comment on the single-agent activity of etoposide , this report will focus on the integration of etoposide into multiagent protocols used in the primary treatment of malignant lymphoma and hodgkin 's disease . the specific findings from protocols such as prednisone , methotrexate , doxorubicin , cyclophosphamide , etoposide-cytarabine , bleomycin , vincristine , and methotrexate ( pro-mace-cytabom ) ( us national cancer institute [ nci ] ) and etoposide , doxorubicin , cyclophosphamide , vincristine , prednisone , and bleomycin ( vacop-b ) ( vancouver ) for the primary treatment of malignant lymphoma , and vinblastine , etoposide , cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , bleomycin , vincristine , and prednisone ( vecabop ) ( vancouver ) for the treatment of previously untreated patients with advanced hodgkin 's disease will be discussed . 
etoposide in acute leukemia . past experience and future perspectives . etoposide as a single agent is active in relapsed and refractory acute myelogenous leukemia ( aml ) , with complete responses ( cr ) rates of 10 % to 25 % . the drug has been safely combined with cytarabine , azacytidine , vinca alkaloids , and anthracyclines , inducing remission rates of 20 % to 60 % in patients with previously treated aml . the experience with etoposide in acute lymphoblastic leukemia is less extensive , but the drug seems to be active in combination with cytarabine or aclacinomycin . in addition , etoposide is combined with cytarabine and anthracyclines for the primary treatment of aml . the response rates thus achieved are comparable with those obtained with standard regimens . a phase i/ii trial was initiated to study the efficacy of the nove combination ( mitoxantrone [ 10 mg/m2/d , days 1 to 5 ] plus etoposide [ 100 mg/m2/d for 3 , 4 , or 5 days ] in patients with refractory aml . the results showed that extended duration of etoposide administration is associated with higher cr rates . overall , a cr rate of 43 % was achieved in 61 patients . a sequential regimen with idac ( idarubicin/cytarabine ) and nove was designed for primary treatment of adult patients with aml . cycles of idac or nove are applied depending on response . the results of the pilot study with this strategy were encouraging with 18 of 20 patients achieving cr . further studies are under way to verify the efficacy of this strategy . 
total hip arthroplasty in ankylosing spondylitis . total hip arthroplasty was performed on 29 hips in 19 patients diagnosed with ankylosing spondylitis over a 13-year period . the results were analyzed retrospectively with an average follow-up period of more than four years . complete pain relief was achieved in 97 % , and significant gains were made in ambulatory capacity . the limited gains in total range of motion ( average improvement 75 degrees ) were felt to be primarily due to the high incidence of brooker class iii and iv myositis ossificans ( 23 % ) and long-standing soft tissue contractures . 
pulmonary surveillance using bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage during high-dose antineoplastic therapy . pulmonary failure is a major contributor to morbidity and mortality during marrow aplasia following high-dose antineoplastic therapy . for this reason , we initiated a pulmonary surveillance program for patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy for leukemia or bone marrow transplantation . as part of this program , bronchoscopy with bal was performed prior to therapy and at the onset of granulocytopenia . thirty-three of the first 57 patients managed in this program developed some evidence of pulmonary complications . twelve patients died in aplasia ; all had pulmonary failure . forty patients had clinically significant abnormalities on the bronchoscopy before treatment including 12 of 19 patients who had normal findings on chest x-ray films , physical examination , and pulmonary function testing , and no fever . twenty-seven patients had clinically significant abnormal bronchoscopy or bal at the onset of granulocytopenia . thirteen patients required additional bronchoscopy . no patient required an open lung biopsy . pulmonary surveillance using bronchoscopy with bal is useful in the detection of pulmonary disease prior to the initiation of and following high-dose antineoplastic therapy . 
the chest roentgenogram in pulmonary tuberculosis patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . to determine the impact that co-infection with hiv has on the radiographic presentation of pulmonary tuberculosis , we examined the chest roentgenograms obtained before treatment in 225 hiv-tested adult haitians with bacillary ( smear or culture or both ) positive pulmonary tuberculosis . there were 67 hiv-seropositive and 158 hiv-seronegative patients . intrathoracic adenopathy alone was more common and parenchymal infiltrates less common in hiv-seropositive patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . although a parenchymal infiltrate was less likely to be cavitating in the hiv-seropositive group ( p less than 0.05 ) when cavitary parenchymal disease was present , hiv seropositivity did not affect the number of cavities ( single or multiple ) or the size of the largest cavity . patients with aids were significantly more likely to have a chest radiographic pattern consistent with primary tuberculosis ( 80 percent ) than hiv-seropositive patients without aids ( 30 percent ) , and the latter were significantly more likely to have such a pattern than hiv-seronegative patients ( 11 percent ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . the hiv-seropositive patients were equally infectious , regardless of the pattern of disease ( primary vs postprimary ) . even though pulmonary tuberculosis in an hiv-seropositive adult probably results from reactivation of dormant foci or reinfection , the pattern on the chest roentgenogram often suggests primary disease , especially if the patient has aids . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . rare cause of hemoptysis . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia is a frequent manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . it commonly presents with nonproductive cough , fever , and dyspnea . we report this case of p carinii pneumonia presenting with hemoptysis , since to the best of our knowledge , hemoptysis has not been reported to be a presenting manifestation of p carinii pneumonia . autopsy revealed multiple lung cavities . 
metered dose inhalers for bronchodilator delivery in intubated , mechanically ventilated patients . we determined the relative efficacy of two bronchodilator aerosol delivery methods in 18 intubated mechanically ventilated patients with airways obstruction . two treatment arms , consisting of albuterol 270 micrograms ( three puffs ) from a metered dose inhaler and albuterol 2.5 mg from a saline solution nebulized with an updraft inhaler , were compared in a single blind , randomized crossover design . pulmonary function was evaluated using an interrupter technique . changes in passive expiratory flow at respiratory system recoil pressures between 6 and 10 cm h2o provided the therapeutic endpoints . paired measurements were made before and 30 minutes after drug delivery . the mdi and neb resulted in similar improvements in iso-recoil flow ( mean increase for both groups = 0.1 l/s ) . treatment sequence , severity of obstruction , and bronchodilator responsiveness had no effect on relative efficacy . albuterol caused a small but significant increase in heart rate that was similar following both delivery methods . we conclude that bronchodilator aerosol delivery with metered dose inhalers provides a viable alternative to nebulizer therapy in intubated mechanically ventilated patients and may result in a cost savings to hospitals and patients . 
longitudinal study of near fatal asthma . the effect of careful follow-up and treatment modification for 45 patients with an admission for nfa has been studied . in 24 of 45 , inciting events were recognized . bdp was used by 14 patients pre-nfa . in the mean follow-up of 863 days , there have been no deaths and seven patients have been readmitted with asthma . six of the 45 patients have attained normal fev1 and pc20h . blunted perception of breathlessness , change in vas ratio/change in fev1 , was found when first measured , but normalized to be no different than that of other asthmatic subjects as airway responsiveness became milder . the co2 ventilatory responses did not differentiate individual nfa patients from non-nfa asthmatic or normal subjects . comparison of the nfa cohort with the 1985 asthma admission cohort showed that an asthma admission within the last five years was a risk factor for a nfa episode . 
relationships with aids patients : clinical metaphors and preventive bioethics . aids , more than most diseases , evokes compelling and tragic stories . the aids epidemic is " the plague . " we seek the optimally therapeutic relationship , embodied in the metaphor of the covenant . there is a fundamental human possibility of healing through dying . " death teaches us to live . " we advocate asking aids patients the explicit question , " how do you want me to work with you ? " this can generate conversations that facilitate congruence in relationships . a reluctance to talk about uncertainties and limits is a major source of preventable ethical conflict and a major obstacle to fulfillment of the therapeutic possibilities of the doctor-patient relationship . the durable power of attorney for health care ( dpa ) can be helpful in facilitating discussions with patients and their families . successful " preventive bioethics " is communication that opens for the patient and doctor the broadest possibilities of hearing , understanding , and expressing . the doctor as parent , fighter , technician , teacher , and covenanter may be important roles at appropriate moments with a given patient who may be experiencing the disease variably as infectious chaos , brutal enemy , spiritual challenge , or opportunity for growth . the context of such communication is a real relationship that includes love , respect , humor , hope , and genuine interest in how this other person lives . 
anorectal sensory and motor function in neurogenic fecal incontinence . comparison between multiple sclerosis and diabetes mellitus . we measured anorectal sensory and motor function in 11 patients with multiple sclerosis and fecal incontinence , 11 continent patients with multiple sclerosis , 10 diabetics with fecal incontinence , and 12 healthy control subjects . the threshold volume at which patients with multiple sclerosis and fecal incontinence experienced rectal sensation was higher than that in healthy controls ( 42.7 + / - 6.2 ml vs. 13.3 + / - 2.8 ml ; p less than 0.01 ) and was similar to that in incontinent diabetics ( 36.5 + / - 5.7 ml ) . patients with multiple sclerosis and incontinent diabetics also showed increased thresholds of phasic external sphincter contraction compared with controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . diabetics with incontinence had reduced resting and maximal voluntary anal sphincter pressures compared with controls ( p less than 0.05 ) , whereas patients with multiple sclerosis and incontinence showed only decreased maximal voluntary anal sphincter pressures ( p less than 0.01 vs. controls and diabetics ) . incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis also required smaller volumes of rectal distention to inhibit internal sphincter tone compared with diabetics and controls ( p less than 0.01 ) . decreased maximal voluntary squeeze pressures were less severe in continent patients with multiple sclerosis than in incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis . we conclude that impaired function of the external anal sphincter and decreased volumes of rectal distention to inhibit the internal anal sphincter or both may contribute to fecal incontinence in multiple sclerosis . in addition , increased thresholds of conscious rectal sensation in some incontinent patients with multiple sclerosis and diabetes mellitus may contribute to fecal incontinence by impairing the recognition of impending defecation . 
granulocytic sarcoma of the colon . granulocytic sarcoma is an extramedullary tumor consisting of immature cells of the granulocytic series known to occur in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome , chronic myelogenous leukemia , or acute myelogenous leukemia . this tumor may involve nodes , cervix , bone and periosteum , and infrequently the small intestine . granulocytic sarcoma rarely occurs in the colon and has not been previously described endoscopically . we encountered a 73-year-old man with myelodysplastic syndrome who presented with fever , diarrhea , and abdominal pain . colonoscopic evaluation ( focal ulceration , friability , and nodularity ) was compatible with crohn 's disease , although histology showed a dense myeloid cell infiltrate characteristic of granulocytic sarcoma . in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or acute or chronic myelogenous leukemia presenting with diarrhea , abdominal pain , and/or fever , colonoscopy and biopsy are indicated to determine if the colon is affected by granulocytic sarcoma . 
latent hiv-1 infection in enriched populations of blood monocytes and t cells from seropositive patients . the extent of latent hiv-1 infection in blood t cells and monocytes of 23 seropositive individuals was examined using dna amplification ( pcr ) of hiv-1 sequences . amplified dna was found in at least one cell type in all seropositives tested , including 13 asymptomatic , 5 arc , and 5 aids patients . amplification with two or more primer sets from the gag , env , ltr occurred in 21 ( 91 % ) patients ' t cells and 17 ( 74 % ) patients ' monocytes . however , amplification with the ltr primers in monocytes was uncommon . among four patients tested , amplified dna continued to be detected after a greater than one thousand-fold dilution ( less than 500 cells ) of both t cell and monocyte lysates . repeat analysis after 7-9 mo in five seropositives yielded similar findings in t cells and monocytes , but some variation in the efficacy of amplification with individual primers occurred . there was no difference in those 10 patients who were taking azt , compared to those who were untreated . our results indicate that a fraction ( less than 1 % ) of both t cells and monocytes in blood carry a latent infection in all stages of hiv-1 disease and can serve as reservoirs throughout azt therapy . 
bone marrow stromal cell changes in haematological malignancies . stromal cell numbers from subjects with no haematological disease and those with acute myeloid leukaemia ( aml ) , chronic granulocytic leukaemia ( cgl ) , acute lymphatic leukaemia ( all ) and non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) were compared to determine their role in malignancy . frozen sections of trephine biopsy specimens from iliac crests were stained for endogenous alkaline phosphatase activity , endogenous acid phosphatase activity , and , using immunocytochemical methods , for endothelial cells ( anti-factor-viii related antigen ) and macrophages and related cells ( ebm/11 ) . in granulocytic malignancies , whether acute or chronic , alkaline phosphatase positive reticulum cells ( al-rc ) and vascular endothelial cells were generally increased . in lymphoid malignancies , the numbers of al-rc were generally reduced . numbers of vascular endothelial cells seemed to be normal in all but reduced in foci of nhl . macrophages are numerous in normal marrow , and their numbers seemed to be normal in granulocytic lesions but were more variable and sometimes reduced in all and nhl . lymphoid malignancies , therefore , have a destructive effect on some stromal elements ; granulocytic malignancies are associated with normal or increased numbers of stromal cells . a possible consequence of depleted stromal cells might be slower reconstitution of normal haemopoiesis after treatment . the large numbers in granulocytic malignancies raises the possibility of synergistic stimulation between stromal and neoplastic cells . 
interleukin-1 is released at sites of human cutaneous allergic reactions . interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) promotes cell recruitment and influences allergic mediator release . we analyzed histamine , prostaglandin d2 , il-1 , and leukocytes accumulating hourly for 12 hours at skin-chamber sites after local ragweed challenge in eight allergic subjects with cutaneous late-phase reactions . ragweed induced a peak of histamine at 1 hour ( p less than 0.02 ) , which diminished , and then steadily increased ( p less than 0.02 ) . prostaglandin d2 levels peaked by the second hour ( p less than 0.02 ) and then decreased , approaching prechallenge levels by 12 hours . leukocyte infiltration ( predominantly neutrophils ) was detectable 3 to 4 hours after challenge , although selective enrichment of mononuclear cells , eosinophils , and basophils ws observed at later hours ( p less than 0.02 ) . il-1 bioactivity was detected in fluids 10 to 12 hours after challenge but not at control sites ( p less than 0.05 ) . analysis of il-1 beta levels by ria revealed an initial peak at 1 hour of 0.90 ng/ml ( p less than 0.02 ) and a second elevation of up to 0.75 ng/ml during the later hours ( p less than 0.04 ) . ragweed challenge of three nonatopic subjects did not change levels of the above-mentioned mediators or cells . bioactivity in chamber fluids from antigen-challenged sites of atopic subjects was significantly neutralized by an anti-il-1 beta antiserum , although treatment with anti-il-1 alpha and anti-il-1 beta was needed for complete neutralization , il-1 released locally during cutaneous allergic reactions may contribute to ige-dependent cutaneous inflammation . 
alpha - and beta-adrenergic-receptor systems in bronchial asthma and in subjects without asthma : reduced mononuclear cell beta-receptors in bronchial asthma . we assessed the adrenergic-receptor system in individuals with bronchial hyperreactivity , beta-adrenergic receptors on mononuclear cell membranes , alpha-adrenergic receptors on platelet membranes , and the camp response in these cell types to different stimuli , including platelet-activating factor ( paf ) , were determined . studies were assessed in 10 subjects with mild asthma , six methacholine-sensitive subjects without asthma , and 10 normal subjects . the density and affinity of beta-receptors and alpha-receptors were determined by scatchard analysis . our findings were that ( 1 ) subjects with asthma had a significantly lower density of beta-receptors compared to normal subjects , ( 2 ) subjects with asthma had a significantly lower camp response to isoproterenol stimulation compared to the two other groups , ( 3 ) in subjects without asthma . paf decreased the basal camp level and significantly inhibited the response to isoproterenol stimulation , ( 4 ) there was no difference in density and affinity of platelet alpha-receptors or in platelet camp responses to stimulation by alpha-agonists among these three groups , and ( 5 ) neither camp response or beta-receptor density on mononuclear cells were significantly correlated with pulmonary-function tests ( fev/fvc times 100 ) , sensitivity to methacholine , or cold-air inhalation . these results suggest that patients with asthma may have a lower isoproterenol camp response and decreased density of beta-adrenergic receptors on mononuclear cells in the absence of beta-agonist therapy . it is speculated that release of paf and other mediators secondary to allergen exposure , even in the absence of overt attacks of asthma , may inhibit the response to endogenous or exogenous beta-adrenergic agonists . 
relationship between the early , late , and rechallenge reaction to nasal challenge with antigen : observations on the role of inflammatory mediators and cells . we challenge each of 55 consecutive ragweed ( rw ) - allergic patients with hay fever and with graded increasing doses of ragweed extract to investigate the frequency and relationship between the early ( er ) , late ( lpr ) , and rechallenge reactions ( rcrs ) to nasal challenge . we evaluated the nasal response by measuring the levels of histamine , tame-esterase activity , and kinins in the nasal lavage fluid and by grading symptoms . fifty-one subjects ( 92.7 % ) had an er consisting of a dose-dependent , concommitant increase in both mediators and symptoms . the total amount of tame-esterase activity and kinins generated during er correlated significantly with specific serum ige ( ssige ) , intradermal skin test ( st ) sensitivity , and basophil histamine release ( bhr ) to antigen e ( p less than 0.01 for each ) . twenty-four ( 47 % ) subjects developed a late increase in mediators and 23 ( 45 % ) subjects in symptoms . none of the four subjects without an er developed an lpr . the levels of the late-appearing mediators were not predicted by st , ssige , or bhr . there was a significant but weak association between the intensity of er and lpr , but there was no significant difference in the ige antibodies , st , bhr , and intensity or threshold of er between dual and early only reactors . the number of eosinophils and neutrophils in the lpr lavages increased over the prechallenge baseline , and their numbers correlated ( p less than 0.05 ) with er kinins ( r = 0.46 , and 0.37 , respectively ) , er tame-esterase activity ( r = 0.28 and 0.24 , respectively ) , and in the case of eosinophils , er histamine ( r = 0.29 ) . 
determination of n-methylhistamine in urine as an indicator of histamine release in immediate allergic reactions . the use of the urine histamine metabolite , n-methylhistamine ( n-mh ) , as a parameter of histamine release in immediate allergic reactions was investigated . baseline levels were determined in 34 normal control subjects and 29 atopic patients . increases of urine n-mh values were measured during histamine infusions and in venom-allergic patients receiving bee-sting challenges . n-mh was determined by a newly developed radioimmunoassay . baseline levels in control subjects and atopic patients demonstrated no significant differences . with regard to challenge tests , fluctuation of n-mh levels during a 6-hour period was measured . random 6-hour increases in healthy and atopic subjects ranged from 5 % to 41 % . before infusion of histamine ( 0.25 micrograms/kg/min for 30 minutes ) , baseline values were 137 + / - 11.4 micrograms n-mh per gram of creatinine and 9 + / - 1.1 micrograms n-mh per hour ( n = 9 ) . levels peaked 1 hour after infusion at 275 + / - 45 micrograms/gm of creatinine and 44 + / - 5.6 micrograms/hr and decreased to resting levels after 2 hours . metabolization by n-mh accounted for 9.5 % + / - 4.9 % ( range , 2.4 % to 18.4 % ) of infused histamine in the urine of the nine subjects . bee-sting challenges were performed in 12 patients and three control subjects . only in three patients experiencing generalized urticaria , nausea , dyspnea , and hypotension were significant increases of urine n-mh levels ( 138 % , 144 % , and 238 % ) observed . all other patients and three normal control subjects demonstrated normal local reactions without increase of n-mh values . 
allergen dose response and late symptoms in a human model of ocular allergy . eleven ryegrass-sensitive patients were challenged weekly for 4 weeks with incremental doses of ryegrass allergen applied topically to one eye ; a buffer was applied to the other eye . a clinical examination and tear-fluid cytology were performed before challenge and at 20 minutes , 1 hour , and 6 hours after challenge . a significant clinical reaction and neutrophil accumulation in the tear film occurred at 20 minutes . at 1 hour , a clinical response and tear cytologic reaction were present only at higher antigen concentrations . six hours after antigen challenge , only the highest allergen concentration ( 320,000 bu/ml ) produced a clinical late-phase reaction ( lpr ) ( p less than 0.01 ) and tear cytologic change ( presence of eosinophils and lymphocytes ) . five nonryegrass-sensitive control subjects were unresponsive to a similar challenge . these results indicate that a conjunctival response to allergen challenge is dose dependent , that is , the higher the dose , the more likely an lpr will occur and that an lpr correlates with significant numbers of inflammatory cells in the tear film . 
elevated serum concentrations of ige antibodies to environmental antigens in hiv-seropositive male homosexuals . forty-five homosexual male subjects with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , who received care during a 4-month period in an ambulatory center for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , were classified according to their principal presentation with characteristic secondary infections ( cdc group iv c , n = 28 ) , cancers ( iv d , n = 10 ) , or limited or no symptoms ( groups ii , iii , iv a , or iv b , n = 7 ) . the incidence of allergic rhinitis and conjunctivitis increased after hiv seroconversion by approximately twofold in patients of groups iv c and iv d. the mean serum concentration of ige was significantly higher for group iv c than for the other hiv-seropositive groups and for a control group of 45 hiv-seronegative homosexual male subjects from the same community who were studied concurrently . more patients in groups iv c and iv d had positive rasts for a panel of environmental antigens than patients in the other hiv-seropositive groups and the hiv-seronegative control group . patients with aids presenting with typical secondary infections thus have a high frequency of some clinical and laboratory manifestations of allergic diseases . 
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 potentiates the decreased response of lymphocytes from atopic subjects to agents that increase intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate . the inhibitory effect of prostaglandin e2 , histamine , isobutylmethylxanthine , and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( 1,25 - [ oh ] 2d3 ) on the mitogenic stimulation of peripheral blood lymphocytes from normal and atopic subjects was studied . we found that lymphocytes from atopic patients were less susceptible to inhibition by the three agents that elevate intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( camp ) concentrations and by the active metabolite of vitamin d ( inhibition of 27 % , 14 % , 12 % , and 36 % for the atopic patients as compared with 40 % , 20 % , 22 % , and 46 % for the normal donors , by the four agents , respectively ; p less than 0.02 ) . the inhibitory effect of the camp-elevating agents was potentiated by the addition of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 to the lymphocyte cultures . the potentiation was more pronounced on lymphocytes from the atopic donors , increasing their responsiveness to levels comparable to levels of lymphocytes from normal donors . the synthetic corticosteroid , dexamethasone , had a similar potentiating effect on the inhibitory action of prostaglandin e2 . in view of the beneficial action of beta-agonists , phosphodiesterase inhibitors , and corticosteroids in the treatment of allergy , the potentiating effect of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 on the action of camp-elevating agents may be of therapeutic interest . 
comparison of the effect of loratadine on the airway and skin responses to histamine , methacholine , and allergen in subjects with asthma . loratadine is a highly selective , long-acting , h1-receptor antagonist . in a randomized , double-blind , crossover study , we evaluated the effects of loratadine , 10 and 20 mg , and placebo administered once daily for 3 days on the skin-wheal responses to histamine , the airway responses to inhaled histamine and methacholine , and the skin-wheal and airway responses to allergen in 12 subjects with asthma . there was no evidence of a bronchodilator action 3 hours after a third oral dose . in the airways , the geometric mean of the provocative concentration of histamine causing a 20 % fall in fev1 after placebo or loratadine , 10 and 20 mg , was 0.68 mg/ml , 2.71 mg/ml ( p , not significant ) , and 5.96 mg/ml ( p less than 0.05 ) , respectively . the concentration ratios ( value after active treatment/value after placebo ) for loratadine , 10 and 20 mg , were 5.1 ( p less than 0.05 ) and 13.4 ( p less than 0.05 ) . neither dose of loratadine had any significant effect on the methacholine dose-response relationship . in the skin , loratadine also displaced the histamine log-concentration response curves to the right with concentration ratios of 4.7 and 6.7 , respectively . loratadine , 10 and 20 mg , had no protective effect on the early or late-phase bronchoconstrictor responses to inhaled allergen . in the skin , loratadine , 20 mg , significantly inhibited the mean wheal area to allergen . thus , in the dose regimens studied , although loratadine is a moderately potent and selective h1 antagonist in the skin and airways , it failed to attenuate the early and late airway responses to inhaled allergen . 
altered production of histamine-releasing factor ( hrf ) activity and responsiveness to hrf after immunotherapy in children with asthma . to delineate the working mechanisms of immunotherapy ( it ) ( hyposensitization ) , the production of , and responsiveness to , histamine-releasing factor ( hrf ) was studied in four groups . these groups consisted of 32 newly diagnosed children with asthma , 40 good responders and 18 poor responders to it ( older than 2 years ) , and 15 healthy subjects . the results demonstrated ( 1 ) peripheral blood mononuclear cells of new patients produced a much greater hrf activity , either spontaneously or after stimulation , than did those of normal subjects , ( 2 ) the spontaneous hrf activity decreased significantly in good responders , whereas that of poor responders increased , ( 3 ) both the allergen ( mite ) - and mitogen ( phytohemagglutinin [ pha ] ) - stimulated hrf activity was decreased , although decrease was not significant , in good responders , but the activity was not changed in poor responders , ( 4 ) the granulocytes of new patients responded to hrf much more vigorously than did granulocytes of normal subjects . the responsiveness diminished significantly in both good and poor responders , although the magnitude of decrease was slightly greater in the former , ( 5 ) there was a positive correlation between pha - and mite-stimulated hrf activity , mite-stimulated hrf activity and responsiveness to hrf , and plasma histamine level and responsiveness to hrf in the new patients , and ( 6 ) there was an inverse correlation between pha-stimulated hrf production and responsiveness to hrf in good responders , but the correlation was positive in poor responders . thus , it is able to suppress the hrf activity , particularly the type of spontaneous synthesis , and responsiveness to hrf in clinically benefitted children with asthma , and this effect may be used to explain , partly , the efficacy of it in a proportion of allergic patients . 
allergy to different fish species in cod-allergic children : in vivo and in vitro studies . the presence of a positive clinical history and skin test ( st ) results for 17 fish species ( anchovy , bass , carp , dogfish , eel , gilthead , mackerel , mullet , perch , red mullet , salmon , sardine , sole , tench , toothed gilthead , trout , and tuna ) were investigated in 20 children with cod-positive clinical history , st , and rast , and in 40 children positive to one or more foods different from cod ( cow 's milk , chicken egg white , peanut , and tomato ) . in cod-positive children , positive clinical history ( 60 % ) and st ( 85 % ) to fish species were more frequent than in cod-negative children ( 7.5 % and 10 % respectively ) . in cod-positive children , a high frequency of positive sts to eel ( 85 % ) and to bass , dentex , sole , and tuna ( 55 % ) was observed . positivity to dogfish ( 10 % ) was the least frequent . rast-inhibition experiments suggested the presence of cross-reacting antigen ( s ) in cod , bass , dentex , eel , sole , and tuna . results of this study demonstrate that cod allergy might be , on the whole , a reliable index of fish allergy , but cod-positive children may perhaps tolerate some other species , which will have to be tested for possible inclusion in their diet . 
comparison of the effects of inhaled corticosteroids on the airway response to histamine , methacholine , hyperventilation , and sulfur dioxide in subjects with asthma . to investigate whether inhaled steroids modulate the airway response to different bronchoconstrictive stimuli , we studied 25 subjects with mild asthma with a double-blind , noncrossover design to compare the effect of a 3-week treatment with salbutamol ( 0.2 mg , four times a day [ q.i.d. ] ) and placebo ( n = 11 ) to the effect of salbutamol ( 0.2 mg q.i.d. ) and inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate ( bdp , 0.5 mg q.i.d. ) ( n = 14 ) . airway response to histamine and methacholine was assessed as the provocative concentration ( in milligrams per milliliter ) necessary to increase the specific airway resistance ( sraw ) ( in centimeters of h2o times second ) by 100 % ( pc100 sraw ) . airway response to hyperventilation of air and to hyperventilation of 0.75 ppm of sulfur dioxide ( so2 ) was determined as the provocative ventilation ( in liters per minute ) necessary to increase sraw by 75 % ( pv75 sraw ) . challenges were performed on separate days before and after treatment , and salbutamol inhalation was withheld at least 6 hours before each challenge . salbutamol and placebo did not change perchallenge baseline sraw nor did they have any significant effect on the airway response to the stimuli . salbutamol and bdp decreased the mean prechallenge baseline sraw ( sem ) from 7.7 ( 0.37 ) to 5.9 ( 0.28 ) ( p less than 0.01 ) and significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) increased geometric mean ( sem ) pc100 sraw for histamine from 0.5 ( 1.42 ) to 0.9 ( 1.53 ) mg/ml ; for methacholine , from 0.2 ( 1.47 ) to 0.5 ( 1.51 ) mg/ml ; and mean ( sem ) pv75 sraw for hyperventilation of air from 51.8 ( 2.32 ) to 58.4 ( 1.86 ) l/min . in contrast , the change of pv75 sraw during hyperventilation of so2 from 26.2 ( 2.29 ) to 31.4 ( 3.30 ) l/min was not significant . 
physiologic responses to intranasal dose-response challenges with histamine , methacholine , bradykinin , and prostaglandin in adult volunteers with and without nasal allergy . the dose-response ( dose , 0.01 , 0.05 , 0.1 , 0.5 , 1 , and 5 mg ) profiles of 10 atopic and 10 nonatopic subjects were determined for nasal patency , secretion weight , pulmonary function , eustachian tube function , middle-ear function , and symptoms after intranasal inhalation challenges with histamine , bradykinin , methacholine , prostaglandin d2 , and prostaglandin f2 alpha ( pgf2 alpha ) . results demonstrated that challenge with pgf2 alpha increased nasal patency , whereas challenge with all other substances decreased patency . the relationship between substances in eliciting a nasal congestive response was prostaglandin d2 greater than histamine greater than bradykinin greater than methacholine . a similar effect ordering was noted for the postchallenge development of eustachian tube dysfunction . secretion weights were significantly greater after challenge with histamine compared to all other substances . a decrease in pulmonary function was observed only after challenge with pgf2 alpha , although the effect was not statistically significant . no changes in middle-ear pressure were observed for challenges with any of the substances . only histamine challenge provoked sneezing , whereas challenge with either of the prostaglandins provoked cough . with the exception of methacholine , all substances caused symptoms of rhinorrhea , congestion , and sore throat . bradykinin was particularly effective in provoking " pain/pressure " - related symptoms . with the exception of secretion weight , the differences between responses of atopic and nonatopic subjects were not statistically significant . these results document mediator specificity in the physiologic and symptomatic responses to intranasal challenge . 
selective desensitization to seminal plasma protein fractions after immunotherapy for postcoital anaphylaxis . a 24-year-old white woman reported sexual intercourse-related pruritus , hives , wheezing , and dyspnea within 5 minutes after ejaculation . systemic reactions ( srs ) were prevented by use of condoms . prick testing confirmed sensitization to five sephadex g-100-separated fractions of her husband 's seminal plasma . the intradermal end point threshold concentrations ( etc ) were 10 ( -4 ) and 10 ( -1 ) micrograms of protein per milliliter to fractions 2 and 3 , respectively . leukocyte histamine release studies exhibited 100 % release to fraction 2 and 37 % release to fraction 3 . a 2-day protocol of rapid immunotherapy ( it ) was performed with subcutaneous incremental doses of human seminal plasma ( husepl ) fractions 2 and 3 . the patient experienced an sr after receiving a cumulative dose of 38.55 micrograms of fraction 2 on day 1 . on day 2 , rapid it with fraction 2 was administered until the patient experienced a mild sr after having received a cumulative dose of 102.8 micrograms . there was a one-log10 increase in the intradermal etc to both fractions 2 and 3 at the end of day 2 . it was continued three times weekly for 4 months until the patient tolerated 100 micrograms doses of both fractions 2 and 3 . at 4 months , coitus was resumed without srs , and husepl it was stopped . the intradermal etc to fractions 1 , 3 , 4 , and 5 was increased 6 months after cessation of husepl injections , but there was a one-log decrease in the etc to fraction 2 . our experience demonstrated that systemic tolerance can be achieved by parenteral administration of selected husepl fractions . partial immunologic desensitization of patients with anaphylactic sensitivity can be achieved . 
cetirizine : antiallergic therapy beyond traditional h1 antihistamines . for three decades , traditional h1 antihistamines have been used in the treatment of allergic diseases . they are effective in reducing histamine-related symptoms , but the use of such agents has been limited by sedation and anticholinergic side effects . these adverse effects are fewer with the recently introduced h1 antihistamines . one of these , cetirizine , a human metabolite of hydroxyzine , is characterized by its high selectivity for the h1 receptor site and its reliable and consistent inhibition of histamine-induced allergic reactions . it also blocks eosinophil infiltration to the site of allergen-induced cutaneous reactions . cetirizine has proved effective in the treatment of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis and urticaria . it is excreted primarily by renal mechanisms . it is well tolerated by elderly patients . cetirizine has a low rate of penetration of the blood-brain barrier , and it has minimal central nervous system impairment . furthermore , it can be given once a day . cetirizine 's low incidence of sedation and anticholinergic side effects contribute to its high profile of safety . in this article the characteristics , pharmacology , pharmacokinetics , and mode of action of cetirizine are reviewed . 
aids : family physicians ' attitudes and experiences a study was developed to examine the current experiences and opinions of a national sample of family physicians with regard to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . the survey response rate was 72.5 % ( 757 questionnaires were returned out of a sample of 1044 ) . approximately 47 % of respondents have cared for an hiv-infected patients . this percentage varied from a low of 31.4 % in the midwest to as high as 56.1 % on the east coast . thirty-two percent of family physicians practicing in communities of fewer than 2500 have dealt with this illness , while 60 % of those in communities of greater than 100,000 have done so . seventy-seven percent of respondents are willing to provide care to hiv-infected individuals ; 62.9 % believe that physicians have a right to refuse to care for a patient because he or she is infected with the aids virus . forty percent believe that they would lose patients if it were known that they were caring for an aids patient in their office . finally , the vast majority of those surveyed favor required partner notification and would inform the sexual partner of an hiv-positive patient if the patient refused to do so . 
high survival rate in advanced-stage b-cell lymphomas and leukemias without cns involvement with a short intensive polychemotherapy : results from the french pediatric oncology society of a randomized trial of 216 children . from april 1984 to december 1987 , the french pediatric oncology society ( sfop ) organized a randomized trial for advanced-stage b-cell lymphoma without cns involvement to study the possibility of reducing the length of treatment to 4 months . after receiving the same three intensive six-drug induction courses based on high-dose fractionated cyclophosphamide , high-dose methotrexate ( hd mtx ) , and cytarabine in continuous infusion , patients were evaluated for remission . those who achieved complete remission ( cr ) were randomized between a long arm ( five additional courses with two additional drugs ; 16 weeks of treatment ) and a short arm ( two additional courses ; 5 weeks ) . for patients in partial remission ( pr ) , intensification of treatment was indicated . two hundred sixteen patients were registered : 15 stage ii nasopharyngeal and extensive facial tumors , 167 stage iii , and 34 stage iv , 20 of the latter having more than 25 % blast cells in bone marrow . the primary sites of involvement were abdomen in 172 , head and neck in 30 , thorax in two , and other sites in 12 . one hundred sixty-seven patients are alive in first cr with a minimum follow-up of 18 months ; four are lost to follow-up . eight patients died from initial treatment failure , 14 died from toxicity or deaths unrelated to tumor or treatment , and 27 relapsed . the event-free survival ( efs ) , with a median follow-up of 38 months , is 78 % ( se 3 ) for all the patients , 73 % ( se 11 ) for the stage ii patients , 80 % ( se 3 ) for the stage iii patients , and 68 % ( se 8 ) for the stage iv and acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) patients . one hundred sixty-six patients were randomized : 82 in the short arm and 84 in the long arm . efs is , respectively , 89 % and 87 % . statistical analysis confirms equivalence of both treatment arms with regard to efs . moreover , morbidity was lower in the short arm . this study confirms the high survival rate obtained in the previous lmb 0281 study without radiotherapy or debulking surgery and demonstrates the effectiveness of short treatment . 
p-glycoprotein expression in malignant lymphoma and reversal of clinical drug resistance with chemotherapy plus high-dose verapamil . p-glycoprotein is a transmembrane protein thought to function as an efflux pump to detoxify cells . it is associated with multidrug resistance in laboratory systems and has recently been found in human tumors associated with in vitro and clinical drug resistance . we used an immunohistochemical method employing two monoclonal antibodies , jsb-1 and c-219 , to detect expression of p-glycoprotein in lymphoma patients . one of 42 newly diagnosed and untreated lymphoma patients ( 2 % ) and seven of 11 previously treated and drug-resistant patients ( 64 % ) had detectable levels of p-glycoprotein ( p less than .001 ) . based on prior reports suggesting that verapamil sensitizes drug-resistant cancer cells to chemotherapy by competitive inhibition of the p-glycoprotein , we tested the efficacy of verapamil as a chemosensitizer in 18 patients with drug-refractory disease . all patients had previously failed or relapsed within 3 months of a doxorubicin-vincristine-containing drug regimen . patients received day-1 cyclophosphamide , and 4-day continuous infusion doxorubicin and vincristine and oral dexamethasone ( cvad ) . cvad was combined with 5-day continuous infusion verapamil given at maximally tolerated dose . overall , 13 of 18 patients ( 72 % ) responded to treatment including five complete remissions ( crs ; 28 % ) . the median duration of response was 200 days and median survival was 242 days . the dose-limiting toxicity of the verapamil infusion was temporary cardiac dysfunction including hypotension , congestive heart failure , and cardiac arrhythmia . we conclude that the p-glycoprotein is uncommonly expressed in untreated lymphomas and frequently expressed in clinically drug-resistant disease , and that chemotherapy using cvad plus maximally tolerated doses of verapamil results in a high response rate in patients carefully selected for clinical drug resistance . 
superiority of promace-cytabom over promace-mopp in the treatment of advanced diffuse aggressive lymphoma : results of a prospective randomized trial [ published erratum appears in j clin oncol 1991 apr ; 9 ( 4 ) :710 ] one hundred ninety-three patients with stage ii , iii , or iv follicular large-cell , diffuse large-cell , diffuse mixed , immunoblastic , or diffuse small noncleaved-cell ( non-burkitt 's ) lymphoma were randomized to receive either cyclophosphamide 650 mg/m2 intravenously ( iv ) , doxorubicin 25 mg/m2 iv , etoposide 120 mg/m2 iv on day 1 , mechlorethamine 6 mg/m2 iv , vincristine 1.4 mg/m2 ( no cap at 2 mg total dose ) iv on day 8 , prednisone 60 mg/m2 orally daily days 1 through 14 , procarbazine 100 mg/m2 orally daily days 8 through 14 , and methotrexate 500 mg/m2 iv on day 15 with leucovorin 50 mg/m2 orally every 6 hours for four doses beginning 24 hours after methotrexate with cycles repeated every 28 days ( promace-mopp ) or same day-1 treatment as promace-mopp plus cytarabine 300 mg/m2 iv , bleomycin 5 u/m2 iv , vincristine 1.4 mg/m2 ( no cap at 2 mg total dose ) iv , and methotrexate 120 mg/m2 iv on day 8 , leucovorin 25 mg/m2 orally every 6 hours for four doses beginning 24 hours after methotrexate , and prednisone 60 mg/m2 orally daily days 1 through 14 with cycles repeated every 21 days ( promace-cytabom ) . co-trimoxazole two double-strength tablets orally twice daily throughout the period of treatment was added to the promace-cytabom regimen when an increased risk of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was found in the first 35 patients receiving this combination . median follow-up is 5 years . among the 99 patients treated with promace-mopp , 73 achieved a complete remission ( cr ) ( 74 % ) , 30 complete responders have relapsed ( 41 % ) , and 45 patients have died ( 45 % ) , including two ( 2 % ) of treatment-related causes . among the 94 patients treated with promace-cytabom , 81 achieved a cr ( 86 % ) , 22 complete responders have relapsed ( 27 % ) , and 31 patients have died ( 33 % ) . the complete response rate ( p2 = .048 ) and survival ( p2 = .046 ) were significantly higher for patients treated with promace-cytabom . the mortality of promace-cytabom treatment overall was six of 94 patients ( 6.4 % ) . there was no treatment-related mortality among patients treated with prophylactic co-trimoxazole ( n = 59 ) . promace-cytabom combination chemotherapy with co-trimoxazole prophylaxis is a safe and effective treatment for patients with aggressive histology malignant lymphoma and is superior to promace-mopp . 
care of the asthmatic oral and maxillofacial surgery patient . it is estimated that asthma affects 6 to 9 million people in the united states . the nature of this disease makes it a special concern to the oral and maxillofacial surgeon . appropriate management of the asthmatic patient with regard to anesthesia and surgical procedures of the oral and maxillofacial region is discussed . 
tuftsin deficiency in aids . tuftsin is an endogenous tetrapeptide that stimulates phagocytosis and is released from the fc fragment of igg by a splenic endocarboxypeptidase . tuftsin activity and splenic function were measured in 21 patients with aids , 7 patients with aids-related complex ( arc ) , 22 patients who had undergone splenectomy , and 37 healthy volunteers . there was a significant inverse correlation between tuftsin activity and splenic function in all subjects . tuftsin activity was significantly lower in patients with aids , arc , and in those who had undergone splenectomy compared with healthy volunteers . tuftsin deficiency may contribute to the risk of bacterial infection in symptomatic hiv-positive individuals . 
absence of retroviral sequences in graves ' disease . an earlier report of hiv-1 gene sequences in thyroid cell genomic dna from patients with graves ' disease prompted use of the polymerase chain reaction technique to identify such sequences in graves ' disease thyroid tissue and in white blood-cells from these patients . we were unable to confirm the existence of hiv-1-related dna sequences in graves ' specimens . 
evaluation of enzyme immunoassays for antibody to human t-lymphotropic viruses type i/ii . to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of htlv-i/ii assays , serum from 1100 pregnant haitian women was tested with seven commercially available htlv i/ii assays . serum that was found to be reactive in any assay was analysed by western blot and all indeterminate samples were further characterised by radioimmunoprecipitation assays ( ripa ) . 59 ( 5.4 % ) samples were htlv i/ii antibody positive by western blot and/or ripa . the sensitivity of these seven assays ranged from 93.2 % to 100 % . with the ' recombinant htlv-i ' ( cambridge bioscience ) and ' serodia htlv-i ' ( fujirebio ) assays having the highest sensitivity ( 100 % ) . the specificity of these assays ranged from 98.4 % to 100 % , with the abbott assay having the highest specificity ( 99.5 % , 100 % ) according to two different methods of evaluation . whether the antigens used in any assay were whole disrupted virus or recombinant gene products made no difference . the low positive predictive values of some of these assays ( 71.8-91 .7 % ) , even in a high prevalence population , and the need for ripa to test indeterminate sera , indicate that for routine screening of blood donors there is still room for improvement both in screening and confirmatory assays for htlv-i/ii . 
improved outcome in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia with reinforced early treatment and rotational combination chemotherapy . to improve outcome in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( all ) , a stratified , randomised study of extended intensified chemotherapy was done . 358 evaluable patients received remission reinforcement therapy ( teniposide , cytarabine , high-dose methotrexate ) added to a four-drug induction regimen . those achieving complete remission were randomised on the basis of risk group assignment to conventional continuation treatment or to four pairs of drugs rotated weekly or every 6 weeks . all patients received intrathecal chemotherapy ; higher-risk patients also received 1800 cgy cranial irradiation after 1 year of remission . complete remission was induced in 96 % of the patients . at median follow-up of 40 ( range 19-73 ) months , 4-year event-free survival ( se ) was 73 ( 4 ) % overall , 81 ( 6 ) % in the lower-risk group ( n = 110 ) , and 69 ( 5 ) % in the higher-risk group ( n = 248 ) . outcome within risk groups was not significantly affected by the speed of rotation of drug pairs during continuation treatment . various high-risk subgroups had apparently improved responses to this treatment . this intensified chemotherapy may cure 69-77 % of children with all . 
fulminating multiple sclerosis-like leukoencephalopathy revealing human immunodeficiency virus infection . a 66-year-old french homosexual man and a 42-year-old brazilian man with no known risk factors for hiv infection developed headaches , asthenia , and neurologic episodes of abrupt onset . ct showed multiple hypodense , nonenhancing lesions . serology for hiv was positive . they died respectively 2 months and 1 month after onset of the illnesses . autopsy in both cases showed multiple , well-demarcated , demyelinating foci in the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres , brainstem , and cerebellum with histologic features characteristic of recent plaques of multiple sclerosis . there were no multinucleated giant cells or microglial nodules . immunostaining for hiv was negative . although a random coincidence of ms and hiv infection can not be ruled out , the close temporal relationship between the 2 disorders suggests a possible etiologic association . 
serum and csf levels of il-2 , sil-2r , tnf-alpha , and il-1 beta in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis : expected lack of clinical utility . we measured interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) , soluble il-2 receptor ( sil-2r ) , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , and interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) by elisa in paired sera and csf from 50 chronic progressive multiple sclerosis ( cpms ) patients during worsening disability , 19 patients with other neurologic diseases ( ond ) , and in sera from 40 healthy volunteers . in the cpms patients , 28 % ( 14/50 ) , 10 % ( 5/50 ) , 16 % ( 8/50 ) , and 6 % ( 3/50 ) had elevated serum levels of il-2 , sil-2r , tnf-alpha and il-1 beta , respectively , compared with healthy controls . the only analyte we detected in the csf was il-2 in 1 cpms patient ( 1/50 , 2 % ) . we also saw elevated serum sil-2r in 16 % ( 3/19 ) of ond patients . we found no significant difference in mean levels of serum sil-2r between the 3 groups . our study , the largest to date of cpms patients , shows that serum and csf levels of il-2 , sil-2r , tnf-alpha , or il-1 beta are not sensitive for , and the serum sil-2r level is not specific for , cpms . therefore , measurement of these analytes will not be clinically useful for therapeutic or prognostic purposes in the majority of cpms patients . 
clinical and magnetic resonance imaging in optic neuritis . we found 23 of 48 patients ( 48 % ) with isolated monosymptomatic optic neuritis ( on ) to have 1 to several brain lesions by mri . all the brain lesions were clinically silent and had characteristics consistent with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) . during 4 years of follow-up , 9 patients ( 19 % ) developed definite ms on clinical grounds . six of the converting patients had abnormal mris ; the other 3 had mris that were normal both initially ( when they had on only ) and when repeated after they had developed ms. the other 17 patients with abnormal mris have not developed symptoms or signs of ms during follow-up . thus , an abnormal mri does not auger development of clinical ms within a mean of 4 years , nor does a normal mri protect against development of disseminated disease . it is not prudent to give a patient with isolated monosymptomatic on the diagnosis of ms ( probable or definite ) because of an abnormal mri ( with or without other laboratory abnormalities ) . 
the efficacy of azathioprine in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis . we randomized 59 patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis to receive azathioprine ( aza ) 3.0 mg/kg daily or placebo in a double-masked therapeutic trial . analysis of data for predetermined primary outcome measures demonstrated a significant difference favoring aza for observed mean exacerbation rate after 2 years of therapy and time to deterioration in both ambulation index and kurtzke expanded disability status scale score . this study confirms a modest therapeutic benefit for azathioprine previously reported by other investigators . 
absence of highly homologous sequence to htlv-i in japanese multiple sclerosis . we tried to detect htlv-i-related sequences in japanese patients with multiple sclerosis with a highly sensitive method that employs the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) of genomic dna followed by southern blot hybridization analysis . to amplify htlv-i sequences , we used primers for ltr , pol , gag , and env coding regions . fourteen patients with definite ms , 14 disease controls , 12 normal controls , and 3 patients with htlv-i-associated myelopathy ( ham ) were investigated . results of particle aggregation assay for htlv-i antibodies were negative in serum from all subjects except for the 3 ham patients . neither the 14 ms patients nor the 26 controls showed the presence of any highly homologous sequences to htlv-i . we did observe faint signals for gag , pol , and env coding regions only at low stringent hybridization in some ms patients as well as some normal controls . the nucleotide sequence analysis of the faint bands was more homologous to major histocompatibility complex molecules than the htlv-i genome . 
tropical spastic paraparesis-like illness occurring in a patient dually infected with hiv-1 and htlv-ii . we describe a 34-year-old man from southern florida with a history of intravenous drug use , dually infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) and human t-lymphotropic virus type ii ( htlv-ii ) , who developed a myelopathy clinically indistinguishable from htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis ( ham/tsp ) . this myelopathy was characterized by spastic lower extremity weakness , distal paresthesias , sensory loss with a discrete thoracic level to pinprick , back pain , impotence , and sphincter disturbances . nerve conduction studies revealed an associated mixed axonal and demyelinative neuropathy . despite a lack of response to 10 months of zidovudine therapy , the myeloneuropathy improved dramatically 2 years after its onset in the absence of any therapeutic intervention . 
primary leptomeningeal lymphoma : report of 9 cases , diagnosis with immunocytochemical analysis , and review of the literature . we describe 9 patients who presented with a neoplastic meningitis of lymphomatous origin . no evidence of parenchymal central nervous system or systemic tumor was identified either at the time of presentation or throughout the course of their disease . we have chosen to call this entity " primary leptomeningeal lymphoma " ( plml ) . this unusual form of neurologic lymphoma must be differentiated from the more common clinical situations of primary parenchymal lymphoma with meningeal involvement and systemic lymphoma complicated by lymphomatous meningitis . 
dexamethasone as an adjunct in oropharyngeal obstruction in a patient with leukemia . incipient airway obstruction due to fulminating bacterial infection of pharyngeal tissues requires prompt and definitive intervention . a case is presented in which dexamethasone was a key adjunct to antibiotic therapy in averting this problem in a severely neutropenic patient with acute leukemia . 
oral melanotic macules in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus . a group of 217 patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) were studied for 2 years , during which time pigmented lesions of the oral mucosa developed in 14 ( 6.4 % ) of them . the lesions were well circumscribed in some cases and diffuse in others . in some patients the macules enlarged or recurred after surgical excision . in two patients the macules appeared during the administration of zidovudine . clinical and laboratory evidence of adrenal insufficiency was not detected in any of the patients examined . the histologic appearances were those of melanotic macules . no ultrastructural alterations of the melanocytes were observed . two of these macules also contained epstein-barr virus , and in one case normal oral mucosa was examined and also contained epstein-barr virus in the epithelial cells . as a control group we examined 180 health care workers who did not belong to any risk category , and 30 intravenous drug abusers who tested seronegative to hiv . oral melanotic pigmentation was found in eight of the control subjects ( 3.6 % ) . the difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.3097 ) . our study shows that oral macules do not occur more frequently in hiv-infected patients . however , the clinical behavior of these lesions appears to be different during the course of hiv infection . in some hiv-infected patients the cause of the macules might relate to the administration of zidovudine and antifungal or antibacterial drugs . in others the cause remains unknown and could be due to multiple factors . 
beta-2-microglobulin concentrations in pediatric human immunodeficiency virus infection . serum concentrations of beta-2-microglobulin ( b2-m ) were correlated with disease outcome in 40 children infected by the human immunodeficiency virus . serum b2-m serum concentrations below 3.0 mg/100 ml or decreasing concentrations were indicative of a stable disease course but were also noted preterminally in lymphopenic children . of 20 patients with b2-m concentrations above 3.0 mg/liter , 12 had a progressive disease course and 8 remained stable . in the latter 8 patients the b2-m values decreased with time . elevated b2-m concentrations were also noted in infants younger than 1 year of age and denoted active human immunodeficiency virus infection . b2-m serum concentrations are a useful prognostic marker in human immunodeficiency virus-infected children . 
asthma and pregnancy . a challenge for everyone concerned . the asthmatic patient who becomes pregnant needs expert management to minimize the possibility of a poor outcome . dr barsky stresses the importance of good rapport and cooperation between physician and patient , explains the effects of pregnancy on asthma and vice versa , and discusses the pharmacotherapy that is often necessary to maintain the health of both mother and baby . 
agranulocytosis from antiarrhythmic agents . what to watch for when a medication is first prescribed . anyone who prescribes antiarrhythmic medications should strongly consider monitoring patients for the first 3 months of its use . if agranulocytosis is going to develop , it almost always does so in that period . a complete blood cell count every 1 to 2 weeks can detect neutropenia before symptoms and infectious complications appear . fever and associated systemic symptoms should always induce evaluation . treatment involves discontinuation of the causative agent , use of antibiotics and antifungal drugs for infectious complications as needed , and close observation . spontaneous recovery should occur within 5 weeks . if it does not , a nonpharmacologic cause should be considered . 
the butterfly rash and the malar flush . what diseases do these signs reflect ? the butterfly rash and malar flush are common facial manifestations of several disorders . systemic lupus erythematosus may produce a transient rash before any other signs . in pellagra , symmetric keratotic areas on the face are always accompanied by lesions elsewhere on the body . erysipelas produces brawny , fiery red facial lesions , and scarlet fever causes facial eruptions as part of a generalized eruption . lupus vulgaris and lupus pernio produce nodules that may spread in a butterfly pattern , and seborrheic dermatitis has a predilection for the malar prominences and other areas of the face . carcinoid syndrome often causes flushing attacks that vary in duration , and facial flushing that lasts throughout treatment may accompany chemotherapy if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction . deep-red rashes and/or lichenoid lesions may be caused by graft-versus-host disease in a patient undergoing bone marrow transplantation . 
primary combined immunodeficiency resulting from defective transcription of multiple t-cell lymphokine genes . the circulating t lymphocytes of a female child with recurrent opportunistic infections were normal in number and phenotype but exhibited poor proliferation and decreased synthesis of the t-cell growth factor interleukin ( il ) 2 in response to mitogens . recombinant il-2 fully restored the proliferative responses of her t cells , suggesting that her poor immune function was related to il-2 deficiency . northern blot analysis of total cellular rna from the patient 's t cells revealed markedly decreased levels of il-2 mrna of normal size . in addition , mrna levels of other lymphokines selectively expressed by t cells , which include il-3 , il-4 , and il-5 , were either severely depressed or absent . the levels of interferon gamma mrna were moderately decreased , while those of granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor , a lymphokine the production of which is not restricted to t cells , were unaffected . the decreased level of lymphokine mrna in the patient 's t lymphocytes was not from enhanced catabolism but resulted from a diminution in the transcription rate of the affected lymphokine genes . normal transduction via the t-cell receptor/cd3 complex of biochemical signals necessary for the initiation of lymphokine gene transcription indicated that the defect was distal to the membrane signal-transducing apparatus . the defect is hypothesized to involve a t-cell-specific trans-acting regulatory factor required for transcription of the affected lymphokine genes . 
cryoglobulinemia induced by a murine igg3 rheumatoid factor : skin vasculitis and glomerulonephritis arise from distinct pathogenic mechanisms . mrl-lpr/lpr mice spontaneously develop a lupus-like syndrome characterized by immunopathological manifestations such as necrotizing vascular lesions of ear tips and severe glomerulonephritis . similar skin vascular and glomerular lesions associated with cryoglobulinemia can be induced in normal mice by injection of a monoclonal antibody ( mab ) -- 6-19 ( gamma 3 heavy chain and kappa light chain ) , exhibiting both cryoglobulin and anti-igg2a rheumatoid factor ( rf ) activities -- derived from the mrl-lpr/lpr autoimmune mouse . to determine the role of rf and/or igg3 fc fragment-associated cryoglobulin activities in 6-19 mab-induced tissue lesions , a 6-19-j558l hybrid mab ( gamma 3 heavy chain and lambda 1 light chain ) was produced by fusion between the 6-19 hybridoma and the j558l myeloma . here we report that the 6-19-j558l hybrid mab , which loses the rf activity but retains the cryoglobulin activity , fails to induce skin vascular lesions . however , it is still able to provoke glomerular lesions identical to those caused by the 6-19 mab . further , we have observed that the depletion of the corresponding autoantigen , igg2a , in mice by treatment with anti-igm antisera from birth also prevents the development of skin but not glomerular lesions . our results indicate that both rf and cryoglobulin activities of the 6-19 mab are required for the development of skin vasculitis , but its cryoglobulin activity alone is sufficient to cause glomerular lesions . in addition , cdna cloning and sequencing of the 6-19 mab has revealed that the 6-19 kappa light chain variable region amino acid sequence is encoded in a germ-line configuration , suggesting that immunoglobulin variable region germ-line genes could contribute to the generation of pathogenic autoantibodies . 
autoimmune preganglionic sympathectomy induced by acetylcholinesterase antibodies . systemic injection of monoclonal antibodies to neural acetylcholinesterase in adult rats caused a syndrome with permanent , complement-mediated destruction of presynaptic fibers in sympathetic ganglia and adrenal medulla . ptosis , hypotension , bradycardia , and postural syncope ensued . in sympathetic ganglia , acetylcholinesterase activity disappeared from neuropil but not from nerve cell bodies . choline acetyltransferase activity and ultrastructurally defined synapses were also lost . electrical stimulation of presynaptic fibers to the superior cervical ganglion ceased to evoke end-organ responses . on the other hand , direct ganglionic stimulation remained effective , and the postganglionic adrenergic system appeared intact . motor performance and the choline acetyltransferase content of skeletal muscle were preserved , as was parasympathetic ( vagal ) function . this model of selective cholinergic autoimmunity represents another tool for autonomic physiology and may be relevant to the pathogenesis of human dysautonomias . 
meiotic recombination between yeast artificial chromosomes yields a single clone containing the entire bcl2 protooncogene . the common translocation found in human follicular lymphoma , t ( 14 ; 18 ) ( q32 ; q21 ) , results in deregulation of the bcl2 protoonocogene . the isolation of the intact gene would provide an essential substrate to analyze the molecular basis of this malignancy . pulsed-field gel electrophoresis suggested that this three-exon gene was several hundred kilobases ( kb ) long . therefore , a library of yeast artificial chromosome ( yac ) clones was screened to isolate the intact bcl2 gene . two clones , ya85b6 ( 200 kb ) and yb206a6 ( 700 kb ) , were isolated by using polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) assays specific for exon i/ii and exon iii , respectively . however , neither yac contained the entire bcl2 locus . since the two yacs were found to overlap by 60 kb , we sought to take advantage of the high recombination frequency in yeast and induce physical recombination between the two clones . cells containing each yac were mated and induced to undergo meiotic division and sporulation . analysis of the resulting tetrads revealed a spore containing a single recombinant yac of 800 kb . pcr assays and southern blotting demonstrated that this recombined yac contained the entire approximately 230-kb bcl2 gene . furthermore , probe order was conserved and there was no evidence of overt rearrangements or deletions . these results indicate the feasibility of reconstructing large genomic segments with overlapping yac clones to study genes spanning hundreds of kilobases . 
the role of an autoantigen , histidyl-trna synthetase , in the induction and maintenance of autoimmunity . patients with systemic autoimmune diseases make specific autoantibodies that are directed against self structures . according to one view , these autoantibodies arise as a result of an immune response to foreign antigens such as infectious agents that share , by molecular mimicry , common structures with host proteins . an alternative view is that the target autoantigen itself initiates , selects , and sustains autoantibody synthesis . we show here that anti-jo-1 autoantibodies directed against histidyl-trna synthetase in the human autoimmune muscle disease polymyositis undergo , in addition to spectrotype broadening and class switching , the sine qua non of an immune response to the target antigen -- affinity maturation to that antigen . we demonstrate further that these autoantibodies , unlike anti-synthetase antibodies induced in mice immunized with heterologous antigen , bind only nonlinear epitopes on the native human synthetase that remain exposed when the enzyme is complexed to trna ( his ) . these data suggest that the native target autoantigen itself has played a direct role in selecting and sustaining the autoantibody response and sharply restrict the time and the way in which a molecular mimic might act to provoke autoantibodies . 
evolution of sequences encoding the principal neutralization epitope of human immunodeficiency virus 1 is host dependent , rapid , and continuous . the principal neutralization epitope of human immunodeficiency virus 1 is localized in the third variable ( v3 ) domain of the external envelope and has been shown to bind isolate-specific antibodies . therefore , the extent of variation within the nucleic acid sequence encoding this epitope was studied in dna directly obtained from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of six children and their plasma donor . this revealed that the quasi-species distribution of sequences obtained after cloning varied from recipient to recipient and that the distance from the donor sequences increased over time . v3 nucleotide evolution rates averaged 9.5 x 10 ( -3 ) per site per year for silent sites and 11.4 x 10 ( -3 ) per site per year for nonsilent sites ( vs. 9.7 and 9.8 x 10 ( -3 ) per site per year for a control region 5 ' adjacent to the v3 region ) and , although individual differences were observed , did not correlate with the serum antigen levels or disease progression . sequences of both the epitope coding region itself ( v3 ) and the control region upstream diverted more from the donor sequence among children not progressing to aids than among children progressing to aids . the evolution of v3 sequences is apparently host dependent , rapid , and independent of the level of antigen expression . 
the neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders . care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery . if the clinical picture can not logically be explained by the radiologic findings , further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder . investigations may include electrophysiologic tests , transcranial magnetic stimulation , cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) analysis , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined . 
psychogenic purpura ( autoerythrocyte sensitization ) : an unsolved dilemma . experience at university hospitals of cleveland with 71 cases of gardner and diamond 's syndrome of autoerythrocyte sensitization is reviewed . gardner and diamond attributed the pathogenesis of the inflammatory bruises typical of this syndrome to sensitization to the stroma of the patients ' own erythrocytes , as demonstrated by reproduction of the lesion on intracutaneous injection of erythrocytic stroma . nearly all the cases my colleagues and i have seen were in adult women , in whom the onset of inflammatory bruising could often be precisely dated , frequently some weeks after an injury or surgical procedure or , more often , severe emotional stress . bouts of bruising were often preceded by sensations localized to the affected site . cutaneous responses to the injection of erythrocytes were erratic . the patients described a wide range of both hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic complaints , including , among others , severe headaches , paresthesias , repeated syncope , diplopia ( sometimes monocular ) , and " nervousness . " psychiatric studies indicated that patients had overt depression , sexual problems , feelings of hostility , and obsessive-compulsive behavior . the patients had traits that can be described as typical of a hysterical character disorder . therapy of autoerythrocyte sensitization -- that is , psychogenic purpura -- has been difficult ; in younger individuals , psychiatric therapy has appeared to be beneficial . 
aggressive non-hodgkin 's lymphomas in aids : the university of colorado experience . the authors performed this retrospective study to further investigate the relationship between non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) and the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . from january 1984 through december 1987 all cases of aids and nhl diagnosed at the university of colorado affiliated hospitals were identified and submitted to chart review . twenty-five patients fulfilled criteria for the diagnosis of aids and 24 had biopsy-proven nhl , an additional patient met criteria for the diagnosis of primary central nervous system lymphoma and was included in the analysis . all patients had known risk factors for the development of aids . of the biopsy proven tumors , 23 were categorized as high grade . most patients ( 68 % ) presented with stage iv disease and 92 % with extra nodal involvement . median survival was 5 months and the cause of death was most often progressive lymphoma and/or opportunistic infections . these data are similar to previously published series . clinical trials to evaluate effective treatment are warranted . 
thymoma : results of 241 operated cases clinical and histopathological aspects of 241 thymomas were reviewed . one hundred sixty of the patients with thymoma had myasthenia gravis and 15 had other autoimmune diseases ; 55 % of the thymomas were encapsulated and 45 % invasive . operation was radical resection in 87.5 % of the patients , subtotal resection with residual tumor in 8.7 % , and simple biopsy in 3.7 % . a tumor relapse was observed in 24 patients ( 10 % ) : 2 ( 1.5 % ) of 133 with encapsulated thymomas and 22 ( 20.4 % ) of 108 with invasive thymomas ; among these patients , a relapse was found in 20.6 % of the patients who received radiotherapy postoperatively and in 24.6 % who did not . adverse prognostic factors were clinical stage iva ( multiple pleural nodes ) , not feasible resection ( for technical reasons ) , inoperable tumor relapse , and association with one of the following autoimmune diseases : pure red cell aplasia , hypogammaglobulinemia , and lupus erythematosus . conversely , myasthenia gravis is now a curable disease ; it contributes to early discovery of associated thymoma , thus allowing a better survival for patients with thymoma who have myasthenia gravis compared with patients with thymoma but without myasthenia gravis ( p less than 0.05 ) . postoperative radiotherapy does not seem necessary after removal of encapsulated thymomas , but it is advisable in case of invasive thymomas , regardless of the extent of the resection . 
risk stratification of ambulatory patients suspected of pneumocystis pneumonia . to determine whether aspects of clinical history , physical examination , and laboratory studies improve the diagnostic accuracy of the chest roentgenogram in the diagnosis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) , we followed up 302 consecutive patients with respiratory symptoms and risk factors for human immunodeficiency virus . of the 279 patients ( 92 % ) with follow-up information available , 31 ( 11 % ) were diagnosed with pcp . only 68 % of patients with pcp had typical chest roentgenograms . regression analysis identified four independent predictors of pcp : diffuse or perihilar infiltrates , presence of mouth lesions , lactate dehydrogenase level more than 220 u/l , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate 50 mm/h or more . using these four predictors , patients could be stratified into low - , intermediate - , and high-risk groups for pcp . we suggest that examination of the mouth , chest roentgenogram , lactate dehydrogenase level , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate be part of the evaluation of ambulatory patients with respiratory symptoms at risk for human immunodeficiency virus . 
effect of race on expression of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated nephropathy . the prevalence of renal disease associated with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is unknown , but appears to vary in different regions . centers in new york , ny , and miami , fla , have reported patients with renal disease complicating aids . these populations have included large proportions of black patients and intravenous drug abusers . reports from san francisco , calif , have suggested the prevalence of renal disease complicating aids is low , but the population was composed primarily of white patients , with a low proportion of drug abusers . the george washington university medical center was the site of treatment for 31.4 % of the patients with aids in washington , dc . this population was split roughly evenly between black and white patients . a retrospective survey of patients with both aids and renal disease revealed approximately two thirds of the patients were black , reflecting the demographics of the population with aids ; 11 % of patients had intravenous drug abuse as a risk factor for the development of aids ; and 74 % had acute renal failure . of these patients , approximately equal proportions were black and white . twenty-six percent of the population had chronic renal failure , but the overwhelming proportion were black . there were no differences between proportions of patients in age , sex , race , or risk factors in patients with acute renal failure and chronic renal failure , but there was a significant difference in the proportions of black and white patients with chronic renal failure . the reason for these differences is unknown , but differences in host responses to viral proteins , physiologic adaptations , or socioeconomic factors in these populations may play an important role in mediating the expression of renal disease in individual patients . 
lower extremity arterial disease in systemic lupus erythematosus . lupus vasculitis primarily affects microvascular circulation , and large-vessel thrombosis is a rare complication of this disease . large-vessel occlusive disease in systemic lupus erythematosus is most likely related to hypercoagulability in addition to immune complex-mediated endothelial damage . we describe the 11th and 12th patients reported to have systemic lupus erythematosus and macrovascular occlusive disease of the lower extremities . our experience and a review of the literature suggest that , while aortoiliac disease is amenable to bypass or endarterectomy , infrainguinal disease is rarely correctable surgically , and amputation becomes necessary in most of these patients . 
comparison of median and posterior tibial nerve somatosensory evoked potentials in ambulatory patients with definite multiple sclerosis . somatosensory evoked potentials ( seps ) were recorded for stimulation of both median nerves and both posterior tibial nerves in control subjects and in subjects with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) of several years ' duration , who were ambulatory and not experiencing exacerbation . documentation of peripheral nerve conduction revealed no abnormalities in any of the subjects . centrally , abnormal responses to median and posterior tibial nerve stimulation were found at the spinal level and/or the scalp in nearly all ms patients . using the latency of the initial negativity of scalp seps , posterior tibial seps were abnormal significantly more often than median seps . calculations suggested a significant increase in spinal conduction time . the high incidence of abnormal seps does not support any substantial physiological recovery in this group of ms patients . 
in vitro characterization of a biologically active molecular clone of hiv-2nih-z containing a nef deletion and expressing a full-length transmembrane protein . we have previously described the cloning and sequencing of a novel stain of human immunodeficiency virus type 2 ( hiv-2 ) called hiv-2nih-z . a plasmid clone , phiv2z , containing the full-length provirus has now been constructed , and virus particles have been obtained upon transfection into cos-1 and h-9 cells . these particles can infect a number of t-cell lines and exert a cytopathic effect on fresh human and macaque peripheral blood lymphocytes . the cloned virus is biologically and morphologically indistinguishable from its parental uncloned strain as shown by restriction enzyme analysis , electron microscopy , and kinetics of infection . however , as shown by radioimmunoprecipitation assays , the cloned virus-infected cells express a full-length gp41 protein as predicted by the nucleotide sequence , whereas the wild-type parental strain expresses a truncated gp33 protein . both the parental strain and the cloned virus possess a deletion encompassing the end of the nef gene within the u3 region which apparently does not affect their in vitro cytopathic and replicative capacities . 
erythema multiforme major in a 2-month-old child with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . a case is presented of severe erythema multiforme occurring in a 2-month-old boy from zimbabwe which was probably triggered by phenobarbitone . he later developed the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and serological tests suggested that it was a congenital hiv-i infection . 
angiotropic b-cell lymphoma ( malignant angioendotheliomatosis ) : failure of systemic chemotherapy . a 65-year-old female with angiotropic b-cell lymphoma is reported . despite the absence of systemic involvement on formal staging and the favourable response of the cutaneous lesions to triple systemic chemotherapy with prednisolone , vincristine and cyclophosphamide , postmortem findings showed that death was due to widespread disease dissemination . 
donor leukocyte transfusions for treatment of recurrent chronic myelogenous leukemia in marrow transplant patients . three patients with hematologic relapse after bone marrow transplantation for chronic myelogenous leukemia were treated with interferon alpha and transfusion of viable donor buffy coat . all had complete hematologic and cytogenetic remission , which persisted 32 to 91 weeks after treatment . in two patients graft-versus-host disease developed and was treated by immunosuppression . these results are an example of adoptive immunotherapy without cytoreductive chemotherapy or radiotherapy in human chimeras . 
lack of evidence for infection of or effect on growth of hematopoietic progenitor cells after in vivo or in vitro exposure to human immunodeficiency virus . the pathogenesis of the hematologic abnormalities commonly observed in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is incompletely understood . we report here that in vitro growth of myeloid ( cfu-gm ) and erythroid ( bfu-e ) progenitor cells from six patients with aids was not significantly different from that of normal human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) seronegative donors : 25.3 + / - 5 cfu-gm per 5 x 10 ( 4 ) low density marrow cells and 33.5 + / - 5 bfu-e were observed in aids patients versus 32.7 + / - 5 cfu-gm and 42.1 + / - 5 bfu-e in controls . furthermore , no hiv-dna in individual colonies ( cfu-gm and bfu-e ) could be detected using the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) technique , although hiv-1 dna was detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from the same patients . similarly , normal bone marrow cells exposed in vitro to different isolates of hiv or recombinant purified hiv-1 envelope glycoprotein ( gp ) 120 did not exhibit any difference in growth of cfu-gm or bfu-e as compared with mock exposed bone marrow cells . hiv-1 dna could not be detected by the pcr technique in individual colonies derived from hiv exposed marrow . this study suggests that committed myeloid and erythroid progenitors from aids patients are responsive to hematopoietic growth factors in vitro and do not appear to contain hiv-1 dna . also , hiv or its envelope gp did not alter the growth of hematopoietic progenitor cells in vitro . no evidence of hiv infection of progenitor cells could be demonstrated . impaired hematopoiesis in patients with aids may not be related to direct effects of hiv on committed progenitor cells . 
expression of leukocyte alkaline phosphatase gene in normal and leukemic cells : regulation of the transcript by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor . the levels of leukocyte alkaline phosphatase ( lap ) messenger rna ( mrna ) are evaluated in b and t lymphocytes , monocytes , and polymorphonuclear cells ( pmns ) , and this transcript is found to be present only in pmns . precursors of the myelomonocytic pathway , represented by leukemic cells isolated from several cases of chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) in its stable and blastic phase and acute myelogenous leukemia ( aml ) , are devoid of lap transcript . these data support the notion that lap is a marker of the granulocyte terminal differentiation . despite the absence of lap mrna in both the myeloid and the lymphoid precursors , nuclear run-on experiments show constitutive transcription of the lap gene in leukemic cells obtained from aml , cml , as well as acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) and b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( b-cll ) . in cml and in chronic myelo-monocytic leukemia ( cmml ) pmns , granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) specifically accumulates lap mrna without showing a substantial increase in the rate of transcription of the lap gene . once increased by g-csf , lap mrna is very stable , showing a half-life of more than 4 hours in the presence of actinomycin-d . g-csf is suggested to play a pivotal role in the modulation of lap transcript in pmns . 
monoclonal antibody to the interferon-inducible protein leu-13 triggers aggregation and inhibits proliferation of leukemic b cells . interferon ( ifn ) - alpha inhibits dna synthesis stimulated by low molecular weight b-cell growth factor ( bcgf ) in hairy cells in vitro , suggesting that the therapeutic efficacy of ifn-alpha in hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) involves growth inhibition of malignant b cells . evidence that the 16-kd cell surface protein leu-13 mediates an antiproliferative signal in t lymphocytes and is ifn-inducible in endothelial cells prompted us to examine the expression and functional role of this molecule in leukemic b cells . leu-13 density , determined by flow cytometry , was upregulated in vitro and in vivo by ifn-alpha on malignant b cells from patients with hcl , chronic lymphocytic leukemia , and prolymphocytic leukemia . monoclonal anti-leu-13 triggered homotypic aggregation of leukemic b cells via an adhesion pathway that was not inhibited by antibodies to leukocyte function associated antigen-1 ( lfa-1 ) or intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) . moreover , anti-leu-13 potentiated the inhibitory effects of ifn-alpha on bcgf-stimulated dna synthesis , assessed by [ 3h ] - thymidine and [ 3h ] - deoxyadenosine incorporation into dna . these results indicate that leu-13 is part of a novel ifn-inducible signaling pathway which may modify the growth and adhesive properties of leukemic b cells under physiologic or therapeutic conditions . 
t ( 3 ; 21 ) ( q26 ; q22 ) : a recurring chromosomal abnormality in therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia . we have identified an identical reciprocal translocation between the long arms of chromosomes 3 and 21 with breakpoints at bands 3q26 and 21q22 , [ t ( 3 ; 21 ) ( q26 ; q22 ) ] , in the malignant cells from five adult patients with therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome ( t-mds ) or acute myeloid leukemia ( t-aml ) . primary diagnoses were hodgkin 's disease in two patients and ovarian carcinoma , breast cancer , and polycythemia vera in one patient each . patients had been treated with chemotherapy including an alkylating agent for their primary disease 1 to 18 years before the development of t-mds or t-aml . we have not observed the t ( 3 ; 21 ) in over 1,500 patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukemia arising de novo or in over 1,000 patients with lymphoid malignancies . we have previously reported that the t ( 3 ; 21 ) occurs in philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) . thus , the t ( 3 ; 21 ) appears to be limited to t-mds/t-aml and cml , both of which represent malignant disorders of an early hematopoietic precursor cell . these results provide a new focus for the study of therapy-related leukemia at the molecular level . 
reduction of graft failure by a monoclonal antibody ( anti-lfa-1 cd11a ) after hla nonidentical bone marrow transplantation in children with immunodeficiencies , osteopetrosis , and fanconi 's anemia : a european group for immunodeficiency/european group for bone marrow transplantation report . forty-six infants and children suffering from either inherited immunodeficiency disorders ( wiskott-aldrich syndrome , functional t-cell immunodeficiency with or without hla class ii expression deficiency ) , malignant osteopetrosis , or fanconi 's anemia received hla-nonidentical bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) from related donors . bone marrow was t-cell depleted to reduce the risk of graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) . to prevent graft failure , a mouse monoclonal antibody specific for the cd11a-lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 ( lfa-1 ) molecule was infused into the patients . eleven patients received five infusions of 0.1 mg/kg every other day from day -3 to +5 . thirty-five patients received 0.2 mg/kg daily from day -3 to +6 . the overall sustained engraftment rate was 72 % instead of 26.1 % in a historical control group of 24 patients similarly treated except for the infusion of the anti-lfa-1 antibody . no late rejection occurred . the t-cell depletion method ( e-rosetting or campath im plus complement ) resulted in different rate of engraftment ( 83.3 % v 57.9 % , respectively , p = .05 ) . engraftment rate was slightly but not significantly influenced by the degree of hla incompatibility between donor and recipient . acute gvhd of grade ii or more occurred in 35.5 % of the patients and the rate of chronic gvhd was 12.9 % . the overall actuarial survival rate with a functional graft is 47.3 % with a mean follow-up of 28.0 months for patients with immunodeficiency and osteopetrosis , while none of the four patients with fanconi 's anemia survived . the development of full t-cell functions took on the average 6 months and of full b-cell functions 10 months . significant infectious problems developed in the majority of the patients during the posttransplant course . epstein-barr virus-induced b-cell proliferative syndromes were observed in seven patients , six of whom had wiskott-aldrich syndrome . correction of immunodeficiency was comparable in terms of kinetics and quality with that observed in patients with severe combined immunodeficiency undergoing hla-nonidentical bmt . correction of osteopetrosis appears not to be different from what has been observed after hla-identical bmt . the in vivo use of an anti-cd11a-lfa-1 antibody as an additional immunosuppressive therapy in hla-nonidentical bmt may thus promote engraftment and survival with correction of the primary disease in a significant number of patients with life-threatening immunodeficiency and osteopetrosis , but not with fanconi 's anemia . 
response rates and survival in primary systemic amyloidosis . patients ( 153 ) with biopsy-proven primary systemic amyloidosis ( al ) were evaluated for their response rate to alkylating agent-based chemotherapy . twenty-seven of the patients ( 18 % ) responded . the serum creatinine concentration had an adverse effect on response rate ( p = .05 ) . in patients with nephrotic syndrome , a normal serum creatinine value , and no echocardiographic evidence of cardiac amyloidosis , the response rate was 39 % ( 12 of 31 ) . five of 34 patients with amyloid cardiomyopathy responded . two of these five are alive 10 years after diagnosis . none of the 18 patients with amyloid peripheral neuropathy showed regression of their disease . the median time to achieve response was 11.7 months . the median survival of the 27 patients was 89.4 months and 21 of 27 survived 5 years ( 78 % ) . eight patients remain alive with a minimum follow-up of 90 months . seven died of acute leukemia or dysmyelopoietic syndrome , a presumed complication of melphalan therapy . in the group of 126 patients who showed no response to alkylating agent-based therapy , the median survival was 14.7 months and 9 ( 7 % ) survived over 5 years . all 126 patients have died . alkylating agent-based chemotherapy for al is beneficial in a subset of patients and a trial of chemotherapy is strongly recommended . those patients who do respond demonstrate survival benefit . 
retinoic acid receptors in myeloid leukemia : characterization of receptors in retinoic acid-resistant k-562 cells . although mrna for the retinoic acid receptor alpha ( rar-alpha ) is expressed in many different myeloid leukemias , most of these leukemia cells exhibit little if any phenotypic response when exposed to retinoic acid ( ra ) . to determine whether such ra resistance is related to altered ra receptor structure or function , we performed a detailed analysis of nuclear ra receptors in ra-resistant k-562 cells . these cells exhibit ra receptors of the same approximate molecular weight and similar kd as those exhibited by the ra-sensitive hl-60 leukemia cell line , but the number of ra receptors in the ra-resistant k-562 cells ( 80 per cell ) is significantly lower than that exhibited by ra-sensitive hl-60 cells ( 550 per cell ) . retroviral-mediated transduction of rar-alpha cdna into k-562 significantly increased the number of ra receptors to 2,000 per cell . these rar-alpha-transduced k-562 cells , when incubated with ra , exhibit diminished cell proliferation associated with decreased c-myc expression and an accumulation of cells in g0/g1 . in addition , these ra-treated cells exhibit downregulation of the cd15 surface antigen and a slight increase in hemoglobin production but manifest no other evidence of significant erythroid , megakaryocytic , or myeloid differentiation . these results indicate that an elevated number of nuclear ra receptors can be involved in altering proliferation but not necessarily the differentiation of certain ra-treated myeloid leukemia cells . 
remission induction and continuation therapy in children with their first relapse of acute lymphoid leukemia . a pediatric oncology group study . between january 1979 and april 1983 , 113 children undergoing their first relapse of acute lymphoid leukemia ( all ) at any site were registered in pediatric oncology group study 7834 ; 98 were eligible and evaluable . in addition to radiotherapy administered to sites of local relapse , induction consisted of vincristine , doxorubicin , and prednisone ( vap ) chemotherapy . continuation therapy consisted of triple-drug intrathecal therapy and regimens of 6-thioguanine and cytarabine alternating with vincristine , prednisone , cyclophosphamide , and cytarabine . randomization in continuation was between vap pulses or no pulse , regardless of the site of relapse . this report provides long-term follow-up of these patients . thirty-two of 39 children with bone marrow involvement achieved a complete response ( cr ) . only one of these is alive in an unmaintained remission , a child who did not have an initial cr . thirty-four of 36 evaluable children with central nervous system involvement as the site of relapse achieved cr . of these ten are alive ; eight are in continuing cr . nineteen of 20 boys with testicular relapse achieved cr . of these , 14 are still alive and not receiving therapy , although only one half received treatment in compliance with the protocol described . these results illustrate the possibility of cure of patients who have relapsed with all when it is ( 1 ) confined to a meningeal or gonadal site and ( 2 ) treated vigorously with radiotherapy and a new regimen of systemic chemotherapy . the results reconfirm the need to prevent an initial relapse at any site . 
t-cell lymphoma and mature nephroblastoma after synchronous bilateral wilms ' tumor . a 15-year-old boy had lymphoblastic lymphoma of the left tonsil after being treated for bilateral wilms ' tumor ( bwt ) at 7 months of age . in addition , a fully differentiated wilms ' tumor was diagnosed in the remaining , partially nephrectomized left kidney . development of second malignancies in patients with a history of bwt , as compared with those with unilateral wilms ' tumor , is discussed . a possible explanation for the concurrently diagnosed , fully differentiated wilms ' tumor in the remaining left kidney is suggested . 
in situ hybridization for the detection of epstein-barr virus in central nervous system lymphomas . epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) has been implicated in the development of lymphomas in immunocompromised patients . to test this hypothesis , 26 lymphomas involving the central nervous system ( cns ) ( 11 primary , 15 systemic ) were studied for the presence of ebv . in situ hybridization ( ish ) was performed on formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissue using a sulfur 35 ( 35s ) - labeled ebv probe ( ebv bamh1-w ) . the results were interpreted without knowledge of the patients ' immunologic status . the ebv sequences were detected in 11 lymphomas , nine of which were mixed or large cell subtypes . review of the clinical information revealed that nine of the 26 lymphomas occurred in immunocompromised patients secondary to renal transplantation , human immunodeficiency virus infection , leukemia , and wiskott-aldrich syndrome . the ebv sequences were detected in all nine lymphomas occurring in immunocompromised patients , whereas two of the 17 lymphomas occurring in immunocompetent patients expressed ebv sequences . the authors conclude that the presence of ebv sequences in cns lymphomas is highly correlated with a history of compromised immune status supporting a pathogenetic role of ebv in the development of cns lymphomas in immunocompromised patients . 
long-term survival in ki-1 lymphoma . three patients with histologic and immunologic features of ki-1-positive large cell lymphoma , who experienced long-term survival , are presented . these three patients at 2 , 28 , and 49 years of age had adenopathy ; all cases had been initially misdiagnosed as metastatic carcinoma or malignant histiocytosis . on subsequent review , they had sinusal and diffuse growth of large pleomorphic cells that were ber-h2 ( ki-1 ; cd 30 ) positive . one case marked as a t-cell lymphoma with uchl1 , one case expressed t-cell and b-cell markers , and one case was negative for both t-cell and b-cell markers . all patients received chemotherapy , and two received local radiation . one patient was not treated until 9 years after initial diagnosis . two patients had several recurrences , but there has been no evidence of lymphoma in any of the three patients for 63 to 301 months ; overall survival time has ranged from 14 to 25 years . these cases are the longest reported survivors with ki-1 lymphoma ; 5 years was the longest survival time previously reported . it also is noteworthy that ber-h2 and other lymphoid-associated antigens appear to be preserved in formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tissues for prolonged periods . this may allow retrospective studies to evaluate the natural history of ki-1 lymphomas , as well as their spontaneous or treatment-induced regression . 
clinical characteristics of high-grade lymphomas with immune genes in germline configuration . in a prospective study of 42 high-grade lymphomas which were categorized according to the kiel classification , the clinical significance of immune genotyping was studied . immunoglobulin ( ig ) and t-cell receptor ( tcr ) gene rearrangements were investigated . in 33 cases the immune genotype confirmed the phenotype . in one case with equivocal phenotype a tcr beta-chain rearrangement proved the t-cell origin of the lymphoma . none of the cases showed a bigenotype . there were eight lymphomas with immunoglobulin and tcr beta-chain and gamma-chain genes in germline configuration , which were divided into a group of immature lymphomas and a group of lymphomas with a more mature phenotype . the immature lymphomas had widespread disease , rapid progression , and favorable prognosis after intensive chemotherapy . the group of t-cell and ki-1 lymphomas with null-cell genotype was clinically heterogeneous . three of four cases were secondary lymphomas after lymphomatoid papulosis , lymphomatoid granulomatosis , or hodgkin 's disease . all cases presented with extranodal involvement . only one of these patients is in continuous remission . in conclusion , the lack of immunoglobulin and tcr beta-chain and gamma-chain gene rearrangements does not exclude the diagnosis of high-grade malignant lymphoma , especially in cases with unusual extranodal involvement . however , the dna analysis identifies a null-cell genotype subset of high-grade lymphomas which may have clinical significance . 
pregnancy outcome in hematologic malignancies . by means of a mail questionnaire , information on a series of 56 pregnancies i in 48 women diagnosed with leukemia or lymphoma was collected from ten hospitals . seven patients conceived while receiving treatment for their neoplasms ; in 22 patients , the hematologic disease was diagnosed during pregnancy , and the remaining 27 patients became pregnant after completion of the antineoplastic treatment . when a comparison was made of the evolution of these pregnancies to that of pregnancies in a healthy population , no increase in the incidence of complications was observed : 64 % of the pregnancies went to term , 9 % resulted in spontaneous abortion , and 5 % resulted in premature births . the observed incidence of one major malformation in 56 pregnancies did not differ from the frequency of malformations in the offspring of healthy individuals . there were no fetal losses in six pregnancies in which conception occurred during the first year after chemotherapy . in spite of the inherent limitations derived from the design of this type of study and the type of subject analyzed , the data here support the hypothesis that the cytostatic treatment of hematologic malignancies , if deemed necessary , should not be postponed because of pregnancy . moreover , the authors agree with advice recommending that no antifolic or alkylating agents be used for prolonged periods and that radiotherapy be avoided , especially to those fields involving the pelvic area . 
carbamazepine-induced antinuclear antibodies and systemic lupus erythematosus-like syndrome . a 20-year-old woman developed a systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) - like syndrome and a positive antinuclear antibody ( ana ) soon after initiation of carbamazepine ( cbz ) therapy . symptoms and serology became normal after cbz was discontinued . cbz-induced sle is an important but underecognized phenomenon . 
heterogeneity of autoantibodies against thyroid peroxidase in autoimmune thyroid disease : evidence against antibodies directly inhibiting peroxidase activity as regulatory factors in thyroid hormone metabolism . the close relationship between thyroid microsomal antigen and thyroid peroxidase ( tpo ) is now well established . the present study evaluates the significance of autoantibodies against tpo ( anti-tpo-abs ) in the various forms and stages of autoimmune thyroid disease with respect to a possible heterogeneous nature and particularly to their influence on tpo activity . when measured by a ria using purified human tpo , anti-tpo-abs were highly correlated with microsomal antibodies determined by enyzme-linked immunosorbant assay ( r = 0.96 ; p less than 0.0001 ) and with the results of a tpo immunoprecipitation assay using crude microsomal preparations ( r = 0.76 ; p less than 0.001 ) . relating the results of these assays to the reactivities of patients ' sera with thyroid microsomes in immunoblot under nonreducing and reducing conditions , discordant results could be observed in a few cases . further analysis of these data indicate a heterogeneous nature of anti-tpo-abs , which react with at least two antigenic domains of the tpo molecule . the comparative analysis of patients with hyperthyroid graves ' disease , patients with graves ' disease in clinical remission , and patients with hypothyroid hashimoto 's thyroiditis revealed no significant differences in the antibody spectrum . when evaluating the direct influence of anti-tpo-abs on the activity of tpo under a rigorous methodological approach , we found no significant inhibition of the enzymatic activity by any of the sera investigated from patients with autoimmune thyroid disease compared to that in sera from normal controls . in conclusion , the data indicate a heterogeneous nature of anti-tpo-abs . the spectrum of antigenic epitopes recognized by anti-tpo-abs seems not to be significantly different in the various forms and stages of autoimmune thyroid disease . the lack of an inhibitory effect of autoantibodies on tpo activity argues against direct binding of autoantibodies to the enzymatic sites of tpo and indicates that they are not important factors in producing thyroid dysfunction in autoimmune thyroid disease . 
thyroid ultrasonography helps to identify patients with diffuse lymphocytic thyroiditis who are prone to develop hypothyroidism . the clinical usefulness of thyroid ultrasonography in the evaluation of patients with autoimmune thyroiditis has been investigated . thyroid ultrasonography was performed in 1184 consecutive patients attending our clinic , and the echo density of the thyroid parenchyma was evaluated with respect to that of normal thyroid tissue . diffuse thyroid hypoechogenicity was found in 44 of 238 ( 18.5 % ) patients with autoimmune thyroiditis ; the degree of hypoechogenicity was significantly correlated with the levels of circulating thyroid autoantibodies . thyroid function was normal in all 194 patients with normal thyroid echogenicity , whereas hypothyroidism was found in 28 of 44 ( 63.6 % ) with reduced thyroid echogenicity . included in this group were 8 patients , euthyroid at the first observation , who developed hypothyroidism over an 18-month follow-up period . none of the 133 patients with autoimmune thyroiditis and normal thyroid echogenicity followed for the same period of time became hypothyroid . evidence of diffuse lymphocytic thyroiditis was obtained by histology after thyroidectomy ( n = 10 ) or multiple fine needle aspiration cytology ( n = 15 ) in 25 of the 44 patients with thyroid hypoechogenicity ; on the other hand , focal thyroiditis was shown at histology in 8 patients who had normal thyroid echogenicity . in conclusion , diffuse low thyroid echogenicity was found in about 20 % of patients with autoimmune thyroiditis . this echographic pattern is indicative of diffuse autoimmune involvement of the gland and is associated with or may predict the development of hypothyroidism . 
primary lymphoma of the liver : clinical and pathological features of 10 patients . nine out of 10 patients with primary lymphoma of the liver presented in a manner that did not suggest a tumour . the initial diagnoses were chronic active hepatitis in three cases and " granulomatous cholangitis " , inflammatory pseudotumour , and anaplastic carcinoma in one case each . moreover , extensive haemorrhagic necrosis in three cases initially suggested the budd-chiari syndrome . all the tumours were diffuse non-hodgkin 's lymphomas like the 50 cases reported previously , but they differed from most of these in that nine were of t cell phenotype . five were pleomorphic small t cell , two t zone , and two t lymphoblastic lymphomas : only one was centrocytic and of b cell lineage . this report extends the range of clinical manifestations ( diffuse hepatomegaly without a tumour ) , histological appearances ( resemblance to chronic inflammatory or vascular liver diseases ) and phenotype ( of t cell lineage ) of primary lymphoma of the liver : these features seemed to be related in this series . recognition is important as prognosis remains favourable in appropriately treated cases . although the appearances of the liver biopsy specimens may be difficult to interpret , the destructiveness of the infiltrate is an important clue to the diagnosis . 
bronchopulmonary involvement in ulcerative colitis . we report two cases of pulmonary involvement in ulcerative colitis . the first patient , a 37-year-old woman , had bilateral basal bronchiectasis full of mucopurulent secretion , with a marked improvement of pulmonary function and roentgenographic appearance after a conservative approach . the second patient had severe pulmonary fibrosis of autoimmune nature and died owing to a pulmonary infection . in the second patient , a sulfasalazine reaction as an etiologic factor was excluded , while in the first this possibility seemed unlikely . therefore , we take these two cases as examples of the extraintestinal manifestations of ulcerative colitis . 
do nurses or doctors have an increased risk of developing multiple sclerosis ? a cluster of multiple sclerosis ( ms ) patients has been reported in seven of 307 nurses in key west , florida . the ms death rates in british nurses and qualified medical practitioners were looked at and no increased mortality from multiple sclerosis was found . neither was there an increase in mortality from motor neuron disease ( amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ) , the control disease . death rates from ms vary with social class , being highest in social class iiin ( skilled non-manual ) and lowest in social class ii ( intermediate ) . these different rates may be due to ms causing health related occupational mobility . allowance for the inter-class variability in ms death rates did not materially affect the conclusion that death from ms appears to be no more common than expected among nurses and doctors than in the general population . possible explanations for the cluster of multiple sclerosis among nurses in key west are discussed . 
multiple sclerosis in australia and new zealand : are the determinants genetic or environmental ? the prevalence of multiple sclerosis ( ms ) has been recently reported from nine regions of australia and new zealand . there is a marked variation of prevalence with latitude . ms is seven times more common in southern new zealand than in tropical queensland . on current evidence , it is suggested that in both countries this variation is predominantly due to environmental rather than genetic factors . 
multiple sclerosis among united kingdom-born children of immigrants from the indian subcontinent , africa and the west indies multiple sclerosis ( ms ) is very uncommon among ethnic asians in the indian subcontinent , among asians and africans resident in the new commonwealth countries of africa and in the west indies . it is also very uncommon among those who have migrated to england from those countries . in contrast , the children born in the united kingdom of asian , african and west indian immigrants have , in the age groups available for study , a high prevalence of ms of a similar order to that occurring in the general population of england . 
fulminant monophasic multiple sclerosis , marburg 's type . the clinical , neuroradiological and necropsy findings are described in a 49 year old woman with long-standing idiopathic pulmonary haemosiderosis and acute monophasic multiple sclerosis ( marburg 's type ) . progression of the demyelinating process produced blindness and paraplegia over three weeks . at five weeks , magnetic reasonance imaging ( mri ) studies showed lesions in the pons and left occipital lobe . the patient died 10 weeks after onset of symptoms . necropsy examination revealed acute plaques in the optic chiasm , and the white matter around the lateral and fourth ventricle and spinal cord . similarities between this and previously described cases of marburg 's disease are discussed . 
management of patients with thyroid carcinoma : application of thallium-201 scintigraphy and magnetic resonance imaging thyroid carcinoma has the ability to concentrate radioiodine , an attribute that can be used both for detection of thyroid cells and for treatment . unfortunately , however , radioiodine uptake is not observed in all patients and a radioiodine scan requires that the patient be rendered hypothyroid for 4-6 wk . in the present study , we analyzed the utility of thallium-201 scanning and the usefulness of magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in the detection of thyroid cancer . nineteen patients with thyroid cancer had a total of 24 radioiodine scans , 33 thallium scans , and 10 mri examinations . of the 19 patients in the study , 17 had differentiated thyroid carcinoma . in these 17 cases , all paired studies were concordant for the presence ( n = 7 ) or absence ( n = 10 ) of disease . however , in one case ( patient 10 ) , the 201tl studies showed far more extensive disease than was observed on the 131i scan . thyroid cancer was also detected on seven mri studies . in summary , thallium and mri scans are adjunctive techniques to radioiodine scanning that can either confirm the presence of neck bed activity , residual disease or metastatic cancer and may delineate tumor deposits not detected by radioiodine scanning . thallium may be capable of detecting tumor deposits even while a patient remains euthyroid . 
the use of formal prior directives among patients with hiv-related diseases . objective : to examine the knowledge of , counseling about , and use of prior directives among patients with hiv-related disease . design : cross-sectional survey with personal interviews that was part of the evaluation of a multi-site aids health services program . setting : outpatient clinics and aids community-based organizations . patients/participants : to be eligible for the survey , subjects had to be at least 18 years of age and enrolled in the aids health services program for at least one month . 1,031 clients were interviewed in nine communities . measurements and main results : of those surveyed , 61 % had thought a moderate or great amount about naming a proxy for health care decisions . the majority ( 68 % ) of the patients knew about prior directives , yet only 35 % had been counseled and only 28 % had a prior directive . of those counseled , physicians had counseled only 11 % ( 38/359 ) . gay/bisexual men were more likely to have been counseled and to have executed a prior directive than were others . counseling was associated with having obtained a prior directive . counseled subjects were 3.5 times more likely to have obtained a prior directive than were those not counseled . conclusions : a gap exists between subjects ' knowledge and implementation of prior directives . to help bridge this gap , the authors recommend that physicians not only attend to the technical aspects of patient care , but also determine patient values concerning life-sustaining therapy and counsel patients on prior directives . 
impairment of specific host defense mechanisms in patients with chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis . we studied both in vivo and in vitro specific host defense mechanisms in patients suffering from chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis ( n = 26 ) . the cell-mediated immunity in vivo was impaired as indicated by the reduced reactivity in the delayed type hypersensitivity skin test . the concanavalin a or phytohemagglutinin-induced t-cell proliferation in vitro was markedly decreased in comparison to healthy donors . in contrast , b-cell proliferation stimulated by staphylococcus aureus cowan i was not altered . while the absolute lymphocyte counts and the percentage of t , b , and o cells were within the normal range , nine out of the 26 patients showed a significantly diminished ratio of cd4 + and cd8 + t cells . humoral immunity in the patients was less affected as assessed by the unchanged serum levels of immunoglobulins ( ig ) . however , the t-cell dependent polyclonal ig synthesis after in vitro stimulation with pokeweed mitogen was suppressed . our results provide evidence that cell-mediated immune functions are predominantly impaired in patients with post-traumatic osteomyelitis which may contribute to the persistence of the localized bone infection . 
anaphylactoid reactions during hemodialysis on an69 membranes in patients receiving ace inhibitors . we report five life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions occurring within the very first minutes of hemodialysis on polyacrylonitrile ( an69 ) capillary dialyzers in three patients receiving ace inhibitors . such reactions were not observed either in patients treated with ace inhibitors but dialyzed on other membranes ( n = 9 ) , nor in patients on an69 who did not receive ace inhibitors ( n = 19 ) . these anaphylactoid reactions could be due to bradykinin accumulation , as a result of both increased synthesis -- by interaction of blood with the an69 polymer -- and catabolism blockade by ace inhibitors . 
cyclosporine for plaque-type psoriasis . results of a multidose , double-blind trial background . severe plaque-type psoriasis has been successfully treated with orally administered cyclosporine , but there has been no comparative , controlled evaluation of various dosages and their efficacy and side effects . methods . in a 16-week , double-blind trial , we randomly assigned 85 patients with severe psoriasis to receive 3 , 5 , or 7.5 mg of cyclosporine per kilogram of body weight per day or a placebo consisting of the vehicle for the drug . after eight weeks the dose could be adjusted to improve safety or efficacy while maintaining blinding . results . the psoriasis improved in a dose-dependent fashion . after eight weeks of fixed-dose therapy , 36 , 65 , and 80 percent of the patients receiving 3 , 5 , and 7.5 mg of cyclosporine per kilogram per day , respectively , were rated as being clear or almost clear of psoriasis ; each group had significant improvement ( p less than 0.0001 ) as compared with the group receiving vehicle , in which none of the patients were rated as clear or almost clear . the patients who received 5 mg per kilogram were the least likely to require dosage adjustments because of side effects or a lack of efficacy . the glomerular filtration rate , measured in a subgroup of 34 patients receiving cyclosporine , decreased by a median of 16 percent . higher doses of cyclosporine had greater adverse effects on systolic blood pressure , glomerular filtration rate , and serum levels of creatinine , uric acid , bilirubin , and cholesterol . delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions to skin-test antigens were reduced by cyclosporine administration . cyclosporine appears to become concentrated in skin . conclusions . cyclosporine therapy leads to a rapid and thorough clearing of psoriasis ; an initial dose of 5 mg per kilogram per day seems to be appropriate . however , the safety of cyclosporine for the long-term treatment of psoriasis remains to be determined . 
respiratory arrest in near-fatal asthma background and methods . the majority of asthma-related deaths occur outside the hospital , and therefore the exact factors leading to the terminal event are difficult to ascertain . to examine the mechanisms by which patients might die during acute exacerbations of asthma , we studied 10 such patients who arrived at the hospital in respiratory arrest or in whom it developed soon ( within 20 minutes ) after admission . results . the characteristics of the group were similar to those associated in the literature with a high risk of death from asthma , including a long history of the disease in young to middle-aged patients , previous life-threatening attacks or hospitalizations , delay in obtaining medical aid , and sudden onset of a rapidly progressive crisis . extreme hypercapnia ( mean [ + / - sd ] partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide , 97.1 + / - 31.1 mm hg ) and acidosis ( mean [ + / - sd ] ph , 7.01 + / - 0.11 ) were found before mechanical ventilation was begun , and four patients had hypokalemia on admission . despite the severe respiratory acidosis , no patient had a serious cardiac arrhythmia during the resuscitation maneuvers or during hospitalization . we observed systemic hypertension and sinus tachycardia in eight patients , atrial fibrillation in one , and sinus bradycardia in another . in both patients with arrhythmia the heart reverted to sinus rhythm immediately after manual ventilation with 100 percent oxygen was begun . the median duration of mechanical ventilation was 12 hours , and all patients had normocapnia on discharge from the hospital . conclusions . we conclude that at least in this group of patients , the near-fatal nature of the exacerbations was the result of severe asphyxia rather than cardiac arrhythmias . these results suggest that undertreatment rather than overtreatment may contribute to an increase in mortality from asthma . 
persistent rectal ulcer associated with human papillomavirus type 33 in a patient with aids : successful treatment with isotretinoin . rectal dysplasia and carcinoma associated with human papillomavirus infection are increasing in prevalence among homosexual men , particularly those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . we report a case involving a 39-year-old homosexual man with aids who developed a persistent rectal ulcer . a biopsy of the ulcer revealed severe squamous dysplasia , and human papillomavirus type 33 was detected in rectal tissue with use of in situ dna hybridization . this genotype of virus has not been previously associated with anal or rectal dysplasia in homosexual men , including those infected with the human immunodeficiency virus . the rectal ulcer resolved after 2 months of oral therapy with 60 mg/d of isotretinoin , a retinoid . 
extrapulmonary pneumocystosis : the first 50 cases . over the last 35 years , 50 cases of extrapulmonary infection with pneumocystis carinii have been reported in the literature throughout the world . use of prophylactic aerosolized pentamidine may have facilitated the relative prevalence of extrapulmonary disease because of its inadequate systemic distribution . an increase in reported cases of infections due to p. carinii has been seen in conjunction with aids , but extrapulmonary pneumocystosis represents less than 1 % of all cases of infection with p. carinii . several organs or tissues may be involved , but the most common sites are lymph nodes , spleen , liver , and bone marrow . extrapulmonary spread of p. carinii infection occurs via both lymphatic and hematogenous routes . while all patients with disseminated forms of this infection die rapidly , survival for patients with aids is possible if systemic treatment is provided , if a single extrapulmonary site is involved , and if no concomitant pneumonia is present . because of the increasing frequency of this condition in patients who do not have pneumonia due to p. carinii , extrapulmonary pneumocystosis should be included among the aids-defining criteria . 
native valve endocarditis due to pseudallescheria boydii in a patient with aids : case report and review . a 53-year-old man with aids developed mitral valve endocarditis due to infection with the fungus pseudallescheria boydii . a limited number of cases of prosthetic valve endocarditis caused by this organism have been described . we report a unique case of pseudallescheria infection of a native valve and describe this disease in a patient with aids . 
inpatients with aids and aids-related complex : economic inpact on hospitals in north carolina . to determine the economic impact of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) or aids-related complex ( arc ) cases on north carolina hospitals , we collected inpatient data from all north carolina hospitals on charges and number of patients discharged with these diagnoses . more than 97 % of the state 's hospitals responded to the survey for the study year ( 1987-1988 ) . there were 540 aids/arc discharges from 58 north carolina general hospitals and 125 aids/arc discharges from 13 other types of hospitals , for a statewide total of 665 patients . the total general hospital charges for aids/arc inpatients in north carolina were approximately $ 7.7 million per year , and almost $ 2 million of these charges were uncompensated by any insurance . the greatest burden of cost for this care was borne disproportionately by 15 of the 58 general hospitals , accounting for 82 % of the discharges . 
pancreatic carcinoma in an elderly woman with an organic affective disorder and aids delusion . an elderly woman with symptoms of depression and an aids delusion was found also to have pancreatic carcinoma . i have discussed her case in conjunction with organic affective disorder , the evaluation of depression in the elderly , and suicide in the elderly . 
orbital inflammatory disease associated with systemic lupus erythematosus . orbital inflammatory disease in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus is rare and presents a diagnostic dilemma as well as a therapeutic challenge . ours appears to be the sixth such case reported in the literature . 
risk of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) transmission by blood transfusions before the implementation of hiv-1 antibody screening . the transfusion safety study group . little information is available regarding the risk of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection for patients transfused before routine anti-hiv-1 screening of blood donors was instituted in march 1985 . a model was developed for estimating both the proportion and the number of transfusion recipients in the san francisco bay area who were infected by hiv-1 during each of the 7 years preceding routine donor screening for anti-hiv-1 . the model is based on analysis of 1 ) donation histories of hiv-1-infected donors identified at the regional blood center ; 2 ) hiv-1 seroprevalence estimates for homosexual and bisexual men in san francisco ; and 3 ) hiv-1 infection and survival rates for recipients traced by the transfusion safety study and irwin memorial blood centers ' look back program . the incidence of transfusion-associated hiv-1 infection is estimated to have risen rapidly from the first occurrence in 1978 to a peak in late 1982 of approximately 1.1 percent per transfused unit . the decrease after 1982 coincided with the implementation of high-risk donor deferral measures . it is estimated that , overall , approximately 2135 transfusion recipients were infected with hiv-1 in the san francisco region alone . this number suggests a higher prevalence of transfusion-associated hiv-1 infection than has been generally recognized and indicates the need for continued tracing of potentially exposed recipients . the data also strongly support the effectiveness of early donor education and self-exclusion measures and emphasize the importance of continued research and development in this area . 
hepatobiliary manifestations of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) frequently develop hepatic dysfunction . although hepatic injury may indirectly result from malnutrition , hypotension , administered medications , sepsis , or other conditions , the hepatic injury is frequently due to opportunistic hepatic infection , directly related to aids . infection with mycobacterium avium intracellulare typically occurs in patients with advanced immunocompromise and with systemic symptoms due to widely disseminated infection . in contrast , hepatic tuberculosis often occurs with less advanced immunocompromise . cytomegaloviral infection may produce a hepatitis . cytomegaloviral and cryptosporidial infections have been implicated as causes of acalculous cholecystitis and of a secondary sclerosing cholangitis . about 10-20 % of patients with aids have chronic hepatitis b infection . these patients tend to develop minimal hepatic inflammation and necrosis . the clinical findings in patients with hepatic cryptococcal infection are usually due to concomitant extrahepatic infection . hepatic histoplasmosis usually develops as part of a widely disseminated infection with systemic symptoms . hepatic involvement by kaposi 's sarcoma is rarely documented ante mortem because an unguided liver biopsy is an insensitive diagnostic procedure . patients with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of the liver typically have lymphadenopathy , hepatomegaly , and systemic symptoms . as a pragmatic approach , patients with liver dysfunction and hiv-related disease should have a sonographic or computerized tomographic examination of the liver . patients with dilated bile ducts should undergo endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography because opportunistic infection may produce biliary obstruction . patients with a focal hepatic lesion should be considered for a guided liver biopsy . patients with a significantly elevated serum alkaline phosphatase level should be considered for a percutaneous liver biopsy . when performed for these indications , liver biopsy will demonstrate a significant disease involving the liver in about 50 % of patients with aids and in about 25 % of patients who are hiv seropositive but who are not known to have aids . the clinical impact of a diagnostic biopsy is blunted by a lack of efficacious therapy for many opportunistic infections . 
whipple 's disease can mimic chronic aids enteropathy . previous case reports have demonstrated that the intestinal pathology of mycobacterium avium-intracellulare ( mai ) infection in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) has a light microscopic appearance similar to whipple 's disease . this case report describes a 52-yr-old male patient with a clinical picture suggestive of aids , including diarrhea , weight loss , oral thrush , and intestinal cryptosporidiosis . the intestinal biopsy showed light microscopic features compatible with either mai or whipple 's disease , but electron microscopy confirmed the presence of the whipple bacillus . markers of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection were absent . although immune abnormalities have been reported in whipple 's disease , this is the first report of opportunistic infections complicating this condition . a useful clinical pearl emerges from this and other cases : aids can mimic whipple 's disease ; whipple 's disease can mimic aids . 
disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection with hepatic involvement in a patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . extrapulmonary infection with pneumocystis carinii ( p. carinii ) in aids patients is uncommon , and is often described only at postmortem examination . although most antemortem cases involve spread to the bone marrow or spleen , p. carinii involvement of other organs has only recently been described . despite the frequency of liver enzyme abnormalities in aids patients with a history of p. carinii pneumonia , p. carinii has been observed only rarely in the liver . we present a well-documented case of p. carinii involving the liver in an aids patient with p. carinii pneumonia and progressive liver enzyme abnormalities . we suggest that p. carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of aids-related liver disease . 
nodular regenerative hyperplasia : a cause of ascites and hepatomegaly after chemotherapy for leukemia . tender hepatomegaly and ascites occurred in a young woman receiving cytosine arabinoside and daunorubicin for acute myelogenous leukemia . whereas veno-occlusive disease was suspected clinically , liver biopsy showed nodular regenerative hyperplasia with no evidence of hepatic vein abnormalities . it is postulated that nodular regenerative hyperplasia can be initiated by hepatotoxicity of chemotherapy agents used to treat leukemia and/or that these agents exacerbate clinical manifestations of this histological abnormality . nodular regenerative hyperplasia should be added to the list of liver problems occurring in patients with leukemia . 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome : a pathologically documented case report . we report a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) in whom the acute onset of neurologic disorders and renal failure could be attributed to thrombotic microangiopathy . clinical , biological , and pathological features were compatible with the diagnosis of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) . such cases have been previously described , but histologically documented case reports are uncommon . 
association of psychiatric manifestations with antibodies to ribosomal p proteins in systemic lupus erythematosus . purpose : the goal of this study was to determine whether elevated serum levels of antibodies to ribosomal p proteins ( anti-p antibodies ) are associated with neuropsychiatric manifestations in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . additional experiments examined characteristics of these antibodies that might be associated with pathogenicity . patients and methods : a large number of serum samples were collected from patients with sle , control subjects with other rheumatic diseases , and normal individuals . at the time serum samples were obtained , patients with sle were categorized according to the presence of psychosis , depression , and other manifestations of central nervous system ( cns ) involvement . serum anti-p antibody activity was quantitated by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay utilizing a synthetic peptide corresponding to the major p protein epitope . results : in a group of 79 normal individuals , mean ( + / - se ) igg anti-p activity was 0.01 + / - 0.003 and no individuals had values greater than 3 sd above the mean . similar results were obtained measuring igm anti-p activity . normal levels were found in all sera from 21 patients with rheumatoid arthritis . of 119 patients demonstrating various patterns of antinuclear and anticytoplasmic antibody activity , elevated anti-p levels were found only in patients with sle . overall , 19 % of 269 patients with sle demonstrated elevated levels of igg or igm anti-p antibodies , including 14 % of 187 patients without and 29 % of 82 patients with neuropsychiatric manifestations . the frequency of positive test results varied greatly depending on the nature of the cns involvement . the frequency in patients with severe depression ( n = 8 ) and psychosis ( n = 29 ) was 88 % and 45 % , respectively , compared with only 9 % in patients with nonpsychiatric neurologic disease ( n = 45 ) . for the entire sle group , the odds ratio for the association of anti-p antibodies and severe psychiatric manifestations was 7.63 with a 95 % confidence interval of 3.61 to 16.14 . in a review of 187 patients with sle originally classified as not having severe psychiatric disease , seven of 10 patients being treated with antidepressant medications had elevated levels of anti-p antibodies . in serial studies , the serum level of anti-p antibodies appeared to correlate with the activity of psychiatric disease and did not correlate with the activity of other manifestations of sle . anti-p antibodies in nearly all patients were igg and directed primarily to the c-terminal 11 amino acids of the p protein . no difference in these characteristics was observed when patients with and without psychiatric manifestations were compared . paired serum and cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) samples were also obtained from eight patients with active neuropsychiatric disease . even when expressed as a fraction of the total igg present , anti-p activity was markedly lower in csf than in serum . conclusions : elevated levels of autoantibodies to the c-terminal region of ribosomal p proteins appear to be a specific marker for sle , and are associated with both severe depression and psychosis in this disease . this assay is easily reproducible and may help distinguish sle-induced psychiatric disease from that caused by other processes . 
aggressive primary gastrointestinal lymphomas : review of 91 patients treated with the lnh-84 regimen . a study of the groupe d'etude des lymphomes agressifs . purpose : patients with aggressive primary gastrointestinal lymphoma undergoing the lnh-84 chemotherapy regimen were analyzed to determine the efficacy of intensive combination chemotherapy , the role of surgical debulking in patients treated with combination chemotherapy , and the toxicity associated with each of these modalities . patients and methods : ninety-one patients with primary gastrointestinal lymphoma who participated in the prospective multicenter lnh-84 combination chemotherapy trial ( total number of patients in trial , 737 ) were analyzed . these 91 patients included 69 ( 76 % ) with diffuse large cell , nine ( 10 % ) with diffuse mixed , and seven ( 8 % ) with small noncleaved cell lymphoma . two patients ( 2 % ) had stage ie , 54 patients ( 59 % ) stage iie , and 35 patients ( 38 % ) stage iv disease ; all patients with stage ie , 22 with stage iie , and 18 with stage iv disease had bulky ( greater than or equal to 10 cm ) tumors . specific sites of gastrointestinal involvement included stomach ( 47 % ) , small bowel ( 38 % ) , ileocecum ( 14 % ) , colon ( 11 % ) , and rectum ( 7 % ) . although surgical resection was attempted in 71 patients ( 78 % ) , only 28 ( 31 % ) had complete tumor excision . all patients received three or four cycles of acvb ( defined in text ) induction therapy followed by sequential consolidation as previously described . results : responses to treatment in the 91 patients included 71 ( 78 % ) complete remissions , six ( 7 % ) partial remissions , five ( 5 % ) nonresponses , and nine ( 10 % ) deaths . with a median follow-up of 3 years , 10 patients ( 14 % ) have had relapses ; predicted 4-year disease-free survival of complete responders is 85 % and predicted 4-year survival of the entire group is 62 % . in patients with stage ie or iie disease , the complete response , survival , and disease-free survival rates were similar in those who underwent complete surgical resection or incomplete or no surgical resection prior to the administration of combination chemotherapy . prognostic factors predicting for survival in the 91 patients with primary gastrointestinal lymphoma were similar to those in the 646 other patients treated with the lnh-84 regimen . conclusions : patients with aggressive gastrointestinal lymphoma treated with intensive chemotherapy have outcomes and prognostic factors comparable to those of patients with similar-stage aggressive lymphoma without primary gastrointestinal involvement . surgical resection prior to the administration of combination chemotherapy did not influence the complete response rate , survival rate , or disease-free survival rate in this small group of patients . 
occupational exposure to hiv : frequency and rates of underreporting of percutaneous and mucocutaneous exposures by medical housestaff . purpose : to study the frequency of work-related exposures to human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected blood and reporting of exposures among medical housestaff . settings : three teaching hospitals where hiv infection is prevalent among patients . subjects : internal medicine interns and residents in training in 1988-1989 . methods : in a cross-sectional survey , house officers were asked to complete anonymously a questionnaire reviewing their past percutaneous and mucocutaneous exposure to blood products . results : nineteen percent of the respondents ( 16 of 86 ) recalled accidental exposure to hiv-infected blood , and 36 % ( 31 of 86 ) recalled exposure to blood from patients at high risk for having hiv infection . of the exposures recalled in the 12 months prior to the survey , 81 % ( 47 of 58 ) of all needlestick injuries and all ( nine of nine ) needlestick injuries from hiv-infected blood occurred in postgraduate year 1 or 2 trainees . only 30 % ( 31 of 103 ) of the needlestick injuries recalled by subjects were reported . the principal reasons for not reporting were time constraints , perception that the percutaneous injury did not represent a significant exposure , lack of knowledge about the reporting mechanism , and concern about confidentiality and professional discrimination . conclusions : medical housestaff are at substantial risk for occupational infection with hiv . a large proportion of internal medicine housestaff recall accidental exposure to blood during medical school and residency , and the majority of exposures were not reported . hospitals may be able to increase rates of reporting of percutaneous exposures to hiv by developing programs that are easy to access , efficient , and strictly confidential . 
human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression : a risk factor for human papillomavirus infection . in a group of 92 women with genital condylomata , 15 ( 16.3 % ) human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients were found , whereas no case was detected in a control group of 100 women . the relative risk was greater than 19.28 . human immunodeficiency-positive status was associated with other parameters : lower age and parity , major frequency of induced abortions , and sexually transmitted diseases . thus although human immunodeficiency-positive status seems to be a true risk factor in relation to the altered immunologic state , an indirect association can not be discarded . such patients should be screened closely for human papillomavirus infection and cervical cancer . among human immunodeficiency-positive women , a more resistant behavior of human papillomavirus-associated lesions was detected ( recurrence-persistence of 41.7 % versus 12 % ) , a fact that might also be in relation to the immunodepressed status . 
bronchial responsiveness is not increased by bronchoalveolar and bronchial lavage performed after allergen challenge . nonspecific bronchial responsiveness was studied in 23 allergic patients with a history of rhinitis and/or bronchial asthma who underwent fiberoptic bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar and bronchial lavage ( bal-bl ) 4h ( group a ) or 24 h ( group b ) after an allergen inhalation challenge . in all patients , the dose of methacholine causing an fev1 fall of 15 % ( pd15 ) was determined at baseline , 24 h before allergen challenge . methacholine bronchial challenge was repeated 1 h before bal-bl in patients of both groups and again 12 to 14 h after bal-bl in group a and 24 h after bal-bl in group b. in patients of group a , the values of methacholine pd15 after bal-bl were not significantly different from those determined before bal-bl . this was also the case in patients in whom bronchial responsiveness was increased after allergen challenge . in patients of group b , methacholine pd15 was significantly decreased after allergen challenge , and this decrease was correlated with the occurrence and the severity of the late asthmatic reaction . even in patients who showed dual asthmatic reactions and an increased responsiveness after allergen challenge , methacholine pd15 was not further decreased after bal-bl . these data support the safety of a procedure combining bronchial allergen challenge with bal-bl , which can be used for studies on the pathophysiology of bronchial asthma . 
the effect of inhaled corticosteroids on the maximal degree of airway narrowing to methacholine in asthmatic subjects . airway hyperresponsiveness in asthma is characterized by an increase in sensitivity and in maximal response to airway-narrowing stimuli . long-term therapy with inhaled corticosteroids is known to reduce airway hypersensitivity in asthmatic patients . to investigate whether these drugs also reduce the maximal degree of airway narrowing we studied the effects of inhaled budesonide on the maximal response plateau of the dose-response curve to inhaled methacholine in mildly asthmatic patients in whom a raised plateau could be measured . sixteen atopic patients with mild asthma were placed randomly into two parallel treatment groups to receive double-blindly either budesonide ( 400 micrograms twice daily ) or placebo , inhaled via a turbuhaler , for 4 wk . before treatment , after 2 and 4 wk of treatment , and after 2 and 4 wk of wash-out , complete dose-response curves to methacholine were obtained using a standardized 2-min tidal breathing method . the response was measured by fev1 , expressed in % fall from baseline . a plateau on the log dose-response curve was considered if three or more data points fell within a 5 % response range . the maximal response was obtained by averaging the values on the plateau ( mfev1 ) , and the sensitivity was calculated from the provocative concentration of methacholine , causing a 20 % fall in fev1 ( pc20 ) . after 4 wk of budesonide treatment , mean mfev1 decreased from 41.6 to 33.7 % fall ( p = 0.0004 ) . the changes in mfev1 were significantly different between placebo and budesonide ( p = 0.03 ) . the geometric mean pc20 increased from 3.4 to 6.3 mg/ml ( p = 0.02 ) , but the changes in pc20 were not different between the two groups ( p = 0.23 ) . 
thromboxane a2 biosynthesis in acute asthma and after antigen challenge . thromboxane a2 is a potent bronchial smooth muscle spasmogen in vitro , and it has been implicated in airway inflammation and in the genesis of bronchial hyperresponsiveness in asthma . we have examined the urinary excretion of a variety of products derived from thromboxane a2 ( thromboxane b2 , 2,3-dinor , and 11-dehydro-thromboxane b2 ) and prostacyclin ( 6-oxo-pgf1 alpha and 2,3-dinor-6-oxo-pgf1 alpha ) using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in patients admitted acutely to hospital with severe asthma and in atopic volunteers after bronchial antigen challenge . urinary excretion of all thromboxane-derived products was markedly increased in a number of patients with severe acute asthma compared with that in a nonsmoking control population , in some cases approaching those previously described in myocardial infarction : txb2 , 31.6 + / - 12.0 versus 6.5 + / - 0.9 ; 2,3-dinor-txb2 , 79.0 + / - 19.2 versus 29.5 + / - 2.7 ; and 11-dehydro-txb2 , 234.3 + / - 65.3 versus 25.0 + / - 2.1 ng/mmol creatinine ( p less than 0.001 ) . urinary prostacyclin-derived products were also significantly raised in acute asthma . in contrast , after inhaled allergen challenge in atopic volunteers , which caused significant bronchoconstriction , urinary excretion of thromboxane-derived products was not significantly elevated : txb2 , 5.6 + / - 1.1 versus 5.7 + / - 1.0 ; 2,3-dinor-txb2 , 41.2 + / - 12.5 versus 28.5 + / - 6.9 ; and 11-dehydro-txb2 , 69.8 + / - 17.6 versus 39.7 + / - 11.2 ng/mmol creatinine . in a separate experiment , less than 2 % of exogenously administered txb2 to the airway appeared as urinary thromboxane-derived products , suggesting that production of greater than or equal to 1 microgram of txa2 in vivo would be required to increase urinary thromboxane excretion twofold . 
morphometry of the airways during late responses to antigen challenge in the rat . to quantitate the structural changes in the airways that contribute to the late bronchial response ( lr ) to antigen challenge we killed six brown-norway rats , sensitized to ovalbumin ( oa ) and challenged by aerosol , during the lr and compared the dimensions of the intraparenchymal airways with those of six control animals . lungs were rapidly frozen with liquid nitrogen and fixed in carnoy 's solution . paraffin sections were stained with hematoxylin-phloxine-saffron . at the time of the lr ( 382 + / - 39 min after oa challenge ) , rl increased from the baseline value ( 0.067 + / - 0.034 cm h2o.ml-1 . s ) by 0.107 + / - 0.03 cm h2o.ml-1 . s ( p less than 0.05 ) . rl did not change significantly in the control rats . the lumen size and the wall area of all membranous airways were measured and were corrected for airway size by dividing by the basement membrane length squared ( bm2 ) . there was no increase in airway wall area in oa-challenged animals . however , the lumen of large airways ( bm : 2.0 to 2.99 mm ) was significantly less for the oa-challenged animals ( 0.039 + / - 0.0055 mm2 ) than for the control animals ( 0.058 + / - 0.0063 mm2 ; p less than 0.05 ) . in six additional rats , the distribution of mast cells ( mc ) in the bronchial tree was determined . tissues were fixed with carnoy 's solution and stained with a modified may-grunwald-giemsa stain . there were significantly more mc in the large airways than in medial or small airways . we conclude that smooth muscle constriction of large airways and not airway wall edema accounts for the lr in the rat . the distribution of the mast cells corresponds closely to the site of bronchoconstriction . 
quantitative structural analysis of peripheral airways and arteries in sudden fatal asthma . the peripheral airways and the adjacent muscular pulmonary arteries were studied by morphometric methods in the autopsy lungs of six asthmatic subjects who died suddenly during an asthma attack , and they were compared with those of six control subjects who died of other causes and had no history of respiratory diseases . bronchioles of asthmatic subjects had an increased amount of lumen occlusion ( p less than 0.01 ) , smooth muscle thickness ( p less than 0.001 ) , and inflammatory infiltrate ( p less than 0.001 ) , and both mononuclear cells and eosinophils contributed to this increased inflammation . the muscular pulmonary arteries adjacent to occluded and inflamed bronchioles did not have the morphologic features of chronic hypoxia , as shown by the normal medial and intimal thickness , but they had an important inflammatory process in their walls that was particularly marked at sites adjacent to airways . although the functional significance of these findings is unknown , they may be responsible in part for the gas exchange abnormalities observed in acute severe asthma . 
methotrexate-induced asthma . a patient with rheumatoid arthritis developed pulmonary symptoms and function test abnormalities consistent with asthma during methotrexate therapy . assessments of airway responsiveness to methacholine during therapy revealed airway hyperreactivity that reverted to normal when the methotrexate was stopped . an extension of the methotrexate dosage interval from 7 to 10 days resulted in an abolition of the asthma , which remained in remission despite a return to a weekly cycle after a 3-month period of 10-day cycles . 
prevalence of mycobacterium avium complex in respiratory specimens from aids and non-aids patients in a san francisco hospital . over the past several years there has been a large increase in the recovery of mycobacterium avium complex ( mac ) isolates from respiratory specimens submitted to the clinical laboratory at san francisco general hospital ( sfgh ) . this increase in mac recovery correlates with an increase in the number of cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) in the community . although it is well known that mac is often isolated from patients with aids , the isolation of mac from respiratory specimens is often attributed to contamination of the specimen with mac organisms present in the environment . to determine whether the increase in mac isolates recovered at sfgh was due to an increase in environmental contamination of specimens or to the increase in our aids patient population , we conducted a study of the prevalence of mac in respiratory specimens from aids versus non-aids patients . results of specimens submitted to the clinical laboratory at sfgh for culture of mycobacteria were reviewed over a 12-yr period , from 1977 through 1988 . the prevalence of mac in respiratory specimens from aids and non-aids patients was determined for 4 yr during this period : the pre-aids year 1977 ; the first year aids was reported in san francisco , 1981 ; 1984 ; and 1987 . in 1977 and 1981 the prevalence of mac in respiratory specimens was less than or equal to 0.5 % , and all mac isolates were recovered from non-aids patients . in 1984 the prevalence of mac in respiratory specimens for aids and non-aids patients was 6.5 and 0.3 % , respectively , and in 1987 , 8.8 and 0.3 % , respectively . 
cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma . we report the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma , using a retrospective review of 115 patients ' records obtained from tumor registry files . five patients were found to have biopsy-proved extramedullary plasmacytomas without extension from an underlying bony focus . twelve patients had ecchymoses without thrombocytopenia ; two of them had biopsy-proved amyloidosis . one patient presented with pyoderma gangrenosum and was subsequently diagnosed with multiple myeloma . the last patient initially presented with what clinically appeared to be leukocytoclastic vasculitis , and , in the course of a standard workup , he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma . these findings are discussed with regard to the current literature on the cutaneous manifestations of multiple myeloma . 
coexistence of spherulocytic disease ( myospherulosis ) and membranocystic degeneration . a case of myospherulosis seen in a 22-year-old japanese woman with lupus erythematosus is presented . myospherules were found in subcutaneous nodules on the legs of the patient and were restricted to the areas of membranocystic change , a kind of degeneration of the adipose tissue . the myospherules were positive for blood group a antigens , suggesting a red blood cell origin . in contrast , the parent bodies of the myospherules were negative for blood group antigens . the coexistence of myospherulosis and membraneocystic changes has not been previously described , but might have been overlooked in the past . 
endoscopic ethmoidectomy and maxillary antrostomy in immunodeficient patients . the efficacy of endoscopic sinus surgery was evaluated in 11 patients with diverse types of primary immunodeficiency disease and symptoms of chronic sinusitis . the postoperative symptoms and ability to eliminate antibiotics were used as outcome parameters . in two patients , the follow-up time was too short to assess therapeutic effectiveness . five of the remaining nine patients had total or significant resolution of symptoms . patients with transient immunodeficiency had the best resolution of symptoms . eight of the total 11 patients were treated with intravenous immunoglobulin preoperatively , and in five patients , the treatment was continued postoperatively . the ability to terminate gamma-globulin reflects not the success of the surgery , but the transient nature of some of the immunodeficiencies . 
variable prevalence of lymphocytic thyroiditis among diabetes-prone sublines of bb/w or rats . the bb/wor rat develops spontaneous autoimmune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( dm ) and lymphocytic thyroiditis ( lt ) . six different inbred sublines of this rat model have been selected for studying the pathogenesis of dm and , thereby , the prevalence of dm has been carefully monitored and found to be relatively constant . in contrast , we have observed a striking difference in the prevalence and intensity of lt in these six sublines , varying from 100 % in nb subline rats to 4.9 % in be subline rats at 105-110 days of age . excess iodide administration frequently increases the prevalence of lt but did not do so in the two sublines ( bb and be ) with the lowest frequency of spontaneous lt. in view of this variable prevalence of lt in the different bb/wor sublines , it is imperative that investigators studying the pathogenesis and modulation of lt in this rat model select those sublines which express a desired frequency of spontaneous lt. 
delayed-type hypersensitivity initiation by early-acting cells that are antigen mismatched or mhc incompatible with late-acting , delayed-type hypersensitivity effector t cells . the elicitation of delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) responses in mice is mediated by the sequential activities of two different ag-specific , thy-1 + cells . a required early phase of elicitation is due to dth-initiating thy-1 + cells that are cd3 - and sig - and produce ag-specific factors that act like ige antibodies in that they sensitize the tissues , so that after local challenge with ag there is release of the vasoactive amine serotonin . released serotonin locally recruits and activates cd4 + th-1 classical dth effector t cells that secrete lymphokines that attract and activate a nonspecific perivascular infiltrate of circulating , bone marrow-derived leukocytes . the current study used isolated subpopulations of dth-initiating and dth-effector t cells to determine whether the two phases of the elicitation of dth were entirely separate . the contact sensitivity model of dth was used . early-acting dth-initiating cells , and late-acting dth-effector t cells were either from oxazolone ( ox ) - immune or picryl chloride ( pcl ) - immune cba or balb/c donors and were transferred to cba or balb/c recipients . the results showed that dth-initiation could be mediated by polyclonal dth-initiating cells that were ag mismatched or mhc incompatible with late-acting dth effector t cells . in fact dth-initiating cells could be both ag mismatched and mhc incompatible with late-acting t cells . in addition , potential interactions between different cell populations were ruled out by showing that dth-initiation could be mediated by a dth-initiating clone that was ag or mhc mismatched with the late-acting dth-effector t cells . thus , the ox-specific balb/c clone could initiate dth for pcl-specific cba cells in cba recipients if the recipients were challenged with both ox and pcl , but not when they were challenged with ox or pcl alone . we suggest , at least for the elicitation of dth reactions in mice , that a more comprehensive description of these responses should accommodate the fact that there are early and late phase responses that each begin with ag specificity and end with non-specific humoral factors . inasmuch as the two thy-1 + cells of dth can be of different ag specificity , this suggests that some forms of delayed and chronic inflammation , might be initiated by an immediate hypersensitivity-like immune reactivity to one set of ag , and could be prolonged and perpetuated by delayed reactivity to another set of ag . 
ultraviolet b radiation converts langerhans cells from immunogenic to tolerogenic antigen-presenting cells . induction of specific clonal anergy in cd4 + t helper 1 cells . we have recently demonstrated that a single dose ( 200 j/m2 ) of uvb radiation abrogates the capacity of mouse epidermal langerhans cells ( lc ) or splenic adherent cells ( sac ) to present keyhole limpet hemocyanin ( klh ) to ag-specific , mhc-restricted cd4 + th1 cells . in the present study we determined whether such th1 unresponsiveness represented long-lasting immunologic tolerance . to address this question , th1 were preincubated with klh-pulsed uvb-lc or uvb-sac , then isolated and restimulated with unirradiated apc ( lc or sac ) plus klh or with exogenous ril-2 in the absence of apc . preincubation with klh and uvb-lc or uvb-sac rendered th1 unresponsive to subsequent restimulation with apc and klh . in addition , such th1 were defective in their autocrine il-2 production , but could respond normally to exogenous ril-2 , indicating that unresponsiveness was due to functional inactivation and not to cell death . th1 unresponsiveness was ag-specific , mhc-restricted , and long lasting ( greater than 16 days ) . in addition , it appears that th1 unresponsiveness is not due to the release of soluble suppressor factors from uvb-lc or uvb-sac because supernatants from such cells had no effect on th1 proliferation . addition of unirradiated allogeneic sac during preincubation prevented the induction of unresponsiveness by uvb-lc or uvb-sac , suggesting that uvb interferes with the capacity of lc or sac to deliver a costimulatory signal ( s ) that can be provided by allogeneic sac . we conclude that uvb can convert lc or sac from immunogenic to tolerogenic apc . 
endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 mediate the adhesion of eosinophils to endothelial cells in vitro and are expressed by endothelium in allergic cutaneous inflammation in vivo we have compared the adhesion of 51cr-labeled eosinophils and neutrophils to cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( ec ) monolayers that have been stimulated with il-1 , tnf , or lps . each agent stimulated the adhesion to ec of both eosinophils and neutrophils in a similar dose - and time-dependent manner . f ( ab ' ) 2 fragments of mab 1.2 b6 ( anti-endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule ( elam ) -1 ) and mab 6.5 b5 ( anti-intercellular adhesion molecule ( icam ) -1 ) each inhibited partially , and to a similar extent , eosinophil and neutrophil adhesion to ec monolayers prestimulated with tnf ( 10 ng/ml ) for 6 h. greater inhibition of both eosinophil and neutrophil adhesion was achieved by combining the effects of mab 1.2 b6 with either mab 6.5 b5 or mab ts1/18 ( anti-cd18 ) . these observations indicate that both elam-1 and icam-1 are involved in the adhesion of eosinophils and neutrophils to ec stimulated with tnf . in order to determine whether these molecules are expressed in vivo during allergen-induced late phase allergic responses in the skin , human skin biopsies were examined at 6 h after ag or saline challenge with the use of an alkaline phosphatase-staining technique . both elam-1 and icam-1 were expressed with greater intensities in ag-challenged biopsies , suggesting that these molecules may be involved in granulocyte recruitment in vivo . the similarities we have established between mechanisms of eosinophil and neutrophil adhesion to cytokine-stimulated ec suggests that factors other than differential leukocyte-ec adhesion may be responsible for the selective accumulation of eosinophils at sites of allergic inflammation . 
il-6 production by human t lymphocytes . expression in htlv-1-infected but not in normal t cells . il-6 is an important regulator of humoral and cellular immunity . although this cytokine is produced by diverse cell types , it is not known whether it is produced by t lymphocytes under physiologic conditions or which agents can induce t cell expression of il-6 . we analyzed the production of il-6 by human peripheral blood t cells , human thymocytes , and human t cell lines . in pure populations of these cells , stimulated with different combinations of various mitogens and cytokines , il-6 activity could not be detected . analysis of purified t-alpha beta and t-gamma delta cells showed that neither t cell subset produced il-6 . similarly , il-6 mrna was not detected in t cell or thymocyte populations for up to 48 h after stimulation . with the use of a pcr assay , il-6 mrna in t cells was found to be virtually negligible , and did not change after t cell activation . by in situ hybridization it was shown that the cells expressing il-6 mrna after mitogen activation of pbmc do not belong to the t cell lineage . to analyze whether human t cells express il-6 in vivo , we examined lymphoid tissues by in situ hybridization . in normal human thymus there was no detectable signal for il-6 . tonsils showed only few positive cells within the parenchyma , but strong expression of il-6 by epithelial cells in crypts . in contrast to normal lymph node , which contained only rare cells positive for il-6 , a lymph node from a patient with castleman 's disease showed il-6 expression in cells occupying the marginal sinus and interfollicular areas . screening of various human t cell lines showed that all cell lines infected with htlv-1 secrete il-6 activity and express il-6 mrna . in addition , in vitro infection of peripheral blood t cells with htlv-1 induced de novo synthesis and secretion of il-6 . furthermore , il-6 expression in htlv-1-infected cells was enhanced by stimulation with il-1 beta or tnf-alpha . in contrast , il-6 was not detectable in non-infected t cell lines . these studies indicate that il-6 may not be a physiologic product of human t lymphocytes and that infection of t cells with htlv-1 results in aberrant expression of this cytokine . 
a clonal cd4-positive t-cell line established from the blood of a patient with sezary syndrome . the reported inability to establish long-term t-cell lines from the blood of cutaneous t-cell lymphoma patients with circulating neoplastic t cells has hindered the development of an in vitro system to investigate sezary syndrome . we have established a rapidly proliferating t-cell line from the peripheral blood of a patient with sezary syndrome , which expresses a mature helper t-cell phenotype and contains cytogenetic abnormalities and t-cell receptor gene rearrangements identical to those in the patient 's blood . the method of establishment and characteristics of this line are described . 
t-cell subsets with a naive phenotype are selectively decreased in the peripheral blood of patients with mycosis fungoides . peripheral blood lymphocytes of 33 patients with histopathologic confirmation of mycosis fungoides and 27 healthy controls matched for age and sex were analyzed with a panel of monoclonal antibodies using both single and dual color immunofluorescence . patients with mycosis fungoides had a significant reduction in the percentage of circulating t cells with a naive phenotype ( i.e. , cd4 +2 h4 + and cd4 + leu8 + ) , as well as a significant reduction in the absolute numbers of circulating lymphocytes with the phenotype cd8 + leu8 + compared to the control cohort . the reduction in circulating naive t cells was found to occur irrespective of stage of disease , duration of disease , or mode of treatment . the depletion of circulating naive t cells may reflect increased conversion to memory t cells in the peripheral blood or skin . 
limitations in the laboratory diagnosis of vertically acquired hiv infection . at present , the only well-standardized and widely available diagnostic techniques for hiv infection are detection of igg hiv antibodies and hiv antigen . the antibody detection is sensitive , but is useful only in infants and children older than 15 months because of the presence of maternal antibodies . the utility of hiv antigen testing in neonates and young infants has not been established . a number of sensitive techniques , such as pcr , elispot , and detection of hiv-specific igm and iga antibodies , are under development and promise to be very useful in the early diagnosis of vertical hiv infection . however , we will be able to accurately establish the sensitivity or specificity of the individual tests only when we have results of large prospective studies . these studies should compare different diagnostic methods and correlate the results of tests performed sequentially in neonates and young infants with the natural history of their disease process and eventual clinical outcome . 
comparison of hiv detection by virus isolation in lymphocyte cultures and molecular amplification of hiv dna and rna by pcr in offspring of seropositive mothers . an early and accurate diagnosis of hiv infection is needed in the offspring of seropositive mothers . to this end , we have used two techniques for the direct detection of hiv in 12 newborns tested within 2 weeks after birth and 12 children . hiv isolation was carried out in lymphocyte cocultures and compared with detection of dna and rna sequences by molecular amplification using the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) . in lymphocyte cocultures , hiv was isolated in 8 of 24 cases ( 33 % ) , including 3 newborns , 3 symptomatic children , and 2 asymptomatic ones . hiv dna was detected by pcr in twice as many cases , i.e. , in 16/24 cases ( 66 % ) , including 7/12 newborns , 4/4 symptomatic children , and 5/8 asymptomatic ones , 2 of whom became seronegative , hiv rna was detected in 10 of 16 cases ( 60 % ) with detectable hiv dna , including all of the cases who had a positive hiv isolation . only children with clinical or biological signs of hiv infection were positive for hiv rna . furthermore , signs of hiv infection appeared within 6 months in three of the four newborns who were positive for hiv rna at birth . these results indicate that hiv dna detection by pcr is far more sensitive than hiv isolation in culture for the early diagnosis of hiv infection in offspring of seropositive mothers . hiv rna detection appears to be a useful prognostic marker since it does correlate with disease progression and may serve as a clue for hiv replication in vivo . 
polypharmacy among patients attending an aids clinic : utilization of prescribed , unorthodox , and investigational treatments . the objective of this study was to describe the utilization and characteristics associated with the use of prescribed , over-the-counter , investigational , and unorthodox treatments among aids clinic patients . this report is derived from cross-sectional data obtained using structured telephone surveys . study participants ( n = 197 ) were recruited from the university of california , san francisco , medical center aids clinic . one hundred eighty-nine participants ( 96 % ) received 1-24 prescription medications during the 3 months prior to interview . those with an aids diagnosis received a relatively greater number of prescription drugs ( p = 0.0001 ) ; an average of 5.6 prescribed medications were used by aids patients versus 4.8 among aids-related complex and 2.3 among asymptomatic patients . thirty-one percent participated in drug trials during the 3 months before interview , including 18 % who were in multiple studies . twenty-nine percent used unorthodox treatments . seventy-five ( 40 % ) received prescription medication from a provider other than their primary provider . a more advanced stage of illness was associated with the use of unorthodox treatments ( p = 0.003 ) : users of these treatments had a greater educational attainment than nonusers ( p = 0.03 ) and were significantly less likely to report that their primary provider was aware of all the treatments they used ( odds ratio = 2.1 , p less than 0.03 ) . we conclude that use of polypharmacy among some aids clinic patients is common , could create an increased risk for adverse drug reactions , and may affect clinical drug trials . despite having decided to obtain care at a university-based clinic , many of the participants of this study also chose to receive unorthodox therapies and care from nonprimary medical providers . 
survival differences in patients with aids [ published erratum appears in j acquir immune defic syndr 1991 ; 4 ( 7 ) :737 ] to define the clinical , demographic , and behavioral variables that may influence survival in patients with aids , we studied 526 patients with aids diagnosed through september 1987 who were cared for at a single medical center . a diversity of racial and ethnic backgrounds , ages , both men and women , and all risk behaviors except hemophilia were well represented . the initial aids defining diagnosis was the most powerful predictor of survival . the median survival was 12.8 months for patients presenting with kaposi 's sarcoma ( p less than 0.001 ) , 10.9 months for patients presenting with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( p less than 0.001 ) , and 4.8 months for patients presenting with other infections or neoplasms ( p less than 0.02 ) . for the entire series , male sex and younger age were associated with more favorable survival ( p less than 0.025 ) . for those presenting with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia , in addition to younger age ( p less than 0.025 ) , black race ( p less than 0.025 ) and the combination of male sex and intravenous drug use ( p less than 0.005 ) were associated with a more favorable survival . within a setting of comparable clinical care , survival from the point of diagnosis of aids is associated most strongly with the initial aids diagnosis , but differences in age , gender , race , and risk behavior also exert an influence on survival . 
plasma adenosine deaminase2 : a marker for human immunodeficiency virus infection . plasma concentrations of the two isoenzymes of adenosine deaminase ( ada , e.c. 3.5.4.4 ) , adenosine deaminase1 ( ada1 ) and adenosine deaminase2 ( ada2 ) , were measured in a cohort of ambulatory patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and controls . a sensitive isoenzyme-specific radioisotopic assay system was developed for these studies . among 22 hiv-infected patients , plasma ada2 was significantly elevated as compared with 16 control subjects ( p less than 0.01 ) and 6 uninfected subjects having a risk factor for hiv infection ( p less than 0.01 ) . plasma ada2 was not associated with the stage of disease as defined by clinical status ( p greater than 0.05 ) or helper ( cd4 ) lymphocyte count ( p greater than 0.05 ) . available evidence suggests that elevated plasma ada2 could be a useful surrogate marker for hiv infection that occurs early in the disease process . 
the costs of aids in los angeles . this article reports on the findings of a study of medical and non-medical expenditures of persons with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) in los angeles in 1987 and 1988 . sociodemographic and clinical data as well as information on medical and nonmedical expenditures on 36 persons with aids were obtained through patient interviews and review of medical bills . persons with aids required a mean of 1.6 hospitalizations per year and 17 days of in-hospital care . mean charges for the first 12 months after diagnosis of aids were $ 22,272 for inpatient medical care and $ 22,850 for outpatient medical care . overall , medical costs averaged $ 45,122 per patient per year with almost one-third of these costs devoted to outpatient pharmaceuticals , such as azt and aerosolized pentamidine . mean nonmedical costs of care for volunteer services , counselling , and in-kind assistance were $ 9,276 . these results were similar to recently published estimates of medical costs of persons with aids . however , our data support changing problems of care for pwas with increased use of outpatient medical care and pharmaceuticals and decreased use of in-hospital resources . 
organic dust toxic syndrome : an acute febrile reaction to organic dust exposure distinct from hypersensitivity pneumonitis . organic dust toxic syndrome is a term recently coined to describe a noninfectious , febrile illness associated with chills , malaise , myalgia , a dry cough , dyspnea , headache and nausea which occurs after heavy organic dust exposure . organic dust toxic syndrome shares many clinical features with acute farmer 's lung and other forms of hypersensitivity pneumonitis , including the presence of increased numbers of neutrophils in bronchoalveolar lavage . however , organic dust toxic syndrome differs from acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis in several respects : the chest x-ray does not show infiltrates , severe hypoxemia does not occur , prior sensitization to antigens in the organic dust is not required and there are no known sequelae of physiological significance , such as the recurrent attacks and the pulmonary fibrosis which may be seen with chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis . organic dust toxic syndrome is thought to be much more common than farmer 's lung . it is important for clinical and investigational purposes that organic dust toxic syndrome be distinguished from acute farmer 's lung . 
thyroiditis . acute , subacute , and chronic . inflammatory diseases of the thyroid are collectively the commonest thyroid disorder . individually , they range from the rare case of acute bacterial thyroiditis to the other end of the spectrum , the even rarer riedel 's thyroiditis . relatively common thyroid inflammatory diseases include the subacute thyroiditis syndromes . of particular interest to endocrinologists is that both subacute granulomatous ( painful ) thyroiditis and subacute lymphocytic ( painless ) thyroiditis are very similar in terms of clinical course , although most likely have different etiologies . nevertheless , their similarities suggest the possibility that there may be etiologic heterogeneity for the syndromes . from a clinical standpoint , it is essential to differentiate subacute painless thyroiditis from graves ' disease , because these two disorders also may mimic each other , yet only graves ' disease requires specific therapy . chronic lymphocytic ( hashimoto 's ) thyroiditis , the commonest of the thyroiditides , presents with goiter and either hyperthyroidism ( uncommon ) , hypothyroidism ( common ) , or euthyroidism ( most common ) . when l-t4 therapy is used in the treatment of hashimoto 's thyroiditis , the physician must be alert to the possibility of excess thyroid hormone administration . sensitive tsh measurements help to avoid this therapeutic pitfall . 
exposure to an aeroallergen as a possible precipitating factor in respiratory arrest in young patients with asthma background . exposure to airborne spores of the common mold alternaria alternata has been implicated in asthma attacks . such exposure is particularly frequent in the midwest during the summer and fall months . to determine the role of a. alternata in triggering severe asthma attacks , we investigated the cases of 11 patients with asthma who had sudden respiratory arrest and determined the frequency of sensitivity to this allergen in these patients . methods . the 11 patients ( age range , 11 to 25 years ) with initial episodes of respiratory arrest , which was fatal in 2 patients , were identified in the course of their care in our pediatric and adult clinical allergy practice and by a retrospective review of all mayo clinic records of patients with severe asthma cared for between 1980 and 1989 . skin-test reactivity to a. alternata and levels of ige antibody against this mold in the 11 patients were compared with those in 99 matched controls with asthma who had no history of respiratory arrest . results . all the patients came from the upper midwest , and the episodes of respiratory arrest occurred in the summer or early fall . ten of the 11 patients with asthma who had respiratory arrest ( 91 percent ) had positive skin-puncture tests for sensitivity to alternaria , as compared with 31 percent of the controls ( p less than 0.001 ) , and the serum levels of ige antibodies to alternaria were elevated in all 9 patients tested . among the covariates we examined ( age , sex , and distance from the mayo clinic ) , only age was a significant confounder . after adjustment for age , alternaria skin-test reactivity was found to be associated with an increase of approximately 200-fold in the risk of respiratory arrest ( adjusted odds ratio , 189.5 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 6.5 to 5535.8 ) . conclusions . exposure to the aeroallergen a. alternata is a risk factor for respiratory arrest in children and young adults with asthma . 
progression from lymphoid hyperplasia to high-grade malignant lymphoma in mice transgenic for the t ( 14 ; 18 ) . follicular lymphoma , the most common human lymphoma , characteristically has a t ( 14 ; 18 ) interchromosomal translocation . it is typically an indolent disease comprised of small resting b cells , but frequently develops into a high-grade lymphoma . the t ( 14 ; 18 ) translocates the bcl-2 gene , generating a deregulated bcl-2-immunoglobulin fusion gene . bcl-2 is a novel inner mitochondrial membrane protein that extends the survival of certain cells by blocking programmed cell death . to determine the oncogenic potential of the t ( 14 ; 18 ) translocation , we produced transgenic mice bearing a bcl-2-immunoglobulin minigene that structurally mimicked the t ( 14 ; 18 ) . an indolent follicular hyperplasia in these transgenic mice progressed to a malignant diffuse large-cell lymphoma . the long latency , progression from polyclonal to monoclonal disease , and histological conversion , are all suggestive of secondary changes . half of the immunoblastic high-grade lymphomas had a rearranged c-myc gene . our transgenic mice provide an animal model for tumour progression in t ( 14 ; 18 ) lymphoma and show that prolonged b-cell life increases tumour incidence . 
epidemiology of pediatric hiv infection . perinatal transmission of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) continues to increase . in 1989 alone , it is estimated that 1750 infected children were born in the united states . although transmission is spreading to areas outside the cities originally most affected , these cities continue to bear the greatest toll . adolescents may be particularly vulnerable to hiv infection ; education and counseling are critical for controlling the epidemic in this age group . 
aids in the transfusion recipient . in summary , the hiv virus was transmitted to approximately 90 % of recipients by infectious blood and blood products transfused prior to donor and product testing begun in march 1985 . self-elimination of at-risk donors several years prior to testing donor blood helped to reduce the number of infected donations . virtually all contaminated donors are now eliminated . the multiply transfused patient developed a stimulated dysregulated immune system due to the numerous antigens and the iron in red cells and plasma . this dysregulated immune system has resulted in a variable response to the added exposure of the hiv virus . the incubation period and progression to disease have been prolonged and variable . although a small number of patients have progressed as rapidly as other at-risk groups , many continue to do well without therapeutic intervention . natural history of the disease needs continual monitoring to determine the ultimate outcome of these transfusion recipients . 
antiviral therapy for human immunodeficiency virus infection in children . antiretroviral therapy for children is still at an early stage , although progress is being made slowly . zidovudine administered at 180 mg/m2/dose every 6 hours is the current standard therapy for symptomatic children and those with low cd4 counts . this standard is likely to evolve as further testing clarifies the optimal dosage for zdv in different populations . children on zdv need to be monitored very closely ( at least monthly ) for hematologic side effects , which are most common in the more seriously ill children . the role of some of the newer antiretrovirals , like ddi and ddc , which are likely to be licensed , has yet to be established . they have a different toxicity profile than zdv and thus may work well in combination with it . the issue of peripheral neuropathy and the lack of an easy test to measure it makes using ddc or ddi in young , preverbal children a daunting proposition . as with zdv , the optimum dosage and timing have yet to be fixed for ddc or ddi alone , and even less available are regimens for combination therapy . antiretroviral drugs other than the dideoxynucleosides are less well developed . some , like high-titer antiviral immunoglobulin , involve technology that is already available and thus will be relatively easy to study . others , like the antisense oligomers , are such a new technology that there are many hurdles to be overcome as the agents move from the laboratory to the clinic . the goal of agents that work on sites other than reverse transcriptase is a reasonable one , but the work in perfecting such new categories of drug is difficult and slow . in the meantime , children with hiv should be symptomatically supported and offered the most effective antiretroviral regimens available . 
psychosocial aspects of aids in children and adolescents [ published erratum appears in pediatr clin north am 1991 jun ; 38 ( 3 ) : viii ] the first part of this article addresses the neuropsychiatric aspects of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in children and adolescents , including developmental delay , depression , and dementia . the specific clinical issues of disclosure of diagnosis and discussion of death with a child are examined . the second part presents aspects of the impact of aids on families , approaches to hiv antibody testing , and therapeutic interventions for the family . 
pediatric hiv disease . the newest chronic illness of childhood . hiv disease has emerged as a major chronic illness of childhood . children with hiv infection and children with other chronic health impairments have much in common , including the need for comprehensive , multidisciplinary , coordinated care that includes special attention to the psychosocial effects on the child and family . however , because the mother and often the father and siblings share this lethal viral infection , the impact of hiv disease upon the family surpasses that of virtually all other chronic conditions . this is compounded by the association of the disease with drug use , its preponderance among the most disenfranchised populations in the united states , and the persistent public fear and discrimination surrounding aids . we have made substantial progress already in the medical management of this infection , and while we await the development of more effective therapies , we already have the tools and knowledge in hand to help these families . 
laboratory diagnosis of hiv infection . laboratory diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection is complicated by absence of data on sensitivity , specificity and predictive value of the various tests as they apply to children . the presence of maternal anti-hiv passively transmitted across the placenta also confounds diagnosis . the authors review currently available data on the detection of hiv , hiv genome , and hiv gene products , as well as the diagnostic value of detecting serologic and cellular responses to hiv in infants and children . 
host defense abnormalities associated with hiv infection . infection with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) impairs immune function . most abnormalities in host defense associated with hiv infection are due to helper t-cell dysfunction . studies defining these abnormalities in the hiv-infected patient have largely been done in adults . a more complete understanding of the immunodeficiency that occurs in infants and young children congenitally infected with hiv awaits further study of their immune function and the effect this virus has on the developing immune system . 
medical care of the hiv-infected child . familiarity with the demographics of pediatric hiv disease and recognition of common and uncommon presentations of infection are keys to diagnosing the hiv-infected child . subsequent management entails preventative care , including immunizations and nutritional support , as well as management of hiv-related complications . 
pneumocystis carinii infections in hiv-infected children . since 1981 , 1200 children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome have been reported to the centers for disease control . among these children , pneumocystis carinii has been the leading cause of serious morbidity and mortality . this review discusses the epidemiology , diagnosis , and treatment of p. carinii . 
lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia . lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia is at present a pathologic diagnosis . in the setting of a chronic interstitial pneumonia in a child with lymphocytosis , hyperglobulinemia , and lymphadenopathy or parotid enlargement , the diagnosis is often clinically presumed . at present the diagnosis can be established firmly only by lung biopsy . models of pathogenesis include nonspecific stimulation of the immune system , hiv-specific stimulation , or synergy between ebv and hiv . treatment includes oxygen and bronchodilators as needed . the role of zidovudine and of steroids in the management of lip remains to be determined . 
pathology of childhood aids . pathologic lesions in children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) can be classified into three broad categories : ( 1 ) primary lesions related directly to infection by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) ( e.g. , in the lymphoreticular system and brain ) ; ( 2 ) associated lesions related to direct or indirect sequelae of hiv infection ( e.g. , opportunistic infections , lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis , and so forth ) ; and ( 3 ) lesions of undetermined pathogenesis ( e.g. , cardiomyopathy , nephropathy , and so forth ) . the pathologic features of the various lesions in these three categories are described . clinical relevance of the pathologic study of aids is discussed . data on perinatal pathology of aids is reviewed . 
allergenicity of orally administered immunoglobulin preparations in food-allergic children . passive immunization by the oral administration of immunoglobulin preparations derived from bovine milk , chicken egg , and human sera has been proposed as a method for the prevention and treatment of enteric diseases . however , the allergenic potential of these proteins may be a factor limiting their widespread use for disease prevention . an in vitro study with sera from milk - and egg-allergic children was performed to determine whether these immunoglobulin preparations have allergenic potential . protein extracts of milk , bovine immunoglobulin , egg white , human immune globulin , and five egg yolk antiviral immunoglobulin preparations were bound to nitrocellulose paper . these preparations were probed for specific ige binding with sera from milk - and egg-allergic patients . of 22 milk-hypersensitive patients , 16 had specific ige binding against the bovine immunoglobulin preparation . of 28 egg-allergic patients 15 had specific ige binding against one or more of the egg yolk-derived antiviral chicken immunoglobulins . control sera were negative against the milk and egg preparations . western blot analysis confirmed that milk - and egg-allergic patients had ige-specific antibodies for bovine and chicken immunoglobulin molecules . therefore , the removal of contaminating proteins from milk and egg antibody preparations would be unlikely to eliminate their allergenic potential . in contrast , sera from milk - and egg-allergic patients displayed no detectable ige binding to human immunoglobulin preparations . these data indicate that the administration of antibody preparations derived from bovine and chicken sources may lead to severe allergic reactions in milk - or egg-sensitized patients and to sensitization in some nonallergic individuals . 
fatal reactions to intravenous nonionic contrast material . three cases of fatality related to the use of low-osmolality contrast material ( locm ) are presented . locm definitely reduces unpleasant side effects and serious reactions , but data are currently insufficient to determine whether the death rate is any different from that associated with high-osmolality contrast agents . if the present trend toward universal conversion to locm continues , an enormous cost for little , if any , lifesaving benefit may be incurred . 
prediction of severe adverse reactions to ionic and nonionic contrast media in japan : evaluation of pretesting . a report from the japanese committee on the safety of contrast media . in a nationwide prospective study of adverse reactions to intravenous contrast media ( cm ) , the japanese committee on the safety of contrast media compared high-osmolar ionic cm with low-osmolar nonionic cm . a total of 337,647 cases were analyzed . the reliability of pretesting with an intravenous injection of a small amount of cm as a means of predicting severe or fatal reactions was also evaluated . the predictive values of the pretest were 1.2 % for ionic and 0.0 % for nonionic cm , and the sensitivity values were 3.7 % and 0.0 % , respectively . such low values render this test meaningless for predicting which patients are at risk of a severe adverse reaction . a comparison of the incidence of severe adverse reactions between the nonpretested and pretested patients , as well as between the nonpretested and pretested patients with negative results , disclosed no statistically significant differences . also , no beneficial effects of premedication in patients with a positive pretest were proved . the authors therefore conclude that pretesting with an intravenous injection of a small amount of cm is not useful in predicting severe reactions to ionic or nonionic cm . 
multiple sclerosis : specificity of mr for diagnosis . the specificity of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging in the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis ( ms ) has not been measured systematically . conventional mr head images with sagittal localizer and axial multiple-echo sequences with long repetition times were obtained in 92 patients with clinically verified ms ( schumacher criteria ) , 100 healthy volunteers , 60 subjects with hypertension , and eight patients with dementia . two readers , without the aid of any clinical or demographic information , classified each of the 260 studies as ms or not ms. the readers classified the studies again after being supplied with the subjects ' ages and sex . true-negative and true-positive diagnoses of ms were tabulated . the specificity of the mr diagnosis of ms ( true-negative results in proportion to all non-ms studies ) was 95 % -99 % with all the control groups included . there is a small risk of misinterpreting incidental periventricular white matter foci as plaques of ms in mr studies . 
the bone marrow in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - related disease . morphology and clinical correlation . to determine the true incidence of abnormalities in bone marrow specimens from patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and the clinical significance of these abnormalities regarding their cause and their role in the production of hematologic complications , 216 bone marrow biopsies , aspirates , and/or imprint preparations from 178 patients who either were seropositive for hiv infection or met the centers for disease control ( cdc ) criteria for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) were studied . detailed morphologic review was performed in a blind fashion as to clinical status . extensive clinical , therapeutic , and laboratory data were collected for each patient . statistical analysis was performed to detect significant correlations between morphologic findings and clinical/therapeutic/laboratory features . among the most common bone marrow findings were hypercellularity ( 53 % of specimens ) , myelodysplasia ( 69 % ) , evidence of reticuloendothelial ( re ) iron blockade ( 65 % ) , megaloblastic hematopoiesis ( 38 % ) , fibrosis ( 20 % ) , plasmacytosis ( 25 % ) , lymphocytic aggregates ( 36 % ) , and granulomas ( 13 % ) . a number of statistically significant correlations between morphologic findings and clinical features were noted . no significant association was detected between any morphologic finding and therapy with a variety of drugs . in 7 of 14 ( 50 % ) patients found to have marrow involvement by malignant neoplasm , the bone marrow represented the initial site of diagnosis of the neoplasm . most of the bone marrow abnormalities associated with hiv infection appear to be related directly to the infection or its complications and not to therapeutic intervention . in certain clinical situations , bone marrow examination continues to be useful in the management of patients infected with hiv . 
htlv-i associated myelopathy ( ham ) after blood transfusion in a patient with cd2 + hairy cell leukemia . hairy cell leukemia complicating hemolytic anemia developed in a 46-year-old woman . morphologically and cytochemically typical hairy cells were found to express both cd20 and cd2 antigens . expression of surface igg of kappa-chain type and the rearrangement of ig but not t-cell receptor beta genes confirmed a b-cell origin of the leukemia . blood transfusion was followed by disappearance of the hemolysis and a marked improvement of the leukemia . however , the patient developed progressive spastic spinal paraplegia about seven months after transfusion and was diagnosed as having htlv-i associated myelopathy ( ham ) by the demonstration of htlv-i antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid . htlv-i infection via the transfusion may have been involved in the hematologic improvement seen in this patient . autopsy showed demyelination , vacuolar degeneration , gliosis , and perivascular cuffing in the white matter of spinal cord without evidence of leukemic infiltration . 
widespread dissemination of pneumocystis carinii infection in a patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome receiving long-term treatment with aerosolized pentamidine . patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) may be infected with many opportunistic pathogens , the most common of which is pneumocystis carinii . p. carinii infection typically presents as a subacute pneumonia . however , rare cases of localized , extrapulmonary , and disseminated disease have been described . standard therapy for p. carinii is systemically administered trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or pentamidine . these agents , however , frequently are associated with serious adverse effects . more recently , aerosolized pentamidine has been proposed as an alternative treatment for those who can not tolerate standard therapy and as primary and secondary prophylaxis . inhaled pentamidine is effective , but it is not without hazards . the authors describe a patient with aids who received long-term treatment with aerosolized pentamidine and yet died as a result of widely disseminated p. carinii infection . 
aids-related lymphoma . histopathology , immunophenotype , and association with epstein-barr virus as demonstrated by in situ nucleic acid hybridization . to investigate the range of pathology shown by acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) - related lymphomas arising in an epidemiologically well-defined group of patients , all cases of lymphoma recognized in danish human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected individuals up to the end of 1988 were studied . twenty-seven cases ( 26 high-grade non-hodgkin 's lymphoma [ nhl ] , 1 hodgkin 's disease ) were found , to give a cumulative incidence rate of 8 % among danish aids patients . morphologically most nhl patients were classified into two groups : 1 ) high-grade tumors with a predominant population of immunoblasts , either monomorphic or more often polymorphic with plasmacytic differentiation ; 2 ) burkitt-type . of 26 nhls , 22 had a b-cell paraffin-section immunophenotype and 4 were non-b , non-t . epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) dna was demonstrated in tumor cells of 12 of 24 cases ( 50 % ) using in situ nucleic acid hybridization with a 35s-labeled probe in paraffin sections . epstein-barr virus dna was found in 65 % of group 1 and 20 % of group 2 tumors . this study suggests the existence of two main groups of aids-related lymphoma with different pathogeneses . first there are immunoblast-rich lesions , which usually are associated with ebv and morphologically resemble lymphomas described in immunosuppressed organ-transplantation patients . second there are burkitt-type tumors in which ebv sequences are less common and that may be pathogenetically analogous to sporadic burkitt 's lymphoma . 
urinary excretion of the c5b-9 membrane attack complex of complement is a marker of immune disease activity in autologous immune complex nephritis . the urinary excretion of the c5b-9 membrane attack complex of complement correlates with glomerular deposition of antibody in the passive heymann nephritis ( phn ) model of membranous nephropathy ( mn ) . to determine if this parameter can be correlated with antibody deposition in a model of mn induced by an autologous mechanism and thus more analogous to human mn , the relationship of urinary c5b-9 to ongoing glomerular immune complex formation late in autologous immune complex nephritis ( aicn ) was studied . based on urinary c5b-9 , the animals were divided into two groups at 12 weeks after induction of aicn , those with persistently high urinary c5b-9 excretion and those in whom urinary excretion of c5b-9 returned to undetectable levels . while all rats developed glomerular deposition of rat igg and significant proteinuria , high c5b-9 excretors had greater proteinuria and prolonged positive staining for glomerular c3 . when normal syngeneic kidneys were transplanted into rats ( n = 3 ) from each group , only those with persistent c5b-9 excretion developed subepithelial immune deposits of rat igg in the transplanted kidney . as in the phn model of mn , proteinuria was dissociated widely from urinary c5b-9 excretion , glomerular c3 staining , and evidence of circulating antibody . thus these findings demonstrate that urinary excretion of c5b-9 serves as an index of on-going immunologic disease activity in the aicn model of mn , while proteinuria does not . 
fibroblast growth factor gene expression in aids-kaposi 's sarcoma detected by in situ hybridization . biopsy samples from five acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) - kaposi 's sarcomas and one non-aids-associated kaposi 's sarcoma were assayed by in situ rna hybridization onto paraformaldehyde-fixed , paraffin-embedded skin sections for the presence of two fibroblast growth factor gene transcripts , fgfb and fgf5 . fgf5 gene expression was detected in the characteristic kaposi 's sarcoma spindle-shaped cells in the five samples from human immunodeficiency-positive ( hiv + ) patients . fgfb transcripts were detected in kaposi 's sarcoma cells as well as in epidermis of hiv - and hiv + patients . these results complement the observations about growth factor gene expression done on kaposi 's sarcoma-derived cell lines , which thus appear to be representative of what happens in vivo . furthermore , they demonstrate a contrasting expression pattern of fgf5 and fgfb genes , both involved in the growth factor pathogenic cascade leading to kaposi 's sarcoma . 
olfactory identification deficits in hiv infection . objective : impaired odor identification is described in a number of cns disorders , and human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infects the cns in a large percentage of patients . to evaluate whether impaired olfaction may indicate cns disease , the authors measured odor identification in patient groups defined along a continuum of progressive immunodeficiency and in a comparison group . method : most of the 42 hiv-infected patients in the study were outpatients in a clinic specializing in treatment of hiv-infected individuals . the comparison subjects were 37 healthy age - and sex-matched individuals who were recruited from hospital and medical school personnel . ten of the patients were hiv-seropositive but had no symptoms , 24 had clinical evidence of immunocompromise , and eight had hiv dementia . all subjects were given the university of pennsylvania smell identification test , which presents common odorants and requires the subject to identify the odor from a four-item word list . the data were analyzed by using analysis of variance after arc-sine transformation and scheffe post hoc analysis . results : all patients scored significantly lower on the smell identification test than did the comparison subjects . the patients with hiv dementia had significantly lower scores than did the other two groups of patients . conclusions : clinically , impaired olfaction might serve as a marker of early cns hiv involvement . future studies should attempt to match comparison and experimental populations for socioeconomic status and hiv risk behavior . 
immunophenotyping in the management of gastric lymphoma . primary gastric lymphoma is a rare tumor in which surgical resection plays a major role in improving the response rate and reducing the incidence of bleeding and perforation after chemotherapy . in 17 consecutive patients , the diagnosis of gastric lymphoma was made by immunophenotyping snap-frozen endoscopic biopsy specimens . all neoplasms were b-cell lymphomas . pan b surface marker antigens were present in all patients . levels of ki-67 , a nuclear marker of tumor proliferation , were greater than 45 % in two of the four patients who died after progression of their lymphoma . all patients alive had ki-67 levels of less than 30 % . a lower proliferation index , as measured by ki-67 , appears to be associated with better prognosis . ten of 11 patients treated by resection prior to chemotherapy had no complications . immunophenotyping is the key in the differential diagnosis when considering malignant lymphoma with gastric carcinoma and benign conditions such as pseudolymphoma . 
cyclic anaphylaxis associated with menstruation . a middle-aged woman developed recurrent episodes of severe life-threatening anaphylaxis . all episodes were strikingly associated with the first day of menstrual bleeding . temporary relief was achieved with indomethacin therapy . the patient fully recovered following abdominal hysterectomy and salpingoophorectomy . the possible role of sex hormones and prostaglandin f2 alpha in the pathogenesis of this problem is discussed . 
emergency room care of asthmatics : a comparison between auckland and toronto . we compared emergency room visits for the treatment of asthma in two large downtown teaching hospitals : one in auckland , new zealand and one in toronto , canada . we wished to determine whether the differences in asthma mortality between new zealand and canada were reflected in different patterns of emergency room use or physician management . emergency room use during the past decade was enumerated in both hospitals , and charts containing the sole diagnosis of asthma were reviewed in detail for a defined study period in 1986 . in both toronto and auckland , the number of emergency visits for asthma had increased significantly in the past decade ( p less than .015 but the rate of rise was significantly higher in auckland ( p less than .05 ) . in auckland , 27 % of asthmatics were admitted whereas in toronto significantly fewer ( 16 % ) were admitted ( p less than .0005 ) . objective measures of pulmonary function were documented more frequently by emergency room physicians in new zealand than in canada ( 90 % versus 48 % ; p less than .0005 ) . pulmonary function measurement was primarily by peak flow meter in auckland and most commonly by spirometer in toronto so that pulmonary function measurements could not be compared directly between centers . in both centers , however , admitted patients had significantly lower pulmonary function indices than discharged patients . in new zealand , mean peak flow was 38 % of the predicted value among all asthmatics assessed ; in toronto , mean fev1 was 47 % of predicted . in toronto , pulmonary function measurements were most likely to be missing among presumably healthier discharged patients . pulse rate , respiratory rate , and pulsus paradoxus were documented more consistently in auckland than in toronto . 
second-generation h1-receptor antagonists . the second-generation h1-receptor antagonists do not penetrate into the central nervous system as readily as the first-generation h1-receptor antagonists do . they bind preferentially to peripheral rather than central h1-receptors . they cause no more sedation than placebo does . these medications differ considerably from one another in some aspects of basic pharmacology and in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics . an understanding of these differences will facilitate their optimal clinical usage . the second-generation h1-receptor antagonists are replacing the first generation h1-receptor antagonists in the symptomatic treatment of allergic rhinoconjunctivitis , and in relieving pruritus in patients with urticaria . they have a mild beneficial effect in patients with chronic asthma . they have not supplanted the first generation h1-receptor antagonists in atopic dermatitis treatment or as adjunctive treatment of pruritus and other symptoms in patients with anaphylaxis . 
hiv-1 infection in a cohort of haemophilic patients . the course of hiv infection in 53 haemophilic patients aged 5-20 years was evaluated by clinical examination and laboratory tests . during the evaluation time ( median 30 months ) two patients died of aids and 32 patients ( 60 % ) deteriorated when assessed by the brodt-helm classification . nineteen patients ( 37 % ) had decreased absolute helper cell counts ( less than 500 cd4 positive cells/microliters ) , and 45 patients ( 87 % ) had reduced helper cell to lymphocyte ratios ( less than 0.35 ) . hiv-1 was isolated from peripheral lymphocytes in 29 of 46 patients . as the disease progressed the number of positive viral cultures increased . considerable progression of the hiv infection was seen in haemophilic children and adolescents during the median evaluation period of 30 months . the transition from symptomless hiv infection to immunodeficiency was easily recognised . a lowered ratio of helper cells to lymphocytes seems to be a useful marker of the beginning of the deterioration of the immune system . 
increasing asthma prevalence in a rural new zealand adolescent population : 1975-89 . a survey of asthma symptoms and spirometry in 435 adolescent schoolchildren was undertaken in 1989 in a rural , largely maori population . the survey questionnaires were identical to those used in a 1975 survey at the same school . the prevalence of reported asthma or wheeze significantly increased from 26.2 % to 34.0 % . this increase occurred in groups reporting asthma , and also those reporting wheeze unassociated with colds , but without a previous diagnosis of asthma . there was a tendency for a rise in reported wheeze in europeans ( 24.3 % to 27.4 % ) and a significant rise in maoris ( 27.1 % to 36.2 % ) . the reclassification of other respiratory problems did not account for the increase . data from this study provides evidence that there has been a rise in the prevalence of asthma in this new zealand population over a time period of 14 years . 
long term outcome of ventilated asthmatics . over a 25 year period , 31 asthmatic children received artificial ventilation for acute asthma at alder hey children 's hospital on 48 occasions . altogether 47 episodes occurred from 1971-89 , with no decline in the number of episodes per year ( mean 2.5 ) over this period . eight children died during intermittent positive pressure ventilation ( ippv ) , and of the 23 survivors , three further children had subsequently died from asthma . seventeen children were followed up for more than a year after ippv . sixteen still had symptoms of asthma and over half had symptoms every day . ten cooperated with pulmonary function tests : mean forced expiratory volume in one second was 83 % of predicted and geometric mean provocative histamine concentration ( pc20 ) was 2.1 mg/ml . since the follow up study a fourth patient had died from asthma . ippv continues to be required for a small number of asthmatic children each year . the survivors remain a high risk group with significant continuing morbidity and mortality . 
acute myeloid leukemia and background radiation in an expanded case-referent study . a case-referent study that investigated possible associations between environmental and occupational exposures and acute myeloid leukemia was performed on 86 cases and 172 referents , all of whom were living . exposure information was obtained through a questionnaire mailed to each subject . an association was found between time spent in concrete buildings at home and work and leukemia morbidity . in addition , extensive x-ray examinations that occurred more than 5 y prior to diagnosis were more common among cases than referents . 
histopathologic features of high-grade non-hodgkin 's lymphomas in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . the french study group of pathology for human immunodeficiency virus-associated tumors . high-grade b-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphomas are observed in 5 % to 10 % of patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . to describe their histologic subtypes , a group of pathologists was formed . one hundred thirteen cases were reviewed and classified according to the working formulation , the updated kiel classification , and a recent description of morphologic variants of high-grade b-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . three major types of intermediate - or high-grade lymphomas were observed : ( 1 ) large-cell or centroblastic mainly polymorphic lymphomas with a component of immunoblasts ( 35 cases ) ; ( 2 ) immunoblastic lymphomas with plasmablastic and plasmacytic features in most cases ( 33 cases ) ; and ( 3 ) small non-cleaved cell burkitt 's or non-burkitt 's lymphoma ( 41 cases ) , with 15 cases fitting typical criteria of burkitt 's lymphoma and 26 heterogeneous cases in which the size and shape of the cells and the presence of plasmablastic features varied . the most frequent pathologic sites of involvement at presentation were the lymph nodes , gastrointestinal tract , bone marrow , brain , oral cavity , and muscles . a comparison between the histologic type and the site of involvement showed that most cases involving lymph nodes , bone marrow , or muscles were small noncleaved cell burkitt 's or non-burkitt 's lymphomas , while those that affected the gastrointestinal tract , brain , and oral cavity were centroblastic or immunoblastic lymphomas with consistent plasmacytic differentiation . in 10 cases , previous persistent generalized lymphadenopathy syndrome was present . in 13 cases , the lymphomatous proliferation was associated with follicular or diffuse hyperplasia seen on the same lymph node biopsy specimen or in another lymph node . 
amebic meningoencephalitis in a patient with aids caused by a newly recognized opportunistic pathogen . leptomyxid ameba . a fatal case of meningoencephalitis due to a leptomyxid ameba in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is presented . this opportunistic organism has not been previously recognized as a human pathogen . a 36-year-old male intravenous drug abuser died after an 18-day hospital course heralded by fever and headache and followed by nuchal rigidity and hemiparesis . computed tomography of the head showed multiple hypodense lesions . neuropathologic examination showed that in addition to human immunodeficiency virus encephalomyelitis , there was multifocal meningoencephalitis with trophozoites and cysts morphologically indistinguishable from those of acanthamoeba . these organisms were also found in the kidneys and adrenal glands . by immunofluorescence , the parasites showed antigenic identity with a free-living leptomyxid ameba and failed to react with any of a spectrum of antiacanthamoeba antisera . this emphasizes the importance of immunofluorescence identification of morphologically indistinguishable ameba species . 
interpretive criteria of the western blot assay for serodiagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection [ published erratum appears in arch pathol lab med 1991 aug ; 115 ( 8 ) :783 ] this project was designed to evaluate different criteria used in the interpretation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) western blot assay on a group of serum samples blinded to the examiner that were collected from individuals attending three different public health departments in central north carolina . each individual also completed an anonymous linked questionnaire regarding sociodemographics and risk factors for blood-borne infections . all of the western blot assays for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 were interpreted according to the criteria established at the university of north carolina hospitals , chapel hill , the centers for disease control , atlanta , ga , in association with the association of state , territorial , and public health laboratory directors , iowa city , iowa , the american red cross , washington , dc , the consortium for retrovirus serology standardization , davis , calif , and the food and drug administration , washington , dc . the results obtained were grouped as positive , negative , and indeterminate according to each organization 's criteria and analyzed in the context of the associated risk factors . the results indicate that institutions performing human immunodeficiency virus type 1 western blot confirmatory testing should adopt the criteria of the centers for disease control and the state , territorial , and public health laboratory directors . 
enhancement of immunoreactivity among lymphoid malignant neoplasms in paraffin-embedded tissues by refixation in zinc sulfate-formalin . it has been previously demonstrated that improved cytomorphologic detail can be obtained from tissue blocks initially fixed in 4 % formaldehyde solution by means of a " run-back " procedure to an aqueous phase of solution , allowing refixation with a protein-precipitating agent , such as zinc sulfate-4 % formaldehyde solution . because anecdotal experience with immunostaining such reprocessed tissues had suggested improved results , we performed a prospective trial involving 13 cases to compare the intensity of immunoreactivity before and after such reprocessing . in 10 of 13 cases studied with a variety of antibody reagents , we noted a definite improvement of staining , preferentially among those with the weakest original immunoreactivity . 
psychological disturbance in children with haemophilia . objective -- to assess the need for formal psychotherapeutic intervention in children attending a children 's haemophilia clinic after some of them had been diagnosed as positive for hiv . design -- comparison of haemophiliac children with matched control groups of diabetic and healthy children . setting -- the west of scotland children 's haemophilia centre , glasgow . patients -- 43 children aged 3 to 16 years with mild , moderate , and severe clotting disorders were matched with control groups of 46 diabetic children and 42 physically healthy children . interventions -- parents of children aged 3-5 years were interviewed with the behaviour screening questionnaire . children aged 6 to 16 were assessed by parental and teacher report using standardised questionnaires and self report using a computerised depression inventory . all were scored numerically according to the presence of symptoms of emotional and behavioural problems . main outcome measures -- the groups were compared for mean scores on each rating device and for number of children achieving scores within the pathological range . results -- in the 6-16 age group five haemophiliac children , five diabetic children , and three healthy children scored in the pathological range on the parent questionnaire , as did two , three , and five respectively on the teacher questionnaire and four , four , and eight on the depression inventory . there was no significant difference across the three groups . analysis of mean scores similarly showed no significant difference across groups . in contrast , the single measure used for younger children showed an increase in behavioural difficulties among the diabetic children . conclusion -- haemophiliac children attending the west of scotland centre were no more disturbed than their diabetic or healthy peers despite the identification of hiv infection within the clinic and the widespread adverse publicity associated with aids and hiv infection . 
evaluation of peak flow and symptoms only self management plans for control of asthma in general practice objective -- to compare a peak flow self management plan for asthma with a symptoms only plan . design -- randomisation to one of the self management plans and follow up for a year . setting -- four partner , rural training practice in norfolk . subjects -- 115 patients ( 46 children and 69 adults ) with asthma who were having prophylactic treatment for asthma and attending a nurse run asthma clinic . main outcome measures -- the number of doctor consultations , courses of oral steroids , and short term nebulised salbutamol treatments and the number of patients who required doctor consultations , courses of oral steroids , and short term nebulised salbutamol . results -- both self management plans produced significant reductions in the outcome measures but there were no significant differences in the degree of improvement between the groups . the results were similar for children and adults . the proportions of patients requiring a doctor consultation fell from 98 % ( 50/51 ) to 66 % ( 34/51 ) in the peak flow group and from 97 % ( 62/64 ) to 53 % ( 34/64 ) in the symptoms only group and the proportions requiring oral steroids from 73 % ( 34/46 ) to 47 % ( 21/46 ) and 52 % ( 31/60 ) to 12 % ( 7/60 ) . the median number of doctor consultations was reduced from 8.0 to 2.0 in the peak flow group and from 4.5 to 1.0 in the symptoms only group . conclusions -- the peak flow meter was not the crucial ingredient in the improved illness of the two groups . teaching patients the importance of their symptoms and the appropriate action to take when their asthma deteriorates is the key to effective management of asthma . simply prescribing peak flow meters without a system of self management and regular review will be unlikely to improve patient care . 
progression of hiv infection in misusers of injected drugs who stop injecting or follow a programme of maintenance treatment with methadone . objective -- to see whether misusers of injected drugs who stop injecting or switch to a programme of maintenance treatment with methadone have a reduced risk of progression of hiv infection when compared with a group of persistent misusers . design -- observational cohort study in hiv seropositive subjects with a current or past history of misusing injected drugs . setting -- hiv outpatient clinic at the university hospital of zurich , switzerland . patients -- 297 current and former parenteral drug misusers ( median age 27 ) with asymptomatic hiv infection . during the observation period 80 subjects adhered to a programme of maintenance treatment with methadone , 124 continued with parenteral drug misuse , and 93 former misusers remained free of illicit drugs . no antiretroviral treatment was given during the study . main outcome measures -- probability of progression of hiv infection from asymptomatic to symptomatic ( centers for disease control stage iv ) as calculated by life table analysis and compared in the three groups of patients by means of a log rank test , and predictors of disease progression as analysed with a cox proportional hazards regression model . results -- the 297 patients were followed up for a median of 16 months . the median duration of injecting drug misuse before enrollment was 7.1 years . there were no significant differences among the three groups with respect to cd4 + counts at the beginning of the study ( median 0.44 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ) . life table analysis showed a significantly lower probability of progression of hiv disease in both the methadone treated group and former drug misusers than in persistent injecting drug misusers . multivariate regression analysis showed a relative risk of progression of the disease of 1.78 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.20 to 2.67 ; p less than 0.01 ) in persistent injecting drug misusers , 0.48 ( 0.29 to 0.77 ; p less than 0.01 ) in the methadone treated group , and 0.66 ( 0.41 to 1.06 ; p = 0.085 ) in former drug misusers . conclusions -- stopping the misuse of injected drugs slows the progression of hiv disease in infected subjects . drug treatment programmes are effective in secondary prevention of hiv associated morbidity . 
salmeterol in nocturnal asthma : a double blind , placebo controlled trial of a long acting inhaled beta 2 agonist objective -- to determine whether inhaled salmeterol , a new long acting inhaled beta adrenergic agonist , reduces nocturnal bronchoconstriction and improves sleep quality in patients with nocturnal asthma . design -- randomised , double blind , placebo controlled crossover study . setting -- hospital outpatient clinics in edinburgh . subjects -- twenty clinically stable patients ( 13 women , seven men ) with nocturnal asthma , median age 39 ( range 18-60 ) years . interventions -- salmeterol 50 micrograms and 100 micrograms and placebo taken each morning and evening by metered dose inhaler . rescue salbutamol inhalers were provided throughout the run in and study periods . main outcome measures -- improvement in nocturnal asthma as measured by peak expiratory flow rates and change in sleep quality as measured by electroencephalography . results -- salmeterol improved the lowest overnight peak flow rate at both 50 micrograms ( difference in median values ( 95 % confidence interval for difference in medians ) 69 ( 18 to 88 ) l/min ) and 100 micrograms ( 72 ( 23 to 61 ) l/min ) doses twice daily . while taking salmeterol 50 micrograms twice daily patients had an objective improvement in sleep quality , spending less time awake or in light sleep ( -9 ( -4 to -44 ) min ) and more time in stage 4 sleep ( 26 ( 6-34 ) min ) . conclusions -- salmeterol is an effective long acting inhaled bronchodilator for patients with nocturnal asthma and at a dose of 50 micrograms twice daily improves objective sleep quality . 
prominence of slow acetylator phenotype among patients with sulfonamide hypersensitivity reactions . delayed hypersensitivity reactions are among the most severe adverse effects of the sulfonamides in current clinical use . these reactions appear to occur because of differences in the metabolism and detoxification of reactive metabolites of the sulfonamides . n-acetylation is a major metabolic pathway for the sulfonamides . slow acetylation phenotype might be a risk factor for the development of these reactions . we determined the acetylation phenotype of 21 patients who had suffered hypersensitivity reactions to the sulfonamides . there were 11 females and 10 males in the group , with a mean age of 15 years ( age range , 1.8 to 50 years ) . their acetylator phenotype was determined by determining the ratio of urinary caffeine metabolites ( 1-methylxanthine to 5-amino-6-formylmethyluracil after an oral dose of 50 mg caffeine ) . nineteen ( 90 % ) of the patients were slow acetylators compared to a 55 % incidence of slow acetylators in a race-matched control population ( p less than 0.008 ) . this suggests that a slow acetylator phenotype is a risk factor for the development of sulfonamide hypersensitivity reactions and provides further support for the role of imbalances in genetically determined pathways of metabolism and detoxification of the sulfonamides in the pathogenesis of these reactions . 
plasma histamine , epinephrine , cortisol , and leukocyte beta-adrenergic receptors in nocturnal asthma . plasma histamine , cortisol , epinephrine , cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( camp ) , and leukocyte beta-adrenergic receptors were measured in asthmatic patients with ( n = 7 ) and without ( n = 10 ) nocturnal asthma at 4 pm and 4 am and compared with those of normal subjects ( n = 10 ) . a twofold higher plasma histamine concentration was observed at 4 am compared with 4 pm in all groups , with no change in plasma cortisol , epinephrine , and camp concentrations . at 4 am compared with 4 pm , only patients with nocturnal asthma had a significant 33 % decrease ( p less than 0.05 ) in mononuclear and polymorphonuclear leukocyte beta-adrenergic receptor density , with no difference in binding affinity in all three groups . polymorphonuclear leukocytes from patients with nocturnal asthma had significantly impaired response to isoproterenol at 4 am ( 17 % + / - 7.3 % sem increase in camp ; p less than 0.05 ) compared with those of patients without nocturnal asthma ( 69.4 % + / - 13.7 % ) and normal ( 80.2 % + / - 21.3 % ) subjects . a significant change in beta-adrenergic receptor density and function occurs at night in patients with nocturnal asthma . 
classifications of acute myeloid leukemia . a detailed description of the various subtypes of the acute myeloid leukemias is provided . the importance of cytochemistry and monoclonal antibodies is discussed . 
the use of cytochemical procedures in the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic myeloid leukemia . the use of wright-giemsa-stained smears alone for the classification of acute leukemias often proves unsatisfactory . some cases of m1 , m5a , m7 , and l2 are morphologically similar . in such cases , cytochemical stains can provide an inexpensive and available diagnostic tool . m1 is positive for sbb and mpo . m5a is usually nse positive , whereas sbb and mpo are negative . m7 usually is ana esterase , pas , and ap reactive , and do not stain with sbb , mpo , and anb esterases . the megakaryocytic lineage usually is confirmed by ultrastructural cytochemistry for ppo or immunocytochemistry for platelet glycoproteins and von willebrand factor . pas block positivity and ap dotlike reactivity are suggestive of lymphoid lineage . nse stains are useful in differentiating m2 from m4 . morphologic and cytochemical techniques also can suggest the presence of certain chromosomal abnormalities such as t ( 8 ; 21 ) and inv ( 16 ) , which may have an influence on prognosis . because not all cases of acute leukemia are easily subtyped by morphology and cytochemistry , immunophenotyping , karyotyping , and molecular analysis of dna and rna of leukemia cells also may be required to define cell lineage . 
immunophenotyping of acute myeloid leukemia cells . this article considers the expression of myeloid cell-associated antigens on both normal and malignant myeloid cells . progress in the use of monoclonal antibodies to myeloid cell surface antigens for the diagnosis , subclassification , and treatment of acute myeloid leukemia is discussed . the results of bone marrow purging with monoclonal antibodies to remove leukemia cells for the purpose of autologous bone-marrow transplantation are promising . 
leukemias of indeterminant lineage . two biologically and clinically important forms of acute leukemia have been described . evidence suggests that both undifferentiated acute leukemia and many types of hybrid leukemia arise from relatively fewer differentiated cells than do the more straightforward acute leukemias . clinical correlations suggest that patients with these leukemias may have a poorer prognosis , although some findings may be associated with an improved prognosis . more data in which multiple techniques are applied to the same leukemic cells are clearly needed . patients with certain types of hybrid leukemias may be suitable candidates for more aggressive forms of chemotherapy or , possibly , combinations of therapy directed at cells of both lineages . 
chromosomal abnormalities in myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia . clonal chromosome abnormalities are found in more than half the patients with hematologic malignancies . karyotype is an independent prognostic factor in these patients . cytogenetic findings correlate significantly with morphologic , immunologic , and clinical features as well as response to treatment , remission duration , and survival . the number of different cytogenetic abnormalities is enormous ; however , many cytogenetic findings frequently occur in a given disease ( e.g. , abnormalities of 5 or 7 in 75 % to 90 % of patients with therapy-related aml ) . some abnormalities are found only in myeloid malignancies , for example , the t ( 8 ; 21 ) ( q22 ; q22 ) and rearrangements of chromosome 16q22 , both of which have a good prognosis . other abnormalities usually are found in both myeloid and lymphoid malignancies , for example , the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) and t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( q34 ; q11 ) , both of which have a poor prognosis . the human gene mapping conferences have compiled much cytogenetic data and produced several interesting correlations in myeloid malignancies : rearrangements of 3q21-26 with myeloid proliferations associated with environmental exposure ( similar to abnormalities of 5q , 7q , 12p , and 17q ) , aberrations of 12p , 11q13 and 11q23 with both myeloid and lymphoid disorders , and the lack of myeloid involvement and abnormalities of chromosomes 14 and 18 . in conclusion , cytogenetic analysis of neoplastic cells at diagnosis for patients with mds , aml , and saml is required for appropriate diagnosis and treatment . the use of chromosome abnormalities to separate patients into high - and low-risk groups eventually may allow us to be more effective in selecting curative therapy . 
the molecular biology of acute myeloid leukemia . proto-oncogene expression and function in normal and neoplastic myeloid cells . proto-oncogenes and suppressor genes fall into four functional groups : growth factors , growth factor and hormone receptors , signal transducers , and transcriptional regulatory factors . many of these genes are selectively expressed in myeloid cells and may play a role in normal development of the myeloid lineages . furthermore , chromosomal rearrangements , deletions , and mutations may disrupt the normal expression or function of these genes , promoting mpd and leukemogenesis . many of the genes altered by karyotypic abnormalities in myeloid disorders are only beginning to be identified . future studies undoubtedly will determine the molecular mechanisms whereby these genes , residing at karyotypic breakpoints in myeloid disorders , promote neoplastic transformation of myeloid cells . 
the role of ras gene mutations in myeloproliferative disorders . mutations in the ras genes frequently are found in myeloproliferative disorders . these abnormalities have prognostic significance in the myelodysplastic syndromes , but their clinical importance in other hematopathic states remains unclear . the study of this gene in leukemic conditions is providing insights into the genetic pathways leading to leukemic progression . 
granulocytic sarcoma . granulocytic sarcoma is a variant presentation of acute myeloblastic leukemia , occurring in extramedullary locations . it is uncommon , but it may occur at any site and at any age , which necessitates its inclusion in the differential diagnosis of all undifferentiated tumors . histology , touch-imprint cytology , cytochemistry , immunocytochemistry , electron microscopy , and molecular studies all contribute to the diagnosis . 
cyclosporine in the treatment of cutaneous t cell lymphoma . we present our observations on the use of cyclosporine in the treatment of three patients with mycosis fungoides and two patients with sezary syndrome . the patients with mycosis fungoides showed mild improvement of short duration . one patient with sezary syndrome had significant improvement during 2 years of treatment . it is unlikely that cyclosporine alone will be sufficient therapy for cutaneous t cell lymphoma . however , lower doses in conjunction with other immunomodulators may minimize potential side effects and lead to longer lasting clinical improvement . 
seborrheic dermatitis and hiv infection . qualitative analysis of skin surface lipids in men seropositive and seronegative for hiv . we measured skin surface lipids ( cholesterol , free fatty acids , triglycerides , wax esters , and squalene ) in patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and those seronegative for hiv with and without seborrheic dermatitis . cholesterol and wax ester fractions were similar in all four groups but triglycerides and squalene were significantly increased and free fatty acids significantly decreased in hiv-positive patients , regardless of the presence of seborrheic dermatitis . in addition , a strong negative correlation was found between free fatty acid and triglyceride levels . we conclude that abnormalities of skin surface lipids are not associated with the development of seborrheic dermatitis in hiv-positive persons but are associated with hiv infection itself . 
neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis in two neutropenic patients . neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis is an uncommon , self-limited dermatosis with a variable clinical presentation . it seems to be due to chemotherapeutic drugs in most cases . necrosis of the eccrine gland associated with a neutrophilic infiltrate is the histologic hallmark of this disease . we report two additional cases in neutropenic patients with acute myelogenous leukemia in which there was a striking lack of neutrophil infiltration . a new term , drug-associated eccrine hidradenitis , is suggested . 
growth regulation of a human mature b cell line , b104 , by anti-igm and anti-igd antibodies . an ebna - human b lymphoma cell line , b104 , was established . b104 cells express igd as well as igm on their surface , which is thought to be a basic characteristic of mature b cells . the growth of b104 cells was inhibited by treatment with a panel of anti-igm antibodies . cell cycle analyses revealed that the transition of b104 cells from the g2/m to the g0/g1 phase of the cell cycle was markedly inhibited by treatment with anti-igm antibodies . progression of b104 cells to the m phase of the cell cycle was found to be suppressed in the presence of anti-igm antibodies . in contrast , both the entrance of g0/g1 phase cells into the s phase and the progression of s phase cells to the g2/m phase of the cell cycle did not seem to be inhibited significantly by treatment with anti-igm antibodies . these results indicate that the mechanism of the inhibition of growth of b104 cells by anti-igm antibodies is blockage of the transition from the g2 to the m phase of the cell cycle . in contrast to anti-igm antibodies , anti-igd antibodies could not cause growth inhibition of b104 cells at all . b cell growth factors such as il-4 and il-6 had no effect on the inhibition of growth of b104 cells by anti-igm antibody . ifn-alpha and - beta , which have no b cell growth factor activity , did increase the number of cells that survived the treatment with anti-igm antibodies . b104 is an excellent experimental model for the study of the mechanism of signal transduction through sig as well as the functional difference between sigm and sigd . 
hyperphosphorylation of cd20 in hairy cells . alteration by low molecular weight b cell growth factor and ifn-alpha . hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) is a b cell tumor affecting the pre-plasma stage of b cell differentiation . hairy cells produce b cell growth factor ( bcgf ) - related growth factor ( s ) and we have previously shown that low mol wt ( lmw ) - bcgf-induced proliferation of hairy cells is inhibited in vitro and in vivo by ifn-alpha . we therefore suggested that this effect might contribute to the exquisite sensitivity of hcl to ifn-alpha therapy . to elucidate the mechanism involved in the therapeutic effect of ifn-alpha , we have analyzed the pattern of phosphorylated proteins in hairy cells . we detected the presence of a hyperphosphorylated protein with a molecular mass of about 35 kda . this protein was identified as the cd20 molecule ( b1 ) , which is a structurally unique phosphoprotein exclusively detected on b cells and expressed during most stages of b cell development . incubation of hairy cells with mitogenic concentrations of lmw-bcgf induces an additional increase in cd20 protein phosphorylation . in contrast , preincubation of cells with ifn-alpha , but not ifn-gamma , decreases both basal and lmw-bcgf-induced cd20 phosphorylation . cd20 phosphorylation in hairy cells is also reduced after in vivo ifn-alpha administration . in contrast , in one case of a patient unresponsive to ifn-alpha therapy , cd20 phosphorylation is not altered by in vitro ifn-alpha treatment , whereas lmw-bcgf still elicits cd20 phosphorylation stimulation . our results suggest that ifn-alpha may act in hcl , at least in part , by inhibiting leukemic cell proliferation via regulation of phosphorylation , since cd20 phosphorylation is thought to be associated with cellular proliferation . a model involving dysregulation of cd20 is discussed . 
synergistic action of monoclonal antibodies directed at p55 and p75 chains of the human il-2-receptor . tu27 , a mouse igg1 mab directed at the p75 chain of the human il-2r , was analyzed for its ability to interact with il-2 binding on isolated p75 chains ( yt-2c2 cells ) and high affinity p55/p75 receptors ( human alloreactive t cell clone 4as ) , to inhibit il-2-induced proliferation ( 4as cells ) and to cooperate with an anti-p55 chain mab ( 33b3 .1 ) for inhibiting il-2 binding and proliferation . tu27 and il-2 bound to the isolated p75 chain expressed by yt-2c2 cells with respective dissociation constants ( kd ) of 1.3 and 1 nm . they cross-inhibited each other for binding with inhibition constants ( ki ) in agreement with their respective kd values . the nature of the interaction was , however , not purely competitive and suggested nonidentical epitopes for the two ligands on the p75 chain . on 4as cells , il-2 bound with high affinity ( kd = 50 pm ) and tu27 with an affinity similar to that found on yt-2c2 cells . the binding of tu27 and il-2 were also mutually exclusive on 4as cells . however , the mechanism of interaction of tu27 with il-2 was complex since the inhibitory potency of the antibody depended on temperature , antibody preincubation and time of assay . data obtained at 4 degrees c in the presence of suboptimal , tracer-like concentrations of il-2 indicated that the intrinsic affinity of tu27 for the high affinity configuration was 15-fold lower than for the isolated p75 chain and argued in favor of the affinity-conversion model ( as opposed to the preformed complex model ) in which p55 and p75 are dissociated in the absence of il-2 . at 37 degrees c , tu27 inhibited il-2 binding only on short time assays ( 6 min ) . longer time ( 30 min ) of il-2 binding resulted in an almost complete disappearance of the effect of tu27 , suggesting that internalization of the high affinity p55/p75/il2 complex enables the cells to escape from the inhibitory effect of tu27 . in the presence of the 33b3 .1 mab , the interaction of tu27 with il-2 resembled the one observed on yt-2c2 cells , suggesting that 33b3 .1 is able to inhibit the il-2-induced association of p55 and p75 . both antibody were found to synergize on 4as cells , as a result of a cooperative mechanism in which 33b3 .1 blocks the formation of the high affinity complex hence allowing tu27 to bind with higher affinity , and tu27 blocks il-2 binding to the p75 chain . proliferation studies corroborated the binding experiments . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
pharmacokinetic disposition of zidovudine during pregnancy . zidovudine pharmacokinetics was determined in three human immunodeficiency virus type 1-seropositive women receiving zidovudine ( 200 mg orally every 4 h ) from 19 to 39 weeks of pregnancy and postpartum . zidovudine concentrations were measured using high-pressure liquid chromatography , and pharmacokinetic analyses were done using model-independent methods . for the pregnant versus postpartum periods , peak zidovudine levels ( mean + / - 1 sd ) were 3.9 + / - 1.7 mumol/l versus 4.3 + / - 0.04 mumol/l ( p = .56 ) ; elimination half-lives were 1.3 + / - 0.6 versus 1.0 + / - 0.3 h ( p = .41 ) ; areas under the concentration curve were 4.5 + / - 1.0 mumol/l x h and 6.8 + / - 0.5 mumol/l x h ( p = .02 ) ; apparent total body clearances were 2.5 + / - 0.6 l/h/kg and 1.7 + / - 0.4 l/h/kg ( p = .05 ) ; and apparent steady state volumes of distribution were 3.9 + / - 1.0 l/kg and 2.6 + / - 0.8 l/kg ( p = .07 ) , respectively . umbilical cord serum levels ranged from 113 % -127 % of maternal levels . no persistent adverse effects of zidovudine therapy were seen in the three women or their babies . 
cofactors in male-female sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . in a study of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) - uninfected african prostitutes , 83 ( 67 % ) of 124 seroconverted to hiv-1 . oral contraceptive use ( odds ratio [ or ] , 3.1 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 1.1-8 .6 ; p less than .03 ) , genital ulcers ( mean annual episodes , 1.32 + / - 0.55 in seroconverting women vs. 0.48 + / - 0.21 in seronegative women ; p less than .02 ) and chlamydia trachomatis infections ( or , 3.6 ; ci , 1.3-11 .0 ; p less than .02 ) were associated with increased risk of hiv-1 infection . condom use reduced the risk of hiv-1 infection ( or , 0.11 ; ci , 0.05-0 .27 ; p less than .0001 ) . stepwise logistic regression analysis confirmed independent associations between hiv-1 infection and oral contraceptive use , condom use , genital ulcers , and c. trachomatis . the presence of other sexually transmitted diseases may in part explain the heterosexual hiv-1 epidemic in africa and may represent important targets for intervention to control hiv-1 infection . 
the evolution of lymphadenopathy and hypergammaglobulinemia are evidence for early and sustained polyclonal b lymphocyte activation during human immunodeficiency virus infection . to examine whether polyclonal activation of b lymphocytes as measured by hypergammaglobulinemia contributes to lymphadenopathy in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , correlates of adenopathy were examined in 240 homosexual men . lymph node size was measured in 12 sites semiannually over 4 years . both adenopathy and hyperglobulinemia developed within 1 year after seroconversion and persisted at high levels . adenopathy declined near diagnosis of aids whereas serum igg decreased 8-16 months after diagnosis . adenopathy attributable to hiv occurred in all palpable node groups . by logistic regression , hiv-positive men were best discriminated from hiv-negative men by size of posterior cervical nodes and the number of sites with enlarged nodes . in a repeated measures model of covariance , adenopathy in hiv-positive men was associated with more cd4 + cells ( p less than .002 ) , elevated serum globulins ( p less than .01 ) , and lower platelet counts ( p less than .05 ) . adenopathy declined over time ( p less than .001 ) and with diagnosis of aids or aids-related complex ( p less than .03 ) . thus , adenopathy and hypergammaglobulinemia are correlated and follow a similar course through various stages of hiv infection , suggesting that both are caused by polyclonal b cell activation . 
human t lymphotropic virus type ii ( htlv-ii ) infection in a cohort of new york intravenous drug users : an old infection ? to identify risk factors for human t lymphotropic virus type ii ( htlv-ii ) infection in intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) , participants in a longitudinal study of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection in a new york methadone maintenance program were studied . of 270 participants tested for htlv-i/ii , 21 ( 8 % ) were seropositive . of those , 15 ( 71 % ) had htlv-ii-specific sequences by polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) and 1 ( 5 % ) had both htlv-i - and - ii-specific sequences ; 3 persons with indeterminate serologic results were also pcr-positive for htlv-ii . htlv-ii infection was significantly associated with older age but was not predicted by sex , race , socioeconomic status , transfusion history , or hiv infection status . behavioral factors since 1978 , such as duration and frequency of intravenous drug use , needle sharing , visits to shooting galleries , or number of sex partners , were also not associated with htlv-ii infection . these findings are in contrast with the association of these risk factors with hiv in this group and suggest that , among ivdus , htlv-ii is an older endemic infection that is less efficiently transmitted than hiv . 
antibodies to human t lymphotropic virus type i in a population from the philippines : evidence for cross-reactivity with plasmodium falciparum . residents of two areas in the philippines were tested for human t lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) : napsan , a site endemic for malaria , and a nonmalarious site , bacolod . by elisa , 30 % of the 1743 napsan residents were positive . western blot immunoreactivity with two or more htlv-i proteins was present in 81 % of the elisa positives ; however , there was no reactivity with the env proteins . the frequency of this indeterminate immunoreactivity increased with the malaria antibody titer . none of the 200 bacolod sera were western blot immunoreactive . in competitive serologic assays , an htlv-i lysate blocked the htlv-i immunoreactivity of the napsan sera but did not reduce malaria antibody . a plasmodium falciparum lysate blocked both the htlv-i and malaria immunoreactivity of the napsan sera . these results show that indeterminate htlv-i immunoreactivity can be caused by p. falciparum antibody . serosurveys conducted in malaria endemic areas should consider this possibility . 
recovery of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 from semen : minimal impact of stage of infection and current antiviral chemotherapy . because exposure to semen is important for the sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv ) , the relationship of stage of infection and antiviral chemotherapy to isolation of hiv from semen was investigated . whereas hiv was isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of all seropositive persons tested , it was isolated from semen in only 11 ( 32 % ) of 34 men , including 3 of 6 who were studied sequentially over time . hiv was isolated from 6 ( 32 % ) of 19 semen specimens from 14 asymptomatic persons ( centers for disease control [ cdc ] class ii or iii ) and from 10 ( 28 % ) of 36 semen specimens from 20 symptomatic patients ( cdc class iv ) . isolation of hiv from semen did not correlate with cd4 + or cd8 + t lymphocytes counts or zidovudine therapy . seropositive men may shed hiv in semen early in the course of infection , and zidovudine therapy seems to have no effect on the recovery of hiv and , thus , on the potential for sexual transmission of hiv . 
ataxia in myxoedema : a neurophysiological reassessment . in a long-standing case of myxoedema with ataxia and dysarthria , neurophysiological investigations were carried out to assess how much of the ataxic dysbasic syndrome depended on the slowness of mechanical contraction and how much resulted from primary cerebellar involvement . it was observed that the achilles reflexogram showed a marked prolongation of contraction and relaxation time and that in both quadriceps and triceps surae mechanical percussion induced a marked myxoedema and prolonged relaxation time . the emg of these muscles during voluntary contraction and stopping reaction detected an excessive recruitment of the antagonistic muscles , starting without any abnormal delay , a finding at variance with a typical cerebellar pattern . post-urographic analysis gave a pattern of oscillations still within the normal range . these findings suggest that the gait alterations of our patient depended on the increase in muscle contraction time and the consequent excessive recruitment of the antagonists . 
hla and multiple sclerosis in italy : a review of the literature . hla antigens of locus a , c , b , dr and dq were typed in 104 italian multiple sclerosis patients and in 905 healthy controls ; the results have been compared with those published in the italian literature . the italian studies have been reviewed regarding the ethnic origin of the typed population and the corresponding prevalence of the disease . the data suggest a lack of association between a3 and b7 antigens and italian multiple sclerosis and a relevance of other dr locus antigens ( mainly dr4 and dr5 ) , in addition to dr2 , in the susceptibility to the disease . 
wernicke 's encephalopathy in two patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . two non-alcoholic homosexual patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) are reported who developed acute wernicke 's encephalopathy in the terminal stage of their illness . the first patient presented with vascular congestion , minute haemorrhages , proliferation of microglia and of the vessel walls at the predilection sites of the wernicke-korsakoff process . in the second patient only the mamillary bodies were involved . besides wernicke 's encephalopathy , a primary cerebral immunoblastoma and cerebral toxoplasmosis were found in the first patient , whereas the second showed severe encephalitis with numerous microglial and multinucleated giant cells reacting positively with anti-hiv antibody . just as in the development of wernicke 's encephalopathy in malignant diseases , the catabolic trend of the metabolism of the immunodeficient patients with consecutive thiamine deficiency must be considered the principal pathogenetic mechanism . 
prognostic factors in aggressive malignant lymphomas : description and validation of a prognostic index that could identify patients requiring a more intensive therapy . the groupe d'etudes des lymphomes agressifs the objectives of this study were to determine prognostic factors for response to treatment , freedom-from-relapse ( ffr ) survival , and overall survival of 737 aggressive malignant lymphoma patients treated with the doxorubicin , cyclophosphamide , vindesine , bleomycin , methylprednisolone , methotrexate with leucovorin , ifosfamide , etoposide , asparaginase , and cytarabine ( lnh-84 ) regimen ; to construct a prognostic index with factors isolated by multivariate analyses ; and to validate this prognostic index with another set of patients . complete response ( cr ) was reached in 75 % of lnh-84 patients , and 30 % of them relapsed . with a median follow-up of 36 months , median ffr survival and median overall survival were not reached . low serum albumin level , high tumoral mass , weight loss , bone marrow involvement , greater than or equal to 2 extranodal sites , and increased lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) level were associated with a low response rate . advanced stage , increased ldh level , and nonlarge-cell histologic subtypes ( diffuse mixed , lymphoblastic , and small non-cleaved ) were statistically associated with a high relapse rate and short ffr survival . increased ldh level , low serum albumin level , tumoral mass larger than 10 cm , greater than or equal to 2 extranodal sites , advanced stage , and age older than 65 years were statistically associated with short overall survival . four of these parameters , namely , ldh level , stage , number of extranodal sites , and tumoral mass , were put together to construct a prognostic index . this index partitioned lnh-84 patients into three subgroups of good , intermediate , and poor prognosis ( p less than .00001 ) : cr rates of 93 % , 83 % , and 61 % ; relapse rates of 12 % , 25 % , and 45 % ; 3-year ffr survival of 87 % , 73 % , and 53 % , and 3-year survival of 88 % , 71 % , and 41 % , respectively . this prognostic index was applied to a test set of patients : 155 patients treated on protocols of the nebraska lymphoma study group . using this index , these patients had 3-year ffr survival of 70 % , 40 % , and 22 % ( p = .0002 ) and 3-year survival of 79 % , 52 % , and 31 % ( p = .005 ) . in patients with aggressive lymphomas , this simple prognostic index could distinguish between patients requiring intensive treatment such as autologous bone marrow transplantation in first complete remission and those who could be treated with standard regimens . 
prognostic variables in patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma treated with macop-b . one hundred twenty-six patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma were treated with methotrexate with leucovorin , doxorubicin , cyclophosphamide , vincristine , prednisone , and bleomycin ( macop-b ) between april 1981 and june 1986 . univariate and multivariate analyses were performed using overall survival as of september 1989 as the end point . four independent negative predictors of survival were identified : presence of b symptoms ; more than two involved lymph node sites ; more than one extranodal site ( variables related to tumor burden ) , and age older than 60 , a variable related to the patient 's ability to tolerate treatment . each variable contributed the same relative risk of dying and , accordingly , this simple predictive formula was developed empirically : ( 4-n ) x 30 = the approximate percentage of chance of survival at 5 years . " n " is the number of predictive variables present . the same four predictors were also found to be significant by multivariate analysis when only those patients achieving a complete response were analyzed . 
discordant bone marrow involvement in diffuse large-cell lymphoma : a distinct clinical-pathologic entity associated with a continuous risk of relapse . from 1975 to 1988 , 50 patients with lymph node biopsy-documented diffuse large-cell lymphoma ( dlcl ) presented with bone marrow involvement . twenty-four patients ( 48 % ) had large-cell lymphoma ( lcl ) in the bone marrow and were compared with 19 ( 38 % ) patients who had small cleaved-cell lymphoma ( sccl ) in the marrow . additionally , seven patients ( 14 % ) had mixed small - and large-cell lymphoma ( ml ) in the marrow . patients who had lcl marrow involvement were younger ( p less than .02 ) and more frequently had elevated lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) levels ( p less than .001 ) , high tumor burden ( p less than .01 ) , and more sites of extranodal disease ( p less than .05 ) than those with sccl in the marrow . the complete response ( cr ) rate to multiagent chemotherapy was 16.7 % in the lcl group and 89.4 % in the sccl group ( p less than .001 ) . one third of the patients with lcl in the marrow developed cns involvement , compared with only one patient in the sccl group ( p = .06 ) . overall 5-year survival was 79 % in patients with sccl marrow involvement , compared with only 12 % in patients with lcl in the marrow ( p = .002 ) . despite a high cr rate , patients with marrow involved by sccl were at a high continuous risk of relapse with only a 30 % failure-free survival at 5 years . we conclude that bone marrow involvement with lcl predicts for extremely poor prognosis with low response rate and short survival . patients with sccl in the bone marrow have a high rate of cr and a high rate of 5-year survival ; however , there is a high risk of late relapse , and only 15 % are in a continuous remission at 8 years . 
pentostatin induces durable remissions in hairy cell leukemia . fifty patients with hairy cell leukemia were treated with pentostatin ( 2 ' - deoxycoformycin ; dcf ) for a median of 3 months ; 32 ( 64 % ) patients achieved complete remission ( cr ) , and 10 ( 20 % ) patients achieved partial remission ( pr ) , for an overall response rate of 84 % . after reaching maximal response , no maintenance therapy was administered . the median duration of follow-up is now 39 months , and only four of 32 patients in cr and two of 10 patients in pr have relapsed . dcf therapy produces durable long-term , disease-free survival in patients with hairy cell leukemia . 
the role of dose intensity in determining outcome in intermediate-grade non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . to determine whether the dose intensity of chemotherapeutic regimens correlates with the complete remission rate in adult patients with advanced-stage intermediate-grade lymphoma , reports of comparative trials of therapy were reviewed . reports were identified using medline , through references from review articles , and through review of selected abstracts . twenty-two studies including 14 randomized and eight cohort trials were analyzed to assess projected dose intensity . four other studies were analyzed to assess the role of received dose intensity . dose intensities were calculated using described methods and correlated with complete remission rates . individual trials were assessed using " levels of evidence . " a metaanalysis of randomized trials and a cross-trial analysis of all comparative trials using a weighted least squares linear regression were performed . using levels of evidence , support was obtained for the hypothesis that dose intensity correlates with the remission rate from two trials in which dose intensity was " indirectly " tested . as these studies did not " directly " test dose intensity , confounding variables , including those arising from the assumptions made in calculating dose intensity , can not be excluded . metaanalysis showed a relative probability of achieving complete remission of 1.34 ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.13 to 1.58 ) favoring the pooled arm of high dose intensity . cross-trial analysis showed a relatively weak association between dose intensity and remission rate ( r = .49 , p = .0001 ) . two of four reports retrospectively assessing received dose intensity suggested that increased dose intensity is associated with superior remission rates . these analyses suggest that dose intensity may correlate with the remission rate in advanced-stage intermediate-grade lymphoma . however , properly designed trials directly testing dose intensity have not been performed and are needed to confirm this hypothesis . 
a study of fatigue in systemic lupus erythematosus . fifty-nine patients with systemic lupus erythematosus were evaluated by questionnaires , histories , physical examinations and routine laboratory studies in order to better understand their fatigue . the fatigue severity scale ( scored from 1 to 7 ) was used to measure fatigue and yielded a mean score + / - sd of 4.6 + / - 1.5 . fifty-three percent of the patients reported that fatigue was their most disabling symptom . although perceived as severe , the symptom of fatigue did not correlate significantly with any of the laboratory measures . however , there was a significant correlation between fatigue and the physician 's rating of disease activity . fatigue also correlated significantly with depression which accounted for 21 % of the variation in fatigue scores . 
methotrexate-nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug interaction in children with arthritis . in order to assess the interaction between methotrexate ( mtx ) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs ( nsaid ) , we studied the pharmacokinetics of oral mtx alone and in the presence of the usually prescribed nsaid in 7 children with chronic arthritis . the nsaid studied included tolmetin , indomethacin , naproxen , and aspirin . six patients were treated with multiple nsaid . the mean mtx elimination half-life was prolonged when nsaid were coadministered ( 1.7 + / - 0.5 vs 1.2 + / - 0.1 h ; p = 0.03 ) . however , neither the apparent mtx clearance ( ci ) ( 10.6 + / - 5.5 vs 13.1 + / - 3.5 l/h ; p = 0.19 ) , the area under the serum mtx concentration-time curve ( auc ) ( 2.1 + / - 1.0 vs 1.5 + / - 0.6 mumol/l/h ; p = 0.08 ) or the apparent volume of distribution ( vd ) ( 23.0 + / - 6.2 vs 21.9 + / - 6.4 l ; p = 0.53 ) was significantly altered by the administration of nsaid . although the differences between the mean cl and auc were not statistically significant , a wide variation in the impact of nsaid on mtx cl was observed . in 6 of 7 patients , the auc increased during nsaid administration from 19 to 140 % . this degree of increase may be clinically significant in some individuals . it is consequently recommended to closely monitor patients who are receiving mtx and nsaid for mtx toxicity until these results can be verified in a larger population . 
meta-analysis of sulfasalazine in ankylosing spondylitis . at present there is no widely accepted therapy for ankylosing spondylitis ( as ) , a progressive debilitating disease . the effectiveness of sulfasalazine in as still lacks strong evidence , as well , the magnitude of its benefit is unknown . a meta-analysis was carried out to assess the effectiveness of sulfasalazine in as . a search of the literature was done using medline , index medicus , the reference lists of articles located and contacting content experts to reveal unpublished studies . five randomized controlled trials ( rct ) comparing sulfasalazine to placebo were located and assessed methodologically . the methodologic quality of all 5 rct was considered satisfactory and consequently these studies were included in the meta-analysis . the pooled estimate of clinical benefit ( and its 95 % confidence interval ) favoring sulfasalazine , over and above that observed in the placebo group was as follows : duration of morning stiffness -28.2 % ( -54.6 to -1.8 % ) ; severity of morning stiffness -30.6 % ( -52.5 to -8.7 % ) ; severity of pain -26.7 % ( -44.3 to -9.1 % ) ; general well being -7.1 % ( -24.3 to 10.0 % ) ; erythrocyte sedimentation rate -9.2 % ( -24.8 to 6.4 % ) ; and iga -11.7 % ( -18.8 to -4.7 % ) . adverse effects , mostly mild , were more frequently observed in the sulfasalazine group ( odds ratio [ or ] = 1.5746 , p = 0.1082 ) . the occurrence of dropouts ( or = 1.1554 , p = 0.6119 ) was similar in both groups . sulfasalazine is a safe and effective drug in the short term treatment of as . 
ankylosing spondylitis with exuberant sclerosis in the sacroiliac joints , symphysis pubis and spine . we report the case of a man with ankylosing spondylitis involving the symphysis pubis and some intervertebral discs in addition to the sacroiliac joints . the bone adjacent to each inflammatory area showed an unusually exuberant sclerosis . in the early phases of evolution the appearance of sacroilitis was indistinguishable from that of osteitis condensans ilii . 
miller fisher syndrome in systemic lupus erythematosus . we describe the first case of miller fisher syndrome , a guillain barre variant , complicating systemic lupus erythematosus . the symptoms and signs mimicked a brainstem syndrome . despite treatment with high dose gamma globulin , our patient worsened and required mechanical ventilation . after plasma exchange , the patient improved . 
effects of in vitro electrical stimulation on enhancement and suppression of malignant lymphoma cell proliferation . the suppression and enhancement of proliferation of mouse el4 lymphoma cells varied significantly when the cells were electrically stimulated within a narrow range of low-level direct current . with the use of platinum electrodes , the suppression characteristics were observed over a narrow range , or window , of direct currents centered at approximately 17 microa . enhancement characteristics were observed over a broad range of low-level direct currents ( approximately 0.1 to 10 microa ) . these results indicate that the proliferation of certain eukaryotic cells may be directly controlled by stimulation with low-level direct current . 
cellular immunity in interstitial cystitis . it has been suggested that interstitial cystitis is an autoimmune disease . the evidence for this hypothesis , based on studies of humoral immune factors , has been contradictory . we assessed the immune response in interstitial cystitis by evaluating lymphocyte populations in the peripheral blood and bladder tissue of interstitial cystitis patients . the lymphocyte phenotypes in peripheral blood were entirely normal , including the cd4 ( cluster designation nomenclature ) and cd8 subsets , and the cd4 : cd8 ratio . bladder lamina propria showed a predominance of cd4 over cd8 lymphocytes in interstitial and other forms of cystitis . bladder epithelium showed a similar pattern in bacterial or mechanical cystitis but specimens from patients with interstitial cystitis had a predominance of cd8 cells . the findings of normal lymphocyte populations in the peripheral blood are not supportive of an autoimmune mechanism in the disease . the findings in bladder tissue show that the urothelium is not involved in the inflammatory reaction , as is the lamina propria , and they would suggest , therefore , that the initiating factor does not originate from the bladder lumen . the cd8 predominance in the urothelium along with a cd4 predominance in the lamina propria may form a characteristic pattern for the diagnosis of interstitial cystitis and merits further study . 
dietary intake in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , patients with aids-related complex , and serologically positive human immunodeficiency virus patients : correlations with nutritional status . one of the major clinical manifestations of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and aids-related complex ( arc ) is the development of cachexia . this most likely results from a multifactorial interplay of poor diet , malabsorption , and altered metabolism . to assess the potential role of nutrient intake in the development or persistence of malnutrition , a detailed analysis was performed of a 72-hr diet record in clinically stable patients with aids ( n = 18 ) , arc ( n = 12 ) and in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) seropositive controls without significant manifestations of disease ( n = 13 ) . total calorie intake was 39.1 + / - 13.2 kcal/kg/day in aids patients vs 34.6 + / - 7.8 kcal/kg/day in arc patients or 31.9 + / - 17.7 kcal/kg/day in hiv seropositive cases ( all p = ns ) . likewise , mean protein intakes were similar among the groups and exceeded recommended daily dietary allowance ( rda ) guidelines . the mean body weight changes from the inception of illness were -11 + / - 1 % in aids , -6 + / - 7 % in arc , vs +3 + / - 2 % in hiv-seropositive-only cases ( p less than 0.05 vs aids and arc ) . dietary vitamin and mineral analysis revealed that 88 % of aids , 88 % of hiv seropositive , and 89 % of arc patients were ingesting less than 50 % rda for at least one nutrient . the mean number of deficiencies per patient was 1.8 + / - 1.3 in aids , 3.8 + / - 3.5 in arc , and 2.9 + / - 2.5 in hiv-seropositive-only cases ( p less than 0.05 aids vs arc ) . there were no significant correlations between specific anthropometric measurements and dietary intakes of protein or fat . 
common variable immunodeficiency : the disorder and treatment . a case of common variable immunodeficiency , a relatively rare disorder , is presented . this case was complicated by the presence of an anti-iga antibody in the patient 's serum and a history of a possible anaphylactic reaction to a prior intravenous infusion of gamma-globulin . common variable immunodeficiency is actually a heterogeneous group of demonstrable immunoglobulin deficiencies that have in common low levels of most immunoglobulin isotypes , the inability to form antibodies to antigen , an absence of gross defects in cell-mediated immunity , and the presence of recurrent bacterial infections . the history of immunoglobulin deficiency and its treatment is reviewed . although the primary therapy for common variable immunodeficiency is gamma-globulin replacement , ancillary measures such as early treatment of infections with antibiotics are also important . intravenous gamma-globulin replacement therapy is preferred to intramuscular replacement therapy in these patients because intramuscular doses must be limited in volume to minimize local pain and take 2 to 14 days to achieve maximal blood levels , during which time in situ degradation of up to 50 % of the administered dose can occur . five intravenous gamma-globulin preparations are currently available in the united states . the potential adverse effects of intravenous gamma-globulin infusion and the precautions currently taken to ensure safety during administration of this product are discussed . 
children born to women with hiv-1 infection : natural history and risk of transmission . european collaborative study . 600 children born to hiv-infected mothers by june 15 , 1990 , in ten european centres were followed to study the natural history of hiv infection and the vertical transmission rate . they were seen at birth , every 3 months up to 18 months of age , and every 6 months thereafter . at last follow-up , 64 children were judged to be hiv infected and 343 had lost antibody and were presumed uninfected . the initial clinical feature in infected children was usually a combination of persistent lymphadenopathy , splenomegaly , and hepatomegaly , though 30 % of children presented with aids , or with oral candidosis followed rapidly by aids . an estimated 83 % of infected children show laboratory or clinical features of hiv infection by 6 months of age . by 12 months , 26 % have aids and 17 % die of hiv-related disease . subsequently , the disease progresses more slowly and most children remain stable or even improve during the second year . the vertical transmission rate , based on results in 372 children born at least 18 months before the analysis , was 12.9 % ( 95 % cl 9.5-16 .3 % ) . virus has been repeatedly isolated in an additional small proportion of children ( 2.5 % , 95 % cl 0.7-6 .3 % ) who lost maternal antibody and have remained clinically and immunologically normal . without a definitive virological diagnosis , the monitoring of immunoglobulins , cd4/cd8 ratio , and clinical signs could identify hiv infection in 48 % of infected children by 6 months , with a specificity of more than 99 % . 
immunoglobulins from animal models of motor neuron disease and from human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients passively transfer physiological abnormalities to the neuromuscular junction . amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( als ) is a devastating human disease of upper and lower motoneurons of unknown etiology . in support of the potential role of autoimmunity in als , two immune-mediated animal models of motoneuron disease have been developed that resemble als with respect to the loss of motoneurons , the presence of igg within motoneurons and at the neuromuscular junction , and with respect to altered physiology of the motor nerve terminal . to provide direct evidence for the primary role of humoral immunity , passive transfer with immunoglobulins from the two animal models and human als was carried out . mice injected with serum or immunoglobulins from the animal disease models and human als but not controls demonstrated igg in motoneurons and at the neuromuscular junction . the mice also demonstrated an increase in miniature end-plate potential ( mepp ) frequency , with normal amplitude and time course and normal resting membrane potential , indicating an increased resting quantal release of acetylcholine from the nerve terminal . the ability to transfer motoneuron dysfunction with serum immunoglobulins provides evidence for autoimmune mechanisms in the pathogenesis of both the animal models and human als . 
visceral leishmaniasis in hiv infection and aids : clinical features and response to therapy . the development of visceral leishmaniasis with atypical features in an aids patient , and the recent flurry of reports of visceral leishmaniasis in hiv-infected individuals prompted the review of its manifestations in the 47 reported cases . splenomegaly , which is almost always a feature of visceral leishmaniasis in the immunocompetent host , was absent in eight . antibodies to leishmania donovani , which are present in approximately 95 per cent of immunocompetent patients with visceral leishmaniasis , were absent in 29 of 45 ( 66 per cent ) of hiv-infected patients tested . nine hiv-positive patients with visceral leishmaniasis did not exhibit a primary clinical response to therapy with antimonials and of those who did show a response , relapse occurred in 13 , at a mean 4.5 months after stopping therapy . seventeen patients are known to have died often in association with respiratory disease ; leishmania was seen in one bronchial lavage specimen and in lung tissue in one post-mortem performed . in order to improve the prognosis of visceral leishmaniasis in hiv-infected patients diagnosis will have to be made earlier , taking account of the atypical features , and treatment will need to be improved , both initially and perhaps also by the use of long-term maintenance therapy . 
broadly neutralizing antibodies elicited by the hypervariable neutralizing determinant of hiv-1 [ published erratum appears in science 1991 jan 4 ; 251 ( 4989 ) :13 ] the principal neutralizing determinant ( pnd ) of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) -1 resides within the v3 loop of the envelope protein . antibodies elicited by peptides of this region were able to neutralize diverse isolates . serum from one of three animals immunized with the human t cell lymphoma virus ( htlv ) - iiimn pnd peptide , rp142 , neutralized mn and the sequence-divergent htlv-iiib isolate . serum from one of three animals immunized with a 13-amino acid iiib pnd peptide ( rp337 ) also neutralized both of these isolates . characterization of these sera revealed that the cross-neutralizing antibodies bound the amino acid sequence glyproglyargalaphe ( gpgraf ) that is present in both isolates . this sequence is frequently found in the pnds analyzed in randomly selected hiv-1 isolates . sera from two rabbits immunized with a peptide containing only the gpgraf residues neutralized divergent isolates , including iiib and mn . 
t cell receptor peptide therapy triggers autoregulation of experimental encephalomyelitis . encephalitogenic t cells specific for myelin basic protein share common v beta 8 peptide sequences in their t cell receptor ( tcr ) that can induce autoregulatory t cells and antibodies that prevent clinical signs of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ( eae ) . it is not known , however , if tcr peptides can treat established disease . to test its therapeutic value , tcr-v beta 8-39-59 peptide was injected into rats with clinical signs of eae . this treatment reduced disease severity and speeded recovery , apparently by boosting anti-v beta 8 t cells and antibodies raised naturally in response to encephalitogenic v beta 8 + t cells . these results demonstrate that synthetic tcr peptides can be used therapeutically , and implicate the tcr-v beta 8-39-59 sequence as a natural idiotope involved in eae recovery . similarly , human tcr peptides may be effective in enhancing natural regulation of autoreactive t cells that share common v genes . 
when do optic disc edema and peripheral neuropathy constitute poetry ? [ clinical conference ] a patient with chronic , bilateral optic disc edema developed multiple systemic manifestations of poems syndrome ( polyneuropathy , organomegaly , endocrinopathy , m-protein , skin changes ) . a serum immunoelectrophoresis showed an abnormal serum igg lambda protein , and urine immunoelectrophoresis revealed a monoclonal lambda protein plus an igg lambda fragment . bone survey and mri scan revealed a sclerotic lesion of the first lumbar vertebra , and lymph node biopsy showed changes consistent with castleman 's disease . thus , his optic disc edema was the presenting feature of the poems syndrome and osteosclerotic myeloma . 
thalidomide : treatment of severe recurrent aphthous stomatitis in patients with aids . an increasing number of aids patients have been noted to suffer severe recurrent aphthous stomatitis ( ras ) , a condition often associated with high morbidity that remains unresponsive to conventional therapeutic interventions . in two cases thalidomide was administered to successfully treat aids patients with ras . both patients experienced complete abatement of pain shortly after therapy was initiated . ulcerations that were present for months resolved after three or four weeks of thalidomide therapy without any adverse effects . thalidomide appears to be an effective agent for the treatment of severe ras unresponsive to traditional therapies . 
clinical perspective on celiprolol : cardioprotective potential . beta-adrenergic blockers have had widespread use in the treatment of cardiovascular disease . some agents of this class have been shown to reduce the incidence of total mortality , cardiovascular mortality , sudden death , and nonfatal reinfarction in survivors of acute myocardial infarction . the mechanism for this cardioprotective action is not known . antiarrhythmic action and hemodynamic alterations have been suggested as possible mechanisms . an anticoagulant mechanism is another possibility , although the antiplatelet effects of beta-blockers are weak . it is now believed that antithrombotic effects may be related to the prevention of coronary artery plaque rupture and the subsequent propagation of an occlusive arterial thrombus rather than a direct anticoagulant action . the therapeutic ability beta-blockers to attenuate the hemodynamic consequences of catecholamine surgers , as they do in aortic dissection , may protect a vulnerable plaque from fracture , reducing the risk of coronary thrombosis , myocardial infarction , and death . celiprolol , a third-generation beta 1-selective adrenergic blocker with partial beta 2-agonist activity , is comparable to other beta-blockers in antihypertensive and antianginal activity . it has additional actions that may be beneficial to patients : ( 1 ) it does not adversely affect lipids and lipoproteins ; ( 2 ) it does not appear to depress the myocardium in patients with left ventricular dysfunction ; ( 3 ) it can lower serum fibrinogen levels ; and ( 4 ) it can cause regression of myocardial mass in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy . 
resting energy expenditure is increased in stable , malnourished hiv-infected patients . resting energy expenditure ( ree ) was measured by reference to body composition in 50 malnourished patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and compared with that of 14 healthy subjects . among hiv patients , 40 had acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) and 10 had aids-related complex ( arc ) . all were in stable condition and had a previous history of progressive wasting , ie , a mean body weight loss of 14.2 + / - 8.1 kg over 16.6 mo ( range 2-49 ms ) . the mean ree was 14 % higher than estimated basal energy expenditure ( ebee ) , according to the harris and benedict formula . thirty-four patients ( 68 % ) were classified as hypermetabolic ( ree greater than 110 % ebee ) . the best predictable variable for ree was fat-free mass ( ffm ) , as determined by an anthropometric method ( r = 0.72 ; p less than 0.001 ) . the mean ree was 12 % higher in hiv patients than in the control group ffm ( 156 + / - 19 vs 124 + / - 17 kj.kg ffm-1 . d-1 ) . we concluded that in stable and malnourished hiv patients , the progressive wasting may be partly related to an increase in ree . the mechanism of this hypermetabolic state remains to be established . 
a preliminary report on the neuropsychologic sequelae of human immunodeficiency virus . the neuropsychologic sequelae of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and human immunodeficiency virus were studied by comparing the results of a neuropsychologic test battery administered to the following three groups of danish homosexual men : 20 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , 20 asymptomatic subjects who tested positive for the human immunodeficiency virus , and a matched control group of 20 subjects who tested negative for the human immunodeficiency virus . the group with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome performed significantly worse than the control subjects on the tests measuring concentration , memory , and psychomotor speed . the group with human immunodeficiency virus performed significantly worse than the control subjects on the tests measuring verbal memory and psychomotor speed . on the other tests , their results varied . the study supports the hypothesis that not only patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome but also asymptomatic subjects with human immunodeficiency virus may be neuropsychologically impaired early in the course of the disease . 
clinical aspects of multiple sclerosis in north-east scotland with particular reference to its course and prognosis . the prognosis and course of multiple sclerosis ( ms ) and the factors that affect them were assessed in a group of 1055 patients , representing an unselected ( epidemiological ) sample observed in the north-east ( grampian region ) of scotland for a period ranging between 1 and 60 yrs . in 7 % the disease began before the age of 20 yrs , in 12 % after the age of 50 yrs , and in the remainder onset was between the ages of 20 and 50 yrs . the male/female ratio was 1:1.8 . mean disease duration in those observed until death ( 216 patients ) was 24.5 yrs , with no significant difference between the sexes . prognosis was assessed either by the interval between onset and death or by the degree of disability over a defined period of time . depending on the length of follow-up , just over one-quarter ( 26 % ) to over one-third ( 36.3 % ) had a benign course and between 8.0 and 17.7 % had a poor prognosis . nearly a third had a remittent ( 32.8 % ) or relapsing cumulative ( 34 % ) course and 9 % had a progressive course from the start . several factors were noted to affect the prognosis . prognosis was significantly better , independent of sex , in those with ( 1 ) an early onset ( less than 40 yrs of age ) ; ( 2 ) retrobulbar neuritis or a brainstem lesion or sensory symptoms alone at onset ; ( 3 ) short duration of initial symptoms ( less than 6 months ) ; ( 4 ) a long onset -- first relapse interval ( greater than 1 yr ) ; ( 5 ) a remittent course in the beginning and ( 6 ) lack of a family history of ms. the factors which predicted a poor prognosis included : ( 1 ) a late onset ( greater than 40 yrs of age ) ; ( 2 ) progressive course from the start ; ( 3 ) multiple sites of lesions initially , or a cerebellar or spinal cord lesion at the onset ; ( 4 ) psychiatric or persistent urinary symptoms at the onset or within 10 yrs ; ( 5 ) persistent initial symptoms ( beyond 1 yr ) ; ( 6 ) early first relapse ( within 6 months ) ; ( 7 ) a family history of ms ; ( 8 ) social class status iv and v ; and ( 9 ) bilaterally prolonged visual evoked potential ( vep ) p100 latency . address in childhood and at the onset of the disease , changes in the csf and ct brain scan were not of predictive value . 
serum leukotriene b4 levels in patients with obstructive pulmonary disease . leukotriene b4 has been found to be increased in the serum of cigarette smokers and some patients with bronchial asthma , as well as in the sputum of patients with cystic fibrosis and copd . corticosteroids supposedly may block the formation of ltb4 . to determine if the effect of cs on airway disease is by reduction in ltb4 , we studied serum ltb4 levels in clinically stable patients with asthma or copd who were treated with or without cs . the ltb4 was extracted from serum and assayed by radioimmunoassay . serum ltb4 concentrations , expressed as the mean + / - sd , were 0.36 + / - 0.15 ng/ml in ten normal controls , 0.56 + / - 0.18 ng/ml in nine asthmatic subjects , 0.67 + / - 0.2 ng/ml in eight asthmatic subjects receiving cs , 0.81 + / - 0.19 ng/ml in seven patients with copd , and 0.97 + / - 0.29 ng/ml in eight patients with copd receiving cs . serum ltb4 levels in normal controls differed significantly from all groups with copd or asthma ( p less than 0.01 ) . levels of ltb4 in asthmatic subjects differed from levels in patients with copd ( p less than 0.03 ) , and levels in asthmatic subjects receiving cs differed from subjects with copd receiving cs ( p less than 0.03 ) . concentrations of ltb4 within either the copd or the asthmatic groups were not lower in the patients treated with cs . we conclude that serum ltb4 concentrations are higher in copd than in asthma or normal controls and that administration of cs is not associated with low ltb4 levels . the beneficial effects of cs in obstructive airway disease appear to be mediated by mechanisms other than reduction of ltb4 . 
utility of bronchoscopic sampling techniques for cryptococcal disease in aids . although cryptococcal pneumonia is a well recognized complication of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , optimal diagnostic approaches remain to be defined . during a 32-month period ( october 1984 to june 1987 ) , 11 patients were diagnosed with cp at our institution . the diagnosis was established in all 11 patients from specimens obtained via fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( ten ) and/or double-lumen catheter lavage ( one ) . direct stains of sedimented bronchoalveolar lavage were positive for organisms characteristic of cryptococcus neoformans in nine of 11 patients . transbronchial biopsies were positive ( special histologic stains ) in six of eight patients ; bronchial washings were positive ( direct smear ) in seven of ten patients , the bronchial brushings were positive on stain in six of nine patients , and in one patient , a wang transbronchial needle aspirate was positive on stain . fungal cultures were positive on the bal in seven of 11 patients , and on the bronchial washings in four of ten patients ; the tbbx culture samples were all negative ( zero of three ) . the serum cryptococcal antigen titer was elevated ( median = 1:1024 ) in all eight patients in which it was assayed . our data suggest that bal and bronchial washings have a combined sensitivity on smear equal to that of tbbx and superior to that of tbbx fungal culture . the tbbx does not appear to be necessary in this setting . in addition , an elevated serum cryptococcal antigen titer appears to be an important adjunct in the evaluation of pulmonary infiltrates in aids . 
atopy and primary lung cancer . histology and sex distribution . atopy , defined as the ability to develop ige antibodies to commonly encountered allergens under conditions of normal exposure , has an inherited component with pleiotropic effects . an inverse relationship between the occurrence of atopy , allergy-related diseases , and cancers at specific sites has been reported . the familial association of primary lung cancer is most evident among women , nonsmokers , and those with adenocarcinomas . in order to determine whether the relationship between a lower prevalence of atopy among patients with lung cancer compared to control subjects was consistent between histologic cell types , we used seven common allergens to allergy prick skin test 209 community control subjects ( 46 women ) , 109 cases with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the lung ( 25 women ) , and 67 patients with primary adenocarcinomas of the lung ( 23 women ) . we have confirmed earlier reports of an inverse relationship between atopy and lung cancer risk . in analyses focusing on sex and histologic cell type , we found that women with adenocarcinomas were an exception and were as likely to be atopic as control subjects . the evidence does not support a protective role for atopy among these women . 
spontaneous pneumothorax in aids patients with recurrent pneumocystis carinii pneumonia despite aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis . aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) may predispose these patients to recurrent apical pneumocystis infection . bullous changes and pulmonary cysts develop in the lung apices due to repeated episodes of inflammation and cytotoxic effects of hiv on pulmonary macrophages . these changes progress despite prophylaxis against recurrent pneumocystis infection with aerosolized pentamidine , increasing the risk of spontaneous pneumothorax . two cases are presented of bilateral pneumothoraces in patients with aids and recurrent p carinii pneumonia despite aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis . patients receiving aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis for pneumocystis pneumonia appear to have an increased risk of pneumothorax due to recurrent apical infections with p carinii . 
asthma and chronic obstructive lung disease : a pharmacologic approach . changing concepts are emerging that should improve our ability to adequately treat asthma . this volume of disease-a-month reviews the triggers and the role of inflammation in asthma , and outlines the treatment of acute asthma as well as the chronic management of reversible obstructive airways disease . there is general agreement that sympathomimetics are the treatment of choice for acute severe asthma . the role of theophylline for acute symptoms has been downplayed , and the role of corticosteroids continues to be debated . however , most authorities agree that patients with severe asthma will benefit from the addition of corticosteroids to the program . for the chronic management of asthma , appreciation that inflammation is a perpetuating feature suggests that treatment should generally be directed toward the inflammation . corticosteroid aerosols have taken on greater prominence and have been advocated as the first line of approach . new concepts regarding the role of allergy in the perpetuation of asthma and the role of immunotherapy in its amelioration also have emerged . medications not previously thought to be beneficial are being actively investigated . they include gold , methotrexate , and even intravenous gamma globulin . 
aids in california family medicine . changing experiences , knowledge , and geographic distribution . information regarding practice patterns specific to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) was obtained in 1988 from 1774 family physicians in california using a mail survey . data were analyzed across the following county groupings : los angeles county , other counties in standard metropolitan statistical areas , and counties outside standard metropolitan statistical areas . comparisons were made with the data from a telephone survey conducted in 1986 . differences over time were analyzed . by 1988 , the percentage of physicians treating or referring patients for possible aids had more than doubled in counties outside standard metropolitan statistical areas . the percentage of physicians reporting one or more diagnosed cases of aids had tripled , a finding that suggests the importance of aids in family medicine is increasing at a rapid rate . in addition , survey results indicate that a majority of those surveyed still lack the aids-related knowledge and competency necessary to effectively deal with aids . 
search for retroviral sequences in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and brain tissue of multiple sclerosis patients . dnas from peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmcs ) of 21 patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) , 1 patient with tropical spastic paraparesis ( tsp ) as well as dnas from brain and spinal cord of 5 ms cases and 3 controls were examined for human t-cell lymphotropic virus ( htlv ) - related sequences by polymerase chain reaction . the primers used were derived from the htlv-i gag , env and tax genes . amplified products were separated on agarose gels , blotted onto nylon membranes and hybridized to specific radiolabelled oligonucleotides . the sensitivity of amplification and hybridization was one copy of target dna in 10 ( 5 ) cellular genomes . none of the specimens was positive for htlv-i sequences except the tsp probe . these negative data are all the more significant because brain material from ms patients was used in these studies . our studies thus fail to support speculations that htlv-i is involved in the aetiology of multiple sclerosis . 
motor dysfunction in hiv-infected patients without clinically detectable central-nervous deficit . motor tests were performed in 50 hiv-infected patients in all stages according to the current cdc classification , but without any clinically evident central nervous system deficit , and the results compared with an age-matched control group . patients were excluded from the study if there was alcohol or drug abuse , fever and/or opportunistic cerebral infection . the parameters tested were postural tremor of the outstretched hands , most rapid voluntary alternating index finger movements ( mram ) and rise time of most rapid index finger extensions ( mrc ) . whereas tremor peak frequencies did not differ significantly in the patients and controls , mram and rise times of mrcs showed significant slowing in the patient group . morphologically , the motor test performance of the hiv-infected patients was similar to that of patients with manifest basal ganglia disease ( parkinson 's , huntington 's and wilson 's diseases ) . mri scans of all patients were normal . it is concluded that in hiv-infected patients there is a very early subclinical central nervous system affection , especially of the basal ganglia , which is detectable with appropriate , quantitative motor function tests . these functional abnormalities precede the structural alterations in the mri scans . 
brain-stem auditory evoked potentials in multiple sclerosis : the relation to vep , sep and csf immunoglobulins . one hundred patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) were analysed retrospectively with respect to investigations of brain-stem auditory evoked potentials ( baep ) , pattern reversal visual evoked potentials ( vep ) , somatosensory evoked potentials ( sep ) , and cerebrospinal fluid immunoglobulins ( csf-ig ) . baep were abnormal in 42 % of those with normal vep and sep examinations , and in 38 % of patients with normal csf-ig . the chance of obtaining at least one abnormal ep was lower in patients with normal csf-ig than in patients with abnormal csf . when a " dispersion ratio " was included in the criteria for baep abnormality , the sensitivity increased compared with conventional baep criteria . we recommend that baep should still be included in the ep test battery for patients with suspected ms. 
spontaneous lymphocyte proliferation in htlv-ii infection . we measured lymphocyte proliferation in the absence of antigenic stimulation in 45 htlv-ii infected , 9 htlv-i infected , and 19 htlv-i seronegative intravenous drug users ( ivdu ) . lymphocyte proliferation was higher in ivdus infected with htlv-ii than in seronegative ivdus but lower than among those infected with htlv-i . higher rates of proliferation were also associated with needle sharing , cd4 + and il2r + lymphocyte counts , and htlv-i antibody titres . 
human immunodeficiency virus infection of human-pbl-scid mice . severe combined immunodeficient ( scid ) mice reconstituted with human peripheral blood leukocytes ( hu-pbl-scid mice ) have inducible human immune function and may be useful as a small animal model for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) research . hu-pbl-scid mice infected with human immunodeficiency virus-1 ( hiv-1 ) contained virus that was recoverable by culture from the peritoneal cavity , spleen , peripheral blood , and lymph nodes for up to 16 weeks after infection ; viral sequences were also detected by in situ hybridization and by amplification with the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) . mice could be infected with multiple strains of hiv-1 , including lav-1 / bru , iiib , mn , sf2 , and sf13 . hiv-1 infection affected the concentration of human immunoglobulin and the number of cd4 + t cells in the mice . these results support the use of the hu-pbl-scid mouse for studies of the pathogenesis and treatment of aids . 
assessment of risk for hiv-1 infection for missionaries in sub-saharan africa . north american mission boards ( n = 82 ) with programs in sub-saharan africa were surveyed to identify practices affecting risk of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection among international staff . thirty-four percent of participating boards thought risk for hiv-1 infection in missionaries in africa was greater than it was for the general us population , and 53 % considered it greater for overseas medical staff serving in the region than for domestic health care workers . nevertheless , only 24 % of boards had formal aids education programs for overseas health care workers , and 19 % for nonmedical personnel going abroad . medical care provision and acquisition were considered high-risk activities ; 42 % of boards with a known policy acknowledged that disposable injection equipment was routinely reused , 68 % indicated that immunizations were provided abroad , and 60 % admitted that inoculations were administered by indigenous health care workers . the most frequently cited specific suggestion for decreasing the risk of hiv-1 infection overseas was the implementation of a walking blood bank program . we conclude that current practices and logistic constraints make hiv-1 transmission possible . risk reduction strategies include more comprehensive health education programs , greater adherence to universal precautions , less dependence on the indigenous third world health care system , and implementation of innovative programs for health care delivery . 
wernicke-korsakoff syndrome complicating t-cell lymphoma : unusual or unrecognized ? malnutrition rather than alcohol abuse is the common element in most cases of wks . our report may be the first to identify both the clinical and neuropathologic features of the syndrome in a patient with t-cell lymphoma . the coincidence of these two illnesses underscores a need to consider wernicke 's encephalopathy in debilitated individuals with malignancy or other chronic illnesses , highlights an atypical presentation of acute wernicke 's encephalopathy , and demonstrats the precipitation of that syndrome by glucose feeding . attention to a patient 's nutritional status and the liberal use of thiamine may prompt early recognition of the syndrome or prevent it entirely . 
cavitary pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients receiving aerosol pentamidine prophylaxis . we have described two patients with aids who had cavitary pneumocystis carinii pneumonia while receiving aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis . this is the first report of this complication . neither patient showed a clinical response to subsequent use of pentamidine either intravenously or by aerosol followed by intravenous use . clinicians should be aware of the possibility that cavitary pneumonia in patients receiving aerosolized pentamidine may be due to p carinii . 
vascularized bone marrow transplantation ( vbmt ) : induction of stable mixed t-cell chimerism and transplantation tolerance in unmodified recipients . in this preliminary report , our model of vbmt across a semiallogeneic barrier consistently brings about antigen-specific host tolerance with absence of gvhd in the majority of recipients . no immunologic or radiologic intervention was utilized . these results emphasized a potentially important mechanism for low-level stable mixed lymphoid chimerism ( smlc ) in tolerance induction , independent of immune suppressive effects due to irradiation or immunopharmacologic intervention . 
hiv risk behavior reduction following intervention with key opinion leaders of population : an experimental analysis . background and purpose . peer norms influence the adoption of behavior changes to reduce risk for hiv ( human immunodeficiency virus ) infection . by experimentally intervening at a community level to modify risk behavior norms , it may be possible to promote generalized reductions in hiv risk practices within a population . methods . we trained persons reliably identified as popular opinion leaders among gay men in a small city to serve as behavior change endorsers to their peers . the opinion leaders acquired social skills for making these endorsements and complied in talking frequently with friends and acquaintances . before and after intervention , we conducted surveys of men patronizing gay clubs in the intervention city and in two matched comparison cities . results . in the intervention city , the proportion of men who engaged in any unprotected anal intercourse in a two-month period decreased from 36.9 percent to 27.5 percent ( -25 percent from baseline ) , with a reduction from 27.1 percent to 19.0 percent ( -30 percent from baseline ) for unprotected receptive anal intercourse . relative to baseline levels , there was a 16 percent increase in condom use during anal intercourse and an 18 percent decrease in the proportion of men with more than one sexual partner . little or no change was observed among men in the comparison cities over the same period of time . conclusions . interventions that employ peer leaders to endorse change may produce or accelerate population behavior changes to lessen risk for hiv infection . 
behavioral , health and psychosocial factors and risk for hiv infection among sexually active homosexual men : the multicenter aids cohort study . we examined whether 644 homosexual men who engaged in receptive anal intercourse were at particularly elevated risk for seroconversion if they also possessed specific behavioral , health or psychosocial vulnerability characteristics . of 11 potential factors examined , heavy drinking , moderate to heavy drug use , and younger age were significantly related to seroconversion . these variables were also associated with an increased number of sexual partners , anonymous sex , and failure to use condoms . 
sexual risk behaviors , aids knowledge , and beliefs about aids among runaways . sexual risk behaviors , knowledge of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , and beliefs about aids prevention were examined among 126 runaways . in the previous 3 months , 65 percent of youths had been sexually active . among the sexually active runaways , males reported a median of 2.7 partners and females reported 1.3 partners , and only 18 percent reported consistent condom use . runaways demonstrated moderately high aids knowledge and beliefs endorsing aids prevention . condom use and abstinence were directly related to beliefs about preventing aids . 
security measures for aids and hiv . this study describes the measures being taken by aids surveillance offices across the country to ensure the security of information regarding patients with aids and hiv infection . security measures were evaluated according to the cumulative number of aids cases reported , whether partner notification services were provided , and whether hiv seropositive reporting by name was also required . this study showed that public health departments have taken extra steps to ensure the security of aids and hiv data . 
an evaluation of the use of the statewide planning and research cooperative system of new york state as a resource planning tool for hiv infection . hospital discharge records of patients with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) in new york state were studied to determine whether cases of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection were identified . we estimate that as many as 13 percent of hospitalizations of patients with pcp in 1987 and 10 percent of those in 1988 were not appropriately identified as hiv related . identification of pcp as hiv related was a function of a hospital 's volume of pcp admissions . 
survival trends of people with aids in washington state . survival rates of 609 cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) in washington state diagnosed between 1982 and 1987 according to pre-1987 aids surveillance definition were analyzed . people with a primary diagnosis of kaposi 's sarcoma survived longer than those with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . both groups survived longer than those with other diagnoses . median survival increased from 11.3 , to 12.5 , to 20.8 months for cases diagnosed in or before 1985 , during 1986 , and during 1987 , respectively . 
anaphylactic anaesthetic reactions . the value of paper radioallergosorbent tests for ige antibodies to muscle relaxants and thiopentone . the three currently available paper radioallergosorbent tests ( ' suxamethonium ' , alcuronium and thiopentone ) were evaluated . ' suxamethonium ' radioallergosorbent test ( which employs choline conjugated to paper discs ) proved to be reliable in the detection of allergy to neuromuscular blockers , which were confirmed as the most common cause of anaphylactic reaction during general anaesthesia . thiopentone radioallergosorbent test may also be useful , and is recommended in conjunction with ' suxamethonium ' radioallergosorbent test in the preliminary investigation of reactions . patients with positive ' suxamethonium ' radioallergosorbent test usually require further testing , including alcuronium radioallergosorbent test , skin testing with a wide range of drug concentrations or leucocyte histamine release test . 
severe anaphylactoid reaction to hydroxyethyl starch . a case is presented of a severe anaphylactoid reaction to hydroxyethyl starch solution that occurred peri-operatively and required extended intensive management of the resultant bronchospasm and hypotension . subsequent intradermal injection of hetastarch produced a delayed positive response , suggestive of a complement-mediated mechanism . 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia : a case report . the authors report a case of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia , in whom massive pulmonary embolism occurred in spite of heparin anticoagulation . successful pulmonary thrombectomy was carried out under cardiopulmonary bypass , with limitation of platelet clumping during bypass by aggregation inhibitors . this report is a comprehensive contribution to a better understanding of this rare immunoallergic complication of heparin administration , with a high incidence of serious thromboembolic events . the optimal management for cases of unavoidable reexposure to heparin is discussed . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia and respiratory failure in aids . improved outcomes and increased use of intensive care units . to determine whether the outcome of intensive care for patients with aids , pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) , and respiratory failure has changed , we studied patients admitted to the intensive care units an san francisco general hospital from 1981 to 1988 . we compared the course of patients with pcp and respiratory failure admitted to the intensive care unit from 1986 to 1988 with a similar cohort hospitalized from 1981 to 1985 . the hospital survival rate for the 35 patients in the 1986 to 1988 cohort was 40 % , compared with 14 % for the 42 patients in the 1981 to 1985 cohort ( p less than 0.01 ) . age , episode of pcp , time since aids diagnosis , anti-pcp therapy , and important clinical variables were similar in both cohorts . corticosteroids were used commonly in the recent era . patients who received steroids had an in-hospital survival rate of 46 % , compared with 22 % for those who did not receive steroids ( p = ns ) . in a stepwise logistic regression model , icu care in the recent era and higher serum albumin at the time of icu admission were the only variables significantly associated with survival . the hospital survival of patients with pcp and respiratory failure has improved . the improvement could not be explained by patient selection or by better anti-pcp therapy . the apparent beneficial effect of corticosteroids deserves further study . the improvement in icu outcome was reflected in increased icu utilization by patients with aids , pcp , and respiratory failure . 
the normal range of diurnal changes in peak expiratory flow rates . relationship to symptoms and respiratory disease . measuring peak expiratory flow rates ( pefr ) several times a day can provide an objective assessment of functional changes relative to environmental or occupational exposures . this report describes the pattern of diurnal changes in pefr in a reference population , and defines ranges of " normal " between - and within-day variability . an index of diurnal changes was defined as the ratio between maximal and minimal values , where the maximal value was restricted to pefr measured at noon or in the evening ( n , e ) and the minimal value was restricted to the morning or at bedtime ( m , b ) . a ratio greater than normal represented an exaggeration of the normal diurnal pattern in pefr . normal limits , based on the ninety-fifth percentile in the reference population , were larger for children ( 130 % ) than for adults 15 to 35 yr of age ( 117 % ) and those older than 35 yr of age ( 118 % ) . the meaningfulness of excessive diurnal changes in pefr was examined by relating this ratio ( max/min ) , and a similar measure ( the amplitude percent mean ) to chronic respiratory symptoms and diseases in 938 adults and children who recorded pefr values 2 to 4 times per day for as long as 14 days . there was a strong relationship of diurnal changes in pefr that exceed normal limits with physician-confirmed asthma ( relative risk of 2.99 with max/min ) , with exertional dyspnea ( grade 2 + ) , and with more frequent reporting of acute symptoms of wheeze , attacks of wheezing dyspnea , cough , and chest colds . in addition , those exceeding the normal limits had about 2.9 times greater risk of having a fev1 below 80 % of predicted , and nearly 7 times greater risk of being below 70 % . 
allergen-induced asthmatic responses . relationship between increases in airway responsiveness and increases in circulating eosinophils , basophils , and their progenitors . the inflammatory response during allergen-induced asthma was assessed using serial measures of peripheral blood eosinophils ( eo ) , basophils ( b ) , and eo/b progenitor cells ( eo/b-cfu ) . a group of 14 stable asthmatic individuals ( beta 2-agonists only as needed ) had inhalation provocation tests with allergen ( 18 tests in total ) and with diluent . serial blood samples were taken before and 1 and 24 h after the tests ; methylcellulose cultures for eo/b-cfu and granulocyte-macrophage ( gm-cfu ) were scored at 14 days . circulating eo , b , and eo/b-cfu were increased at 24 h after allergen inhalation when this resulted in increased histamine airway responsiveness ( n = 13 ) . in the 5 subjects with isolated early asthmatic responses the eo , b , and eo/b-cfu counts did not change . there was no change in the gm-cfu after allergen . the ratio change in circulating eo/b-cfu was negatively correlated with baseline histamine airway responsiveness ( r = -0.8 , p less than 0.05 ) . four subjects who had an isolated early response and no blood changes to one allergen developed an increase in histamine airway responsiveness and an increase in eo , b , and eo/b progenitors after inhalation of a second different allergen . the results indicate that in subjects with an allergen-induced increase in histamine airway responsiveness , an inflammatory response occurs that includes an increase in the number of eo/b progenitors . this response , possibly mediated by eo/b growth and differentiation factors , could lead to the accumulation of these cells in the airway and contribute to the airways inflammation present in asthma . 
asthma in the elderly . a comparison between patients with recently acquired and long-standing disease . to characterize asthma in the elderly , 25 consecutive nonsmoking pulmonary clinic patients over the age of 70 who met the american thoracic society criteria for asthma were identified . of these , 12 patients ( 48 % ) had developed asthma at an advanced age ( greater than 65 yr ) . this group with late-onset asthma had a mean duration of disease of 5.1 + / - 2.5 yr . the remaining group with early-onset asthma had a mean duration of illness of 31.4 + / - 14.6 yr . on the day of evaluation each patient underwent pulmonary function testing off all medication for at least 12 h. these two groups were indistinguishable by symptoms and medication requirements . immediate hypersensitivity skin testing to 43 aeroallergens was uniformly negative in all 25 patients but the histamine control was always positive . ige levels in both groups were not different from those in elderly control subjects . those with early-onset asthma had a greater likelihood of previous allergic disease ( p less than 0.001 ) and a significantly greater degree of airflow obstruction in pre - and postbronchodilator pulmonary function testing ( p less than 0.05 ) . this study suggests that long-standing asthma may lead to chronic persistent airflow obstruction and thereby mimic chronic bronchitis and emphysema ( copd ) . 
inhalation of an alkaline aerosol by subjects with mild asthma does not result in bronchoconstriction . although it is recognized that inhalation of acid aerosols by subjects with asthma can cause bronchoconstriction , the effects of the inhalation of an alkaline aerosol are unknown . when supplemental inflatable restraints ( automobile air bags ) are deployed an alkaline aerosol is released . this aerosol is composed of particles of sodium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate with some sodium hydroxide . the mass median aerodynamic diameter ( mmad ) of the aerosol is approximately 1 micron , and the ph of the aerosol is 9.8 to 10.3 . a group of 14 volunteer male subjects with mild asthma inhaled increasing concentrations of this aerosol for 20-min periods of mouth-only tidal ventilation . pulmonary function tests were performed at baseline ( preexposure ) , after inhalation of room air alone ( control ) , and after each period of inhalation of the aerosol . a total of 5 subjects inhaled aerosols at nominal concentrations of 10 , 20 , and 40 mg/m3 , whereas 11 subjects inhaled aerosols concentrations of approximately 30 , 60 , and 120 mg/m3 . the mean changes in fev1 and specific airways resistance ( sraw ) for the 11 subjects who inhaled the higher concentrations ( average highest concentration 126.6 + / - 7.5 mg/m3 , mean + / - sem ) were -1.4 + / - 1.9 and +17.5 + / - 8.5 % , respectively . neither change in lung function was clinically or statistically significant . we conclude that the inhalation of relatively high concentrations of this alkaline aerosol by subjects with mild asthma does not result in bronchoconstriction . 
airways inflammation in nocturnal asthma . nocturnal asthma is a frequent problem , but the mechanism is unclear . we investigated the possibility that airways inflammation occurred during the night . bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was analyzed in asthmatic patients with ( n = 7 ) and without nocturnal asthma ( n = 7 ) at 1600 and 0400 h. the nocturnal asthma group had an increase in the total leukocyte count ( 24.0 + / - 7.0 to 41.1 + / - 9.9 x 10 ( 4 ) cells/ml , p less than 0.05 ) , neutrophils ( 1.1 + / - 0.6 to 3.7 + / - 1.5 x 10 ( 4 ) cells/ml , p less than 0.05 ) , and eosinophils ( 0.5 + / - 0.1 to 1.7 + / - 0.7 x 10 ( 4 ) cells/ml , p less than 0.05 ) from 1600 to 0400 h. cellular components for the non-nocturnal asthma group did not change . between groups , the 1600-h cells were similar . at 0400 h the nocturnal asthma group had significantly higher total leukocyte , neutrophil , eosinophil , lymphocyte , and epithelial cell counts . for all subjects , the overnight fall in peak expiratory flow rates was correlated to the change in neutrophils ( r = 0.54 , p less than 0.05 ) and eosinophils ( r = 0.77 , p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that the nocturnal worsening of asthma has an associated cellular inflammatory response that is not seen in patients without overnight decrements in lung function . this inflammatory response together with epithelial damage may be important factors in the etiology of nocturnal asthma . 
respiratory membrane permeability and bronchial hyperreactivity in patients with stable asthma . effects of therapy with inhaled steroids . in patients with stable asthma , we assayed plasma proteins in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid to obtain information on plasma exudation into the airways . fourteen nonsmoking patients with asthma who were in a stable period of their disease and eight nonsmoking healthy volunteers were studied . the ratios of the concentrations of albumin , ceruloplasmin ( cp ) , and alpha-2-macroglobulin ( a2m ) between blood and epithelial lining fluid were calculated ( cqalb , cqcp , and cqa2m ) . the cqalb was increased in the patients ( mann-whitney u test , p less than 0.05 ) . in 10 patients the bronchial hyperreactivity was assessed with histamine provocation tests . significant relationships between the cqalb , cqcp , and cqa2m on the one hand and pc15 on the other hand were found ( spearman 's rank correlation : r = -0.62 , p less than 0.05 ; r = -0.61 , p less than 0.05 ; r = -0.79 , p less than 0.01 , respectively ) . fourteen patients were treated with two inhalations of 200 micrograms glucocorticosteroids per day in a 3-month prospective study . three of them were excluded from further study because of an intercurrent exacerbation of asthmatic symptoms during therapy . in the 11 patients with stable asthma , the cqalb and cqa2m decreased after treatment with inhaled steroids ( wilcoxon 's matched pairs signed rank test , p less than 0.03 ) . our results show that in patients with stable asthma , there is an increased plasma exudation into the airways , most likely caused by an increased respiratory membrane permeability . the plasma exudation correlated with the bronchial hyperreactivity to histamine , and it decreased after corticosteroid therapy . 
eosinophilic airway inflammation during exacerbation of asthma and its treatment with inhaled corticosteroid . we have compared the inflammatory changes in the bronchial mucosa and the increase in the airway hyperresponsiveness in an asthmatic patient during the deterioration of symptoms . a striking increase in the number of bronchial epithelial eosinophils was associated with an increase in both airway hyperresponsiveness and asthma symptoms . during 16 wk of treatment with the inhaled corticosteroid , budesonide , the patient 's clinical status and airway hyperresponsiveness improved . this was accompanied by an improvement in the ultrastructure of bronchial mucosa and a decrease in the number of epithelial eosinophils . 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis versus invasive pulmonary aspergillosis : two cases with unusual pathologic findings and review of the literature . two brothers simultaneously exposed to moldy hay , who developed differing forms of aspergillus-related lung disease , are presented . patient 1 developed a true case of hypersensitivity lung disease , whereas his brother developed invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage eosinophilia and unusual pathologic features including tissue eosinophilia . the possible overlap between hypersensitivity pneumonitis and invasive aspergillosis in the immunocompetent host is discussed . 
abnormalities in airway smooth muscle in fatal asthma . a comparison between trachea and bronchus . tracheal smooth muscle from seven cases of fatal asthma demonstrated an increased contractile response to histamine , acetylcholine , and electrical stimulation of intrinsic cholinergic nerves ; impaired relaxation to isoproterenol , and possibly theophylline , was also evident ( 1 ) . fourth generation bronchial spirals from the same patients were also studied , and these results were compared with those of the trachea and normal bronchi ( n = 5 ) . in contrast to trachea , contractile responses in asthmatic bronchi to acetylcholine , histamine , and cholinergic nerve stimulation were similar to those in control bronchi . the potency of isoprenaline ( ic50 ) was reduced 9.4-fold ( p less than 0.003 ) , similar to trachea ( 4.5-fold ) , whereas theophylline responses were normal . the discrepant results obtained may reflect differences in the disease process , including rates of postmortem change , at the two anatomic sites . 
lack of evidence for beta-2 receptor selectivity : a study of metaproterenol , fenoterol , isoproterenol , and epinephrine in patients with asthma . in order to investigate the pharmacodynamic selectivity of a number of beta-receptor agonists currently used in asthma , we compared the pulmonary and extrapulmonary effects of repeated inhalations of epinephrine , fenoterol , isoproterenol , and metaproterenol in 12 patients with asthma in a randomized double-blind crossover study . the drugs were administered from metered-dose inhalers at 15-min intervals for five doses ( total dose , 10 puffs of each compound ) . measurements of heart rate , blood pressure , total electromechanical systole ( as a measure of inotropic response ) , qtc interval , plasma potassium , and fev1 were made 5 min after each dose and 30 min after the final dose . fenoterol and metaproterenol had significantly greater inotropic , electrocardiographic , chronotropic , and hypokalemic effects than did both isoproterenol and epinephrine . there was no difference in the bronchodilating effect of metaproterenol , fenoterol , or isoproterenol although these agents caused a significantly greater increase in fev1 than did epinephrine . the concept of increasing beta-2 selectivity for metaproterenol and fenoterol compared with isoproterenol are not supported in the clinical setting . 
human immunodeficiency virus-associated eosinophilic folliculitis . a unique dermatosis associated with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection . we studied 13 patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and a chronic pruritic folliculitis that was unresponsive to systemic treatment with bactericidal anti-staphylococcal antibiotics . the skin eruption was characterized by multiple urticarial follicular papules scattered on the trunk ( 100 % ) , the head and neck ( 85 % ) , and the proximal aspect of the extremities ( 62 % ) . absolute peripheral eosinophil counts were increased in six of 13 patients ; a relative peripheral eosinophilia was present in 10 of 13 patients . serum ige levels were elevated in all seven patients tested ( range , 88 to 9050 iu ) . histopathologic features included a folliculitis with eosinophils . pathogenic bacteria were not consistently found by routine bacterial skin cultures , cultures of skin biopsy specimens , or histopathologic evaluation . cd4 counts were decreased in all of the 12 patients tested ( less than 300 cells per cubic millimeter ) and were below 250 cells per cubic millimeter in 10 patients . a clinical response was noted to astemizole , to ultraviolet light in the b range , and to topical clobetasol propionate . these observations demonstrate that hiv-associated eosinophilic folliculitis is a unique hiv-related cutaneous disorder that is characterized by a culture-negative , chronic , pruritic folliculitis and a characteristic histopathologic picture . of special importance , because it is associated with cd4 counts of less than 250 to 300 cells per cubic millimeter , eosinophilic folliculitis appears to be an important clinical marker of hiv infection and , particularly , of patients at increased risk of developing opportunistic infections . we suggest that the term eosinophilic pustular folliculitis ( ofuji 's disease ) , previously used to describe this dermatosis in hiv-infected patients , should be discarded . 
culture-positive allergic fungal sinusitis . allergic aspergillus sinusitis is a well-defined clinical and histologic entity , although surprisingly few reported cases have yielded any fungal growth on culture . taking advantage of recent changes in the identification and classification of certain groups of fungi , we were able to identify a specific fungal organism in 19 of 22 consecutive patients with a histologic diagnosis of allergic fungal sinusitis over the past 2 1/2 years . aspergillus was found in only one patient , while an organism in the family of dematiaceous fungi was found in 18 patients . of these patients , the genus bipolaris was the most commonly represented , while exserohilum , curvularia , and alternaria species were seen with less frequency . thus , it appears that aspergillus may not be the most common etiologic agent in allergic " aspergillus " sinusitis . allergic fungal sinusitis is not unusual and its incidence may be increasing . on initial clinical evaluation it may be easily mistaken for malignancy or invasive fungal disease with the potential for overly aggressive treatment . preoperative suspicion of allergic fungal sinusitis based on clinical and roentgenographic findings along with careful communication with the mycology laboratory about the possibility of dematiaceous fungal growth are necessary for proper diagnosis . 
human immunodeficiency virus infection of megakaryocytic cells . the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) is capable of infecting certain cells of hematopoietic lineage , particularly monocyte-macrophages and t lymphocytes . recently , the possibility that cells of megakaryocytic lineage are susceptible to hiv infection has been raised . we have characterized infection of the permanent megakaryocytic cell line cmk by hiv in vitro . cmk cells were easily infected by hiv type 2 ( hiv-2 ) , producing significant amounts of virus in culture . infection appeared to be mediated by the cd4 surface antigen on cmk cells . three different strains of hiv-1 were able to minimally infect cmk cells , suggesting there may be isolates of hiv tropic for megakaryocytes . infection of cmk cells led to downregulation of the cd4 surface antigen but no discernable change in expression of megakaryocyte-associated proteins glycoprotein ib and glycoprotein iib/iiia . these observations support the likelihood that megakaryocytes are susceptible to hiv infection , and cell lines of megakaryocytic origin may provide a useful model to study effects of the retrovirus on megakaryocyte function . 
ige-mediated anaphylactic degranulation of isolated human skin mast cells . isolated human skin mast cells ( hsmc ) were prepared and cultured overnight before functional and electron microscopic studies . mast cell suspensions were examined after stimulation with anti-ige to produce anaphylactic degranulation or examined in buffer-incubated controls . histamine release was measured in replicate samples . control , isolated hsmc studied by electron microscopy were well preserved and fully granulated . although all granule patterns reported for human mast cells were found , crystal granules were the most prevalent , as is true for hsmc in situ . individual mast cells containing both crystal and scroll granules occurred . lipid bodies were rare , as in hsmc in situ . control , isolated mast cells did not express granule changes associated with either piecemeal degranulation or recovery during wound healing in situ ; nor were morphologic changes of anaphylactic degranulation present . spontaneous histamine release was 0 % in control samples . anaphylactic degranulation of isolated hsmc was accompanied by 24 % maximum histamine release and characteristically showed extrusion of altered , membrane-free granules through multiple pores in the plasma membrane to the exterior of the cell . other morphologic aspects of anaphylactic degranulation , as expressed in isolated human lung mast cells , were also present . these events included granule swelling , fusion , alteration of matrix contents , degranulation channel formation , pore formation , and shedding of granules , membranes , and surface processes . the ultrastructural morphology of isolated hsmc and their ige-mediated degranulation shows some differences from similar studies of isolated human lung mast cells and of human lung and gut mast cells in biopsy samples . these differences include crystal granules as the predominant granule pattern , minor numbers of lipid bodies , and extrusion of granules during anaphylactic degranulation as characteristic for hsmc . by contrast , isolated human lung and gut mast cells have more scroll granules and particle granules , respectively , and more lipid bodies . in isolated human lung mast cells , anaphylactic degranulation is almost exclusively an intracellular fusion event characterized by the formation of complex degranulation channels within which altered granule matrix materials solubilize . in addition to morphologic differences between mast cells of skin , lung , or gut origin , functional differences have also been reported among mast cells of these organs . the ultrastructural morphology of isolated hsmc is identical to that of skin mast cells in biopsy samples , thereby validating the usefulness of this new source of hsmc for correlative functional and morphologic studies . 
mutations of the ras proto-oncogenes in childhood monosomy 7 . ras gene mutations are the most frequent molecular changes found in the preleukemic syndromes of adults and may play a role in initiating these diseases and in their progression to acute leukemia . however , little is known about the incidence or importance of these genetic mutations in childhood myeloproliferative states ( mps ) . the bone marrow ( bm ) monosomy 7 syndrome accounts for a large percentage of childhood mps . although the duration of the mps is quite variable , children with monosomy 7 eventually develop acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) . we investigated 20 children ( 13 with mps , 7 with aml ) with bm monosomy 7 or 7q - for the presence of ras gene mutations using the polymerase chain reaction and hybridization with mutation-specific oligonucleotides . mutations of n-ras and k-ras were detected in three children . two patients carrying a ras mutation were in the myeloproliferative phase , and one had acute leukemia . all three patients with ras mutations either died of their disease or relapsed after bm transplantation as compared with 8 of 17 without ras mutations . however , this difference is not statistically significant ( p = .14 , not significant ) . we conclude that ras mutations are observed in childhood monosomy 7 , though less frequently than in adult mds , and may play a limited role in the progression of this disease to acute leukemia . more patients are needed to address the prognostic role of ras mutations in this rare disease . 
evidence of a graft-versus-lymphoma effect associated with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation . the existence of an immunologic antileukemia reaction associated with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) is well established . however , a similar graft-versus-tumor effect against lymphomas has not been demonstrated . we analyzed the results of bmt in 118 consecutive patients with relapsed hodgkin 's disease or aggressive non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . the 38 patients less than 50 years of age with hla-matched donors had allogenic marrow transplants , and the other 80 patients received purged autologous grafts . the median age was 26 years in both the allogeneic and the autologous graft recipients . the patient 's response to conventional salvage therapy before transplant was the only factor that influenced the event-free survival after bmt ( p less than .001 ) . both the patient 's response to salvage therapy before bmt ( p less than .001 ) and the type of graft ( p = .02 ) significantly influenced the probability of relapse after bmt . the actuarial probability of relapse in patients who responded to conventional salvage therapy before bmt was only 18 % after allogenic bmt compared with 46 % after autologous bmt . however , the actuarial probability of event-free survival at 4 years was the same , 47 % versus 41 % , for patients with responsive lymphomas who received allogeneic and autologous transplants , respectively ( p = .8 ) . the beneficial antitumor effect of allogeneic bmt was offset by its higher transplant-related mortality ( p = .01 ) , largely resulting from graft-versus-host disease . allogeneic bmt appears to induce a clinically significant graft-versus-lymphoma effect . the magnitude of this effect is similar to that reported against leukemias . 
use of the polymerase chain reaction to monitor the effectiveness of ex vivo tumor cell purging . the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) was used to detect residual malignant disease before and after ex vivo purging with monoclonal antibodies and complement or immunomagnetic treatment of bm samples contaminated with known numbers of t ( 14 ; 18 ) - carrying tumor cells . sensitivity of the pcr was demonstrated by detecting a specific t ( 14 ; 18 ) amplification product in dna extracted from a preparation consisting of one tumor cell among 10 ( 5 ) normal cells . when bm contaminated with 1 % to 5 % t ( 14 ; 18 ) - carrying cells from the b-cell lymphoma line su-dhl-4 was subjected to two rounds of anti-b-cell pool of antibodies and complement ( ab-c ) treatment a 3 - to 4-log reduction of the pretreatment pcr signal was observed . a similar log-cell kill was detected using an independent clonogenic assay confirming the utility of the pcr approach . bm contaminated with a second b-cell lymphoma cell line , oci-ly8 , was more resistant because a third cycle of ab-c treatment was required to obtain a similar reduction in the pcr signal . a similar 4 logs of tumor cell removal was obtained using anti-b-cell antibodies conjugated to magnetic beads . these studies demonstrate that the t ( 14 ; 18 ) pcr can be used to detect levels of tumor cells as low as 0.001 % . this approach can be used to determine the effectiveness of bm purging in patients undergoing autologous bm transplantation as well as to assess the biologic role of minimal marrow disease . 
clinical assessment of ankylosing spondylitis : a study of observer variation in spinal measurements . twenty-two measurements repeated non-sequentially on each of 10 patients by five observers were undertaken to determine their reliability for routine clinical use . measurements without significant inter-observer variation or with a coefficient of reliability greater than 0.70 were cervical rotation , cervical lateral flexion , tragus to wall distance , fingertip to floor distance on sagittal and lateral flexion , c7 to iliac crest line distraction and modified schober index . it is concluded that many of the currently used measurements are either statistically unreliable or clinically unhelpful in mild or moderate ankylosing spondylitis . the most clinically useful were cervical rotation using a protractor , cervical lateral flexion using a goniometer , thoracolumbar flexion as the c7 to iliac crest line distraction , thoracolumbar lateral flexion as the fingertip to floor distance and the modified schober index . 
cytomorphologic , immunocytochemical , and nucleic acid flow cytometric study of 50 lymph nodes by fine-needle aspiration . comparison with results obtained by subsequent excisional biopsy . fifty patients with clinically suspected or previous diagnosis of lymphoma underwent fine-needle aspiration ( fna ) and subsequent excisional biopsy of their lymph nodes . results of cytologic diagnosis made from the direct smears in conjunction with immunocytochemical study of cytospin preparations and nucleic acid flow cytometric study ( fcm ) were compared with the results obtained from histologic sections , cryostat-immunohistochemical study , and nucleic acid fcm performed on resected lymph nodes . this study demonstrates ( 1 ) results of immunocytochemical and dna-fcm analysis of fna-derived material are comparable in the majority of cases to those obtained from surgical specimens , ( 2 ) immunostaining of cytospin preparations for immunoglobulin ( ig ) gives less background staining and in certain cases is easier to interpret than when performed on frozen sections , and ( 3 ) monotypia in fna in conjunction with cytomorphologic study is 100 % specific for lymphoma , and polytypic staining for ig does not exclude hd , t-cell lymphoma , or b-cell malignancy focally involving a lymph node . 
fine-needle aspiration evaluation of lymphoproliferative lesions in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients . a multiparameter approach . forty-six fine-needle aspirates of lymphoproliferative lesions from 31 human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - positive patients were reviewed using cytomorphologic , immunocytochemical , flow cytometric ( fcm ) , cytogenetic , and molecular studies . there were 29 lymphomas ( 15 small non-cleaved cell [ sncl ] , 11 large cell [ lcl ] , one small lymphocytic , and two hodgkin 's ) , 14 reactive hyperplasias , and three " atypical lymphoid proliferations . " the reactive hyperplasias were characteristically polymorphic and polyclonal lymphoid populations ; six of seven were diploid on fcm , the seventh was hypodiploid . higher proliferative indices ( mean , 11.6 % ) and higher rna indices ( mean , 1.2 ) characterized this subgroup compared with published reactive lymphoid hyperplasias from patients without hiv positivity . aspirates of sncl showed monotonous populations of intermediate-sized cells except in one patient where a giant cell syncytial variant occurred . nine of 13 sncl aspirates showed light chain restriction . jh rearrangement revealed b-cell lineage in one aspirate in which immunocytochemical study was negative for kappa , lambda , b1 , and leu-4 . nine of 12 sncl were diploid ; the mean proliferative index was 25.6 % and the mean rna index 2.3 . chromosomal translocations involving the c-myc locus were demonstrated in five of seven sncl aspirates karyotyped . five of eight lcl showed light chain restriction the remaining three showed null cell phenotype . large cell lymphomas were diploid on tetraploid with the mean proliferative index of 22.0 % and mean rna index of 2.2 . one of two lcl aspirates karyotyped demonstrated c-myc translocation . despite the multiparameter approach , a definitive diagnosis could not be reached in three aspirates . 
hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia . the incidence , clinical characteristics , and outcome of hypersensitivity reactions to teniposide ( vm-26 ) , etoposide ( vp-16 ) , or both were determined in 108 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) treated with a contemporary regimen of intensive multiagent chemotherapy . fifty ( 46 % ) of the 108 patients had one or more hypersensitivity reactions . the risk of any child having an initial reaction over the cumulative dose range studied was 52 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 41 % and 63 % ) for vm-26 , compared with 34 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 24 % and 44 % ) for vp-16 . the risk of having an initial reaction to vm-26 or vp-16 was clearly related to the cumulative dose . this risk peaked at 1500 to 2000 mg/m2 for vm-26 and at 2000-3000 mg/m2 for vp-16 . all reactions were type 1 reactions according to the gell and coombs classification , characterized by urticaria , angioedema , flushing , rashes , or hypotension , and 86 % of reactions were of grade 1 or 2 severity according to standard criteria . there was no evidence of increasing clinical severity on repeated rechallenge with premedication , and no deaths occurred . the findings suggested that hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with all are more common than previously reported , but only rarely constitute dose-limiting toxicity . 
genotypic analyses of richter 's syndrome . the authors report the immunogenotype of two cases of richter 's syndrome . the immunoglobulin gene rearrangement pattern obtained on southern blot analysis was found in both cases to be the same in leukemic blood cells and in the tissue involved by the lymphoma . the beta chain and gamma chain t-cell receptor gene rearrangement pattern exhibited a germ-line configuration in the peripheral blood cells and in the lymph node in case 2 , whereas in case 1 the lymph node had a gene rearrangement in the beta chain , as well as in the gamma chain t-cell receptor , and the leukemic cells from bone marrow were found to be in a germ-line configuration for t-cell receptors ( beta and gamma chains ) . 
fludarabine therapy in hairy cell leukemia . this study evaluated the efficacy of fludarabine , a new adenine nucleoside analogue , in typical and variant forms of hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) . two patients with hcl and one patient with a variant form of hcl ( hcl-variant ) with resistant or progressive disease with prior treatments were studied . fludarabine ( 30 mg/m2 ) was administered intravenously over 30 minutes daily for 5 days every month . two patients ( one with hcl and one with hcl-variant ) achieved partial responses ; the third patient had a minor response . this is the first report of encouraging activity of fludarabine in typical and variant forms of hcl . further experience with fludarabine in these disorders is indicated . 
the lewis x antigen . a new paraffin section marker for reed-sternberg cells . using a monoclonal antibody specific to the lewis x antigen ( anti-lex ) , the authors studied 103 cases of hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) in comparison with 57 cases of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) ; three cases of granulocytic sarcoma ( gs ) ; two cases of malignant histiocytosis ( mh ) ; one case of monoblastic leukemia ( ml ) ; one case of interdigitating reticulum cell sarcoma ( ircs ) ; six cases of histiocytosis x ( hx ) ; one case of reticulohistiocytoma ( rh ) ; 44 various reactive conditions of the lymph node ( ln ) . reed-sternberg and related ( r-s ) cells stained selectively in 80 of 92 cases of hd ( 87.0 % ) , excluding 11 cases of lymphocyte predominance type . the stain was better in b-5-fixed specimens than in formalin-fixed specimens , showing a dense deposit of reaction products at a paranuclear site and on the cell surface . the staining results were compared with those of leu-m1 and found to be superior both qualitatively and quantitatively ( detection rate of r-s cells : 87.0 % versus 68.5 % of leu-m1 ) . granulocytes , rare epithelioid histiocytes , and some endothelial and/or erythrocytes also stained with anti-lex . the stain had positive results in three cases of gs showing a diffuse cytoplasmic staining pattern . of nhl , two of 29 peripheral t-cell lymphomas stained to show rare paranuclear deposits without cell surface staining . the stain had negative results in mh , ml , ircs , hx , and rh . of 45 reactive ln , minute subcapsular collections of lewis x + , altered-appearing langerhans ' - like cells , were observed in all ten ln from human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - associated persistent generalized lymphadenopathy ( pgl ) . the stain had negative results in all other various reactive conditions of ln . in conclusion , lewis x staining is useful as a marker for r-s cells in paraffin sections with staining results superior to those of leu-m1 . lewis x staining also detects subcapsular clustering of altered-appearing langerhans ' - like cells in pgl , which has not been described previously and warrants additional study . 
lymphomas of the breast . a clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of primary and secondary cases . primary mammary lymphoma is rare , and little is known about the immunophenotype of such cases . the authors studied both primary and secondary breast lymphomas with a broad panel of t - and b-cell markers using paraffin-embedded tissue and the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase method . cases of primary b-cell lymphoma were further tested to determine light and heavy chain type . thirty-five cases were analyzed , including 16 primary lymphomas . diffuse large cell lymphoma was present in ten of 16 primary and 14 of 18 secondary cases . lymphoepithelial lesions in ducts and lobules and frequent vascular involvement were found in both primary and secondary cases . immunohistochemistry studies on 13 tumors revealed all of the primary tumors to be b-cell in origin , except for one case of primary t-cell lymphoma ; to the authors ' knowledge , this represents the first description of this entity . fifteen of 17 secondary tumors exhibited b-cell markers and one of 17 exhibited t-cell markers ; in only one case could lineage not be determined . among primary b-cell cases , igm was found to be the most frequent heavy chain type ; iga reactivity was found in only one case . survival was related to stage and histologic characteristics ; patients with stage ii disease and higher grade histologic lesions had a worse prognosis . half of the patients with primary lymphoma have had recurrent disease . although local recurrences were observed , the authors also saw a tendency for recurrence in other extranodal sites . the authors conclude that , although primary lymphoma of the breast is compatible with long-term survival , a significant number of patients eventually die of their disease . as with other extranodal lymphomas , survival rate appears most related to stage of disease . also , the vast majority of primary tumors are b-cell in origin , express igm heavy chain , and can be considered tumors of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue . 
clinical significance of hematologic parameters in non-hodgkin 's lymphoma at diagnosis . three hundred seventeen patients with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) ( 54 low grade , 180 intermediate grade , 76 high grade , and seven unclassified ) treated with chemotherapy were evaluated for the presence of hematologic abnormalities at diagnostic staging . anemia was present in 42 % , leukopenia in 6 % , thrombocytopenia in 13 % , leukocytosis in 26 % , and thrombocytosis in 14 % at presentation . the presence of bone marrow involvement by lymphoma was more likely to be associated with leukopenia and thrombocytopenia than the absence of bone marrow involvement . although anemia was slightly more common in patients with bone marrow lymphoma than in those without marrow lymphoma , the difference was not statistically significant . hematologic parameters were similar for patients with b-cell or t-cell lymphoma . evidence of bone marrow failure with multiple cytopenias was present in 26 patients ( 8 % ) . leukoerythroblastosis was present in 2 % . circulating lymphoma was present in 9.5 % . anemic patients had a shorter survival time than nonanemic patients , whether bone marrow was involved by lymphoma or not . survival was not affected by the presence of leukopenia or mild leukocytosis , but , in patients without marrow lymphoma , leukocytosis with a leukocyte count greater than 20 x 10 ( 9 ) / l was associated with short survival length . thrombocytopenia was associated with short survival time only in patients with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma . patients with multiple cytopenias or leukoerythroblastosis had short survival times , but the presence of circulating lymphoma did not alter survival when compared with other patients with bone marrow involvement by lymphoma . these data suggest that hematologic evaluation at the time of diagnostic staging of nhl provides useful prognostic information that may have therapeutic implications . 
primary central nervous system lymphoma as a secondary malignancy . primary central nervous system lymphoma ( pcnsl ) is a rare neoplasm , but it is occurring with increased frequency even among apparently immunocompetent patients . although secondary malignancies frequently involve the lymphoreticular system , pcnsl has been reported as a second neoplasm only once previously . seven patients are discussed who developed pcnsl after successful treatment for a prior neoplasm . the original cancer was colon ( one ) , breast ( one ) , thyroid ( one ) , hodgkin 's disease ( two ) , and non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( two ) . patients with systemic non-hodgkin 's lymphoma were thought to have a separate cerebral lymphoma on the basis of a prolonged disease-free interval from their systemic lymphoma , and the absence of systemic disease , when pcnsl was diagnosed and through subsequent follow-up . the pcnsl developed a median of 10 years after the diagnosis of the first tumor and 6 years after the last evidence of systemic disease . the diagnosis of pcnsl was often delayed because of confusion with brain metastases , and initial shrinkage or disappearance of the lesion after corticosteroids . formation of pcnsl may be a consequence of treatment for the first malignancy , reflect an unidentified inherent predisposition to neoplastic transformation , or result from the changing epidemiology of pcnsl in the general population . these mechanisms are not mutually exclusive , and a single hypothesis can not account for all these cases . 
interstitial lung disease . the interstitial lung diseases are comprised of a group of pulmonary disorders characterized clinically by diffuse infiltrates on the chest radiograph and histologically by distortion of the gas exchanging portion of the lung . the physiologic correlates are restriction of lung volumes and impaired oxygenation . the term " interstitial " when applied to these diseases is actually a misnomer because it implies that the inflammatory process is limited specifically to the area between the alveolar epithelial and capillary endothelial basement membranes . the diseases currently grouped as " interstitial " also frequently involve the alveolar epithelium , alveolar space , pulmonary microvasculature , and less commonly , the respiratory bronchioles , larger airways , and even the pleura . the enormous differential diagnosis of interstitial lung disease can be made manageable by understanding that pneumoconiosis , drug-induced disease , and hypersensitivity pneumonitis account for over 80 % of the responsible entities and can usually be identified from the patient 's history . the nine remaining diseases/disease categories include : sarcoidosis , idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis , bronchiolitis obliterans-organizing pneumonia , histiocytosis x , chronic eosinophilic pneumonia , collagen vascular disease-associated interstitial lung disease , granulomatous vasculitis ( wegener 's granulomatosis , churg-strauss syndrome , lymphomatoid granulomatosis ) , goodpasture 's syndrome , and pulmonary alveolar proteinosis . the diagnosis of a specific interstitial lung disease can be made via various means including the patient 's history , specific serologies , bronchoalveolar lavage , transbronchial biopsy , and biopsy of extrathoracic tissues or open lung biopsy . a directed diagnostic approach can be formulated based on an understanding of these techniques and a thorough knowledge of the clinical presentations and specific diagnostic criteria for each of the major diseases . this monograph will serve as a guide for the clinician to use in evaluating and treating patients with interstitial lung disease . we begin by reviewing the clinical presentation , diagnostic criteria , and management of specific interstitial lung diseases excluding pulmonary infection , neoplasm , and sarcoidosis . pneumoconiosis and drug-induced syndromes are not discussed in detail , but the agents responsible and pertinent exposures are presented in tabular form in the discussion of the general diagnostic approach . 
autoimmune enteropathy and colitis : is there a generalised autoimmune gut disorder ? children with protracted diarrhoea , circulating enterocyte autoantibodies , and an enteropathy showing features of inappropriate hla molecule expression on the jejunal crypt epithelium , often present with persistent blood and mucus in their stools . eight children with autoimmune enteropathy were investigated for the presence of associated colonic disease . six children with protracted diarrhoea , no circulating autoantibodies , and an enteropathy ( in five of them ) undergoing colonoscopy were used as control subjects . in all eight patients , but not in the control subjects , there was macroscopic and microscopic evidence of an accompanying colitis of variable severity , thus indicating that a more generalised intestinal disorder was present , which might affect the whole intestine . aberrant expression of dr molecules on the colonic surface and crypt epithelium was also detected . autoimmunity may play a role in the colitis . 
sensitivity to titanium . a cause of implant failure ? tissues from five patients who underwent revision operations for failed total hip replacements were found to contain large quantities of particulate titanium . in four cases this metal must have come from titanium alloy screws used to fix the acetabular component ; in the fifth case it may also have originated from a titanium alloy femoral head . monoclonal antibody labelling showed abundant macrophages and t-lymphocytes , in the absence of b-lymphocytes , suggesting sensitisation to titanium . skin patch testing with dilute solutions of titanium salts gave negative results in all five patients . however , two of them had a positive skin test to a titanium-containing ointment . 
human immunodeficiency virus-infected macrophages produce soluble factors that cause histological and neurochemical alterations in cultured human brains . we wanted to establish an in vitro human model for aids-associated dementia and pursue the hypothesis that this disease process may be a result of soluble factors produced by hiv-infected macrophages . human brain aggregates were prepared from nine different brain specimens , and were treated with supernatants from in vitro hiv-infected macrophages ( si ) , uninfected macrophages ( su ) , infected t cells , or macrophage-conditioned media from four aids patients . seven of nine treated brains exposed to si showed peripheral rarefaction after 1 wk of incubation that by ultrastructural analysis showed cytoplasmic vacuolation . aggregates from two of three brain cultures treated with si for 3 wk became smaller , an approximately 50 % decrease in size . the degree of apparent toxicity in brains exposed to patient-derived macrophage supernatants paralleled the proportion of macrophages found to be expressing hiv p24 . ultrastructural abnormalities were not observed in brains treated with supernatants from hiv-infected t cells , uninfected macrophages , or lps-activated macrophages . levels of five neurotransmitter amino acids were decreased in comparison to the structural amino acid leucine . these findings suggest that hiv-infected macrophages , infected both in vitro as well as derived from aids patients ' peripheral blood , produce factors that cause reproducible histochemical , ultrastructural , and functional abnormalities in human brain aggregates . 
limited b cell repertoire in severe combined immunodeficient mice engrafted with peripheral blood mononuclear cells derived from immunodeficient or normal humans . the ability to engraft human pbmc or fetal tissue immune cells in the severe combined immunodeficient ( scid ) mouse has created a need for characterization of these systems and their application to disease models . we demonstrate that scid mice reconstituted with pbmc support the growth and differentiation of a restricted set of b cells . human igg levels of 1-2 mg/ml ( 10-20 % of normal human serum levels ) were routinely achieved in spite of a serum half life of only 12 d. ig levels peaked around 50 d and ig production was maintained for greater than 100 d. the ig was greater than 85 % igg though some igm , iga , igd , and even ige could be detected . however , the human igg produced in hu-pbl-scid mice was pauci-clonal when analyzed by isoelectric focusing and by kappa/lambda light chain usage . using a new polymerase chain reaction based analysis capable of monitoring individual vh family utilization , we found that the engrafted b cells showed skewed and restricted human vh subfamily utilization . these parameters were markedly variable among hu-pbl-scid mice reconstituted from the same donor cell population at both early ( 21-50 d ) and late stages ( greater than 100 d ) . hu-pbl/cvi-scid mice constructed with cells from patients with common variable immunodeficiency with an in vitro block in terminal b cell differentiation produced human ig responses that were quantitatively the same as those produced by hu-pbl-scid mice from normal donors . the hu-pbl-scid system using pbmc appears to lead to growth and ig production by a small number of b cells and results in a restricted b cell repertoire . 
role of mast cells in ion transport abnormalities associated with intestinal anaphylaxis . correction of the diminished secretory response in genetically mast cell-deficient w/wv mice by bone marrow transplantation . to investigate the role of mast cells in transport abnormalities during intestinal anaphylaxis , we examined responses to antigen in isolated intestinal preparations from ovalbumin-sensitized genetically mast cell-deficient wbb6f1-w/wv ( w/wv ) mice and congenic normal wbbgf1 ( - ) + / + ( + / + ) mice . changes in ion transport ( primarily secretion of chloride ions ) were indicated by increases in short-circuit current ( isc ) . in tissues from + / + mice , antigen caused increases in isc which were significantly inhibited by antagonists to histamine ( diphenhydramine ) and serotonin ( ketanserin ) , by a cyclooxygenase inhibitor ( piroxicam ) and by a neurotoxin ( tetrodotoxin ) . in preparations from w/wv mice , antigen-stimulated responses were approximately 30 % of that in + / + mice and were inhibited only by piroxicam . responses to electrical transmural stimulation of nerves were approximately 50 % in w/wv versus + / + mice , and were inhibited by antagonists of mast cell mediators in + / + but not w/wv mice . reconstitution of mast cells in w/wv mice by intravenous injection of + / + bone marrow cells restored the normal responses to both antigen and nerve stimulation . our results indicate that mast cell-dependent mechanisms are primarily responsible for the ion secretion associated with intestinal anaphylaxis , but that other cells are also involved . in addition , our data provide evidence for the functional importance of bidirectional communication between nerves and mast cells in the regulation of ion transport in the gastrointestinal tract . 
no evidence for serological autoimmunity to islet cell heat shock proteins in insulin dependent diabetes . recent studies in nonobese diabetic mice have implicated the autoimmune destruction of pancreatic islet cells with immunity to a beta cell protein cross-reactive to mycobacterium tuberculosis heat shock protein 65 ( hsp 65 ) . therefore , our studies examined serological immunity to islet cell hsp in humans with insulin-dependent diabetes ( idd ) . heat shock of human islet cells in vitro markedly increased the synthesis of proteins of 72,000 , 75,000 , and 90,000 mr. no autoantibodies reactive to these hsp , nor to the constituently expressed islet cell hsp 65 protein ( identified as 60,000 mr ) were observed in idd patients . the islet cell 64,000-mr autoantigen and hsp 65 proteins were physiologically and immunocompetitively distinct . these experiments do not support the hypothesis that idd in humans is associated with autoimmunity to islet cell heat shock proteins . 
effect of a thromboxane a2 receptor antagonist ( aa-2414 ) on bronchial hyperresponsiveness to methacholine in subjects with asthma . bronchial hyperresponsiveness ( bhr ) to various stimuli is one of the major clinical features of bronchial asthma . in this study , the effect of a thromboxane a2 ( txa2 ) receptor antagonist , aa-2414 , on bhr to methacholine was evaluated in 15 patients with asthma . the methacholine inhalation test was performed before and after oral administration of aa-2414 for 4 days ( 20 or 40 mg/day ) . the provocative concentration of methacholine producing a 20 % fall in fev1 ( pc20 ) was measured as an index of bhr . there was a significant increase in pc20 ( p less than 0.01 ) from 0.43 ( geometric sem , 1.42 ) mg/ml to 0.93 ( geometric sem , 1.43 ) mg/ml after 40 mg/day of aa-2414 , whereas baseline values of fvc and fev1 were not changed by the treatment . twenty milligrams per day of aa-2414 did not alter the pc20 value nor the parameter of baseline pulmonary functions . these findings might support our hypothesis that the subthreshold concentration of txa2 in the bronchial tissues , which has no effect on bronchomotor tone per se , may be involved in bhr in asthma . further studies with more potent and specific txa2 receptor antagonists are needed to confirm the conclusion . 
secretion of granule proteins from eosinophils and neutrophils is increased in asthma . the activity of eosinophil and neutrophil granulocytes with respect to secretion of granule proteins was studied in 30 patients with asthma and with varying severity of their disease . granulocytes were stimulated with serum-opsonized sephadex particles , and the released amount of eosinophil cationic protein ( ecp ) , eosinophil protein x ( epx ) , and myeloperoxidase was measured by means of specific radioimmunoassays . eosinophils from patients with asthma released significantly more ( p less than 0.001 ) ecp and epx after 20 minutes of incubation than cells from control subjects without asthma . the release of myeloperoxidase from neutrophils was also somewhat higher ( p less than 0.03 ) . the serum concentrations of ecp and epx were also significantly increased ( p less than 0.001 ) in the group with asthma . no significant relationships were found between clinical variables and the secretory activity of either eosinophils or neutrophils . we conclude that eosinophils and , to some extent , neutrophils from subjects with asthma have an increased propensity to release their granule proteins , which we suggest is a consequence of priming of these cells . 
food-dependent , exercise-induced anaphylaxis : a study on 11 japanese cases . eleven patients with food-dependent , exercise-induced anaphylaxis were studied . seven patients experienced anaphylactic symptoms only after eating certain foods , such as shellfish , wheat , and grape before exercise . in the remaining four patients , no specific food could be identified , but the act of eating itself predisposed to anaphylaxis . their anaphylactic symptoms were all clearly distinguished from cholinergic urticaria by history . patients who developed anaphylactic symptoms before 20 years of age ( n = 7 ) were atopic themselves or had atopic first-degree relatives . six patients had increased serum ige levels , and ige antibodies against the causative food allergens were detected by the skin prick test or rast in four cases . in contrast , patients who developed the symptoms after 30 years of age ( n = 4 ) appeared to have a less atopic background , and ige levels were within normal range except in one case . three of four patients in the latter group developed symptoms after ingesting food made of wheat followed by exercise . all patients were sensitive to wheat as determined by the skin prick test . in six of 11 patients , a considerable rise in plasma histamine concentration was observed after exercise challenge with treadmill alone , and food intake followed by exercise induced a further increase in one patient . 
sensitization to aztreonam and cross-reactivity with other beta-lactam antibiotics in high-risk patients with cystic fibrosis . the immunogenicity , allergenicity , and cross-reactivity of aztreonam were investigated in 21 patients with cystic fibrosis ( cf ) ( aged 5 to 39 years ) with well-documented histories of allergic systemic reactions ( srs ) to penicillin and/or cephalosporin antipseudomonal beta-lactam antibiotics ( blas ) . skin tests ( sts ) with penicilloyl-polylysine ( ppl ) , penicillin minor determinant mixture , and antipseudomonal bla were positive in 19 patients ( 90 % ) . the bla causing the most recent allergic reaction , minor determinant mixture , or ppl , was positive in 89 % , 53 % , and 32 % of st-positive patients , respectively . serum ppl-specific ige antibodies were not detectable , although ppl-specific igg antibodies were found in 64 % of patients tested . sts to aztreonam reagents were performed and were initially negative in 20 patients . one patient was st positive to the polylysine conjugate of hydrolyzed aztreonam ( sq 27629 ) , despite no prior exposure to aztreonam , and was not treated . of 20 patients treated with aztreonam , four were demonstrated to be sensitized by exposure ( one had an sr during initial treatment course , two had srs on reexposure , and one patient was asymptomatic after intravenous desensitization ) by positive aztreonam reagent skin responses on repeat testing . aztreonyl-specific ige and igg serum antibodies were not detected in any patients , including patients with allergic reactions to aztreonam . thus , aztreonam is generally well tolerated in high-risk patients with cf allergic to other blas and appears to have reduced immunogenicity by serologic testing . however , caution should be exercised with aztreonam in bla-allergic patients with cf in light of 5 % preexisting st cross-reactivity and 20 % sensitization rates found in this study . 
an autosomal recessive gene that delays expression of lupus in bxsb mice . we report the generation and serologic , cellular , histologic , and genetic characteristics of a bxsb/mpjscr substrain , termed bxsb/mpjscr-ll/ll , that has lost early-life male lupus disease . classic genetic analysis suggested that delayed disease expression results from the action of a single autosomal recessive gene . this putative gene , referred to as ll ( long-lived ) , causes a significant delay in expression of autoimmune serology ( total serum igg and anti-nuclear antibodies levels ) , monocytosis , and of immune complex-mediated histopathologic changes such as glomerulonephritis , arteritis , and myocardial infarction . presumably as a consequence of the delayed immunopathology male bxsb/mpjscr-ll/ll mice live three to four times longer than regular bxsb/mpjscr . this strain might be useful for analysis of single genes responsible for severe autoimmune disease expression . 
non-hodgkins lymphoma of the head and neck : experience in the grampian area . the records of 44 cases of non-hodgkins lymphoma ( nhl ) presenting to the ear , nose and throat department in the grampian area from 1980-1988 were examined in relation to site of occurrence , histology , age at presentation , clinical stage , treatment and survival . the median age was 67 years and there was a preponderance of high grade histology , especially in disease affecting the tonsil . most deaths occurred in the first year ; patients with high grade disease and those in stages three and four had a significantly poorer survival during the first year . the site of disease had no influence on survival . 
modern haemophilia treatment : medical improvements and quality of life . adequate replacement therapy in haemophilia has been available for two decades . this has led to considerable improvements in the life expectancy and physical status of haemophilia patients . a study was conducted to investigate whether this has also led to improvements in quality of life . with this aim , information was obtained from 935 dutch haemophiliacs by mailed questionnaires on relationships , marriage , family life and employment . haemophilia patients were less often married than men in the general population ( 13 % fewer ) and had a lower total number of children ( 30 % lower , 17 % for those who were married ) . twenty-two per cent of the patients were not employed and received an income from the disability funds . while severity of haemophilia , joint damage and age increased the risk of disability , it was noted that home treatment was associated with a 50 % reduction in this risk . remarkably , haemophilia patients did not differ from the general population in their view of the quality of their own health . the results of this study show a positive influence of modern haemophilia treatment on quality of life . at present , aids overshadows all optimistic feelings one may have about this field . however , the results described here demonstrate the benefits that can be achieved with adequate replacement therapy , and justify the expectation of further improvements in the near future . 
acquired immune dysfunction in cats with experimentally induced feline immunodeficiency virus infection : comparison of short-term and long-term infections . specific pathogen-free domestic cats with experimentally induced feline immunodeficiency virus ( fiv ) infections of short duration ( less than or equal to 10 months ) exhibited depressed total leukocyte and neutrophil numbers and a marginally decreased lymphocyte proliferative response to pokeweed mitogen ( pwm ) , while cats with infections of more lengthy duration ( greater than or equal to 25 months ) exhibited normal leukocyte and neutrophil numbers but a dramatic loss of responsiveness to both pwm and concanavalin a ( con a ) . cats with short-term infections exhibited a decrease in the percentage of cd4 + lymphocytes in peripheral blood and a corresponding depression of the cd4 + : cd8 + ratio . cats with long-term infections exhibited a similar but more profound perturbation of the cd4 + lymphocyte subset that also included a decrease in the absolute number of cd4 + cells . the decreased responsiveness to con a and pwm in cats infected long term paralleled the decline in cd4 + cell counts , and the duration of infection was directly correlated with the decrease in the percentage of cd4 + cells . these data provide evidence supporting the hypothesis that fiv is the cause of an immune dysfunction in cats , with distinct similarities to that produced by human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) in people . 
marked elevations of serum alkaline phosphatase in patients with aids . we have observed many patients with aids who have unexplained marked elevations in serum alkaline phosphatase . to determine the frequency of alkaline phosphatase elevations in patients with aids , and to identify diagnoses , medications , and demographic factors associated with such elevations , we conducted a retrospective study of the first 90 consecutive aids cases in hospitals affiliated with the university of colorado health sciences center in denver , colorado . we found elevations of alkaline phosphatase in excess of 1,000 iu/l in 17 % of consecutive patients with aids . this level of elevation was less frequent in patients with kaposi 's sarcoma but there was otherwise no significant association with diagnoses or medications , or transmission categories for aids . the majority of the patients with elevations to this level did not have documented opportunistic infections or biliary tract dilatation previously described in the " cholangitis " syndrome in aids patients . other explanations for these elevations for this common laboratory finding may exist . 
dapsone as a single agent is suboptimal therapy for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . in a prospective , noncomparative study , seven patients with mild pneumocystis carinii pneumonia , characterized by room air arterial po2 greater than 60 mm hg at the time of presentation , were treated with dapsone alone at a dose of 200 mg daily . two of the seven patients required mechanical ventilation for respiratory failure on day 5 of dapsone therapy ; both died . four patients experienced major side effects during dapsone therapy . none of the seven patients successfully completed a full course of therapy with dapsone . we conclude that high-dose , single-agent dapsone is not suitable for further study as therapy for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with aids : evaluation of lavage and staining techniques in diagnosis . the diagnostic yield of unilateral vs. bilateral bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) was prospectively evaluated in 65 consecutive patients suspected of having pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) complicating acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) . gram-weigert ( gw ) , papanicolaou ( pap ) , and gomori 's methenamine silver ( gms ) stains were used for identification of p. carinii in all cases . forty-eight patients had pcp that was identified by gw staining of bal in 47/48 patients followed by pap/gms staining of bal in 44/48 patients and pap/gms staining of bronchial washings in 40/48 patients . in patients with bilateral interstitial infiltrates , unilateral lavage was sufficient for diagnosis of pcp when gw stain was utilized . in patients with pcp complicating aids , the diagnostic yield of bal may be increased by use of both gw and gms stains . 
mri-guided stereotaxic brain biopsy in neurologically symptomatic aids patients . two patients with aids-related neurologic dysfunction were evaluated with both computed tomographic ( ct ) brain scans and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . ct scans were essentially normal in both patients while mri revealed focal lesions amenable to brain biopsy . using newly developed instrumentation , mri-guided stereotaxic brain biopsy was performed without complication . the benefits and impact of this new technology for the care of neurologically symptomatic aids patients is discussed . 
zidovudine use in aids-free hiv-1-seropositive homosexual men in the multicenter aids cohort study ( macs ) , 1987-1989 . zidovudine use data were examined in the multicenter aids cohort study to determine ( i ) if the proportion of pre-aids participants ( i.e. , cd4 + cells less than 200/mm3 or aids-related complex ) taking zidovudine is high enough to explain a slower than expected rise in aids incidence in u.s. homosexual men since mid-1987 ; ( ii ) which factors are associated with starting zidovudine and clinical trials of zidovudine ; and ( iii ) if pre-aids patients , as a group , are being undertreated . data on zidovudine use , clinical trial participation , and sociodemographic , clinical , and hematologic variables were collected every 6 months from 1,195 aids-free hiv-1-seropositive homosexual men from april 1987 to september 1989 . overall prevalence of zidovudine use rose from 3.6 % in mid-1987 ( visit 7 ) to 23 % in mid-1989 ( visit 11 ) . of those with less than 200 cd4 + lymphocytes/mm3 , the prevalence of zidovudine use rose from 23 % ( 24 % if those taking zidovudine or placebo as part of a clinical trial are included ) at visit 7 to 58 % ( 69 % ) at visit 11 . of those with arc , 20 % ( 23 % ) were using zidovudine at visit 7 and 55 % ( 65 % ) at visit 11 . although numbers were small , the advanced arc participants ( cd4 + cells less than 200/mm3 and two or more symptoms ) reported the highest treatment rates ( 50 , 78 , 80 , 60 , and 74 % at visits 7-11 , respectively ) . by september 1989 , 42 % ( 31 % ) of those with cd4 + lymphocyte levels less than 200/mm3 were still not receiving zidovudine , suggesting that many high-risk , pre-aids individuals are being undertreated . to explore this finding further , we examined a range of sociodemographic , hematologic , and clinical variables to determine which factors best predicted initiation of zidovudine therapy outside of clinical trials . in multivariate analyses , cd4 + lymphocyte number was the most consistent predictor of initiation of therapy over all four study visits . for each 100 cells/mm3 deficit , the odds ratios were 2.3 ( 95 % c.i. of 1.7-3 .1 ) at visit 7 and 1.7 % ( 95 % c.i. of 1.4-2 .0 ) at visit 11 . symptom status and education level were also associated with starting zidovudine , but not at all visits . the relatively low predictive power of the clinical variables raises and the possibility that nonclinical factors not measured in the macs ( drug cost , third-party insurance restrictions , and individual preferences ) may play an important role in predicting zidovudine use . finally , comparisons were made between seropositive participants starting clinical trials of zidovudine and the rest of the study population . no important differences were found in demographic or major clinical variables between clinical trial participants and zidovudine nonusers in this study . 
a multicenter proficiency trial of gene amplification ( pcr ) for the detection of hiv-1 . the sensitivity and specificity of the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) for the detection of hiv-1 proviral dna was determined in five laboratories with extensive experience in pcr testing . five panels consisting of 105 hiv-1-seronegative specimens from regularly repeating blood donors with no risk factors for hiv infection and 99 hiv-1-seropositive and culture-positive specimens from a cohort of homosexual/bisexual men were sent under code to each laboratory . amplification procedures and testing algorithms by which specimens were judged positive , negative , or indeterminate varied between laboratories . the average sensitivity for the five laboratories was 99.0 % , with two laboratories achieving 100 % . the average specificity was 94.7 % , varying between 90.5 and 100 % . the overall false-positive rate was 1.8 % , the false-negative rate was 0.8 % , and the indeterminate rate was 1.9 % . of 1,005 determinations made by the five laboratories , 32 ( 3.2 % ) were misclassifications . most of the classification errors occurred in specimens from uninfected individuals and were distributed among the laboratories in such a way as to indicate laboratory error rather than the inherent reactivity of some samples . this emphasizes the need for standardization of pcr testing and caution in interpreting positive pcr reactions in hiv-1-seronegative persons . 
a cross-sectional study of a program for hiv infection control among public house workers . we report results of a cross-sectional study of a program for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection control among public house workers in dar es salaam . forty percent of the 605 workers sampled had been part of this program , which included behavioral counseling and provision of condoms , for 1 year . the remaining 60 % were new recruits . program participation was associated with both enhanced condom use ( p less than 0.001 ) and behavioral modification ( p less than 0.001 ) . females , and specifically barmaids , were more likely to be condom users but were less likely to have changed their behavior in other respects . seropositivity to both hiv and treponema pallidum tended to be higher among females , especially the barmaids . since barmaids and waitresses in public houses in dar es salaam often engage in prostitution , it is felt that to effect a reduction of numbers of their sexual partners , there is a need to address the social and economic factors underlying high-risk sexual behavior . 
correlation between antibodies to type ii collagen and treatment outcome in bilateral progressive sensorineural hearing loss . our aim was to assess whether " idiopathic " bilateral progressive sensorineural hearing loss ( bpshl ) has an immunological cause in some patients ; antibodies to native type ii collagen were sought by an elisa in eighteen patients with bpshl , before and after corticosteroid treatment , and in twelve patients with meniere 's disease , fifteen with otosclerosis , eighteen with rheumatoid arthritis , nine with fibrositis , and nine healthy controls . a positive result was defined as a mean dilution titre of 2 or more . eight of eighteen bpshl patients had positive titres -- significantly ( p less than 0.005 ) more than in any other group ( one meniere 's disease , two otosclerosis , and no others ) . the mean antibody titre was higher in the bpshl group than in any other group ( 2.02 [ sem 0.62 ] vs 0.17 [ 0.17 ] ) meniere 's disease , 0.44 [ 0.32 ] otosclerosis , 0 all others ; p less than 0.005 ) . the nine bpshl patients who showed a clinical response to corticosteroids ( improvement in at least one tone by audiogram or 25 db in speech discrimination score ) had the highest mean antibody titre ( 3.46 [ 0.88 ] vs 0.59 [ 0.59 ] for the nine non-responsive patients ; p less than 0.04 ) . we suggest that in some patients with bpshl , immunity to type ii collagen , a major constituent of the inner ear , may be important in the pathogenesis of the disorder . 
serial cd4 lymphocyte counts and development of aids low cd4 lymphocyte counts are associated with increased risk of progression to aids in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . we investigated the extent to which the timing of progression to aids can be explained solely in terms of decline of the cd4 lymphocyte count in 111 haemophiliacs followed for up to 11 years since infection with hiv . a median of 10 cd4 lymphocyte counts were made per patient . by applying a simple linear model for the decline in cd4 lymphocyte counts over time , we estimated the date of development of aids in 96 patients who had at least 5 determinations . 84 % ( 81 of 96 ) of patients were correctly classified as to development of aids before jan 1 , 1990 ( p less than 0.0001 ) , with this model . the results suggest that differences in the time at which patients with hiv will progress to aids can largely be explained by differences in rates of decline of cd4 lymphocyte counts . 
the canadian cooperative trial of cyclophosphamide and plasma exchange in progressive multiple sclerosis . the canadian cooperative multiple sclerosis study group to find out whether non-specific immunosuppression is beneficial in multiple sclerosis ( ms ) a randomised , placebo-controlled , single-masked trial was carried out in nine university centres . 168 patients with clinically or laboratory-supported definite ms in progressive phase ( deterioration by at least 1.0 on the expanded disability status scale [ edss ] in the previous year ) were randomised to receive intravenous cyclophosphamide and oral prednisone ( n = 55 ) ; daily oral cyclophosphamide , alternate day prednisone ( 22 weeks ) , and weekly plasma exchange ( 20 weeks ) ( n = 57 ) ; or placebo medications and sham plasma exchange ( n = 56 ) . all patients were followed for at least 12 months ( mean 30.4 months ) by a monitoring neurologist , who was aware of treatment allocation , and an evaluating neurologist , who was not . the primary analysis was a comparison of rates of treatment failure ( worsening of evaluating neurologist 's assessment of edss by 1.0 or more on two consecutive 6-monthly assessments ) . there were no significant differences among the groups in this primary analysis ( 19 [ 35 % ] treatment failures with cyclophosphamide ; 18 [ 32 % ] with plasma exchange ; 16 [ 29 % ] with placebo ) . nor were there any differences in the proportions improved , stabilised , or worsened at each 6 month assessment or in the mean change in the edss at the final assessment ( 0.81 cyclophosphamide ; 0.69 plasma exchange ; 0.69 placebo ) . a slight trend favouring the plasma exchange group at 12-24 months of follow-up was not sustained at the final assessment . this study fails to confirm previous reports that immunosuppressive treatments result in stabilisation or improvement in progressive ms. 
a placebo-controlled trial of maintenance therapy with fluconazole after treatment of cryptococcal meningitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . california collaborative treatment group . background and methods . in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , the rate of relapse after primary treatment for cryptococcal meningitis remains high . we conducted a controlled , double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy of maintenance therapy with fluconazole . at entry into the study , all participants had sterile cultures of cerebrospinal fluid , blood , and urine after following a standardized course of therapy for culture-proved cryptococcal meningitis . the patients were randomly assigned to take either fluconazole or placebo as maintenance therapy . the dose of fluconazole was 100 mg daily in the first phase of study and 200 mg daily in the second phase . results . of 84 patients initially enrolled , 16 ( 19 percent ) were found to have silent , persistent infection on the basis of cultures that became positive after entry into the study ; 7 other patients were lost to follow-up shortly after entry . of the remaining 61 patients , 10 of 27 assigned to placebo ( 37 percent ) and 1 of 34 assigned to fluconazole ( 3 percent ) had a recurrence of cryptococcal infection at any site ( difference in risk , 34 percent ; 95 percent confidence interval , 15 to 53 ) . of the 11 recurrent infections , 7 were detected in urine obtained after prostatic massage . there were four recurrent meningeal infections in the patients taking placebo , but none in those taking fluconazole ( mean duration of follow-up , 164 days ) ( p = 0.03 ) . in multivariate analyses , the best predictors of recurrence-free survival were fluconazole treatment ( p = 0.02 ; relative hazard , 13.2 ) , a lower serum cryptococcal-antigen titer ( p = 0.05 ; relative hazard , 1.2 ) , and more prolonged primary therapy with flucytosine ( p = 0.09 ; relative hazard , 1.1 ) . survival and toxicity were similar in the two maintenance-treatment groups . conclusions . in patients with aids , silent persistent infection is common after clinically successful treatment for cryptococcal meningitis . maintenance therapy with fluconazole is highly effective in preventing recurrent cryptococcal infection . 
the role of htlv in hiv-1 neurologic disease . we performed a serologic survey for antibodies to htlv-i/ii in the course of a longitudinal study of the neurologic complications of hiv-1 infection . nine ( 3.7 % ) of 242 hiv-1 seropositive subjects and none of 60 hiv-1 seronegative control subjects had antibodies to htlv-i/ii by elisa . western blot and polymerase chain reaction confirmed the presence of htlv-i in 2 subjects and htlv-ii infection in 2 others . both hiv-1 / htlv-i coinfected subjects and 1 hiv-1 / htlv-ii coinfected subject had a slowly progressive myelopathy clinically identical tropical spastic paraparesis/htlv-i-associated myelopathy ( tsp/ham ) . the presence of a myelopathy resembling tsp/ham in the coinfected subjects suggests that hiv-1 may enhance the expression of neurologic disease caused by htlv . patients with a progressive myelopathy occurring in association with hiv-1 infection should be serologically tested for the presence of htlv . establishing dual infection has therapeutic and prognostic import as 1 of the hiv-1 / htlv-i subjects substantially improved with corticosteroids and the hiv-1 / htlv-ii subject with myelopathy had a marked improvement in the absence of therapeutic intervention . 
unusual amyloid polyneuropathy with predominant lumbosacral nerve roots and plexus involvement . we report a 25-year-old patient with a progressive asymmetric peripheral neuropathy of the distal lower limbs . imaging studies showed enlargement of lumbosacral roots , plexus , and proximal sciatic nerve . sacral plexus biopsy revealed amyloidosis associated with endoneurial edema . immunohistochemistry with anti-prealbumin , serum amyloid a , and immunoglobulin light chain antisera failed to label the amyloid . 
signs of cognitive change in hiv disease : an event-related brain potential study . we recorded event-related brain potentials ( erps ) from 2 groups of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - positive men with no physical illness or neurologic involvement : 9 asymptomatic ( as + ) and 9 classified as having either acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ; 7 ) or aids-related complex ( arc ; 2 ) . in separate choice reaction time tasks , the subjects pressed buttons to randomly presented auditory or visual stimuli at probabilities of either 20/80 or 50/50 . there were no group differences on any of the neuropsychological tests commonly used in screening batteries for hiv patients . in contrast , reduced p300 amplitudes and increased p300 latencies occurred in arc/aids patients in response to both auditory and visual stimuli , while in as + patients such alterations occurred only in the visual modality . significant delays in p2 latency were found only in the auditory modality and then only in arc/aids patients . arc/aids patients alone showed delayed response times , and only in the auditory modality . the p300 results demonstrate alterations in stimulus evaluation and processing speed in the earliest stages of hiv disease , even before cognitive deficits can be detected by more traditional measures . 
hashimoto 's encephalopathy : a steroid-responsive disorder associated with high anti-thyroid antibody titers -- report of 5 cases . we describe 5 patients with a relapsing encephalopathy in association with hashimoto 's disease and high titers of anti-thyroid antibodies . the presentation is usually with a subacute onset of confusion , alteration in conscious level , and focal or generalized seizures . the relapsing course , association with myoclonus or tremulousness , and episodes of stroke-like deterioration are characteristic features . the long-term prognosis is favorable with steroid therapy , though additional immunosuppressive therapy may be required . neurologic investigation typically shows a diffusely abnormal eeg , high csf protein level without pleocytosis , and normal brain ct and cerebral angiogram . isotope brain scan may show patchy abnormal uptake . hashimoto 's encephalopathy should be recognized as a definite neurologic entity and added to the list of cns complications of thyroid disease . 
a 21-aminosteroid inhibits stimulated monocyte hydrogen peroxide and chemiluminescence measurements from ms patients and controls . monocytes are recruited to active sites of multiple sclerosis ( ms ) demyelination and may promote local tissue injury by generating an inflammatory response , mediated in part by the production of toxic oxygen metabolites . corticosteroids are frequently and effectively used to ameliorate ms exacerbations , despite inadequate knowledge about the mechanism . we assessed the effects of a 21-aminosteroid , u74500a , a new class of steroid derivatives without glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid effects , on the production of hydrogen peroxide ( h2o2 ) and chemiluminescence by stimulated monocytes harvested from 8 stable ms patients and age - and sex-matched controls . h2o2 measurements and chemiluminescence were significantly reduced in both groups by u74500a . these results demonstrate that 21-aminosteroids reduce production of toxic oxygen metabolites by monocytes and thus their inflammatory potential , suggesting that these agents may be potentially effective and safe treatment for ms exacerbations . 
cerebrospinal fluid eicosanoid levels : endogenous pgd2 and ltc4 synthesis by antigen-presenting cells that migrate to the central nervous system . we analyzed csf from patients with multiple sclerosis , patients with other neurologic diseases , and healthy controls for the presence of prostaglandin ( pg ) e2 , f2 alpha , d2 , i , a , and leukotriene ( lt ) c4 . control csf had little measurable pgs or lts . csf eicosanoids from patients with progressive ms were increased . we found pgd2 only in ms csf . csf monocytes from patients in active disease produced significantly increased pgd , pge , and ltc4 than paired peripheral blood monocytes and monocytes from healthy controls . we saw no significant difference in ltc4 production between ms and control peripheral blood monocytes . 
perception of breathlessness during bronchoconstriction induced by antigen , exercise , and histamine challenges . perception of breathlessness was studied in eight patients with mild , stable asthma after a histamine and exercise challenge performed before and 24 and 48 hours respectively after an antigen challenge . fev1 and perception of breathlessness , evaluated by borg 's 10 point category scale , were measured after each administration of doubling antigen or histamine concentrations to achieve a greater than 20 % fall in fev1 , and after six minutes of steady state exercise at 80 % of maximal oxygen consumption ( vo2max ) . the geometric mean provocative concentration of histamine causing a 20 % fall in fev1 ( pc20 ) fell from 1.67 mg/ml before antigen challenge to 0.52 mg/ml 24 hours after the challenge . the median maximal % fall in fev1 with exercise was 24.9 % ( range 10.5-40 .5 % ) before and 30.6 % ( range 13.8-52 .3 % ) 48 hours after antigen challenge . the median maximum % fall in fev1 after antigen inhalation was 20.1 % ( range 13.3-35 .2 % ) within the first hour ; only two subjects had a late fall in fev1 ( 23 % and 58 % ) . the median ( range ) of borg scores obtained when fev1 was reduced by 20 % did not differ significantly for the three types of acute challenges : 1.25 ( 0.5-2 .5 ) and 1.0 ( 0.5-3 .0 ) after histamine tests , 1.0 ( 0.5-4 .1 ) and 1.55 ( 0.5-2 .0 ) after exercise , and 1.5 ( 0-3 .0 ) after antigen challenge . in the two subjects who had a late response to antigen the borg score was reduced for the same % fall in fev1 as with the early response . it is concluded that the perception of breathlessness does not differ appreciably during the early response to histamine , antigen exposure , or exercise , but that it is reduced during the late asthmatic response . it was not influenced by previous antigen exposure , despite an increase in airway responsiveness . 
analysis of bronchial reactivity in epidemiological studies . the measurement of bronchial reactivity in epidemiological studies has the advantage of quantifying an objective physiological feature of asthma . bronchial reactivity was developed in a clinical setting and has been conventionally expressed as the dose of agonist producing a 20 % fall in fev1 ( pd20 ) . as pd20 can be estimated for less than 20 % of subjects in general community surveys with the doses of agonist that are usually given , data from most subjects must be censored . thus pd20 alone is a poor index of bronchial reactivity for epidemiological studies . data from 809 aluminium smelter workers were used to evaluate alternative methods of analysing bronchial reactivity . dose-response relationships were analysed by four methods : ( 1 ) pd20 by the conventional method of interpolating the dose on a logarithmic scale between the last two measurements of fev1 ; ( 2 ) pd20 ( with allowance for extrapolation ) , estimated by fitting an exponential curve to the dose-response data ; ( 3 ) the linear regression slope between dose and fev1 when significant ; ( 4 ) the dose-response slope obtained in all subjects as the % change in fev1 from baseline in response to total dose . when each of these measures was related to symptoms , diagnosis , and treatment of asthma , all differentiated between " asthmatic " and " non-asthmatic " subjects . the dose-response slope ( method 4 ) had the advantages of simplicity and no censored data , and was shown to be clinically relevant . it is suggested that the dose-response slope should be used for the analysis of bronchial reactivity in epidemiological studies . 
lung function 8-18 years after intermittent positive pressure ventilation for hyaline membrane disease . lung function and respiratory symptoms were studied in 40 children aged 8-18 years who had been ventilated for hyaline membrane disease after birth ; 11 had had bronchopulmonary dysplasia . also studied were 38 age matched children who had had hyaline membrane disease but had not required ventilation , 25 unmatched children who were born prematurely but did not develop hyaline membrane disease , and 39 randomly selected pupils of similar age . there was no difference in thoracic gas volume , total lung capacity , inspiratory vital capacity , residual volume , or transfer factor for carbon monoxide between the groups . respiratory symptoms during the three years before the study and the frequency of clinically diagnosed asthma in patients and their family were similar in all the children with hyaline membrane disease irrespective of whether they had been ventilated or had had bronchopulmonary dysplasia . the children with bronchopulmonary dysplasia , however , had a lower forced expiratory volume in one second ( fev1 ) before bronchodilator ( 73 % predicted ) than the other groups ( 88-95 % predicted ) . children who had required ventilation had lower values for specific airways conductance ( sgaw ) and a greater increase in fev1 ( delta fev1 ) after salbutamol ( 13 % ) than non-ventilated children ( 6 % ) ; delta fev1 was associated with the peak pressure of intermittent positive pressure ventilation , a family history of asthma and a history of wheezing , recurrent respiratory illnesses , and a doctor 's diagnosis of asthma during the three years before the study . these findings indicate that after eight years of age patients with bronchopulmonary dysplasia have more reversible airways obstruction , compatible with increased bronchial smooth muscle tone . 
occupational asthma in a pharmaceutical worker exposed to hydralazine . a pharmaceutical worker developed asthma when exposed to hydralazine , an antihypertensive drug . the diagnosis of occupational asthma was supported by specific inhalation challenges , which produced a late asthmatic reaction and an increase in bronchial responsiveness . no evidence of an ige or an igg dependent mechanism could be found . 
coexistence of testicular carcinoma and hairy cell leukemia . the coexistence of two relatively rare disorders in 1 patient often induces speculation about possible cause and effect of these disorders . the suitable therapeutic regimen for both diseases and roentgenologic manifestations are described . 
surface and cytoplasmic expression of cd45 antigen isoforms in normal and malignant myeloid cell differentiation . the cd45 family contains protein tyrosine phosphatase ( ptpase ) activity and is expressed in one or more of its isoforms on all lymphohematopoietic cells . considerable work has focused on cd45 expression by lymphoid cells , but minimal work has involved granulocytes . granulocytic , or myeloid , cell differentiation is accompanied by a number of morphologic and immunophenotypic changes . this study used flow cytometric and immunocytochemical methods in conjunction with morphologic assessment to investigate the expression of cd45 isoforms during differentiation of normal and malignant granulocytic cells . on normal bone marrow cells , the quantity of surface cd45 did not change during earlier stages but did increase significantly at the terminal stages ( bands and polymorphonuclear leukocytes [ pmns ] ) . cd45ro ( the low relative molecular mass [ mr ] isoform ) was very dimly expressed on immature cells but became increasingly brighter beginning at approximately the myelocyte stage . the high mr isoform ( cd45ra ) was virtually absent from the cell surface at all stages . only a small percentage ( 3-15 % ) of pmns expressed surface cd45ra . however , there was a cytoplasmic pool of each isoform associated with membrane-bound granules found throughout differentiation , with remarkable increases in expression at the terminal stages . in the case of acute myeloid leukemias ( amls ) , most cases expressed surface cd45ra with , or without , cd45ro , regardless of their french-american-british ( fab ) classification . this appeared to be a stable process at diagnosis and relapse in individual patients and may therefore serve as a diagnostic aid . the biologic significance of this aberrant expression of cd45ra by malignant cells is unknown but raises important questions regarding the cellular processes of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation in normal and malignant cells . 
a6 -- a new 45ro monoclonal antibody for immunostaining of paraffin-embedded tissues . the authors report on the extensive characterization , on normal and pathologic tissues , of the t-cell-specific monoclonal antibody ( moab ) a6 , which the authors previously found to identify a fixation - and paraffin-embedding-resistant epitope . a6 reacted with most t lymphocytes , macrophages , and langerhans ' cells of normal tissues and with peripheral t-cell lymphomas ( 31 of 34 ) , ki-1 + lymphomas ( 12 of 18 ) , and t-cell leukemias ( 1 of 5 ) . all cases of x and non-x histiocytosis examined and monocytic leukemias with mature phenotype only were a6 positive . three of 47 cases of b-cell lymphoma and leukemia were labeled . hairy cell leukemias , multiple myelomas , and hodgkin 's and reed-sternberg cells were negative . the a6 reactivity was preserved with different fixatives ( formalin , bouin 's fluid , carnoy 's fixative , and b5 ) and decalcification procedures and was slightly enhanced by trypsin digestion . the pattern of reactivity of a6 was similar to that obtained with moab uchl-1 , recognizing the cd45ro determinant of leukocyte common antigen ; however , in pathologic tissues , a6 labeled a higher percentage of cells than uchl-1 . cross-blocking and enzyme digestion studies ( pronase e [ sigma chemical , st. louis , mo ] and neuraminidase [ sigma chemical ] ) indicated that the two moabs may identify close epitopes on the same molecule . in conclusion , the authors ' study indicates that a6 is an excellent reagent for detection of the cd45ro molecule on paraffin-embedded normal and pathologic tissues . 
use of a probe to repeat sequence of the y chromosome for detection of host cells in peripheral blood of bone marrow transplant recipients . in situ hybridization for the y chromosome ( y-ish ) was used to identify residual host cells in the peripheral blood of 51 recipients of sex-mismatched allogeneic marrow not depleted of t cells following conditioning with high-dose cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation ( tbi ) . one patient who rejected the graft showed rapid reappearance of host cells after transient donor marrow engraftment . host cells were detected at low levels in 49 of the remaining 50 patients . host peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmc ) decreased with time and reached a plateau at 1.0 + / - 0.2 % within four weeks after transplantation , while the percentage of host granulocytes ( gran ) reached a plateau at background level . the mean absolute numbers of host pbmc or gran were less than 0.015 x 10 ( 9 ) / l and did not vary significantly over the period studied . neither the percentages nor the absolute numbers of host pbmc or gran were significantly affected by hla-matching , tbi dose-intensity , pretransplant remission status , subsequent development of acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease or relapse after transplantation . the authors conclude that it is common to find a few residual host cells in the peripheral blood of allogeneic marrow transplant recipients , and the presence of these cells has no clinical significance . 
specific controversies concerning the natural history of renal disease in pregnancy . whether or not pregnancy adversely affects the natural course of underlying primary renal disease , and whether fetal outcome is influenced by the type of renal disease per se are controversial issues . we retrospectively analyzed the fetal and maternal outcome in 148 women with various , biopsy-proven histological types of primary chronic glomerulonephritis ( gn ) , including iga gn ( 52 patients ) , membranous gn ( [ mgn ] 20 patients ) , membranoproliferative type 1 gn ( [ mpgn ] 58 patients ) , focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis ( [ fsgs ] 13 patients ) , and minimal change nephrotic syndrome ( [ mcns ] 22 patients ) , who were pregnant ( with a total of 290 pregnancies ) after the clinical onset of gn , and in 104 women with reflux nephropathy ( with a total of 254 pregnancies ) . fetal outcome was poor in the presence of uncontrolled hypertension , nephrotic range proteinuria , and/or impaired renal function at conception or early in gestation , whatever the type of renal disease . an accelerated , more rapid than expected , worsening of maternal renal function was observed in five gn patients of whom four ( two iga , two mpgn ) had serum creatinine ( scr ) levels greater than 160 mumol/l ( 1.8 mg/dl ) early in gestation , and in five patients with reflux nephropathy whose scr at conception ranged from 180 to 490 mumol/l ( 2.0 to 5.5 mg/dl ) . 
maternal and fetal complications in pregnant women with systemic lupus erythematosus . recent studies provide important insights into maternal complications in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) established before onset of pregnancy . exacerbations or relapse occur during the course of pregnancy and immediately postpartum in 25 % to 60 % of pregnancies . however , the likelihood of increased clinical activity of sle during pregnancy is influenced by signs of activity present at onset of pregnancy . in the absence of signs of clinical activity for at least 6 months before conception , relapses occur in about one third , whereas in patients with clinical activity at onset of pregnancy , persistent activity or exacerbations occur in approximately two thirds . fetal survival in these patients parallels the incidence of sle activity : 85 % to 95 % in the group with inactive disease at conception and 50 % to 80 % in subjects with active disease at onset of pregnancy . the introduction of an assay for anticardiolipids has led to a new concept for the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease , namely immune-related thrombosis . recent studies suggest that this mechanism may play an important role in clinical episodes in sle , involving late fetal death and maternal arterial and venous thrombosis . 
the increased frequency of cervical dysplasia-neoplasia in women infected with the human immunodeficiency virus is related to the degree of immunosuppression . cytologic and histologic investigations of the uterine cervix and studies of the lymphocyte functions were performed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected and human immunodeficiency virus antibody-negative women to study possible linkages between human papillomavirus-induced dysplasia and degree of human immunodeficiency virus-induced immunosuppression . cytologic smears of the uterine cervix of 111 human immunodeficiency virus-infected women were compared with findings in 76 female intravenous drug users negative for human immunodeficiency virus antibodies and in a group of 526 women of the outpatient population of the hospital . cervical dysplasia-neoplasia ( including five cases of invasive carcinoma ) was seen in 41 % of the human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . in human immunodeficiency virus-negative intravenous drug users dysplasia-neoplasia was seen in 9 % , and in the sample from outpatients in 4 % , including two cases of invasive carcinoma ( p less than 0.01 ) . cytologic features that were attributable to infection with human papillomavirus were observed in human immunodeficiency virus-infected women four times more often than in the sample from the outpatient population ( p less than 0.01 ) . frequency and severity of dysplasia appear to increase with diminishing numbers of cd4 + helper/inducer t lymphocytes and correlated significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) with a loss of blastogenic response to phytohemagglutinin , pokeweed mitogen , and tetanus toxoid . these results suggest an increased risk for the development of dysplasia of the uterine cervix in women with human immunodeficiency virus infection , which is related to the degree of immunosuppression . 
visual recovery in patients with optic neuritis and visual loss to no light perception . we reviewed the records of 151 patients with optic neuritis examined over an eight-year period . of these patients , 12 developed visual acuity of no light perception during the first episode of optic neuritis in the affected eye . eight of the 12 patients recovered visual acuity of 20/40 or better . of these , five patients had visual acuity of 20/20 or better , one had visual acuity of 20/25 , one had visual acuity of 20/30 , and one had visual acuity of 20/40 . four of the 12 patients recovered peripheral visual fields but had dense central scotomas and visual acuity of less than 20/400 . dyschromatopsia persisted after visual recovery in 11 of 12 patients . 
systemic amyloidosis in transgenic mice carrying the human mutant transthyretin ( met30 ) gene . pathologic similarity to human familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy , type i. to analyze the pathologic processes of amyloid deposition in type i familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy ( fap ) , mice were made transgenic by introducing the human mutant transthyretin ( ttr ) gene . in these transgenic mice , amyloid deposition started in the gastrointestinal tract , cardiovascular system , and kidneys 6 months after birth and extended to various other organs and tissues with advancing age . at age 24 months , the pattern of amyloid deposition was similar to that observed in human autopsy cases of fap , except for its absence in the choroid plexus and in the peripheral and autonomic nervous systems . amyloid deposition was shown to be composed of human mutant ttr and , in addition , mouse serum amyloid p component . these results clearly indicate that human variant ttr produced in transgenic mice deposits is a major component of amyloid fibrils in various organs and tissues . thus this animal model is useful for analyzing how amyloid deposition initiates and proceeds in fap . 
human immunodeficiency virus-infected multinucleated histiocytes in oropharyngeal lymphoid tissues from two asymptomatic patients . human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected multinucleated giant cells previously were detected only in the central nervous system of hiv-positive patients . reported here are the first cases in which such infected cells were observed outside the central nervous system , in the oropharyngeal lymphoid tissues . tonsils and adenoids were removed individually from two asymptomatic homosexual men . follicular hyperplasia and many interfollicular multinucleated giant cells most often in contact with or in close proximity of the mucous membrane were seen . the latter were positive for lysozyme , alpha-1 anti-chymotrypsin , okm1 , and s-100 protein in accordance with a histiocytic origin . in situ hybridization with an hiv envelope-specific rna probe demonstrated the presence of viral rna in these multinucleated giant cells . these findings support the role of peripheral histiocytes as a primary virus reservoir early in the disease . they also underline the potential role of oropharyngeal tissue as a primary target in some cases . 
early cellular events in evolving cutaneous delayed hypersensitivity in humans . the delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction ( dhr ) in human skin is prototypic for many inflammatory dermatoses . however the cellular events that precede gross lesion formation are unknown . in this study , inflammatory cell populations and adhesion molecule expression in early phases of dhr elicited by 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene were evaluated . the first discernible event ( at 1 hour ) was mast cell degranulation , followed by induction of endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule ( elam-1 ) expression on dermal postcapillary venules at 2 hours . endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule expression peaked at 24 hours and declined by 48 hours . in contrast , endothelial expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) remained at constitutive levels . intrafollicular t-cell migration occurred independent of icam-1 expression and commenced as early as 4 hours after challenge . mature , activated cd4-positive lymphocytes that expressed a helper-inducer/memory phenotype predominated in early lesions . these results demonstrate in vivo that mast cell degranulation , elam-1 expression , and memory t-cell-follicular interactions are key events in subclinical evolutionary stages of cutaneous dhr . 
lack of benefit of methotrexate in severe , steroid-dependent asthma . a double-blind , placebo-controlled study objective : to determine the effect of low-dose methotrexate in asthmatic patients on steroid use , asthma symptom scores , pulmonary function , airway reactivity , blood cellular components , and immunoglobulin e levels . design : a randomized , double-blind , parallel , placebo-controlled , 13-week clinical trial with follow-up of patients in an open trial of methotrexate at the conclusion of the double-blind study . setting : an asthma care outpatient clinic . patients : from february 1988 to march 1990 , 19 patients with severe , steroid-dependent asthma were enrolled in the study . two of these patients were excluded from analysis . interventions : patients were administered methotrexate or placebo intramuscularly , to assure complete absorption , once weekly during the 13-week study . results : patients on methotrexate and placebo both significantly decreased their steroid dose by 39.6 % ( 95 % ci , 25.1 % to 54.1 % , p = 0.001 ) and 40.2 % ( ci , 17.9 % to 67.4 % , p = 0.003 ) , respectively . pulmonary function did not differ significantly between the methotrexate and placebo groups . in addition , airway reactivity and symptom scores were unchanged on methotrexate or placebo . no significant toxicities were seen during the course of the 13-week blinded study , but one patient on methotrexate and prednisone in the follow-up period developed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia and died . despite continuing methotrexate for up to 1 year , and increasing methotrexate to 30 mg weekly , no significant benefit of methotrexate on asthma control could be shown . conclusion : our study does not support the use of methotrexate in the treatment of severe asthma . 
aids enteropathy : occult enteric infections and duodenal mucosal alterations in chronic diarrhea objective : to investigate occult enteric infections and morphologic changes in the small intestine in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and chronic diarrhea of undefined cause . design : case-control study . setting : referral-based clinic and hospital in tertiary care center . patients : twenty-two patients with advanced hiv infection ( 19 with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [ aids ] , 3 with aids-related complex ) with chronic diarrhea , selected because of previously negative stool evaluations for bacterial or parasitic pathogens , were compared with 13 patients with advanced hiv infection ( 9 with aids , 4 with aids-related complex ) without diarrhea by analysis of endoscopic biopsies using light and electron microscopy , viral culture , and morphometric studies . both groups were convenience samples and had at least 7 months follow-up . measurements and main results : eleven of twenty-two patients with hiv infection and chronic diarrhea but only 1 of 13 patients without diarrhea showed occult enteric pathogens ( that is , undetected by routine studies ) after extensive evaluation of duodenal and colorectal biopsies . mycobacterium avium-intracellulare and microsporidia were the most common occult agents in study patients with diarrhea ( 5 each ) . patients with diarrhea and occult enteric infections had greater weight loss ( mean , 14.3 kg compared with 6.2 kg ; p less than 0.05 ) and shorter survival ( 1 of 11 compared with 8 of 11 still alive ; p less than 0.004 ) than those with diarrhea but no identified pathogens ( defined as " aids enteropathy " ) . duodenal morphometry showed decreased villus-to-crypt ratios because of villus atrophy and crypt elongation in hiv-infected patients both with and without diarrhea compared with normal controls ( p less than 0.001 for each ) . all three groups showed comparable frequencies of epithelial mitoses . conclusions : further endoscopic biopsy evaluation of patients with aids who had unexplained chronic diarrhea showed an occult infectious cause in half of the cases . however , altered villus and crypt architecture in advanced hiv infection was independent of the presence of diarrhea or enteric infection and therefore did not correlate with aids enteropathy . subnormal epithelial proliferation in response to injury could be a factor , but the underlying cause of the architectural changes remains obscure . we suggest that t-cell dysfunction may play a role . 
the acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome [ published erratum appears in ann intern med 1991 jun 1 ; 114 ( 11 ) :993 ] objective : to characterize an unusual mode of presentation of systemic lupus erythematosus : acute and severe pancytopenia related to reactive hemophagocytosis . design : retrospective case series . setting : two general community hospitals in hong kong . patients : six patients presenting with a reactive hemophagocytic syndrome , identified over a 3.5 year period , diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus according to the criteria of the american rheumatism association . results : in addition to severe pancytopenia and marrow hemophagocytosis , other characteristic features were fever , hypocomplementemia , high antinuclear antibody titer , and cutaneous and visceral vasculitis . there was no evidence of an underlying infection . the pancytopenia responded dramatically to treatment with steroids . conclusion : recognition of the acute lupus hemophagocytic syndrome and distinction from an infection-associated hemophagocytic syndrome is important because it responds well to steroid therapy . the evaluation of patients presenting with a hemophagocytic syndrome should include serologic tests for systemic lupus erythematosus . 
clinical outcome of seriously ill surgical patients with intra-abdominal infection depends on both physiologic ( apache ii score ) and immunologic ( dth score ) alterations . the delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) response and the apache ii score in 118 patients with surgical infections were measured prospectively and related to outcome . logistic regression analysis generated the equation : [ formula : see text ] . the risk assessment as calculated by this model was compared to that using the apache ii system alone in a separate group of 354 patients . there was an improvement in the predictive capacity of the apache ii + dth equation compared to apache ii alone , as shown by a better fit of expected and observed deaths , an improved goodman-kruskal g statistic , and a larger area under the receiver operating characteristic curve . it is concluded that the dth response ( a broad marker of immunocompetence ) is an independent prognostic factor in surgical patients and can be used in combination with the apache ii score ( a measure of acute physiology ) to estimate better the outcome of surgical patients . 
outcome of pregnancy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . a prospective study . a prospective study was performed to investigate the outcome and complications of pregnancy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . twenty-nine pregnancies occurred in 22 patients . there were 12 abortions , two spontaneous and 10 induced . fifteen women had 17 live-born neonates . neonatal complications included nine premature deliveries , two cases of intrauterine growth retardation , and one of treacher collins syndrome . obstetric complications included threatened abortion ( two ) , placenta previa ( two ) , and preeclampsia ( three ) . cesarean sections were necessary in five patients . there was no maternal or neonatal mortality . thirteen episodes of systemic lupus erythematosus relapses were detected by incidents of increasing proteinuria ( six ) , arthritis ( four ) , and vasculitic rash ( two ) . there were no statistical differences in changes in hemoglobin level , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , albumin level , antinuclear antibody titer , or c3 or c4 level between the patients who relapsed and those who did not . pregnancy could induce a flare of systemic lupus erythematosus in previously normal patients or patients with previously inactive disease . the overall neonatal and maternal survival was good , even in patients who presented during pregnancy . spontaneous fetal loss was low ( 2/29 [ 6.9 % ] ) ; both cases occurred in mothers with inactive lupus . 
a severe multisystem reaction to sulindac . we present a case of a severe reaction to sulindac . a 30-year-old woman with quiescent systemic lupus erythematosus received sulindac for nonspecific migrating chest pain . an initial course of therapy produced an unrecognized sensitization to the drug with a febrile illness and rash . readministration of the drug caused an anaphylactoid reaction as well as evidence of cardiovascular , hepatic , pulmonary , and hematologic dysfunction . the patient 's illness had evidence of types i , ii , and iii hypersensitivity reactions . 
occlusive vasculopathy in systemic lupus erythematosus . association with anticardiolipin antibody patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and with antiphospholipid antibody are subject to sudden occlusion of multiple blood vessels . we describe two patients with systemic lupus erythematosus with acute , catastrophic , widespread non-inflammatory visceral vascular occlusions associated with high-titer antiphospholipid antibody . the histopathologic features clearly distinguished these patients from classic systemic lupus erythematosus vasculitis . we further suggest that , based on a probable pathogenesis related to the presence of antiphospholipid antibody , and based on the non-inflammatory vascular occlusion , steroids and other immunosuppressive medications are of limited value . plasmapheresis along with anticoagulant therapy should be considered . 
ring neutrophils in plasma cell dyscrasia . sporadic reports in the medical literature concern the significant incidence of neutrophils with ring-shaped nuclei in myeloproliferative disorders . we report our first encounter with ring neutrophils in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders . a significant incidence of ring neutrophils was observed in all of 20 patients with multiple myeloma and in nine of 10 patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance . the mean percent of ring neutrophils was 9.5 % ( range , 1.0 % to 28.0 % ) in patients with multiple myeloma , which was significantly greater than in those with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance or in healthy controls . in multiple myeloma , the incidence of ring neutrophils in the pretreatment phase was greater than that in the remission phase . a great deal of overlap was noted between multiple myeloma in the remission phase and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance . the incidence of ring neutrophils seemed to vary according to disease stage . ring neutrophils may reflect abnormal granulopoiesis in plasma cell dyscrasias . 
large-cell anaplastic ( ki-1-positive ) lymphoma complicated by disseminated intravascular coagulation . large-cell anaplastic lymphoma ( ki-1-positive lymphoma ) was first described as a type of large-cell lymphoma that has morphologic , enzymatic , and immunologic similarities to malignant histiocytosis . to date , an association between ki-1-positive lymphoma and disseminated intravascular coagulation has not been described , but cases of malignant histiocytosis with disseminated intravascular coagulation have been reported . we report a case of anaplastic , ki-1-positive , large-cell lymphoma complicated by clinical and laboratory evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation with histologic evidence of vascular invasion and fibrin thrombi . 
humoral immunity in surgical patients with and without trauma . we measured antitetanus toxoid antibody responses after blunt ( n = 24 ) and penetrating ( n = 7 ) trauma and compared them with responses in patients without trauma ( n = 55 ) . patients were defined as anergic or reactive on the basis of delayed type hypersensitivity response . the response to tetanus toxoid vaccination on admission of patients surviving trauma for over 2 weeks was defined as the ratio of day 14 to day 0 serum igg antitetanus toxoid levels . antitetanus toxoid responses were normal after both blunt and penetrating trauma . when stratified according to delayed type hypersensitivity responses , patients with trauma showed better antibody responses than patients without trauma . major infection rates were similar between trauma groups ( three of 24 with blunt trauma vs two of seven with penetrating trauma ) and independent of delayed type hypersensitivity ( two of 20 reactive patients vs three of 11 anergic patients ) , in contrast to patients without trauma ( one of 19 reactive patients vs 15 of 36 anergic patients ) . we conclude that decreased delayed type hypersensitivity after moderate trauma is temporary , and that this transient immunodeficiency is not as strongly associated with reduced antibody responses and increased risk of infection as anergy in surgical patients without trauma . 
treatment of multiple sclerosis with hyperbaric oxygen . results of a national registry . three hundred twelve patients were entered into a long-term study of effects of hyperbaric oxygen on multiple sclerosis . the protocol called for an initial 20 treatments in either the monoplace or multiplace chamber on a daily basis followed by monthly booster treatments for 2 years . one hundred seventy neurologists and 22 institutions provided data for this study . there was no control group , but the study was based on schumacher 's postulation that a scientifically valid study to test the efficacy of a new therapy was possible by choosing patients who were definitively diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and following them up for 2 years after the imposed treatment . if the overwhelming majority of the subjects failed to get worse over the 2-year observation period , the efficacy of the treatment would be manifest . the expanded kurtzke disability status scale ( edss ) was used to assess the severity of the disease state . the dropout rate was high with only 76 % ( 237 of 312 patients ) finishing the initial 20 treatments . twenty-two percent ( 69 of 312 ) finished 1 year of booster therapy , and 9 % ( 28 of 312 ) completed 2 years of monthly boosters . the mean deterioration on the kurtzke edss score was 0.93 or almost a full step from the beginning of treatment until the last evaluation . there was no difference in outcome between those who had the shortest and longest periods of time between onset of symptoms and hyperbaric oxygen treatment . treatment pressure made no difference in outcome . changes in the kurtzke edss score bore no relationship to the use of booster treatment . patients who were reasonably well off at the onset of treatment with initial kurtzke edss scores of 1 or 2 ( n = 21 ) deteriorated by an average of 1.7 kurtzke points . those patients whose initial kurtzke edss scores were greater than 2 ( n = 164 ) deteriorated on an average of 0.82 points . of interest was that 19.5 % ( 39 of 200 ) of the patients reported a temporary improvement in bladder function , but improvement was maintained in only 11 patients ( 5.5 % ) at 2-year follow-up . fifteen patients ( 7.5 % ) indicated long-term worsening . there was no significant change in the working status of the patients following hyperbaric oxygen treatment . although this study treated the patients in accordance with protocols reported to produce a benefit in multiple sclerosis , we were unable to substantiate any useful long-term effect of hyperbaric oxygen therapy . 
alterations in brain phosphate metabolite concentrations in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection . human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected individuals often demonstrate neuropsychiatric impairment ; however , it is unclear how brain metabolism may be altered in such patients . we used in vivo phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy to noninvasively assess brain energy and phospholipid metabolism by measuring brain concentrations of adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) , phosphocreatine ( pcr ) , and inorganic phosphate ( pi ) , as well as phospholipid compounds and intracellular ph. in study 1 , 17 hiv-seropositive men with varying degrees of neuropsychiatric impairment and six control subjects were studied . localized spectra were obtained from a heterogeneous 5 x 5 x 5-cm volume of interest ( voi ) . patients with hiv infection had a significantly lower atp/pi ratio and a trend for a lower pcr/pi ratio than did the control group . in addition , the atp/pi and pcr/pi ratios were both significantly negatively correlated with overall severity of neuropsychiatric impairment . in study 2 , three hiv-seropositive men with neuropsychiatric impairment were compared with 11 hiv-seronegative men . localized phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectra were obtained from two relatively homogeneous vois : ( 1 ) a predominantly white matter voi , and ( 2 ) a predominantly subcortical gray matter voi . the three hiv-infected patients demonstrated significantly decreased atp and pcr concentrations in the white matter voi . these results suggest that hiv infection of the brain may impair brain cellular oxidative metabolism and that the degree of metabolic compromise may be related to the severity of neuropsychiatric impairment . 
detection of herpesvirus dna in vitreous and aqueous specimens by the polymerase chain reaction . members of the herpesvirus family , cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) , epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) , and herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) , have been recognized as causal agents of chorioretinal inflammatory diseases . we investigated the use of the polymerase chain reaction for the detection of cmv , hsv , and ebv genomes in aqueous , subretinal fluid , and vitreous specimens in patients with clinically diagnosed cmv retinitis . cytomegalovirus but not hsv or ebv genomic sequences were detected in all of these clinical specimens . we also investigated 18 normal aqueous and eight normal vitreous specimens obtained from patients undergoing cataract or vitrectomy surgery . cytomegalovirus , hsv , and ebv dna were not detected in any of the normal aqueous specimens . there was one weakly positive cmv normal vitreous , but none was hsv or ebv positive by the polymerase chain reaction . these results indicate that the polymerase chain reaction may be useful as a rapid and sensitive diagnostic technique to aid in the confirmation of clinical observations . 
aids incubation in 1891 hiv seroconverters from different exposure groups . international registry of seroconverters [ published erratum appears in aids 1991 feb ; 5 ( 2 ) :245 ] this study compares aids incubation in different geographic areas , calendar time of infection , exposure group and age at exposure . investigators from north america , europe and australia contributed data from 1891 people for whom dates of hiv seroconversion were known . we excluded subjects not enrolled in prospective studies at entry and those with more than 25 months between last negative and first positive sera ; we also censored subjects at the time last seen and excluded all follow-up after 1987 in order to minimize the impact of newly developed prophylactic therapies . the final analysis cohort contained 1171 subjects . using actuarial methods , no differences in incubation times were found among homosexual men infected in different continents or in different years ( prior to and after 1 january 1985 ) . among hemophilic people , children developed aids more slowly than adults ( p = 0.02 ) , and hemophilic adults developed aids more slowly than homosexual men ( p less than 0.05 ) , mainly because homosexual men had an added risk of kaposi 's sarcoma . progression time to aids was significantly faster in older hemophilic men , but not in older homosexual men . these data illustrate that aids incubation may differ in different exposure groups , probably because of different exposures to potential opportunistic pathogens . 
sexual behavior before aids : the hepatitis b studies of homosexual and bisexual men . data on sexual practices , collected during studies of hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection in 1978 and 1979 , were analyzed for 4910 homosexual and bisexual men from chicago , denver , los angeles , san francisco , and st louis . data on sexual practices in 1978 showed that white participants had larger numbers of non-steady male sexual partners and engaged in oral-genital activities more frequently but were equally likely to engage in anal intercourse as black and hispanic participants . san francisco participants had more non-steady sex partners and were more likely to engage in receptive anal intercourse with non-steady partners than participants from all other sites . analysis of data on 606 hbv-antibody-negative men interviewed on three occasions in 1978 and 1979 showed no changes in risk indices for insertive and receptive anal intercourse between these years , except in san francisco where significant declines occurred in insertive anal intercourse and receptive anal intercourse without ejacultion in a small , highly select group of participants . 
street-recruited intravenous drug users and sexual risk reduction in new york city . previous studies have reported that intravenous drug users ( ivdus ) have made considerable drug-use risk reduction , but less sexual risk reduction . this paper presents findings about sexual risk reduction by street-recruited ivdus in new york city , and examines the predictors of sexual risk reduction . sixty-one per cent of these street-recruited ivdus have initiated deliberate sexual risk reduction in order to avoid aids . for the total sample ( n = 568 ) , as well as for the male ivdus , specific health belief and social influence factors were significant predictors of sexual risk reduction . for female ivdus , drug-risk reduction , having a friend or acquaintance who practices sexual risk reduction , and wanting to have a ( nother ) child were significant predictors of sexual risk reduction . these findings suggest the importance of social support and community organization to promote risk reduction . 
prevalence of hiv-1 infection in the kagera region of tanzania : a population-based study . a population-based survey was carried out in the kagera region of the united republic of tanzania in 1987 to determine the magnitude of hiv-1 infection and to study associated risk factors . the region was divided into one urban and three rural zones . a multistage cluster sampling technique was adopted . antibodies to hiv-1 were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and confirmed by western blot analysis . a total of 2,475 adults ( aged 15-54 years ) and 1,961 children ( aged 0-14 years ) was studied . the overall prevalence of hiv-1 infection among adults was 9.6 % , with a higher prevalence in the urban zone ( 24.2 % ) than in the three rural zones ( 10.0 , 4.5 and 0.4 % , respectively ) . the corresponding figures for children were 1.3 % overall : 3.9 % in the urban area and for the rural areas 1.2 , 0.8 and 0.0 % , respectively . the age-specific seroprevalence for adults was highest in the age group 25-34 years . the age-standardized sex-specific prevalence was higher among women than men in the urban zone , while it was the same in the rural zones . change of sexual partners among adults was associated with an increased risk of hiv-1 seropositivity . travelling outside the region but within the country was also found to be associated with increased risk of hiv-1 infection but only in the rural population . 
infection with hiv as a risk factor for adverse obstetrical outcome . we carried out a case-control study to investigate the role of sexually transmitted diseases ( stds ) , including infection with hiv , as risk factors for adverse outcome of pregnancy . overall , 1507 women were enrolled within 24 h of delivery . cases ( n = 796 ) were mothers of low-birthweight infants ( less than 2500 g ) or of stillborns . low-birthweight infants were divided into preterms ( n = 373 ) and neonates small for gestational age ( n = 234 ) . stillborns were separated into intrauterine fetal deaths ( n = 120 ) , and intrapartum fetal deaths ( n = 69 ) . controls were selected from mothers delivering a live baby of greater than or equal to 2500 g ( n = 711 ) . the maternal hiv seroprevalence in the control group was 3.1 % . prematurity was associated with maternal hiv antibody [ 8.6 % seropositive ; adjusted odds ratio ( or ) 2.1 ; 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) 1.1-4 .0 ] , as was being born small for gestational age ( 7.7 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.3 ; 95 % ci 1.2-4 .2 ) . in mothers who delivered a stillborn baby , both intrauterine fetal death ( 11.7 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.7 ; 95 % ci 1.3-5 .5 ) and intrapartum fetal death ( 11.6 % seropositive ; adjusted or 2.9 ; 95 % ci 1.3-6 .5 ) were independently associated with hiv seropositivity in the mother . maternal syphilis was confirmed as an important risk factor for intrauterine fetal death ( 14.3 % positive ; adjusted or 4.8 ; 95 % ci 2.4-9 .5 ) . no significant association was found between other stds , including gonococcal and chlamydial infection , and adverse obstetrical outcome . these results suggest an association between maternal hiv infection and adverse obstetrical outcome , defined as low birthweight and stillbirth . 
the evolutionary dynamics of hiv-1 quasispecies and the development of immunodeficiency disease . this paper presents a theory to explain the development of immunodeficiency disease after a long and variable incubation period of infection with hiv-1 . two assumptions are central to the theory : ( 1 ) mutation via reverse transcription during viral replication can generate viral strains resistant to neutralization by antibodies specific to earlier mutants in a particular host ; ( 2 ) the virus can kill the cd4-positive lymphocytes that play a role in mounting an immunological attack directed at the virus . the theory is examined via the development of a mathematical model which reveals that an increasing number of antigenically distinct viral strains may overwhelm the immune system of the host . as the viral diversity increases beyond a certain level the immune system is unable to suppress the population growth of all the strains simultaneously . the intuitive explanation of this pattern of model behaviour lies in the assumption that each virus can kill cd4-positive lymphocytes that are specific to any of the viral strains , but each lymphocyte only directs immunological attack against a single viral strain . 
a cohort study of 89 hiv-1-infected adult patients contaminated by blood products : bordeaux 1981-1989 . groupe d'epidemiologie clinique du sida en aquitaine ( gecsa ) [ published erratum appears in aids 1991 mar ; 5 ( 3 ) :354 ] a hospital-based surveillance of hiv infection was implemented in the bordeaux regional university hospital ( france ) . this reporting system , initiated by the groupe d'epidemiologie clinique du sida en aquitaine , identified and followed-up 89 adult patients with transfusion-associated hiv-1 infection ( 7.2 % of all reported cases ) . contamination occurred between august 1981 and june 1985 and diagnosis was made between 1985 and 1989 . by 30 june 1990 , 43 patients ( 48.3 % ) had full-blown aids , and 28 of them had died . the mean follow-up period was 66 months ( s.d. 16 months ) . the mean incubation period , i.e. the time interval between the contaminating transfusion and the development of full-blown aids , was 62 months [ median 73 months ; 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) 66-82 months ] . five years after contamination , the cumulative probability of reaching the aids stage was 34.2 % ( 95 % ci 20.3-49 .3 % ) , and the probability of survival was 81.7 % ( 95 % ci 72.5-90 .0 % ) . from this surveillance system we estimate that in south-western france at the end of 1989 the cumulative incidence of transfusion-associated hiv-1 infection was at least 126 cases ( 45.6 per million inhabitants ) . although we anticipate an increase in transfusion-associated aids cases over the next 5 years , there have been no reports of contamination after 1 august 1985 , when systematic screening of hiv antibodies was implemented in french blood banks . this confirms the efficacy of screening in countries like france where the risk of contamination through blood products is now minimal . 
trends in survival of danish aids patients from 1981 to 1989 . length of survival was analysed in relation to year of diagnosis , aids-indicative disease , age , risk behaviour , zidovudine therapy , and cd4 cell count and serum immunoglobulin ( ig ) levels at the time of diagnosis in a group of 231 consecutive adult danish aids patients reported before 1 january 1988 . the cumulative survival rate was 53 % ( 95 % confidence interval 47-59 % ) at 1 year , 29 % ( 22-36 % ) at 2 years and 18 % ( 10-26 % ) at 3 years . length of survival increased significantly ( p less than 0.001 ) over time for patients who were initially diagnosed with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) , 17 % ( 3-31 % ) at 2 years prior to 1986 , 32 % ( 16-49 % ) in 1986 and 52 % ( 34-69 % ) in 1987 , whereas survival remained stable for patients with other aids-indicative diseases . survival was similar for patients who were diagnosed with kaposi 's sarcoma alone and pcp alone . independent predictors of a shortened survival were a cd4 cell count less than 200 x 10 ( 6 ) / l , a serum iga level greater than 4 g/l , and an initial diagnosis with opportunistic infections other than pcp . in addition , the multivariate analysis suggested an improved survival in recent years for patients diagnosed with pcp , independent of other factors examined . we conclude that length of survival in aids patients is highly variable . determinants of progression include cd4 cell count , serum iga level , and presenting disease . survival has increased markedly for patients with pcp and median survival now exceeds 24 months . 
surveillance of aids in the european community : recent trends and predictions to 1991 . statistical modelling is applied to routine aids surveillance data to assess recent trends and to provide a range of short-term predictions . several alternative functions have been fitted to half-yearly incidence data reported by the countries of the european community by 31 december 1989 and adjusted for reporting delays . among homosexual/bisexual men , recent trends in aids incidence are more nearly linear than exponential . higher though less than exponential rates of growth are observed among intravenous drug users and among those presumed infected by heterosexual contact . extrapolations to the end of 1991 using each of five functions provide a range of forecasts . projections of total cumulated cases to the end of 1991 lie in the range 60,000-78 ,000 , with 24,000-30 ,000 projected cases among homosexual/bisexual men , 23,000-33 ,000 among intravenous drug users , and 6000-8000 in the heterosexual transmission group . with the possible exception of the latter group , the lower parts of these ranges appear more probable . 
detection of hiv-1 in human lung macrophages using the polymerase chain reaction . we have used the polymerase chain reaction to investigate hiv-1 infection of lung macrophages from 44 aids patients with pneumonia . proviral hiv-1 dna was detected in the lung macrophages of 47 % ( 21 of 44 ) of patients tested ; 32 % ( seven of 21 ) of the patients had pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) , and 56 % ( 11 of 21 ) had pneumonia caused by other aetiological agents . matched peripheral blood specimens were obtained from 22 patients in this study , and hiv-1-specific dna was detected in 100 % ( 22 out of 22 ) of non-adherent white cell preparations tested . hiv was detected in blood monocytes of 11 out of 22 patients ( 50 % ) , and a virus signal was also found in the lung macrophages of eight of these patients . our results indicate that pcp does not predispose lung macrophages to hiv-1 , nor does hiv-1 infection of lung macrophages increase the probability of contracting pcp . 
low-dose dapsone prophylaxis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in aids and aids-related complex . the efficacy , toxicity and cost of orally administered dapsone ( 50-100 mg/day ) for prophylaxis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) were evaluated in 30 patients with aids or aids-related complex ( arc ) . six patients received primary and 24 secondary prophylaxis . ten patients received a maximum dose of 100 mg/day and 20 a maximum of 50 mg/day for a median duration of 19 weeks ; 22 of the 30 patients continue to receive prophylaxis as of may 1989 . four patients have died , none of pneumocystis infection . one patient with aids suffered a mild relapse while receiving 50 mg/day . hematologic toxicity was mild and could not be definitively attributed to dapsone therapy ; rash due to dapsone was documented in two patients . a review of 33 patients at our institution with a history of pcp who received no prophylaxis demonstrated seven relapses , three of which were fatal . cost analysis revealed a significant advantage for oral dapsone over aerosolized pentamidine . 
hiv infection is not associated with reiter 's syndrome : data from the johns hopkins multicenter aids cohort study . reiter 's syndrome has been reported to occur in up to 10 % of patients with hiv infection . however , no properly controlled epidemiological studies have been conducted to determine whether hiv infection is an independent risk factor or whether the immunodeficiency induced by hiv infection is permissive for infection with other arthritogenic organisms . the prevalence and incidence of reiter 's syndrome were determined in 1133 homosexual/bisexual men enrolled in the johns hopkins multicenter aids cohort study . there was no difference in the prevalence of reiter 's syndrome at entry into the study in 1984 between 357 hiv-positive and 776 hiv-negative men : five per 1000 in both groups . during 5 years ' follow-up , one case of reiter 's syndrome developed among each group of hiv-positive and hiv-negative men . these data fail to support a direct etiological role for hiv infection in the development of reiter 's syndrome . 
cyclosporin a in atopic dermatitis : therapeutic response is dissociated from effects on allergic reactions . fourteen patients with severe chronic atopic dermatitis were treated with cyclosporin a ( cya , sandimmun ; 5 mg/kg/day ) for 7-16 weeks . all showed a marked clinical improvement and half could omit topical corticosteroid treatment during therapy . adverse effects were minor , but two patients relapsed despite continued treatment . in the others , the disease recurred soon after stopping cya . serum ige levels and prick-test responses were unchanged by cya . immediate and late-phase cutaneous responses to intradermal house dust mite antigen ( hdm ) were significantly increased during treatment ; but a delayed response , present at 24 and 48 h , was unaffected . four of six patients challenged with hdm patch tests to tape-stripped skin during treatment showed eczematous reactions at 48 h. thus , cyclosporin a has a powerful therapeutic effect in atopic dermatitis but does not reduce allergic responses to inhalant antigens . 
epidermodysplasia verruciformis-associated papillomavirus infection complicating human immunodeficiency virus disease . three males infected with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) were noted to have extensive flat warts of the face and/or body . in two there were also pityriasis versicolor-like lesions . biopsies showed foamy , basophilic , distended cytoplasm in granular layer keratinocytes , characteristic of the human papillomavirus types seen in epidermodysplasia verruciformis . dna hybridization techniques demonstrated the presence of hpv-type 8 in one patient and hpv 5 and 8 in another . patients with immune suppression due to hiv infection may demonstrate the clinical features of epidermodysplasia verruciformis with the same potentially oncogenic hpv types . 
recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in combination with standard induction chemotherapy in de novo acute myeloid leukemia . based on in vitro data suggesting that recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( rhgm-csf ) is capable of stimulating acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) blast cells to become more sensitive to cell-cycle-specific drugs we conducted a phase i/ii study in de novo aml patients ( pts ) . rhgm-csf ( 250 micrograms/m2/d , continuous intravenous infusion ) was administered in 18 pts suffering from de novo aml in combination with standard induction chemotherapy ( 3 + 7 = daunorubicin 45 mg/m2 days 1 through 3 , cytosine-arabinoside [ ara-c ] 200 mg/m2 continuous infusion days 1 through 7 ) . gm-csf was started 48 or 24 hours before chemotherapy ( prephase ) in 14 pts . in four pts with high white blood cell counts ( wbc ) rhgm-csf was started after chemotherapy-induced cell reduction ( wbc less than 30,000 / mm3 ) . during prephase gm-csf induced an increase in neutrophil and blast cell counts in 13 of 14 and 10 of 14 pts , respectively . in vivo recruitment of leukemic cells into drug-sensitive phases of the cell cycle could be demonstrated by multiparameter cell-cycle analyses in peripheral blood ( n = 7 ) and bone marrow ( n = 4 ) specimens . on day 14 , complete aplasia was evident in 17 of 18 pts . gm-csf was administered until recovery from chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression ( absolute neutrophil counts , [ anc ] greater than 500/mm3 ) . fifteen pts ( 83 % ) achieved complete remission , 12 did so with one cycle . a shorter duration of neutropenia was evident in these pts compared with historical controls ( n = 39 ) , ( anc greater than 500/mm3 , day 22.5 + / - 3.4 v 25.2 + / - 3.7 , p less than .05 ) . three pts achieved complete remission after a second cycle ( same combination of rhgm-csf and 3 + 7 ) . two pts died during bone marrow aplasia because of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis . clinical side effects possibly related to gm-csf , mainly fever , diarrhea , and weight gain were mild and tolerable ( world health organization toxicity grade less than or equal to 2 ) . together , rhgm-csf recruits kinetically quiescient aml cells in vivo to enter drug-sensitive phases of the cell cycle and promotes early myeloid recovery from aplasia after exposure to standard induction chemotherapy for aml . 
expression of the c-fgr and hck protein-tyrosine kinases in acute myeloid leukemic blasts is associated with early commitment and differentiation events in the monocytic and granulocytic lineages . two members of the src proto-oncogene family of intracellular tyrosine kinases , c-fgr and hck , are selectively expressed in differentiated myeloid cells . to study the expression of these genes in acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) and to determine the specific myeloid lineages and stages of myeloid differentiation at which the expression of these genes is acquired , we used a series of 79 cases of de novo aml as a differentiation model . the levels of c-fgr , hck , and c-fms ( encoding the colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor ) mrna transcripts were correlated with the presence of specific cell surface antigens and the morphologic and cytochemical features in these aml blasts . relatively undifferentiated leukemic myeloblasts with an hla-dr , cd34 , cd33 , cd13 + / - cell surface immunophenotype ( french-american-british [ fab ] m1 or m2 ) were characterized by a lack of c-fms and c-fgr expression , while low levels of c-fms and c-fgr could be detected in undifferentiated myeloblasts ( fab m1 or m2 ) , which also expressed cd14 at low antigen density . the hck transcripts were either undetectable in these cells or were expressed at low levels . in contrast , only hck mrna transcripts could be identified in blasts with progranulocytic morphology ( fab m3 ) , while c-fms , c-fgr , and hck were all expressed at high levels in blasts with differentiated myelomonocytic or monocytic features ( fab m4 and m5 ) . no c-fms , c-fgr , or hck transcripts were evident in leukemic cells of the erythroid lineage ( fab m6 ) . when undifferentiated leukemic myeloblasts ( hla-dr , cd34 , and cd33 ) were induced to differentiate in vitro to cells with monocytic characteristics , the expression of c-fms , c-fgr , and the cd14 cell surface antigen were induced to high levels , accompanied by the acquisition of hck and cd13 expression . in contrast , when hla-dr , cd34 , and cd33 blasts were induced to differentiate in vitro to cells with granulocytic characteristics , only hck and cd13 expression were induced . our data suggest that the acquisition of c-fgr and/or hck expression is associated with early commitment and differentiation events in distinct myeloid lineages . assessment of the expression of these kinases may provide a molecular tool to assign lineage in aml in conjunction with morphology , cytochemistry , and cell surface antigen expression . 
macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( csf-1 ) gene expression in human t-lymphocyte clones . macrophage colony stimulating factor ( csf-1 ) is one of several cytokines that control the differentiation , survival , and proliferation of monocytes and macrophages . a set of 11 human t-cell clones , chosen for their phenotypic diversity , were tested for their ability to express csf-1 mrna . after 5 hours of stimulation with phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) + calcium ionophore ( cal ) , all t-cell clones expressed a major 4-kb transcript , a less abundant 2-kb transcript , and several other minor species . this pattern of expression is typical for csf-1 mrnas . furthermore , of the two alloreactive t-cell clones analyzed , only one showed a definitive message for csf-1 on specific antigenic stimulation , but with delayed kinetics and less efficiency . both conditions of stimulation induced the release of csf-1 protein by t cells in the culture medium . together , these findings demonstrate for the first time that normal t cells are able to produce csf-1 , previous reports being limited to two cases of tumoral cells of the t-cell lineage . 
loss of interferon antibodies during prolonged continuous interferon-alpha 2a therapy in hairy cell leukemia . although highly active in hairy cell leukemia ( hcl ) , interferons ( ifn ) are not curative in this disease ; current data indicate that prolonged ifn therapy will be necessary to control disease in the majority of patients . we previously observed acquired ifn resistance in association with neutralizing ifn-alpha 2a antibodies in small numbers of patients with hcl . this finding suggests that the requisite long-term therapy may be compromised if there is an increasing incidence over time of neutralizing antibodies . we performed a follow-up study of ifn antibodies in our patients receiving continuous ifn therapy . all 16 patients who were previously antibody negative remained so . surprisingly , all nine patients who previously had non-neutralizing ifn antibodies became antibody negative after a median of 14.5 months . moreover , 3 of 10 patients who had neutralizing antibodies became antibody negative and five had only non-neutralizing antibodies a median of 10 months from the time neutralizing antibody had first been detected . only two patients had persisting neutralizing antibodies . inhibition of neopterin synthesis , inhibition of generation of 2 ' , 5 ' oligoadenylate synthetase activity , and inability to detect ifn in serum after subcutaneous injection of ifn-alpha 2a was observed only in the one patient tested with neutralizing ifn antibodies confirming that these antibodies have functional significance in vivo . we conclude that , although neutralizing ifn antibodies inhibit the effectiveness of ifn in vivo , these antibodies are produced only transiently during long-term therapy . the long-term effectiveness of this drug will not likely be affected in most patients by neutralizing antibody . 
ki-b5 : a monoclonal antibody unrelated to cd45 recognizes normal and neoplastic human b cells in routine paraffin sections . in the search for immunoreagents appropriate for the histopathologic diagnosis of malignant b-cell lymphomas in routinely processed paraffin sections , a new monoclonal antibody , ki-b5 , was generated using a high-grade b-cell lymphoma as the immunogene . ki-b5 is a mouse igg1/kappa that recognizes five protein fractions of about 84 , 82 , 55 , 48 , and 27 kd after biosynthetic radiolabeling and immunoprecipitation . protein fractions with the molecular weights of approximately 84 and 82 kd were expressed on the cell surface and show that ki-b5 is probably unrelated to cd45 . it was possible through electron microscopy to visualize the membrane-bound portion of ki-b5 . extensive immunohistologic studies on normal human tissue and various neoplasias demonstrated the high specificity of ki-b5 to normal human b cells and a minor subgroup of plasma cells . except for ml-2 , which is a myelomonocytic human cell line , ki-b5 exclusively recognized the b-cell lineage , including eb-3 , ball-1 , and nalm-1 . all carcinomas , sarcomas , and malignant melanomas tested with ki-b5 were negative . although normal granulocytes and monocytes were constantly negative , three of eight myelomonocytic leukemias coreacted with this antibody . eight of the 57 t-cell lymphomas studied were positive to ki-b5 . five were classified as lymphoblastic , two represented t8-cll , and one was classified as immunoblastic t-cell lymphoma . only 3 of 126 cases of b-cell lymphoma , including rare types not considered in the current classifications , were negative to ki-b5 . plasmacytomas were also negative , except for one case . irrespective of the cases of lymphoblastic lymphoma and plasmacytoma , ki-b5 represents a new monoclonal antibody appropriate for the diagnosis and immunophenotyping of malignant lymphomas in routinely processed paraffin sections . 
effect of tamoxifen on cell lines displaying the multidrug-resistant phenotype . we examined the effect of tamoxifen ( tmx ) , verapamil , and daunorubicin ( dnr ) in two cell lines that displayed the multidrug-resistant ( mdr ) phenotype and used laser flow cytometry to quantitate intracellular dnr content . in the vinblastine-resistant human lymphoblastic lymphoma cell line cem-vbl , simultaneous incubation of dnr with tmx 10 mumol/l or tmx 50 mumol/l increased intracellular dnr fluorescence in a dose-dependent manner and demonstrated an uptake pattern similar to that seen with dnr and verapamil . similar results were obtained in the vincristine-resistant human myeloid leukemia cell line hl-60 / rv + . cellular retention of dnr was also measured in both cell lines and results suggested that continuous exposure of the cells to tmx resulted in higher intracellular dnr content compared with cells resuspended in fresh medium . no effect of tmx or verapamil was observed in the drug-sensitive parent cell lines cem or hl-60 . clonogenic experiments were then performed to determine whether tmx was itself inhibitory to cell growth or whether tmx potentiated dnr cytotoxicity . tmx 10 mumol/l did not significantly inhibit either cem-vbl or hl-60 / rv + cells after a 3-hour exposure followed by culture in methylcellulose . tmx 50 mumol/l was significantly more inhibitory in both cell lines . however , cells that had been incubated with dnr and tmx 10 mumol/l demonstrated a marked increment in growth inhibition compared with cells that had been incubated with dnr alone or tmx 10 mumol/l alone . based on the data presented here , we suggest that clinical testing of tmx and dnr be pursued in the setting where mdr may play a role . 
an epitope on the transferrin receptor preferentially exposed during tumor progression in human lymphoma is close to the ligand binding site . we have previously reported an anti-transferrin receptor antibody , trump , which was originally selected for its ability to discriminate low - and high-grade lymphomas . this feature was distinct from the other anti-transferrin receptor antibodies such as okt9 . in the present study , further immunochemical analysis was performed to define the nature of the antigenic site recognized by the trump antibody . trump was found to block the binding of transferrin both to solubilized and to surface transferrin receptors ; conversely , transferrin could block the binding of trump only to surface transferrin receptors . therefore , the epitope recognized by trump is near but not identical to the transferrin binding site . stimulation of peripheral blood lymphocytes with phytohemagglutinin induced both the okt9 epitope and the trump epitope , but 12-phorbol 13 myristate acetate induced only the okt9 epitope . growth of some cell lines was inhibited by trump but not by okt9 . no structural difference was found between transferrin receptor molecules reactive with trump and those reactive with okt9 . in support of these results , trump was able to immunoprecipitate transferrin receptor molecules solubilized from low-grade follicular lymphoma cells even though it did not bind to the receptors exposed on the surface of these cells . these findings imply that low-grade lymphoma cells differ from high-grade lymphoma cells not in the structures of their transferrin receptors but in their exposure of the molecule on the cell surface . 
inactivation of the retinoblastoma gene in human lymphoid neoplasms . the absence of wild type retinoblastoma ( rb ) gene expression in a wide variety of human solid tumors suggests an etiologic role for this tumor suppressor gene in human cancer . we have evaluated the involvement of rb gene inactivation in the pathogenesis and progression of human lymphoma and leukemia . we examined the genomic configuration and transcription of the rb gene in cultured cell lines and primary cases of t - and b-cell lymphomas and leukemias . by southern analysis , abnormalities of the rb locus were identified in 1 of 5 t-cell acute lymphoblastic lymphoma ( t-all ) cell lines , 1 of 26 primary cases of t-all , 1 of 40 primary cases of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma/well-differentiated lymphoma ( cll/wdl ) , and 1 of 15 primary cases of intermediately differentiated lymphoma ( idl ) . by northern analysis , markedly reduced or abnormal expression of the rb gene was identified in 2 of 5 t-all cell lines , 1 of 7 primary cases of t-all , 1 of 5 primary cases of cll/wdl , and 1 of 6 primary cases of idl . these findings show that rb gene inactivation can be associated with a broad range of lymphoid neoplasms and that loss of the tumor suppressor function of rb may influence the pathogenesis and progression of lymphoma/leukemia . 
circulating erythropoietin levels after bone marrow transplantation : inappropriate response to anemia in allogeneic transplants . we studied 24 recipients of autologous bone marrow transplantation ( abmt ) or allogeneic bmt ( bmt ) to determine whether impaired erythropoietin ( epo ) response to anemia could delay full erythropoietic recovery . observed epo levels were compared with predicted levels based on the relationship between epo and hematocrit in 125 control subjects . circulating epo levels were normal during conditioning and the early posttransplant period . between days 21 and 180 , epo levels remained normal in abmt patients but were inappropriately low for the degree of anemia in bmt patients . median time to full erythropoietic engraftment was longer in bmt than in abmt recipients . circulating epo returned to appropriate levels after day 180 , except in patients with active cytomegalovirus infection . we conclude that impaired epo response to anemia can contribute to delayed erythropoietic recovery after allogenic bmt . renal toxicity of ciclosporin , interaction between host and donor marrow , and cytomegalovirus infection might play a role . this study could support the use of recombinant human epo to accelerate erythropoietic engraftment after bmt . 
rapid simultaneous detection of multiple retroviral dna sequences using the polymerase chain reaction and capillary dna chromatography . the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) technique is a powerful new tool for amplifying target dna , thus allowing for sensitive detection of specific nucleic acid sequences . one important potential use of pcr involves screening the donated blood supply for transfusion-transmitted viruses . realization of this goal has been limited by ( 1 ) the requirement for multiple , discrete pcr reactions to amplify and detect target sequences of more than one virus , and ( 2 ) the lack of a rapid , nonhazardous means for specific detection of one or more pcr-amplified products . we report the simultaneous amplification of three distinct target sequences without discernable loss in sensitivity toward any single target sequence . we also demonstrate very rapid separation and detection of pcr-amplified viral dna through the use of automated capillary dna chromatography . amplified dna peaks were initially identified by scanning the capillary effluent at ultraviolet wavelengths , while discrimination of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and human t-cell leukemic virus type i pcr-amplified dna was accomplished through use of virus-specific , fluorescently labeled primers and probes . these results indicate progress toward an automated system for screening the blood supply for nucleic acid sequences of multiple pathogens . 
detection of early human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i antibody patterns during seroconversion among transfusion recipients . from a cohort of human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) exposed transfusion recipients ( n = 71 ) enrolled in the jamaican transfusion study , 11 were selected for detailed laboratory evaluation . all recipients were followed at monthly intervals for 6 months and then bimonthly up to 1 year for evidence of htlv-i seroconversion . without regard to results on screening assays , pretransfusion and posttransfusion samples were tested with two licensed htlv-1 whole-virus screening enzyme immunoassays ( eias ) , recombinant eias for antibody against tax ( p40x ) and p21e envelope , standard whole virus western blot ( wb ) , wb enhanced with recombinant p21e , and radioimmunoprecipitation assay ( ripa ) . in the early period posttransfusion , antibody to gag core protein was predominant with anti-p24 generally appearing before anti-p19 . recombinant anti-p21e envelope protein , in eia and wb format , was frequently the earliest envelope reactivity detected , while anti-gp46 in wb and anti-gp61 / 68 in ripa system appeared later . anti-tax antibodies appeared later in the time course of seroconversion . the whole-virus eias were less sensitive than the confirmatory assays . the combination of wb and ripa or wb enhanced with recombinant p21e appeared equally effective in confirming samples as positive by the public health service two gene group confirmatory algorithm . however , specificity of this assay approach could not be addressed in this study . 
impact of hiv on tuberculosis in zambia : a cross sectional study objective -- to examine the contribution of hiv infection to the apparently increasing incidence of tuberculosis in central africa . design -- cross sectional study . setting -- outpatient clinic in teaching hospital , lusaka , zambia . patients -- 346 adult patients with tuberculosis . results -- overall , 206 patients ( 60 % ; 95 % confidence interval 54 % to 65 % ) were positive for hiv -- in one or both assays used . the peaks for both tuberculosis and hiv infection were among men aged 25-34 years and women aged 14-24 years . of patients with confirmed pulmonary tuberculosis , 73/149 ( 49 % ; 41 % to 57 % ) were positive for hiv ; 67/83 ( 81 % ; 70 % to 89 % ) patients with pleural disease and 16/19 ( 84 % ; 60 % to 97 % ) patients with pericardial disease were positive . hiv positive patients with positive sputum culture were less likely to have had a positive sputum smear , and their chest x ray films less often showed classic upper zone disease or cavitation . of 72 patients who fulfilled clinical criteria for aids , 17 were negative for hiv . conclusions -- the high prevalence of hiv in patients with tuberculosis suggests that an epidemic of reactivating tuberculosis is arising in those who are infected with hiv . the redirection of public health priorities towards tuberculosis would focus on a major treatable and preventable complication of the aids epidemic . 
predictive factors for hand eczema . factors related to hand eczema were studied . their relative importance as predictors was ranked by multiple logistic regression analysis . questionnaires were sent to 20,000 individuals aged 20-65 years , randomly selected from the population register . those subjects ( 1385 ) considering themselves to have had hand eczema within the previous 12 months were invited to a dermatological examination . it was found that a history of childhood eczema was the most important predictive factor for hand eczema . second was female sex , followed by occupational exposure , a history of asthma and/or hay fever , and a service occupation . a small decrease in risk with advancing age was also found . the difference in the probability of having had eczema in a 1-year period , between individuals having the most important risk factors studied and those having none of them , proved to be for females 48 % compared to 8 % , and for males 34 % compared to 4 % . a history of childhood eczema was found to be more common among young persons , indicating an increase in the prevalence of atopic dermatitis . of those individuals who reported childhood eczema , 27 % reported hand eczema on some occasion during the last 12 months . 
anorectal dysfunction in patients with urologic disturbance due to multiple sclerosis . anorectal function was evaluated in 11 patients with voiding dysfunction due to multiple sclerosis . in six patients with constipation , three also had symptoms of obstructed defecation and one patient was incontinent due to stercoral diarrhea . one patient was only fecal incontinent and one patient had obstructed defecation as the only symptom . three patients had no anorectal symptoms . anal manometry in the women compared with a control group revealed significant lower anal resting and squeeze pressures , although no significant difference of rectal sensation to distention with air was found . pudendal nerve terminal latencies were obtained in seven patients and were all normal . in four patients latency could not be demonstrated due to poor contraction of the sphincter on stimulation of the pudendal nerve . two of these patients were incontinent and two had both constipation and obstructed defecation . it is concluded that patients with voiding symptoms due to multiple sclerosis often reveal anorectal symptoms or motility disorders . although anal sphincter function is reduced , fecal incontinence is not prevalent in this group . the reason for this lies probably in the fact that many of the patients are constipated , thus securing fecal continence . 
colonic histoplasmosis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . report of two cases . colonic histoplasmosis is a rare entity . there have been four previous reported cases within the population of patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . because of the increasing incidence of hiv infection within regions where histoplasmosis is endemic , this condition may become more common . gastrointestinal histoplasmosis has protean clinical manifestations , and symptoms are often nonspecific . any patient with hiv infection who has unexplained gi symptoms should undergo evaluation for possible histoplasmosis . aggressive long-term amphotericin b therapy has been effective in hiv patients with histoplasmosis . resection or diversion of symptomatic colonic strictures caused by histoplasmosis may be necessary in addition to medical therapy . 
high-protein ascites in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . diseases of the liver or peritoneum resulting in ascites have been infrequently reported in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . since 1985 , eight noncirrhotic patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome presenting with new onset high-protein ascites have been evaluated . all but one patient had nondiagnostic paracentesis studies . laparoscopy with biopsy of identified abnormalities or percutaneous omental biopsy were diagnostic in four patients . non-hodgkin 's lymphoma was the cause in three patients , and disseminated cryptococcosis occurred in one patient . in the four other patients , chronic nonspecific peritonitis was found at laparoscopy ; follow-up of these latter patients , including exploratory laparotomy in one patient and autopsy in two patients , disclosed no specific cause . patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and high-protein ascites of uncertain etiology should undergo directed peritoneal evaluation as a potentially treatable disorder may be found . however , despite extensive evaluation , a subset of patients in whom no specific cause can be identified still remains . 
primary biliary cirrhosis : paradigm or paradox for autoimmunity . primary biliary cirrhosis has been classified as a model autoimmune disease based on striking defects in immune regulation and the presence of autoantibodies to mitochondria . until recently the significance and definition of mitochondrial autoreactivity was unknown . since 1987 , there has been a vast improvement in the understanding and definition of the biochemical and molecular target autoantigens . the cloning of complementary dnas for mitochondrial antigens has led to the identification of three enzymes of the 2-oxo-acid dehydrogenase family as the targets of the autoantibodies to mitochondria in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis . the major reactive autoantigen is the e2 subunit of pyruvate dehydrogenase . immunodominant sites on pyruvate dehydrogenase e2 ( autoepitopes ) have been mapped and have been shown to be the site of attachment of the functionally important lipoic acid prosthetic group . the autoepitope for the other enzymes probably occupies an equivalent site on the enzyme . the availability and definition of these mitochondrial autoepitopes have allowed specific questions to be addressed relating to the processing and targeting of these autoantigens as well as further studies on mechanisms of immunopathology . similarly , the availability of well-defined autoantigens could contribute to the development of valid animal models in addition to the already described reproduction of the biliary ductular lesions by transfer of peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with primary biliary cirrhosis into severe combined immunodeficient mice . such models will facilitate specific study of the role of major histocompatibility complex expression and the characterization of t-cell reactivity . thus , primary biliary cirrhosis is a key example of significant progress in autoimmunity being made by use of recombinant dna technology . 
digoxin immune fab therapy in the management of digitalis intoxication : safety and efficacy results of an observational surveillance study . an observational surveillance study was conducted to monitor the safety and effectiveness of treatment with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) ( digibind ) in patients with digitalis intoxication . before april 1986 , a relatively limited number of patients received treatment with digoxin-specific fab fragments through a multicenter clinical trial . beginning with commercial availability in july 1986 , this study sought additional , voluntarily reported clinical data pertaining to treatment through a 3 week follow-up . the study included 717 adults who received digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) . most patients were greater than or equal to 70 years old and developed toxicity during maintenance dosing with digoxin . fifty percent of patients were reported to have a complete response to treatment , 24 % a partial response and 12 % no response . the response for 14 % of patients was not reported or reported as uncertain . six patients ( 0.8 % , 95 % confidence interval 0.3 % to 1.8 % ) had an allergic reaction to digoxin-specific antibody fragments . three of the six had a history of allergy to antibiotic drugs . twenty patients ( 2.8 % , 95 % confidence interval 1.7 % to 4.3 % ) developed recrudescent toxicity . risk of recrudescent toxicity increased sixfold when less than 50 % of the estimated dose of antibody was administered . a total of 215 patients experienced posttreatment adverse events . the events for 163 patients ( 76 % ) were judged to result from manifestations of underlying disease and thus considered unrelated to fab treatment . digoxin-specific antibody fragments were generally well tolerated and clinically effective in patients judged by treating physicians to have potentially life-threatening digitalis intoxication . 
reduction of budesonide after a year of increased use : a randomized controlled trial to evaluate whether improvements in airway responsiveness and clinical asthma are maintained . we have demonstrated recently that 1 year of regular inhaled budesonide use can produce substantial improvements in airway responsiveness accompanied by significant improvements in clinical asthma severity . the present study was designed to evaluate whether these improvements are maintained when the dose of budesonide is reduced . at the end of the original study , 28 subjects with asthma , who had been in the active-treatment arm of the study were randomized either to continue taking the dose of budesonide taken in the original study or to have the dose reduced . airway responsiveness to methacholine , bronchodilator requirements , symptoms , and spirometry were assessed after 6 weeks and 3 months . during the 3 months , no subject experienced an asthma exacerbation , and there was no evidence of change in airway responsiveness in subjects who had their steroids reduced ( provocative concentration causing a 20 % drop in fev1 ; initial , 2.03 mg/ml ; final , 1.91 mg/ml ) , and this change was not different from change in subjects maintained with a higher dose ( initial , 3.02 mg/ml ; final , 3.12 mg/ml ) ( p = 0.39 ) . similarly , there was no evidence of any change in bronchodilator requirements ( p = 0.89 ) . however , after 3 months of reduced steroid use , there was a small decline in spirometry ( fev1 percent predicted : initial , 84.4 % ; final , 81.5 % ) , and this change was significantly different from change in subjects in whom steroids were not reduced ( initial , 90.2 % ; final , 90.2 % ) ( p = 0.002 ) . at 3 months , symptoms ( predominantly sputum production ) were also beginning to redevelop in the reduced budesonide group ( p = 0.056 ) . 
environmental exposure to cockroach allergens : analysis with monoclonal antibody-based enzyme immunoassays . quantitative two-site monoclonal antibody ( mab ) - based enzyme-linked immunoassays for two cockroach ( cr ) allergens , bla g i and bla g ii , have been developed and used to measure allergen levels in house-dust samples . dust collected from the cr-infested homes of two patients with asthma from charlottesville , va. , demonstrated wide variation in the levels of bla g i , depending on the location of dust collection . dust from kitchen floors and cabinets contained 50-fold more allergen ( mean , 10,755 u/gm of dust ) than dust from bedrooms and upholstered furniture ( mean , 204 u/gm ) . one hundred forty-five dust samples were collected from the bedrooms and living rooms of 22 children with asthma and 16 control subjects without asthma living in atlanta , ga . twenty-seven of the 38 homes ( 17/22 children with asthma ; 10/16 control subjects ) had detectable bla g i ( 4 to 1340 u/gm of dust ) . bla g ii levels were assayed in 40 kitchen , bedroom , and living room samples from homes in wilmington , del . highest levels of bla g ii were detected in kitchen-floor dust ( 300 u/gm of dust ) . additionally , approximately 20 % of homes with no visual evidence of cr infestation had significant levels of bla g ii in at least one dust sample ( greater than 4 u/gm of dust ) . our results demonstrate that cr may be an occult allergen in homes . the kitchen appears to be the primary site of cr-allergen accumulation , but significant cr-allergen levels can also be found at other sites in the home . the mab-based assays can be used for quantitation of environmental exposure to cr allergens . 
alterations of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the nasal mucosa of allergic patients in comparison with nonallergic individuals . cholinergic nasal hyperresponsiveness in nasal allergy may be due to changes of the characteristics in muscarinic cholinergic receptors . radioligand receptor binding and in vitro autoradiographic studies of nasal mucosa in nonallergic ( na ) and allergic patients were performed to investigate this hypothesis . the heterogeneous na group was subdivided into control individuals and patients with chronic sinusitis and vasomotor rhinitis . the 3h - ( - ) - quinuclidinylbenzilate binding to muscarinic receptors in human nasal mucosa membranes was saturable and of high affinity in all groups . no significant differences could be demonstrated between the subgroups of the na patients . in allergic patients the dissociation constants and receptor densities were significantly decreased in comparison with those of na and with those of control individuals . no differences in agonist binding or coupling of the muscarinic receptor to the effector system via the g protein could be observed in allergic patients . in vitro autoradiographic experiments demonstrated specific 3h - ( - ) - quinuclidinylbenzilate labeling of the glandular acini in na and allergic patients . no specific labeling could be observed in the epithelium , blood vessels , or connective tissue . in conclusion , the increased sensitivity and decreased muscarinic receptor number may reflect the cholinergic-induced hypersecretion in nasal allergy but are probably too small to explain the complex allergic reaction . 
alterations of adrenoceptors in the nasal mucosa of allergic patients in comparison with nonallergic individuals . nasal hyperreactivity in nasal allergy may be due to changes of the characteristics in adrenergic receptors . radioligand receptor-binding studies with the antagonists , 3h-prazosin ( alpha 1-adrenoceptor ) , 3h-rauwolscine ( alpha 2-adrenoceptor ) , and 125i - ( - ) - cyanopindolol ( beta-adrenoceptor ) were performed in homogenates of nasal mucosa of allergic and nonallergic ( na ) patients to investigate this hypothesis . the heterogeneous na group was subdivided into control individuals and patients with chronic sinusitis and vasomotor rhinitis . no significant differences in affinities or densities of alpha 1 - and alpha 2-adrenoceptors could be demonstrated in allergic patients in comparison with na and control individuals . the beta-adrenoceptor density was significantly reduced in allergic patients in comparison with that of control individuals . neither changes in agonist binding or in the effect of gpp ( nh ) p on the agonist binding to beta-adrenoceptors could be observed in allergic patients . the subtype selective antagonist , lk203-030 , demonstrated the presence of a homogeneous population of beta 2-adrenoceptors in human nasal mucosa of both na and allergic patients . in vitro , autoradiography demonstrated specific 125i - ( - ) - cyanopindolol labeling of the epithelium in na and allergic patients . in conclusion , no changes in characteristics of alpha 1 - or alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the nasal mucosa could be demonstrated in nasal allergy . however , a decreased number of beta-adrenoceptors may reflect a beta-adrenergic abnormality in nasal allergy . 
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid mediator levels 5 minutes after allergen challenge in atopic subjects with asthma : relationship to the development of late asthmatic responses . inflammatory mediators have been implicated in the pathogenesis of human asthma and have been demonstrated to increase in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid during the time of the immediate asthmatic response ( iar ) after allergen instillation in the lungs . however , the relationship of these mediators , measured early to the late asthmatic response ( lar ) , airway reactivity , and clinical asthma , is unknown . in the present study , we evaluated mediator levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid before and 5 minutes after allergen challenge from three subject groups : atopic subjects without asthma ( n = 7 ) , atopic subjects with asthma and without lar [ - ) lar ) ( n = 6 ) , and atopic subjects with asthma and with lar [ + ) lar ) ( n = 6 ) . subjects with asthma were differentiated into subjects with and without lars based on at least a 15 % decrease in fev1 between 3 to 8 hours postallergen inhalation . the mediators , prostaglandin d2 thromboxane b2 leukotriene c4 ( ltc4 ) , and histamine , were measured both before and after allergen instillation . baseline prechallenge levels were similar , except in the case of ltc4 . ltc4 was detectable at baseline significantly more frequently in the atopic subjects with asthma with and without lar when these subjects were compared to the atopic subjects without asthma ( nine of 12 detectable versus one of seven detectable ) . in all groups , significant increases in mediator levels were observed in the groups with asthma postallergen challenge , compared to the atopic subjects without asthma . atopic subjects with asthma and without lar had significantly higher levels of all four mediators after challenge than atopic subjects with asthma and with lar and atopic subjects without asthma . 
blood eosinophil number and activity in relation to lung function in patients with asthma and with eosinophilia . blood eosinophil count , serum concentrations of eosinophil cationic protein ( ecp ) , eosinophil protein x ( epx ) , myeloperoxidase ( mpo ) , and peak expiratory flow ( pef ) rate were studied in 23 patients with severe labile asthma characterized by eosinophilia at the start and end of a treatment period of 5 weeks . the mean blood eosinophil count was 808 x 10 ( 6 ) / l at the start of the treatment period . serum ecp and epx were significantly raised compared with that of the references , whereas the mean serum mpo level was normal . the mean pef was significantly and negatively correlated to both blood eosinophil count and serum ecp and epx , but the predominant correlation was that between blood eosinophil count and pef . at the end of the treatment period , pef had increased and the blood eosinophil count and serum ecp and epx were reduced when these values were compared with the values at the start of the treatment period . there was a significant and negative correlation of mean pef to serum ecp but not to the blood eosinophil count . in individual subjects , the decreases in the blood eosinophil counts and serum epx were significantly correlated to the individual increases of mean pef . in conclusion , the present investigation indicates that in patients with asthma and pronounced eosinophilia , the lung function of the patients was principally related to the number of circulating eosinophils , whereas , when their eosinophilia was reduced to moderate levels , the patient 's lung function was closer related to the activity of the eosinophils . 
airway effects of inhaled bradykinin , substance p , and neurokinin a in sheep . the effects of inhaled bradykinin ( bk ) , substance p ( sp ) , and neurokinin a ( nka ) on pulmonary resistance and airway responsiveness to carbachol were studied in conscious allergic sheep . inhaled bk ( 20 breaths , 0.1 to 5.0 mg.ml-1 ) caused dose-dependent increases in pulmonary resistance . neither inhaled sp nor nka ( 20 breaths , 0.1 to 1.0 mg.ml-1 ) produced significant bronchoconstriction in allergic sheep . however , the response to sp could be enhanced ( p less than 0.05 ) by pretreatment with the neutral endopeptidase inhibitor , thiorphan ( 40 breaths , 1 mg.ml-1 ) . sheep that were allergic to ascaris suum antigen were 5.9 times ( p less than 0.05 ) more sensitive to the constrictor effects of bk than nonallergic sheep . bk-induced bronchoconstriction was blocked in a dose-dependent fashion by the bk beta 2-receptor antagonist , npc 567 ( d-arginine [ hydroxyproline3,d-phenylalanine7 ] bk ) . atropine ( 0.2 mg.kg-1 , intravenously ) and nedocromil sodium ( 1 mg.kg-1 in 3 ml of saline , aerosolized ) significantly inhibited the bk-induced bronchoconstriction by 97 % and 43 % , respectively . chlorpheniramine ( 2 mg.kg-1 , intravenously ) had no effect . nka caused a transient increase in airway responsiveness in allergic sheep , producing a mean 1.9-fold leftward shift in dose-response curves to aerosolized carbachol ( p less than 0.05 ) . this hyperresponsiveness was not evident 24 hours after nka challenge . neither sp nor bk changed airway responsiveness . thus , in allergic sheep , inhaled bk caused a more pronounced bronchoconstriction than that observed in nonallergic sheep . the bronchoconstriction was blocked by a bk-receptor antagonist and appeared to be partially mediated via cholinergic reflexes . 
comparison of cockroach allergenic activity in whole body and fecal extracts . previous studies have established cockroach allergens as important sensitizing agents in the induction/exacerbation of urban asthma . the present investigation compared saline extracts of american cockroach ( periplaneta americana ) whole bodies and feces and german cockroach ( blattella germanica ) whole bodies and feces as important sources of allergens . all extracts were tested before or after gel filtration on sephadex g-75 columns ( fraction 2 ) as previously described . skin test studies of 69 subjects with asthma with extracts of american or german cockroaches demonstrated a significant correlation of reactivity to whole body and fecal extracts for both species . direct rasts of 13 sera from cockroach skin test-positive subjects were generally greater to both german whole body extracts ( gwbes ) and german fecal extracts ( gfes ) as compared to american whole body and fecal extracts . there was a good correlation of rast reactivity to gwbe with gfe . rast inhibition demonstrated that gfe contained most of the allergenic activity present in gwbe . these studies demonstrate the allergenic similarities of cockroach whole body and fecal extracts and suggest that cockroach feces are an important sensitizing agent in atopic asthma . 
analyses of microvascular permeability in response to mediators of immediate hypersensitivity . mediator-induced changes in microvascular permeability were studied in rodent skin . to monitor these changes , evan 's blue dye , iodinated rat albumin and igg , and tritiated neutral dextran molecules having different molecular radii were used . after intradermal injections of serotonin , histamine , and bradykinin , the degree of radiolabeled tracer efflux was determined by measuring the extent of blueing and the level of radioactivity in skin biopsy specimens . although the mediators varied in potency on a molar basis ( serotonin greater than bradykinin greater than histamine ) , the efflux resulting from each was similar . furthermore , kinetic studies revealed that each of these vasoactive agents caused a marked but transient increase in macromolecular permeability that lasted less than 30 minutes . to determine the pore size created and the effect of charge on the transudation of macromolecules into the interstitium , fractions of neutral [ 3h ] dextrans with a known molecular size ( average radii , 12 and 4.4 nm , respectively ) were infused either singly or in combination with 125i-labeled rat albumin and/or igg before intradermal injection of serotonin , histamine , bradykinin , or compound 48/80 . regardless of the mediator used , no differences could be demonstrated in macromolecular efflux , as indicated by either the molecular size of the charge of the tracer used . thus , all mediators of immediate hypersensitivity reactions that were studied produce venular gaps greater than 12 nm in addition to displaying similar vasopermeable characteristics . 
administration of il-7 to mice with cyclophosphamide-induced lymphopenia accelerates lymphocyte repopulation . lymphopenia was induced in mice by a single injection of cyclophosphamide . il-7 or a control protein were administered to the mice twice daily and the cellularity and composition of the spleen , lymph node , bone marrow , and thymus were determined at various time points thereafter . in comparison to the control cyclophosphamide-treated mice , animals receiving cyclophosphamide and il-7 had an accelerated regeneration of splenic and lymph node cellularity . there was no significant difference in the rate of recovery of the bone marrow and thymus of the control and il-7-treated mice . assessment of the pre-b cell compartment revealed a dramatic increase in total pre-b cell numbers in the spleen and bone marrow of the il-7-treated mice as measured by both flow microfluorimetry and a pre-b cell colony-forming assay . this was followed in a few days by a significant increase in surface igm + b cell numbers to levels above normal values in both the spleen and lymph node . il-7 administration to cyclophosphamide-treated mice also resulted in an accelerated recovery of peripheral cd4 + and cd8 + cell numbers in the spleen and lymph node . the numbers of cd8 + cells were increased by twofold over normal levels in cyclophosphamide-treated mice receiving il-7 . myeloid recovery was determined in cyclophosphamide treated mice by assessing the numbers of cfu-granulocyte-macrophage and mac 1 + cells . there was no significant difference in myeloid recovery between cyclophosphamide-treated mice receiving il-7 or control protein . these results suggest that administration of il-7 after chemical-induced lymphopenia may have therapeutic benefits in shortening the period required to achieve normal lymphoid cellularity . 
direct identification of the putative surface igm receptor-associated molecule encoded by murine b cell-specific mb-1 gene . the b cell-specific mb-1 gene was recently reported to encode a putative surface glycoprotein with cd3-like structural properties . hombach et al . suggested and presented evidence to show that this mb-1 gene encodes the 34-kda membrane glycoprotein ( b34 or igm-alpha ) associated with igmr molecule . to identify the mb-1 gene product directly in b cells , affinity-purified mb-1-specific antibody was prepared by immunization of rabbits with synthetic mb-1 oligopeptide . immunoprecipitation in combination with two-dimensional diagonal gel electrophoresis analysis revealed that this antibody detected a b cell-specific surface glycoprotein that is very similar to the igm-alpha ( b34 ) protein described by hombach et al . however , mb-1 protein exists usually as the monomeric form on the surface of b cells , in contrast to igm-alpha , which was detected as the dimeric ( igm-alpha/igm-alpha or igm-alpha/ig-beta ) protein . we also found that mb-1 protein is already expressed on the sigm - pre-b cell lymphoma , which might suggest an alternative functional role of this b cell-specific mb-1 protein in b cell differentiation . the molecular identity of mb-1 protein and igm-alpha ( b34 ) is discussed . 
the prevalence of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis in patients with asthma , determined by serologic and radiologic criteria in patients at risk . allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis , a hitherto uncommon but potentially crippling complication of asthma , occurs at an unknown prevalence in the united states . using both modern serologic criteria complete with a history of asthma and radiologic findings , we were able to make the diagnosis of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis in 28 of 100 consecutive patients with asthma who had immediate cutaneous reactivity to aspergillus fumigatus and who were seen in an outpatient setting . problems associated with use of less comprehensive criteria for this diagnosis are discussed . 
major histocompatibility gene products and human immunodeficiency virus infection . in the present paper we analyze the role of major histocompatibility gene products , the human leukocyte antigens , in the pathophysiology of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . no association has been found between human leukocyte antigen ( hla ) frequencies and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv 1 ) infection , whereas significant associations have been reported in some populations between some hla haplotypes and the appearance of either opportunistic infections or secondary cancers . with regard to the human leukocyte class i antigens , their role as restriction elements in presenting hiv 1 to virus-specific cytotoxic t lymphocytes seems to be established . an increase in the serum levels of their soluble forms that correlate with disease stage has also been demonstrated . these circulating molecules could interfere with the immune response to hiv 1 and could contribute to the development of the immunodeficiency . antigenic similarities have been detected between human leukocyte class ii antigens and hiv 1 envelope proteins . these homologies could explain both the presence in some hiv-positive sera of anti-hla class ii antibodies that mediate the lysis of cd4 ( + ) - hla class ii + t cells and the false-positive reaction of some hiv-negative sera , which contain anti-hla class ii antibodies , in tests for hiv 1 antibodies . reduced levels of some complement factors ( the human leukocyte class iii antigens ) have been detected in hiv-infected subjects . these defects could play a role in the progression of the disease and affect both the clearance of hiv 1 and complement-mediated antibody responses . the data reported in this review suggest that hla antigens may be involved in several steps of the immune deficiency of hiv-infected subjects and thus contribute to the pathophysiology of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . 
vitamin b12 and folate concentrations in serum and cerebrospinal fluid of neurological patients with special reference to multiple sclerosis and dementia . vitamin b12 and folate concentrations were measured in serum and cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) in 293 neurological patients . serum and csf vitamin b12 concentrations showed a positive correlation . in individual patients csf b12 concentrations varied considerably for a given serum concentration . the median serum vitamin b12 concentration of the alzheimer 's type dementia group was significantly lower compared with that of a control group . lower median csf vitamin b12 concentrations were found in groups of patients with multiple sclerosis and alzheimer 's type dementia . five patients with heterogeneous clinical pictures had unexplained low serum and csf b12 concentrations without macrocytosis . two patients had very high serum b12 and low-normal csf concentrations which could be explained by a blood-brain barrier transport defect . serum and csf folate concentrations did not show significant differences between the various groups . 
studies with rp 56976 ( taxotere ) : a semisynthetic analogue of taxol . rp 56976 ( taxotere ) , a new semisynthetic analogue of taxol , is a potentially important chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of cancer . we report here that this drug is a potent inhibitor of cell replication and , like taxol , promotes the in vitro assembly of stable microtubules in the absence of guanosine triphosphate and induces microtubule-bundle formation in cells . compared with taxol , rp 56976 is slightly more active as a promoter of tubulin polymerization . as an inhibitor of cell replication , rp 56976 is 2.5-fold more potent than taxol in j774 .2 and p388 cells and at least 5-fold more potent in taxol-resistant cells . 
pulmonary aspergillosis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome background and methods . symptomatic pulmonary aspergillosis has rarely been reported in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . we describe the predisposing factors , the clinical and radiologic features , and the therapeutic outcomes in 13 patients with pulmonary aspergillosis , all of whom had human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and 12 of whom had aids . results . pulmonary aspergillosis was detected a median of 25 months after the diagnosis of aids , usually following corticosteroid use , neutropenia , pneumonia due to other pathogens , marijuana smoking , or the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics . two major patterns of disease were observed : invasive aspergillosis ( in 10 patients ) and obstructing bronchial aspergillosis ( in 3 ) . cough and fever , the most common symptoms , tended to be insidious in onset in patients with invasive disease ( median duration , 1.3 months before diagnosis ) . breathlessness , cough , and chest pain predominated in the three patients with obstructing bronchial aspergillosis , who coughed up fungal casts . radiologic patterns included upper-lobe cavitary disease ( sometimes mistaken for tuberculosis ) , nodules , pleural-based lesions , and diffuse infiltrates , usually of the lower lobe . transbronchial biopsies were usually negative , but positive cultures were obtained from bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid or percutaneous aspirates . dissemination to other organs occurred in at least two patients , and direct invasion of extrapulmonary sites was seen in two others . the results of treatment with amphotericin b , itraconazole , or both were variable . ten of the patients died a median of 3 months after the diagnosis ( range , 0 to 12 months ) . conclusions . pulmonary aspergillosis is a possible late complication of aids ; if diagnosed early , it may be treated successfully . 
application of instat hemostat in the control of gingival hemorrhage in the patient with thrombocytopenia . a case report . gingival bleeding in the patient with thrombocytopenia can be a difficult management problem . primary therapy with platelet transfusions may not be sufficient to control the hemorrhage and adjunctive local therapy may be required . currently , few local management techniques can effectively control this problem . instat collagen absorbable hemostat can be used as a local adjunct with platelet transfusions and has certain application advantages over topical thrombin and microfibrillar collagen . two successful techniques of instat application to control gingival hemorrhage in a patient with severe thrombocytopenia in leukemic relapse are described . 
oral hairy leukoplakia in hiv infection : a diagnostic pitfall . twenty-nine human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients with white , nonremovable lesions on the lateral border of the tongue , clinically suggestive of oral hairy leukoplakia ( hl ) , were studied . in particular , the value of local antifungal therapy in establishing the diagnosis of hl was investigated . in 15 patients ( 52 % ) the lesions could be ultimately attributed to a candidal infection of the tongue . in 10 of the remaining 14 patients , a biopsy was obtained from lesions persisting after local antifungal treatment . in all biopsy specimens , the diagnosis of hl was confirmed by histopathologic examination and the demonstration of epstein-barr virus dna by polymerase chain reaction , southern blot hybridization , and dna in situ hybridization . the present data confirm that the diagnosis of hl in hiv-infected patients can not be reliably made on clinical criteria alone , but requires histopathologic confirmation including the demonstration of epstein-barr virus dna , preferably by dna in situ hybridization . however , with regard to the differential diagnosis of white , nonremovable lesions on the lateral border of the tongue in hiv-infected patients , the present study suggests that persistence of lesions after local antifungal therapy is highly suggestive of hl . 
hiv infection : clinical features and treatment of thirty-three homosexual men with kaposi 's sarcoma . the clinical findings of patients with oral kaposi 's sarcoma are reviewed . these oral findings commonly included candidiasis , hairy leukoplakia , gingivitis associated with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , periodontitis , and other symptoms , including xerostomia . the other common symptoms of hiv disease that may be of importance in leading to a diagnosis are reviewed in this patient group . treatment by local radiotherapy or by intralesional vinblastine of these oral kaposi 's sarcomas resulted in successful palliation , with more than 50 % regression of the lesions in 80 % of the patients treated . 
treatment of refractory oral candidiasis with fluconazole . a case report . we describe a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who had persistent oral esophageal pseudomembranous candidiasis clinically refractory to nystatin , clotrimazole , and ketoconazole . in vitro resistance to clotrimazole was demonstrated as well . the patient received temporary relief with intravenous amphotericin b therapy , but this was associated with serious adverse effects , including transfusion-requiring anemia , azotemia , and severe thrombophlebitis . despite two courses of intravenous amphotericin b therapy , the patient 's highly symptomatic , recurrent oral and esophageal candidiasis continued . the patient was then treated with fluconazole and obtained immediate relief without associated adverse effects . 
major aphthous-like ulcers in patients with aids . this report describes persistent , painful oral ulcers that occurred in nine patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . these ulcers resembled major aphthous ulcers in clinical appearance and response to therapy . they occurred less frequently in patients with aids than those caused by herpes simplex and were found in 4 of 346 ( 1.1 % ) patients with aids at one medical center . lesions were typically painful . identification and treatment with topical tetracycline and steroids led to resolution with relief of symptoms . further study is necessary to understand the etiology and pathogenesis of these ulcers . 
hiv infection in healthcare workers . how great is the risk ? what can be done before and after exposure ? healthcare workers know that there is a risk of hiv infection through exposure to aids patients . in both hospital and office settings , physicians have the opportunity to set standards and promote education about the degree of risk , effective precautions , and postexposure testing , prophylaxis , and treatment . drs henry and thurn share the latest findings and offer policy recommendations based on their own experience . 
aids and adolescents . how can you help them reduce their risk ? aids in adolescents ( 0.4 % of all cases ) is a problem of increasing importance in the united states . infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) exists in high schools and on university campuses , and it presents a real and immediate threat to teenaged americans who engage in drug abuse and sexual activity . appropriately targeted educational efforts are needed to limit hiv transmission among adolescents . most adolescents are aware of the high-risk activities that may lead to hiv transmission . however , only about one third alter their sexual behavior to avoid aids . it is important to move beyond imparting knowledge about aids transmission and to move toward changing risky behavior . strategies for aids risk reduction in adolescents should be implemented now across the country . appropriate support and intervention are urgently needed for adolescents at high risk . 
human immunodeficiency virus transmission by child sexual abuse . during 1987-1989 , 14 ( 14.6 % ) of the 96 children who tested positive for the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and were followed up by the duke university ( durham , nc ) pediatric acquired immunodeficiency syndrome team were confirmed to have been sexually abused . every sexually abused child was evaluated for each of five modes of hiv transmission , and in nine children the pathway was identified . four of the study children acquired hiv from child sexual abuse and in six , abuse was a possible source . transmission by child sexual abuse was the most frequent of the proven modes of acquisition of hiv in this population . the other proven modes of acquisition were vertical transmission ( n = 3 ) and hiv-contaminated blood transfusion ( n = 2 ) . twelve males were identified ( n = 8 ) or suspected ( n = 4 ) of being perpetrators . three knew themselves to have hiv at the time of an assault and eight were aware that the child had hiv at the time of an assault . there was no indication from any child that " safe sex " precautions had been observed . children with hiv infection had multiple risk factors for abuse or neglect . the sociological descriptors of the lives of the 14 abused children showed multiple known risk factors for sexual abuse that also overlapped with known risk factors for or sequelae of the acquisition of hiv infection . these included drug abuse and alcoholism in the home , prostitution of a parent , lack of parenting , poverty , and chronic illness of the child . prevention efforts should recognize that children as well as adults are at risk for sexually transmitted hiv infection . 
increased transient tachypnea of the newborn in infants of asthmatic mothers . objective : to compare the incidence of transient tachypnea of the newborn ( ttn ) in infants of asthmatic vs nonasthmatic mothers . research design : case-control analysis . setting : group model health maintenance organization . patients : a volunteer sample of 294 pregnant asthmatic women and 294 pregnant nonasthmatic women with normal pulmonary function test results , matched on the basis of age and smoking status . all subjects entered the study before their third trimester of pregnancy . subjects with multiple gestations and abortions ( less than 20 weeks ' gestation ) were excluded . intervention : asthma was treated in the allergy department . routine obstetric , neonatal , and pediatric care was provided to all patients by staff physicians . measurements/results : transient tachypnea occurred in 11 infants ( 3.7 % ) of asthmatic women and in one control infant ( 0.3 % ) . there were no significant differences between asthmatic and matched control subjects in previously defined ttn risk factors , such as the occurrence of longer labors , failure to progress , cesarean sections , premature births , male sex , apgar scores of less than 7 at 1 minute , or birth weight greater than 4 kg . although infants of asthmatic mothers were more likely to exhibit wheezing by age 15 months compared with control infants ( 12.0 % vs 3.2 % ) , none of the infants with ttn manifested wheezing by age 15 months . no relationships could be identified in the asthmatic cohort between the occurrence of ttn and asthma severity or medication use ( during the pregnancy in general or during labor and delivery in particular ) . conclusion : although the mechanism is uncertain , maternal asthma appears to increase the risk of infant ttn . 
anaphylaxis to annatto dye : a case report . annatto dye is an orange-yellow food coloring extracted from the seeds of the tree bixa orellana . it is commonly used in cheeses , snack foods , beverages , and cereals . previously reported adverse reactions associated with annatto dye have included urticaria and angioedema . we present a patient who developed urticaria , angioedema , and severe hypotension within 20 minutes following ingestion of milk and fiber one cereal , which contained annatto dye . subsequent skin tests to milk , wheat , and corn were negative . the patient had a strong positive skin test to annatto dye , while controls had no response . the nondialyzable fraction of annatto dye on sds-page demonstrated two protein staining bands in the range of 50 kd . immunoblotting demonstrated patient ige-specific for one of these bands , while controls showed no binding . annatto dye may contain contaminating or residual seed proteins to which our patient developed ige hypersensitivity . annatto dye is a potential rare cause of anaphylaxis . 
relationships between skin prick test , radioallergosorbent test , and chemiluminescent assays in allergic children . the results of skin prick tests ( spt ) , radioallergosorbent tests ( rast ) , and multiple chemiluminescent tests ( dhs-cla ) to grass mix , parietaria , d. farinae , and d. pteronyssinus were evaluated in 43 allergic children . all cla tests had valid positive and negative control threads . chemiluminescent assays class 4 matched with rast class 3 and/or 4 and cla class 3 with rast class 2 . the d. farinae , d. pteronyssinus , and grass results obtained with cla , rast , and spt were investigated by principal components analysis that showed a good association between different methods of measuring allergenicity . the results of the present study confirm that dhs-cla is an effective " in vitro " method for the detection of ige-allergen specific antibody . 
clustering of fungal allergen-specific ige antibody responses in allergic subjects . statistical analysis of specific ige immune responses to a panel of nine allergens from 2,094 patients demonstrated significant clustering between aspergillus fumigatus , alternaria alternata , and cladosporium herbarum , not explained by crossreactive elements . this may represent a linked , high responder status to these fungal antigens in the allergic population . 
substance p-induced cutaneous and bronchial reactions in children with bronchial asthma . we studied substance p-induced cutaneous and bronchial reactions in children with allergic disorders . furthermore , inhibitory effects of lidocaine on these responses elicited by substance p were also studied . in the intradermal test , children with moderate or severe bronchial asthma showed significantly stronger reactions than controls . in bronchial challenge with substance p , children with bronchial asthma showed an increasing fall in fev1 and v50 in proportion to the severity of their asthma . concomitant use of lidocaine significantly inhibited not only substance p-induced intradermal erythema and wheal reactions but air flow limitations . it also inhibited histamine-induced erythema and house dust-induced wheal and erythema reactions . no adverse reactions to lidocaine were observed . these results suggest that substance p might play an important role in cutaneous and bronchial hypersensitivity reactions in humans and that lidocaine has an inhibitory effect on substance p-induced reactions . 
inhaled bronchodilator 's in asthma : low or high dose ? we studied the effect of regular inhalations of low-dose and high-dose fenoterol and low-dose and high-dose combinations of fenoterol and ipratropium bromide in maintenance treatment of 120 adults with moderately severe asthma . we used a double-blind , randomized , parallel group design comparing 12 weeks of treatment with four regimens : fenoterol , 100 micrograms/dose ; fenoterol , 200 micrograms/dose ; fenoterol , 50 micrograms ; and ipratropium , 20 micrograms/dose in a single inhaler ( berodual ) and fenoterol , 100 micrograms and ipratropium , 40 micrograms/dose in a single inhaler ( duovent ) . during the baseline and active treatment period the patients recorded pefr in the morning and evening , symptoms and use of a rescue inhaler . changes in twice daily peak expiratory flow rates or asthma symptoms did not show any significant differences among the four treatment regimens during the 12 weeks compared with the baseline period . use of the rescue inhaler did not differ among the four groups during the active treatment . the patients ' assessment of the efficacy of the active treatment favored the low-dose fenoterol and low-dose combination . more side effects were recorded in the high-dose combination group during the first 4 weeks compared with the other groups . we conclude that in maintenance therapy of chronic asthma high doses of fenoterol alone or in combination with ipratropium bromide offer no clinical advantage over low doses . on the contrary , the low-dose fenoterol and the low-dose combination are better accepted and tolerated by the patients . 
intestinal permeability in patients with chronic urticaria-angioedema with and without arthralgia . we evaluated the clinical response to oligoallergenic dietary treatment and the intestinal absorption of a protein antigen , cow milk beta-lactoglobulin ( blg ) in 24 patients with chronic urticaria/angioedema syndrome 13 of whom also suffered from joint symptoms . sixteen patients ( 77 % of those with arthralgia ) responded to diet ( rd ) with marked reduction of symptoms ; the others did not respond ( nr ) . ten ( all but one rd with arthralgia ) had increased permeability to blg after oral administration of cow milk . four with high titers of igg to blg showed the highest absorption of blg and the groups with arthralgia showed higher blg levels than those without arthralgia . in all cases , specific ige to cow milk was absent . these data suggest that the symptoms of a subgroup of patients with chronic urticaria , and especially patients with joint complaints that subside with diet , are related to excess intestinal permeability . the measurement of gut permeability to food proteins may be useful to define those who may benefit from dietary restriction . 
pneumothorax in aids objective : to determine risk factors for the development of pneumothorax in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . design : prospective cohort study . setting : tertiary care center . patients : of 1030 patients with aids who were followed at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center between 1 january 1980 and 30 september 1989 , 20 ( 2 % ) developed pneumothorax that was unrelated to trauma or a pulmonary procedure . results : of 20 patients with aids who presented with pneumothorax , 19 had compelling evidence of concurrent pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . using bivariate analysis , patients receiving aerosol pentamidine prophylaxis ( relative risk , 17.6 ) and those with a history of p. carinii pneumonia ( relative risk , 14.5 ) were more likely to develop pneumothorax . by mantel-haenszel stratified analysis , aerosol pentamidine use was a statistically significant risk factor independent of a history of p. carinii pneumonia . the pneumothorax-related mortality rate was 10 % and there was considerable morbidity . conclusions : patients with aids at the highest risk for developing pneumothorax are those with a history of p. carinii pneumonia who are receiving aerosol pentamidine prophylaxis but who nevertheless develop p. carinii pneumonia . the benefits of aerosol pentamidine prophylaxis in these patients far outweigh this risk . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia should be considered as the most likely diagnosis in any patient with aids who develops a pneumothorax . 
diagnosis of lyme disease based on dermatologic manifestations . lyme disease , or lyme borreliosis , is an infection caused by the spirochete borrelia burgdorferi , which is most commonly transmitted to humans by a tick bite . characterized by early and late phases , lyme disease is a multisystem illness involving the skin , heart , joints , and nervous system . diagnosis is based predominantly on clinical manifestations , the most specific being dermatologic . thus , recognizing the dermatologic manifestations of lyme disease is important for diagnosis and institution of appropriate , effective therapy . approximately 75 % of patients with lyme disease present with the pathognomonic skin lesion erythema migrans , an expanding erythematous lesion . during early infection , secondary erythema migrans lesions or borrelia lymphocytoma may occur . borrelia lymphocytoma commonly presents as an erythematous nodule on the ear lobe or nipple . during late infection , acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans , an erythematous , atrophic plaque unique to lyme disease may appear ; it has been described in about 10 % of patients with lyme disease in europe . fibrotic nodules associated with acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans as well as other sclerotic and atrophic lesions , such as morphea , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , anetoderma , and atrophoderma of pasini and pierini , have been seen late in the course of lyme disease . in a few cases , other sclerodermatous lesions , such as eosinophilic fasciitis and progressive facial hemiatrophy , have been linked to b. burgdorferi infection . we review the cutaneous lesions associated with lyme disease . 
therapy of pulmonary nocardiosis in immunocompromised mice . we compared the bactericidal efficacies of various antimicrobial agents and combinations thereof in experimentally induced nocardia asteroides pneumonia in immunocompromised mice . cortisone acetate treatment , which produced impaired cell-mediated immune function , was followed by nasal inoculation of 5 x 10 ( 4 ) cfu of n. asteroides into each mouse . therapy was begun 24 h after inoculation and continued for the next 96 h. dosages of antimicrobial agents resulted in concentrations approximating levels in human serum . animals from each of nine treatment groups were sacrificed every 24 h. the pulmonary tissue obtained was homogenized and quantitatively cultured . results were calculated to indicate the number of cfu per gram of lung tissue . amikacin and imipenem were the two most effective single agents studied . sulfadiazine and ciprofloxacin were ineffective , and ceftriaxone reduced bacterial counts modestly . combination therapy did not enhance the bactericidal activities of the agents tested . we conclude that amikacin and imipenem , as well as select broad-spectrum cephalosporins , represent therapy superior to the sulfonamides in this experimental model and may represent alternative treatment for patients who can not tolerate sulfa agents ( e.g. , human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients ) or who fail primary treatment . 
recurrent wheezy bronchitis and viral respiratory infections fifty four patients aged from 1 to 6 years who had had recurrent attacks of wheezy bronchitis were prospectively followed up for three months to find out if there was an association between different viral respiratory infections and episodes of wheezing . of the 115 episodes of upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms , virus or mycoplasma pneumoniae infection were diagnosed in 52 ( 45 % ) . thirty four of rhinoviruses . the patients had an average of 2.1 episodes of respiratory tract symptoms the total mean ( sd ) duration of which was 30 ( 2 ) days of the 92 days that followed . wheezing occurred during 76 ( 66 % ) of the 115 episodes and during a third of these the patient was admitted to hospital because of severe dyspnoea . wheezing started a mean ( sd ) of 43 ( 7 ) hours after the first symptoms of respiratory infection and persisted for 3.8 ( 4.2 ) days in patients in whom virus infection was diagnosed . the incidence of wheezing was not associated with ige mediated atopy , with positive virological tests , or with fever during virus infection , but was associated with parental smoking and more than one sibling . 
down-regulation of adoptive adjuvant-induced arthritis by suppressor factor ( s ) . we recently described a method for inducing immunologic tolerance to trinitrochlorobenzene ( tncb ) , a hapten that generates suppressor cells capable of down-regulating the efferent phase of tnp-specific contact hypersensitivity in rats . peritoneal exudate cells ( pec ) of such tolerized rats , upon being triggered by specific hapten , suppressed contact hypersensitivity to another hapten elicited at the same time . this implied that cells that mediate delayed-type hypersensitivity of any specificity might be down-regulated , provided that the suppressor cells are activated with specific antigen and that the unrelated delayed-type hypersensitivity is elicited in parallel . to rigorously test this possibility , we examined the ability of tnp-specific suppressor lymphoid cell factors to affect cells that mediate adoptively transferable adjuvant-induced arthritis ( aia ) in rats . to induce arthritis , spleen cells from freund 's complete adjuvant-injected rats were stimulated with concanavalin a and administered to naive recipients . prior to adoptive transfer , the cells were exposed for brief intervals to supernatants of lymphoid cells from control and hapten-tolerized rats . supernatants of pec and lymph node cells from hapten-tolerized rats were found to markedly reduce the effectiveness of cells that mediate aia . the hapten-tolerized cells required reexposure to hapten prior to preparation of the supernatants . supernatants of spleen cells from hapten-tolerized rats that had been hapten-painted as well as hapten-triggered and supernatants of lymph node cells and of pec from only hapten-painted or hapten-triggered rats were ineffective in altering the aia . thus , factors from suppressor cells induced toward hapten-coupled self-antigens have been found to adversely affect the function of lymphoid cells that mediate a totally unrelated inflammatory response , namely , aia . the clinical implications of these findings are discussed . 
association of the complement allele c4aq0 with primary sjogren 's syndrome in japanese patients . we studied allotypes of the fourth component of complement ( c4 ) and factor b in 76 patients with sjogren 's syndrome ( ss ) and in 63 normal subjects . c4a-null ( c4aq0 ) was found in 10 of 28 patients who had primary ss , compared with 1 of 63 control subjects ( p less than 0.005 ) . in contrast , no significant difference in the frequency of any c4 allotype was observed between patients with secondary ss and control subjects . an association of hla-drw53 with primary ss in japanese patients has been reported . since there is no linkage disequilibrium between drw53 and c4aq0 , it is possible that at least 2 genes in the major histocompatibility complex may determine susceptibility to the development of primary ss in the japanese population . 
treatment and career attitudes of prehospital care providers associated with potential exposure to hiv/aids . career and treatment attitudes related to potential human immunodeficiency virus and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( hiv/aids ) exposure are reported based on a survey of 1,228 maryland career and volunteer prehospital care providers trained to provide basic ( bls ) and advanced ( als ) life support . sixty-five percent stated potential exposure to hiv/aids was a major occupational stressor . ninety-two percent stated they would treat hiv/aids patients if protected . given a choice , 38 % would avoid providing treatment to hiv/aids patients . eighteen percent considered resigning from emergency medical services ( ems ) work . an attitudinal scale ( aidstress ) was developed to evaluate overall treatment and career reactions . respondents with significantly higher ( more negative reactions ) aidstress scores were : bls providers , men , paid providers , personnel with more than 3 years of field experience , those working in urban areas , personnel with no formal education beyond high school , and those who stated that their hiv/aids training was inadequate . implications of the findings for quality of care , career decision making , and inservice education are discussed . 
choroidal lesions in patients with aids . seven cases of bilateral , scattered , yellow-white choroidal lesions have been seen in aids patients since january 1988 . one resulted from presumed extension of cryptococcal meningitis into the optic nerve and choroid . all the remaining six patients had pneumocystis pneumonia at some time during the course of the disease and were receiving aerosolised pentamidine therapy . none died quickly of disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection , unlike previously reported patients . mycobacterial infection was also present in five of these six patients . the differential diagnosis of this entity in aids patients is discussed . 
seroprevalence of antibodies to htlv-i in patients with ocular disorders . human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-i ) has been shown to spread worldwide and to be responsible for distinct systemic diseases , namely adult t-cell leukaemia and htlv-i-associated myelopathy . immune-mediated , inflammatory lesions in the lungs , joints , and lacrimal glands ( sjogren 's syndrome ) are also suggested to be associated with the retrovirus . we studied seroprevalence of antibodies to htlv-i in patients with various ocular disorders who are residents of south-west japan , one of the endemic areas of htlv-i . of 310 patients with ocular disease 72 ( 23.2 % ) were seropositive . this seroprevalence did not differ significantly from that of the general population of the area . as regards individual ocular diseases , aetiologically undefined nonspecific uveitis showed a significantly high seropositivity for htlv-i . of 44 patients 18 ( 40.9 % ) were seropositive . their clinical features were acute or subacute , transient and sometimes recurrent , and granulomatous changes in the anterior uvea . patients with isolated cotton-wool spot of the retina , non-familial retinitis pigmentosa , or keratoconjunctivitis sicca did not show any significantly high prevalence of htlv-i infection . 
identification of functionally distinct domains of human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor using monoclonal antibodies . granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) is a glycoprotein that is required for the survival , growth , and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor cells . although the primary structure of gm-csf is known from cdna cloning , the relationship between structure and function of gm-csf is not fully understood . fifteen different monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) to human gm-csf were generated to map immunologically distinct areas of the molecule . each of the moabs was biotinylated and shown by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to bind to recombinant gm-csf that had been affixed to a solid phase . each of the 15 unconjugated moabs was then used to compete with each biotinylated moab for binding to gm-csf . these cross-blocking studies identified eight distinct epitopes of native gm-csf . seven of these epitopes were also present in denatured gm-csf by western blotting , and four of the epitopes were at least partially conserved on gm-csf that was reduced in beta-mercaptoethanol . moabs to four of eight epitopes neutralized both recombinant ( glycosylated and nonglycosylated ) and natural human gm-csf in a gm colony-forming unit ( cfu-gm ) assay and blocked gm-csf-induced activation of neutrophils . for most of the antibodies there was a good correlation between neutralizing activity and the capacity to block binding of 125i-gm-csf to neutrophils or blasts . non-neutralizing antibodies to one epitope partially blocked binding of 125i-gm-csf to neutrophils . none of the moabs neutralized interleukin-3 , g-csf , or m-csf . the locations of seven of the epitopes could be partially mapped with regard to the amino acid structure by determining reactivity to gm-csf synthetic peptides or to human-mouse chimeric gm-csfs . the neutralizing antibodies were found to map to amino acids 40-77 , 78-94 , or 110-127 . thus , these moabs are useful to identify functional domains of gm-csf and in identifying regions that are likely to be involved in receptor interaction . 
myc rearrangement and translocations involving band 8q24 in diffuse large cell lymphomas . the configuration of the myc gene in diffuse large cell lymphomas ( dlcl ) with translocations involving band 8q24 [ t ( 8q24 ) ] has not been systematically studied . we collected cytogenetic and clinical data on 171 consecutive cases of dlcl , including cleaved , noncleaved , and immunoblastic types , of which 96 had dna available and 124 had abnormal karyotypes . the cases with dna available were evaluated for myc rearrangement ( myc-r ) by southern hybridization of ecori-digested tumor dna using an exon-1 probe , a combination of probe and enzyme known to detect over 85 % of breaks in sporadic burkitt 's lymphoma . in cases studied at diagnosis , myc-r , t ( 8 ; 14 ) ( q24 ; q32 ) , or other t ( 8q24 ) were not prognostically significant . among the 124 cases with karyotypic abnormalities , seropositivity for human immunodeficiency virus was significantly more common in cases with a t ( 8q24 ) ( 72 % ) than in cases without it ( 9 % ) ( p less than .05 ) . of the four cases with an myc - r , two had a t ( 8 ; 14 ) , one had a t ( 7 ; 8 ; 14 ) ( p15 ; q24 ; q32 ) , and one had a t ( 8 ; ? ) ( q24 ; ? ) and a del ( 8 ) ( q24 ) . in the three previous cases with translocations involving 8q24 and 14q32 , comigration of the rearranged myc band with either the j region or the switch-mu region of the ig heavy chain gene could not be demonstrated , leaving the 14q32 breakpoint undefined at the molecular level . among the remaining 72 cases where both an abnormal karyotype and molecular data were available , 11 had a t ( 8q24 ) , either t ( 8 ; 14 ) or t ( 8 ; 22 ) ( q24 ; q11 ) , in the absence of an myc-r . in these cases , the 8q24 break was presumably located outside of the ecori myc fragment . all 15 cases with a t ( 8q24 ) were also screened for point mutations in the pvuii site in the first exon of myc ; two cases that were not myc-r showed loss of this restriction site . these results indicate that in most dlcl with t ( 8 ; 14 ) or other t ( 8q24 ) , the 8q24 breakpoint lies away from the myc gene ; in a minority of these cases , point mutations in regulatory noncoding regions were detected . 
inhibition of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase activity induces a paradoxical increase in dna synthesis in myeloid leukemia cells . the effects of competitive inhibition of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme a ( hmg coa ) reductase by compactin on the in vitro proliferation of peripheral blood myeloid leukemia cells were studied using the cells from 45 patients with acute myeloid leukemia or chronic myelogenous leukemia in blast phase . the cells from 58 % of these patients showed a dose-related inhibition of dna synthesis when incubated with compactin . unexpectedly , cells from 18 % of the patients were resistant to the inhibitory effects of compactin on dna synthesis and responded to the hmg coa reductase inhibition with an actual increase in the incorporation of 14c-labeled thymidine into dna . another 18 % of the patients studied displayed both inhibition and stimulation of dna synthesis in a biphasic response depending on the particular concentration of compactin used . the maximum enhanced rates of cellular dna synthesis were observed with lower compactin concentrations ( 5 x 10 ( -7 ) mol/l ) than were required for maximum inhibition of dna synthesis ( 10 ( -5 ) mol/l ) . leukemia cells displaying a stimulated response to compactin had a significantly lower baseline dna synthetic rate than did cells that showed an inhibitory response of dna synthesis to compactin . there was no correlation between these cells ' varying dna synthetic response to compactin and measures of baseline hmg coa reductase activity or acetate conversion to cholesterol . whereas the observation of cellular dna synthesis stimulation by hmg coa reductase inhibition has not been observed in other mammalian cells and seems paradoxical , explanations may emerge in light of our growing knowledge concerning the importance of isoprenylation for the function of certain cell regulatory proteins . 
epstein-barr virus infection precedes clonal expansion in burkitt 's and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated lymphoma . the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) is associated with distinct forms of human lymphoid malignancies , including the endemic ( ebl ) and sporadic forms of burkitt 's lymphoma ( sbl ) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated non-hodgkin lymphoma ( aids-nhl ) . however , whether ebv has a pathogenetic role in these tumors or is a passenger virus has not been conclusively demonstrated . one element to distinguish between these two possibilities is to determine whether ebv infection has preceded and , thus , possibly contributed to clonal expansion , or whether infection has occurred after clonal expansion and thus is unlikely to contribute to pathogenesis . toward this end we analyzed the structure of the heterogeneous genomic termini of ebv as markers of clonal infection in a panel of ebl ( 11 cases ) , sbl ( 9 cases ) , and aids-nhl ( 10 cases ) biopsies . we show that ebv termini are uniformly clonal in sbl , ebl , and aids-nhl , strongly suggesting that ebv infection has preceded and , thus , most likely contributed to clonal expansion in these malignancies . 
stages i and ii diffuse large cell lymphomas : prognostic factors and long-term results with chop-bleo and radiotherapy . one hundred forty-seven patients with ann arbor stages i and ii diffuse large cell lymphoma ( dlcl ) were treated with combination chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide , doxyrubicin , prednisone , and low-dose bleomycin ( chop-bleo ) and involved-field radiation ( if xrt ) between 1974 and 1984 . a complete remission ( cr ) was attained by 54 of 57 patients with stage i disease and by 78 of 90 patients with stage ii disease . thirty-five patients had relapsing disease that occurred within 3 years in 31 . the overall 10-year survival rate , counting all deaths , for patients with stage i was 72 % as compared with 43 % for patients with stage ii ( p less than .01 ) . determinate survival rates , censoring eight unrelated deaths , were similar to the overall survival rates : 77 % and 51 % , respectively . a multivariate analysis identified three independent prognostic factors : age , tumor extent , and serum lactic dehydrogenase ( ldh ) level . when the combined effect of tumor extent and ldh level were taken into consideration in the analysis , three risk groups for survival were identified . the best group , which consists of patients with minimum tumor and normal ldh levels , had a 10-year determinate survival of 79 % . patients with extensive tumors and elevated ldh levels had the poorest survival rate of 44 % . an intermediate-risk group with a determinant survival of 62 % was composed of patients with either extensive tumors or elevated ldh levels . these differences demonstrate the need to develop different treatment strategies based on risk factors for survival for patients with apparently localized ann arbor stages i/ii dlcl . 
expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( cd54 ) on hematopoietic progenitors . the distribution of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) , a ligand for lymphocyte function antigen-1 , on hematopoietic tissue was determined using the anti-icam-1 monoclonal antibody cl203 .4 with flow cytometry and short-term semi-solid hematopoietic progenitor cultures . after timed incubation in media with fetal bovine serum , 29 % of erythroid burst-forming units ( bfu-e ) , 24 % of erythroid colony-forming units ( cfu-e ) , and 52 % of granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units ( cfu-gm ) bone marrow progenitors expressed icam-1 . this finding , which is consistent with the detection of icam-1 on acute non-lymphoblastic leukemic blasts , is at variance with recent reports . icam-1 was also detected on bone marrow blasts , proerythroblasts , promyelocytes , and cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage , but was not detected on erythroblasts , normoblasts , neutrophilic myelocytes , metamyelocytes , bands , or on most lymphocytes . these results indicate that maturation of cells of the erythroid and myeloid lineage is associated with loss of icam-1 . the distribution of icam-1 on bone marrow progenitors , early precursor cells , and accessory cells in conjunction with the function of this molecule in cell-cell interactions suggests that icam-1 may play a role in the cell-cell and cell-stromal interactions that regulate hematopoiesis . 
synergistic effects of nerve growth factor and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor on human basophilic cell differentiation . we have recently shown that nerve growth factor ( ngf ) promotes human granulopoiesis , specifically augmenting basophilic cell differentiation observed in methylcellulose hematopoietic colony assays of human peripheral blood . because the ngf effect was seen in the presence of conditioned medium derived from a human t-cell line ( mo-cm ) containing granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , we examined interactions of purified ngf and recombinant human gm-csf ( rhgm-csf ) on granulocyte growth and differentiation . rhgm-csf stimulated a dose-dependent increase in methylcellulose colony growth at concentrations between 0.1 u/ml and 10 u/ml , and in the presence of ngf at 500 ng/ml this effect was enhanced . the number of basophilic cell colony-forming units ( cfu-baso ) and histamine-positive colonies increased synergistically when ngf was added to rhgm-csf . furthermore , because mo-cm acts with sodium butyrate to promote basophilic differentiation of alkaline-passaged myeloid leukemia cells , hl-60 , we also examined the interaction of ngf and mo-cm or rhgm-csf using this assay . in the presence of ngf , mo-cm at concentrations of 0.5 % to 20 % vol/vol , and rhgm-csf at concentrations of 0.1 u/ml to 100 u/ml synergistically increased histamine production by butyrate-induced , alkaline-passaged hl-60 cells ; this was associated with the appearance of metachromatic , tryptase-negative , ige receptor-positive cells . the effects of rhgm-csf or mo-cm were completely abrogated by a specific anti-rhgm-csf neutralizing antibody in methylcellulose , with or without ngf ; the ngf synergy with rhgm-csf in the hl-60 assay was also inhibited by either anti-rhgm-csf or anti-ngf antibody . these studies support the notion that differentiation in the basophilic lineage may be enhanced by ngf acting to increase the number of gm-csf-responsive basophilic cell progenitors . 
tumor necrosis factor regulates the expression of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interleukin-3 receptors on human acute myeloid leukemia cells . tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) acts as a potent enhancer of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) - and interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) - induced human acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) growth in vitro . we have analyzed the effects of tnf alpha on the expression of gm-csf and il-3 receptors on aml cells . incubation of blasts from seven patients with aml in serum-free medium with tnf ( 10 ( 3 ) u/ml ) and subsequent binding studies using 125i-gm-csf and 125i-il-3 show that tnf increases the specific binding of gm-csf ( 30 % to 280 % ) and il-3 ( 40 % to 600 % ) in all cases . from scatchard plot analysis it appears that tnf upregulates ( 1 ) low-affinity gm-csf binding sites , ( 2 ) common high-affinity il-3 / gm-csf binding sites , and ( 3 ) unique ( non-gm-csf binding ) il-3 binding sites . the effect of tnf is dose dependent and is half maximal at a concentration of 100 u/ml , and becomes evident at 18 hours of incubation with tnf at 37 degrees c , but not at 0 degree c. the gm-csf dose-response curve of aml-colony-forming units plateaus at a higher level in the presence of tnf , which indicates that additional numbers of cells become responsive to gm-csf . incubation of aml blasts with the phorbol ester 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate or formyl-met-leu-phe ( protein kinase c activators ) does not influence gm-csf receptor expression , suggesting that receptor upregulation by tnf is not mediated through activation of protein kinase c. on the other hand , the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide abrogates receptor upregulation induced by tnf . in contrast to these findings in aml , tnf does not upregulate gm-csf receptor numbers on blood granulocytes or monocytes . we conclude that tnf exerts positive effects on growth factor receptor expression of hematopoietic cells . 
magnetic resonance imaging of the head and spine : effective for the clinician or the patient ? objectives -- to test how the results of magnetic resonance imaging influence clinicians ' diagnoses and management plans for patients with cranial and spinal problems and to assess changes in the quality of life of these patients . design -- survey of patients undergoing cranial and spinal magnetic resonance imaging with questionnaires about diagnoses and intended management plans before and after imaging and quality of life questionnaires at the time of imaging and again four months later . setting -- regional magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy unit . subjects -- 100 consecutive patients referred for cranial imaging in early 1989 ; 100 similar patients referred for spinal imaging . main outcome measures -- changes in clinicians ' leading diagnoses after magnetic resonance imaging and their confidence in these diagnoses ; changes in intended management plans ; assessment of the contribution to the future management of the patient ; changes in patients ' quality of life . results -- magnetic resonance imaging altered the clinicians ' leading diagnoses in 35 of 169 ( 21 % ) cases . the clinicians became more confident about their leading diagnoses in 90 of 167 ( 54 % ) . there was a change in management plan in 113 of 182 ( 62 % ) . the clinicians considered that magnetic resonance imaging made an important contribution to management in 119 of 162 ( 73 % ) patients . overall , the patients ' quality of life was unchanged at the four month assessment . conclusions -- magnetic resonance imaging of patients with cranial and spinal problems influences clinicians ' diagnoses and management plans , but the quality of life of these patients remains unchanged . 
treatment of end-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with double lung transplantation . six patients with end-stage emphysema ( age 44 + / - 2 years ) underwent double lung transplantation ( tx ) from june 1988 through may 1990 . all suffered from severe inanition and required oxygen therapy . the ischemic time was 193 + / - 28 minutes . post-tx immune suppression was okt3 ( 14 days ) , cyclosporine ( trough levels of 150 + / - 25 ng/ml ) , azathioprine to keep wbc at 3,000 to 5,000 / cu mm ( 1 to 3.0 mg/kg/day ) and following okt3 , a tapering prednisone regimen . two rejection episodes that occurred in two patients on post-tx day 5 and 10 were treated with bolus doses of methylprednisolone . the mean hospital stay was 32 + / - 7 days ( range , 20 to 69 days ) . four patients required treatment of cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection : gastritis ( + donor , + recipient ) in one and cmv pneumonia in two ( + donor , - recipient ) . a fourth ( + donor , - recipient ) had right-sided candida empyema six weeks post-tx , developed cmv and staphylococcal sepsis , and died 64 days post-tx . one patient required pyloroplasty eight weeks post-tx and one patient underwent tracheal suture line repair at eight weeks . during a follow-up of 81 patients months ( range , 8 to 24 months ) , one patient had developed epstein-barr viral ( ebv ) induced lymphoproliferative disease in the lung and one patient had developed ebv lymphoma . three patients are at work , one is continuing rehabilitation , and one is at home . double lung tx offers a definitive benefit to patients with emphysema ; however , a prolonged postoperative course can be expected . viral infections remain serious but treatable problems . 
individualized aerobic and high intensity training for asthmatic children in an exercise readaptation program . is training always helpful for better adaptation to exercise ? in order to define the role of individualized training intensity in a conditioning program for asthmatic children , we have trained seven asthmatics ( age = 11.4 + / - 1.8 years ) at their ventilatory threshold ( vth ) intensity level for a three-month period ( aerobic training ) and at maximal intensity also for three months ( high intensity training ) . vth is the point at which a nonlinear increase of ve occurs . another group of seven asthmatics ( age = 11.4 + / - 1.5 ) served as control subjects . cardiopulmonary fitness was determined on a cycle ergometer before and after each training session . this study demonstrated that aerobic training , correctly adapted to the child 's physical ability , induces the following : ( 1 ) a rapid and marked cardiovascular fitness increase ; and ( 2 ) a decrease in ve over a given work range so that vth is increased . this is of great importance because hyperventilation is a major determinant of exercise-induced bronchospasm . in contrast , even if high intensity training is well tolerated in an indoor swimming pool , the long-term effects are unsuitable for asthmatic children because the decrease of vth will involve an increase of hyperventilation , even when exercise is performed at submaximal intensity . 
pulmonary tolerance of prophylactic aerosolized pentamidine in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . the effects of primary and secondary long-term prophylaxis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia with aerosolized pentamidine on pulmonary function in hiv + patients were evaluated . eighty-one patients , none of whom were drug addicts or had pulmonary kaposi 's sarcoma , were studied . fifty patients were receiving ap as secondary prophylaxis , 36 monthly and 14 twice-monthly ; eight patients with a history of pcp served as control subjects . twenty-three patients were receiving ap as primary prophylaxis , 12 monthly and 11 twice-monthly . pulmonary function tests , including spirometry , lung transfer capacity for carbon monoxide ( tlco ) and alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient ( p [ a-a ] o2 ) were evaluated at m1 , ie , one month after the diagnosis of pcp , or at the beginning of the ap prophylaxis , and then at three-month intervals ( m4 to m13 ) . no differences were observed in the results of spirometry or p ( a-a ) o2 . among the patients receiving secondary prophylaxis , a significant increase ( paired student 's t-test ) in tlco occurred at m7 compared to m1 in the group receiving monthly administrations ( p less than 0.01 ) and in the untreated control group ( p less than 0.05 ) ; there was no significant difference in tlco at m13 compared to m1 in the 12 patients who received monthly administrations for this period or at m7 in the 14 patients receiving ap twice-monthly . no significant difference in tlco was observed at m7 in the primary prophylaxis groups . these results indicate that pulmonary tolerance of ap , as reflected by pulmonary function tests , is good . 
erythromycin reduces the severity of bronchial hyperresponsiveness in asthma . it has been demonstrated that bronchial hyperresponsiveness is a characteristic feature of bronchial asthma , and airway inflammation plays an important role in bronchial hyperresponsiveness . erythromycin is an antibiotic extensively used worldwide which is also reported to have anti-inflammatory action . this study was designed to clarify whether erythromycin could favorably alter bronchial responsiveness in patients with bronchial asthma . to estimate bronchial responsiveness , histamine challenge was performed in 23 patients with bronchial asthma ( atopic type , 11 ; nonatopic type , 12 ) . all patients were treated for ten weeks with erythromycin , 200 mg three times daily , orally . after ten weeks ' treatment , pc20 , an index of bronchial sensitivity , was increased significantly . there was no difference between atopic and nonatopic patients in the improvement of pc20 . it was concluded that erythromycin reduces the severity of bronchial responsiveness in patients with bronchial asthma . 
indications for spirometry in outpatients with respiratory disease . it has been suggested that spirometry should be incorporated into the routine examination of every patient , analogous to obtaining vital signs . to determine the impact of spirometry on the management of outpatients with respiratory disease , spirometry was performed on 150 consecutive patients ( 123 men and 27 women , mean age 57 + / - 12 years ) seen in our pulmonary disease outpatient clinics . patients with obstructive ( n = 75 ) , restrictive ( n = 31 ) , mixed ( n = 26 ) or other respiratory diseases ( n = 18 ) were initially assessed by history and physical examination and classified as improved , stable , or worse compared to previous visits . a clinical management plan ( cmp ) was formulated based on this initial evaluation . spirometric results were then made available to the examiner who could then make changes in the proposed cmp . the addition of spirometric results caused alteration of the cmp in only eight ( 5 percent ) patients ; in the remaining 142 patients , results did not affect the cmp . two clinical findings identified those patients whose cmp was most likely to be altered by spirometry : severity of lung dysfunction ( determined from previous spirometry ) and deterioration of clinical status ( judged by history and physical examination ) . of the eight patients whose cmp was changed after review of spirometry , six ( 75 percent ) had previous severe ventilatory dysfunction ( fev1 or fvc less than or equal to 40 percent of predicted or fev1/fvc ratio less than or equal to 0.40 ) . in 6 of 38 patients ( 16 percent ) with severe ventilatory dysfunction , cmp was altered after spirometry while only 2 of 112 patients ( 1.8 percent ) with mild or moderate dysfunction had changes in their cmp . patients who were clinically assessed as worse compared to their previous visit were more likely to have their cmp altered after review of spirometry when compared to those considered improved or stable by a ratio of 6:1 . these results suggest that spirometry is most likely to supplement the physician 's history and physical examination in the management of outpatients with pulmonary disease when the initial evaluation suggests that the patient has clinically deteriorated since the previous clinic visit , or when he or she has previous severe ventilatory dysfunction . 
subcutaneous and mediastinal emphysema associated with hypersensitivity pneumonitis . we report a rare case of a patient in whom severe subcutaneous and mediastinal emphysema occurred in association with summer-type hypersensitivity pneumonitis and in whom overdistention or disruption of alveoli with obliteration of the respiratory bronchioles was revealed on open lung biopsy . this case suggests that obstructive bronchiolitis with hypersensitivity pneumonitis is an etiologic factor of mediastinal emphysema . 
potentially fatal asthma and syncope . a new variant of munchausen 's syndrome in sports medicine . we report a case of munchausen 's syndrome in a 19-year-old female college athlete who presented with potentially fatal asthma and recurrent syncopal episodes . failure to control her asthma with the appropriate medications and the lack of objective findings on both physical examination and diagnostic testing raised the possibility of factitious disease . munchausen 's syndrome , although not described with any frequency in asthmatic patients , should be considered in the differential diagnosis of those patients refractory to aggressive medical management . 
pericarditis with tamponade due to cytomegalovirus in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a 35-year-old male homosexual with aids presented with headache and fever and was found to have cryptococcal meningitis . during the patient 's hospital course , his hemodynamic status deteriorated as a result of pericardial tamponade . antemortem analysis of the fluid was unrevealing ; however , postmortem examination of the pericardium revealed typical intranuclear inclusions of cytomegalovirus infection . cytomegalovirus should be included in the differential diagnosis of pericardial effusion in patients with aids . 
spontaneous regression of cardiomyopathy in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . cardiac involvement is common in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and , when symptomatic , it portends a poor prognosis . we present a case of marked spontaneous regression of cardiomyopathy in a patient with aids . to our knowledge , this is the first reported case of spontaneous recovery of ventricular function in an aids patient . 
pleural pneumocystis carinii infection . extrapulmonary pneumocystis carinii infection is a rare occurrence in patients with aids . pleural involvement has been demonstrated in only one case , and this occurred after pneumothorax . this is a case report of pleural pneumocystosis in a patient with aids who did not have a pneumothorax . 
esophageal candidiasis in aids . successful therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets taken by mouth . in this paper we describe the results of oral therapy of esophageal candidiasis with clotrimazole vaginal tablets in 25 homosexual men with aids , of whom 19 had oral candidiasis and 16 had esophageal symptoms . therapy with clotrimazole vaginal tablets , 100 mg , taken by mouth cleared the esophageal symptoms , oral candidiasis , and esophageal lesions completely in all 25 men . clotrimazole vaginal tablets are a useful alternative to other antifungal agents for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis in aids patients . 
incidence of hairy cell leukemia , mycosis fungoides , and chronic lymphocytic leukemia in first known htlv-ii-endemic population . unlike human t cell leukemia-lymphoma virus type i ( htlv-i ) , htlv-ii has not been convincingly linked to a malignancy . in the first 10 months of serologic screening for htlv-i/ii among blood donors in new mexico in 1988-1989 , htlv-i/ii infection was found in 27 donors . htlv-i/ii infection was present in 1.0 % -1.6 % of american indian and 0.16 % -0.27 % of hispanic donors compared with 0.009 % -0.06 % of non-hispanic white donors . htlv-ii was identified by dna amplification in 12 of 13 samples from indian and hispanic seropositive donors . despite apparent endemic htlv-ii infection in these populations , new mexico tumor registry data showed that the incidences of hairy cell leukemia , mycosis fungoides , and chronic lymphocytic leukemia were comparable among the three ethnic groups . a population with endemic htlv-ii infection has been identified , and there is no evidence of increased risk for these three malignancies in the endemic groups . 
prolonged cd4 + lymphocytopenia and thrombocytopenia in a chimpanzee persistently infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . the immunologic and virologic status of a chimpanzee inoculated with multiple isolates of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) were assessed over 57 months to determine whether prolonged thrombocytopenia and cd4 + lymphocytopenia observed in the animal might be associated with long-term hiv infection . although the chimpanzee showed no signs of disease , it lost both cd4 + ( as low as 134 cells/microliter ) and cd8 + lymphocytes approximately 30 months after initial infection , followed by thrombocytopenia that has persisted for greater than 2 years . lymphopenia and thrombocytopenia were preceded by or coincided with the appearance of antibodies cross-reactive with histone h2b and decreased levels of complement component c4 ; an eightfold decrease in hiv-specific antibody titers ; the inability of cd8 + lymphocytes to suppress virus replication ; impaired proliferative responses to t cell mitogens ; and the isolation of cell-free hiv from plasma . these data suggest that , given sufficient time , hiv-infected chimpanzees may develop disease . 
outcome of hepatitis b virus infection in homosexual men and its relation to prior human immunodeficiency virus infection . to investigate the effect of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection on subsequent hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) infection , hiv antibody was sought in homosexual men who developed hbv infection during a hepatitis b vaccine trial . among 134 unvaccinated hiv-1-negative men , 7 % became hbv carriers , 64 % had viremia , and 42 % had clinical illness . among vaccinated hiv-1-negative men , hbv infection severity decreased with number of vaccine doses administered . when adjusted for prior hepatitis b vaccination status , persons with hiv-1 infection preceding hbv infection had a significantly higher risk of developing hbv carriage , viremia , prolonged alt elevation , and clinical illness . among hiv-1-infected men , the risk of hbv carriage was increased in unvaccinated persons ( 21 % ) and those who failed to respond to vaccination ( 31 % ) and further increased in those who received vaccine doses at the time they developed new hbv infection ( 56 % -80 % ) , suggesting inactivated hepatitis b vaccine may temporarily impair the immune response to hbv infection in hiv-1-infected persons . hiv-1 infection was also associated with reduced alanine aminotransferase elevations during the first 36 months of follow-up of men who became hbv carriers . 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor enhances the phagocytic and bactericidal activity of normal and defective human neutrophils . granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) stimulates proliferation of myeloid cells and may be a valuable adjunct in prevention and treatment of neutropenia-associated infections . neutrophil ( pmnl ) phagocytic and microbicidal functions against staphylococcus aureus and candida albicans blastoconidia were therefore evaluated . bacterial phagocytosis and bactericidal activity were significantly enhanced by approximately 50 % -70 % after preincubation of normal pmnl with g-csf in concentrations of 1000-4000 units/ml for 10 min at 37 degrees c. g-csf in similar concentrations enhanced the defective bactericidal activity of pmnl from hiv-1-infected patients by approximately 70 % -150 % and reached the baseline control pmnl killing . however , g-csf enhanced neither phagocytosis nor fungicidal activity of normal pmnl against c. albicans blastoconidia . these data demonstrate that g-csf enhances the antibacterial but not the antifungal activities of human pmnl in vitro and also improves the defective pmnl bactericidal activity of hiv-1-infected patients . 
isolation and characterization of a new human microsporidian , encephalitozoon hellem ( n. sp . ) , from three aids patients with keratoconjunctivitis . a new human microsporidian was isolated from cultures of madin-darby canine kidney cells incubated with conjunctival scrapings or corneal tissues from three aids patients with keratoconjunctivitis . the three isolates were morphologically similar to encephalitozoon cuniculi . the spores averaged 1 x 1.5-2 .0 microns , had six to eight polar filament coils , displayed monokaryotic nuclei , and possessed relatively thick endospores with irregularly shaped exospores . organisms developed within a parasitophorous vacuole . by sds-page analysis , the three isolates appeared to be identical but were different from e. cuniculi . identical banding patterns on western blots of the three isolates were expressed by each patient 's serum . by western immunoblotting , murine antisera to e. cuniculi reacted to several antigens of the new aids-related microsporidian , whereas murine antisera bound weakly to nosema corneum . the name encephalitozoon hellem ( n. sp . ) is proposed to identify this new human microsporidian . 
postexposure prophylaxis with zidovudine suppresses human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection in scid-hu mice in a time-dependent manner . occupational exposure to the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) has led to a low but finite incidence of infection among health care providers . in such circumstances , postexposure administration of 3 ' - azido-3 ' - deoxythymidine ( zidovudine ; azt ) might be beneficial . to test this possibility , the scid-hu mouse ( the immunodeficient c.b-17 scid/scid mouse engrafted with human hematolymphoid organs ) was treated with azt at different times after intravenous infection with a standard dose of hiv ( known to infect 100 % of animals ) . if given within 2 h , azt suppressed infection in all animals ; if given after 2 days , no suppression was observed . at least in some animals , an azt-sensitive phase lasted for as long as 36 h. these data support the hypothesis that prompt administration of azt might be efficacious in suppressing acute hiv infection in humans . further studies in the scid-hu mouse might provide insight into treatment protocols of even greater efficacy . 
combined zidovudine and interferon-alpha treatment in patients with aids-associated kaposi 's sarcoma . the effectiveness of addition of interferon-alpha ( ifn-alpha ) to zidovudine in patients with aids-associated kaposi 's sarcoma was assessed in a non-randomized , phase ii clinical trial . twenty-one patients were treated with oral zidovudine ( 600 mg daily ) and ifn-alpha was increased to 18 mu daily for another 4 weeks . only one of the 20 evaluable patients achieved a partial response at 8 weeks , that lasted for 3 months . despite ifn-alpha dose escalation in six patients , no further responses were seen . while myelotoxicity was mild , fatigue was the dose-limiting side-effect that prevented dose escalation in seven eligible patients . the combined treatment did not result in a decrease in hiv-ag . in summary , our results indicate that the addition of ifn-alpha to zidovudine in patients with aids-associated kaposi 's sarcoma is not an efficacious treatment . 
effects of cigarette smoking on thyroid function and the prevalence of goitre , thyrotoxicosis and autoimmune thyroiditis . the effect of smoking habits on thyroid function and the prevalence of thyroid diseases was studied in two birth cohorts ( 1928 and 1941 ) of men and women . a total of 1555 individuals ( 836 men and 719 women ) were smokers . 1048 individuals ( 604 men and 444 women ) were ex-smokers and 1497 individuals ( 560 men and 937 women ) were non-smokers . the serum thyrotropin ( tsh ) concentration was significantly lower in smokers than in ex-smokers and non-smokers ( p = 0.05 and p = 0.001 , respectively ) . smoking habits did not affect the serum triiodothyronine ( t3 ) concentrations . the prevalence of non-toxic goitre and toxic diffuse goitre was significantly higher in smoking women than in non-smoking women ( p = 0.005 and p = 0.04 , respectively ) . thiocyanate may be the goitrogenic factor responsible for the increased prevalence of non-toxic goitre . the cause of the increased prevalence of toxic diffuse goitre is less obvious . hypothetically , an increase in sympathetic activity in smokers may promote the development of thyrotoxicosis in predisposed individuals , but immunological disturbances caused by smoking are another possibility . 
a spreadsheet for aids : estimating heterosexual injection drug user population size from aids statistics in san francisco . a single-page computer spreadsheet can be used to back-calculate the size of the population at risk from the reported number of aids cases and hiv seropositivity levels for that population . however , cohen ( 1988:35 ) has cautioned that " this method requires some heroic assumptions , and is , therefore , fraught with difficulty . " slight variations in the definition of aids , in the progression rate , and in reported seropositivity rates used as data in the spreadsheet can make enormous differences in the results obtained through back-calculation . despite the limitations of the method , an estimate of the possible size of the idu population can be derived from back-calculation , with careful consideration of ethnographic realities taken into account . in san francisco , the present authors believe that there were approximately 13,000 heterosexual idus as of the end of 1989 . further demographic divisions by ethnicity , age , sex , and even neighborhood could be made using the same techniques , if aids cases and seropositivity levels could be obtained for each variable . table ii predicts a cumulative 705 aids diagnoses among san francisco heterosexual idus by the end of 1993 , or nearly six times as many as reported through 1988 . this prediction is based on an assumption of 2.5 % seroconversion per year ( 1989-1993 ) and on modest progression-rate increments of 5 % , 5 % , 4 % , 3 % , and 3 % in the eleventh through fifteenth years after hiv infection . thus , it shows the magnitude of the epidemic that san francisco will shortly face and emphasizes the need to act vigorously to prevent further hiv contagion among idus as well as from them to their heterosexual partners ( drug using or not ) . 
genetic analysis as an aid in diagnosis for patients with midline carcinomas of uncertain histologies the tumors of nine patients with carcinomas of uncertain histogenesis ( eight with poorly differentiated carcinomas involving primarily midline structures and one with a diagnosis of seminoma and atypical clinical features ) were studied by cytogenetic and southern blot analyses . four of the eight patients with poorly differentiated carcinomas had abnormalities of chromosome 12 consistent with a diagnosis of germ cell tumor . these abnormalities comprised an i ( 12p ) in two patients and a del ( 12q ) in a third patient detected by cytogenetic analysis and multiple copies of 12p detected by southern blot analysis in a fourth patient . three of these four patients with a diagnosis of germ cell tumor established by genetic analysis achieved a complete response to cisplatin-based chemotherapy . the tumor biopsy of one patient showed a t ( 11 ; 22 ) ( q24 ; q12 ) , and this patient had chemotherapy directed to neuroepithelioma . cytogenetic analysis was unsuccessful for the tumors of three patients ; these tumors did not have multiple copies of 12p detected by southern blot analysis . these patients did not respond to cisplatin-based chemotherapy . one patient with a diagnosis of extragonadal seminoma failed to respond to cisplatin-based chemotherapy and had a second tumor biopsy performed that demonstrated a t ( 8 ; 14 ) ( q24 ; q32 ) . this patient 's diagnosis was changed to a non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . thus , genetic analysis provided a diagnosis in six of nine patients . cytogenetic and molecular analyses are useful clinical tools for the determination of histogenesis in some patients with poorly differentiated carcinomas of uncertain histology . 
disseminated human malignant melanoma in congenitally immune-deficient ( bg/nu/xid ) mice . congenitally immune-deficient bg/nu/xid ( bnx ) mice are severely compromised in their ability to mount t-cell , b-cell , and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell responses . successful engraftment of bnx mice with human hematopoietic stem cells has been demonstrated recently . we have investigated the potential use of bnx mice for studies relating to the biology and immunotherapy of human malignant melanoma . the intravenous injection of fresh single-cell suspensions of human malignant melanomas into mice resulted in widely disseminated disease . metastatic spread of human melanoma in bnx mice mimicked that observed in patients : eg , there were numerous tumor nodules identified in the subcutaneous tissues as well as in a variety of visceral organs , including spleen , kidneys , thyroid , adrenals , lungs , heart , and brain . bnx mouse lymph nodes were replaced consistently by human malignant melanoma cells . the presence of human tumor cells in these mice was confirmed by histologic analysis and microcytofluorometry analyses using human melanoma-specific monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) . moreover , human melanoma cells passaged in bnx mice remained lysable in vitro by specifically cytolytic , autologous human tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes ( tils ) . the capacity of fresh human malignant melanoma to disseminate widely in bnx mice may prove valuable not only for study of the biology of metastatic spread but also for studies of the immunotherapy of human melanoma using melanoma-specific mabs and chemotherapeutic agents , as well as human tils and lak cells with or without retrovirus-mediated gene transfer modification . 
prevalence of antibody to hiv-1 among entrants to us correctional facilities prevalence of antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) was assessed among 10,994 consecutive male and female entrants to 10 correctional systems in the united states . the hiv-1 seroprevalence for the 10 systems ranged from 2.1 % to 7.6 % for men and 2.5 % to 14.7 % for women ; seroprevalence among women was higher than among men across nine of 10 systems . using age 25 years to divide the population , hiv-1 prevalence among young women ( 5.2 % ) was significantly higher than among young men ( 2.3 % ) , but similar to that in both older women ( 5.3 % ) and older men ( 5.6 % ) . overall , hiv-1 rates for nonwhites ( 4.8 % ) were higher than those for whites ( 2.5 % ) . although categories were identified across correctional systems , which may serve to focus prevention programs , variability in rates among correctional systems indicates that program planning must take local conditions into consideration . 
urinary tract infection in the impaired host . in general , defects in phagocytosis and in humoral or cellular immunity do not appear to predispose to the acquisition of uti but do influence the clinical manifestations and the severity , microbiology , and complications of infection once it is established . the incidence of uti in immunosuppressed patients other than diabetics or renal transplant recipients is not higher than the incidence in nonimmunosuppressed individuals . the higher frequencies of infection seen in diabetics and in renal transplant recipients correlate best with the duration of bladder instrumentation rather than with glycosuria or immunosuppressive regimen . neutropenia blunts the clinical manifestations of uti and predisposes to bacteremia . use of broad spectrum antibiotics results in alterations in indigenous flora , promotes urinary infections with resistant nosocomial pathogens , and predisposes to fungemia with hematogenous seeding of the urinary tract . routine screening for detection of asymptomatic bacteriuria and prompt institution of antimicrobial therapy is indicated only in renal transplant recipients within 3 months of their surgery and not in any of the other diseases discussed . 
sexual transmission of human t-cell leukemia virus type i associated with the presence of anti-tax antibody . the tax gene product ( tax protein ) of human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) is a specific transcriptional activator of the viral long terminal repeat sequence and is essential for the replication cycle of the virus . to elucidate the relationship between the presence of anti-tax antibody and the transmission of the viral infection , annual consecutive serum samples from married couples serologically discordant or concordant for htlv-i were examined . these included 5 individuals whose spouses seroconverted during this 5-year follow-up study period . the samples were tested by a western blot assay using a recombinant tax protein as the antigen . the results showed that 24 of 32 ( 75 % ) men in the concordant couples ( both husband and wife were htlv-i carriers ) had anti-tax antibody , while only 5 of 18 ( 27.8 % ) men in the discordant couples ( husband was carrier and wife was seronegative to htlv-i ) were positive for anti-tax antibody ( p = 0.0012 ) . furthermore , all spouses of the 5 seroconverters ( 4 women and 1 man ) had anti-tax antibody , while only 23 of 46 ( 50 % ) age-matched randomly selected htlv-i carriers from the discordant-couple group had anti-tax antibody . when the data were analyzed by gender , all husbands of the female seroconverters had anti-tax antibodies , which was significantly higher than the prevalence of anti-tax antibodies in men who did not transmit the virus to their spouses during the follow-up period ( p = 0.017 ) . in addition , antibody reactivity to other htlv-i antigens ( including env gp46 , transmembrane protein gp21 , and gag p19 and p24 ) were examined . the results indicated no significant differences between the prevalence of antibody reactivity to any of the antigens in the spouses of the seroconverters and the reference group . we conclude that the presence of anti-tax antibody in men may indicate a high risk of viral transmission to their wives via heterosexual routes . 
scid mutation in mice confers hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation and a deficiency in dna double-strand break repair . c.b-17 severe combined immunodeficient ( scid ) mice carry the scid mutation and are severely deficient in both t cell - and b cell-mediated immunity , apparently as a result of defective v ( d ) j joining of the immunoglobulin and t-cell receptor gene elements . in the present studies , we have defined the tissue , cellular , and molecular basis of another characteristic of these mice : their hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation . bone marrow stem cells , intestinal crypt cells , and epithelial skin cells from scid mice are 2 - to 3-fold more sensitive when irradiated in situ than are congenic balb/c or c.b-17 controls . two independently isolated embryo fibroblastic scid mouse cell lines display similar hypersensitivities to gamma-rays . in addition , these cell lines are sensitive to cell killing by bleomycin , which also produces dna strand breaks , but not by the dna crosslinking agent mitomycin c or uv irradiation . measurement of the rejoining of gamma-ray-induced dna double-strand breaks by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis indicates that these animals are defective in this repair system . this suggests that the gamma-ray sensitivity of the scid mouse fibroblasts could be the result of reduced repair of dna double-strand breaks . therefore , a common factor may participate in both the repair of dna double-strand breaks as well as v ( d ) j rejoining during lymphocyte development . this murine autosomal recessive mutation should prove extremely useful in fundamental studies of radiation-induced dna damage and repair . 
very long charge runs in systemic lupus erythematosus-associated autoantigens . systemic lupus erythematosus and other chronic systemic autoimmune diseases are associated with circulating autoantibodies reactive with a limited set of mostly nuclear proteins . using rigorous statistical methods we have identified segments of highly significant charge concentration in the majority of the characteristic nuclear and cytoplasmic autoantigens . extremely long runs of charged residues , including some sequences of greater than 20 consecutive charged residues ( purely acidic or mixed basic and acidic ) , occur in about a third of these proteins , whereas equivalent runs are found in less than 3 % of other mammalian proteins . the other sequences have less extreme charge clusters , the type and location of which are often conserved between several otherwise nonsimilar antigens . we propose that supercharged surfaces render the targeted host proteins strongly immunogenic and that antinuclear antibody profiles might result from chronic exposure to intracellular contents , possibly in conjunction with crossreactive viral products . the limited number of potential systemic autoantigens may partly be due to the rarity of requisite charge properties . 
aids epidemiology : inconsistencies with human immunodeficiency virus and with infectious disease . the newly defined syndrome aids includes 25 unrelated parasitic , neoplastic , and noninfectious indicator diseases . based on epidemiological correlations , the syndrome is thought to be due to a new , sexually or parenterally transmitted retrovirus termed human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . the following epidemiological data conflict with this hypothesis . ( i ) noncorrelations exist between hiv and aids ; for example , the aids risks of infected subjects vary greater than 10-fold with their gender or country . abnormal health risks that are never controlled as independent aids causes by aids statistics , such as drug addiction and hemophilia , correlate directly with an abnormal incidence of aids diseases . above all , the aids diseases occur in all risk groups in the absence of hiv . ( ii ) american aids is incompatible with infectious disease , because it is almost exclusively restricted to males ( 91 % ) , because if it occurs , then only on average 10 years after transfusion of hiv , because specific aids diseases are not transmissible among different risk groups , and because unlike a new infectious disease , aids has not spread exponentially since the aids test was established and aids received its current definition in 1987 . ( iii ) epidemiological evidence indicates that hiv is a long-established , perinatally transmitted retrovirus . hiv acts as a marker for american aids risks , because it is rare and not transmissible by horizontal contacts other than frequent transfusions , intravenous drugs , and repeated or promiscuous sex . it is concluded that american aids is not infectious , and suggested that unidentified , mostly noninfectious pathogens cause aids . 
angiotropic intravascular large-cell lymphoma ( malignant angioendotheliomatosis ) : report of a case and review of the literature . we present a case of angiotropic large-cell lymphoma and review the literature in order to define the neurologic features of this rare disorder . this is the first report of gadolinium-dtpa imaging in angiotropic large-cell lymphoma that demonstrates infarcts of multiple ages , as well as striking meningeal enhancement . angiotropic large-cell lymphoma should be suspected in patients with clinical evidence of small and large cerebral vessel disease and diagnosis requires skin , liver , renal , meningeal , or brain biopsy . single modality treatment , using either radiation therapy or steroids , has been ineffective , and new findings of a lymphomatous origin of this neoplasm suggest that combination chemotherapy may be indicated . 
gene rearrangements in the diagnosis of lymphoma/leukemia . guidelines for use based on a multiinstitutional study . the demonstration of immunoglobulin or t-cell receptor gene rearrangements in human lymphoproliferative processes with the use of dna hybridization has gained great popularity as a sensitive laboratory adjunct to diagnostic hematopathology . the fact that nearly all b - or t-cell malignant lymphomas and leukemias have one or more rearranged antigen receptor genes provides a biologic basis for a diagnostic test . to formally analyze the sensitivity , specificity , and reproducibility of gene rearrangements in the diagnosis of human lymphoproliferative disease , the authors conducted a large , multiinstitutional study . through a blinded , controlled approach , gene rearrangement analysis of 275 cases was shown to carry a high correlation with conventional phenotyping and histologic diagnosis , with only minor false-positive and false-negative rates . significantly , no rearrangements were detected in normal lymphoid tissues or carcinomas , sarcomas , or melanomas . in a randomized study of 50 cases , laboratory results showed a high rate of interlaboratory agreement , regardless of the level of previous experience . furthermore , the reproducibility of interpretation of data ( southern blot autoradiograms ) of 192 cases showed high concordance among 11 observers from multiple laboratories . based on these findings , the authors propose a set of guidelines for interpretation of gene rearrangement analysis that , if carefully followed , renders this a highly reproducible , safe , and accurate addition to the diagnostic regimen for human lymphoproliferative processes . 
mycobacteremia in acquired immune deficiency syndrome . rapid diagnosis based on inclusions in the peripheral blood smear . in 16 cases of human immunodeficiency virus-associated mycobacterium avium-intracellulare complex ( mac ) infection , 7 were diagnosed after finding intracytoplasmic negatively staining linear inclusions within histiocytes using romanowsky-stained bone marrow aspirate smears . four patients had inclusions within monocytes and neutrophils in the peripheral blood smear . the authors believe these cases represent the first reported examples of mac inclusions observed within leukocytes in wright 's - stained peripheral blood smears . inclusions usually were found in the setting of prominent toxic changes in leukocytes such as large dohle bodies , marked granulation , and vacuolation . these inclusions are characteristic of mycobacteria and can be confirmed by acid fast stains and mycobacteriologic culture . the authors present the clinical and laboratory setting in which identification of inclusions in peripheral blood smears may be a rapid , minimally invasive , and cost-effective method of diagnosing mycobacterial infection . 
low-protein diet and glomerular size-selective function in membranous glomerulopathy . we studied the effect of dietary protein restriction on glomerular function and proteinuria in nine patients with membranous nephropathy . patients were randomly assigned to a 3-month period of a normal protein diet ( npd , 1.3 mg/kg/d ) or of a low-protein diet ( lpd , 0.6 mg/kg/d ) , in a cross-over design . dietary protein restriction did not affect glomerular filtration rate ( 47.8 + / - 10.7 and 49.0 + / - 13.5 ml/min/1 .73 m2 , lpd and npd , respectively ) and renal plasma flow ( 456 + / - 119 and 499 + / - 161 ml/min/1 .73 m2 , lpd and npd , respectively ) , nor did it significantly improve glomerular permselective function , as shown by urinary protein excretion ( 3.1 + / - 2.2 and 3.5 + / - 2.8 g/d , lpd and npd , respectively ) and fractional clearance of albumin , igg , and neutral dextran molecules of graded molecular size ( radii ranging from 2.8 to 6.0 nm ) . these results indicate that reduction of protein intake to 0.6 g/kg/d does not improve glomerular size selectivity in membranous nephropathy . thus , in current clinical practice , a protein-restricted diet does not appear to be effective in reducing proteinuria in this category of patients . 
frequency of nonparenteral occupational exposures to blood and body fluids before and after universal precautions training . purpose : during annual periods before and after universal precautions training , we compared the frequency of health care workers ' self-reported cutaneous exposures to blood and various body substances from any patient and from patients presumed infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . subjects and methods : self-reported cutaneous exposures to blood , sputum , urine , feces , and other body substances were evaluated separately in 559 workers during the first survey and 269 workers during the second . results : mean annual blood exposures decreased from 35.8 to 18.1 , and mean annual exposures to all substances decreased from 77.8 to 40.0 ( p less than 0.001 for both determinations ) . two matched analyses of a subset of 200 participants who completed both surveys had similar results . reported exposures to blood , presumably infectious blood , sputum , presumably infectious sputum , and urine were significantly decreased . participants were tested for antibodies to hiv-1 ; no participant reporting cutaneous exposures acquired hiv-1 infection . the upper bound for the 95 % confidence interval for the risk of hiv-1 infection associated with a single cutaneous exposure was 0.04 % for blood presumed to contain hiv-1 and 0.02 % for any body substance presumed to contain hiv-1 . conclusions : these data suggest that universal precautions training significantly decreased but did not eliminate cutaneous exposures to blood and body substances . the results further suggest that the risk for hiv-1 infection associated with cutaneous exposures is substantially lower than the risk associated with parenteral exposures . 
circulating interferon-alpha levels and hypertriglyceridemia in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . purpose : the metabolic disturbances seen during infection are thought to be due to cytokines , modulators of the immune response . the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) is characterized by a high prevalence of hypertriglyceridemia and at times depletion of body cell mass ( wasting ) . elevated circulating levels of cytokines have also been reported in aids . therefore , we determined the relationship between circulating cytokine levels and lipid levels and between circulating cytokine levels and wasting in aids and human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . patients and methods : serum samples from 45 patients with aids , 13 subjects with evidence of hiv infection by presence of antibody but without aids ( hiv positive ) , and 17 seronegative control subjects who had previously undergone body composition analysis were analyzed for triglyceride , cholesterol , interferon , tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , and interleukin-1 levels . eleven subjects with aids or hiv infection had sequential measurements . interferon was analyzed by bioassay with identification using specific antibodies . tnf and interleukin-1 were assayed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . lean body mass was assessed by total body potassium . results : serum interferon-alpha levels were significantly elevated in patients with aids ( p less than 0.001 compared to controls ) , with detectable levels in 84 % of aids patients . interferon-alpha was not detectable in serum from controls , while three of 13 hiv-positive subjects had detectable interferon-alpha levels . there was a significant correlation between interferon-alpha levels and serum triglyceride levels in aids and hiv-positive patients ( r = 0.446 , p less than 0.002 ) . there was no relationship between interferon-alpha and serum cholesterol levels ( r = -0.039 , ns ) . in contrast only 11 % of aids patients had detectable circulating tnf levels ; the mean value for and the prevalence of detectable serum tnf levels were not significantly different from those of control subjects . interleukin-1 was not detected in the circulation . there was no correlation between the presence of circulating tnf and serum triglycerides . there was no relationship between circulating interferon-alpha or tnf levels and the presence of wasting as measured by total body potassium . conclusion : these studies suggest that interferon-alpha , which has previously been shown to modulate lipid metabolism in vivo and in vitro , may be responsible for the hypertriglyceridemia found in aids . 
intestinal cryptosporidiosis : pathophysiologic alterations and specific cellular and humoral immune responses in rnu / + and rnu/rnu ( athymic ) rats . in order to develop an experimental model of symptomatic cryptosporidiosis in an immunosuppressed mammal , we investigated the pathophysiology of infection with cryptosporidium and the humoral and cellular host responses in rnu/rnu ( athymic ) rats and their heterozygous ( rnu / + ) littermates by challenging suckling rats with greater than or equal to 2.5 x 10 ( 6 ) cryptosporidium oocytes oro-gastrically . normal and immunodeficient animals were followed for onset and duration of infection ( fecal oocysts ) , physiologic consequences ( diarrhea , impaired weight gain , brush-border enzyme activities ) , and immunologic response ( both b - and t-lymphocyte-mediated ) . homozygosity for the rnu gene was associated with protracted cryptosporidial infections ; shedding for up to 52 days occurred , and delay in weight gain was noted in rnu/rnu-infected compared with rnu/rnu-uninfected rats ( p less than 0.05 ) . in contrast , cryptosporidial challenge of rnu / + rats resulted in self-resolving infections , occasionally with transient diarrhea lasting four days or less occurring 10-15 days after oro-gastric challenge . the latter animals mounted a cell-mediated immune response to cryptosporidium : three months after challenge , five of five rnu / + rats demonstrated positive skin test responses to a subcutaneous 3.5 micrograms dose of cryptosporidial antigen . further , sera from 6 rnu / + rats taken two to three months after oro-gastric oocyst challenge exhibited specific anticryptosporidial immunoglobulin binding ( a405 = 0.96 ) , compared to that of seven uninfected rnu / + controls ( a405 = 0.09 , p less than 0.02 ) . macromolecules of 150 , 105 , and 88 kd in the cryptosporidium antigen preparation were bound by serum immunoglobulin from previously infected , recovered rnu / + rats . two brush-border enzymes ( lactase and alkaline phosphatase ) were markedly reduced in the ileum 8-10 days after oro-gastric challenge in rats with diarrhea and oocyst shedding . we find the rnu/rnu ( athymic , nude ) rat provides a useful model for study of prolonged cryptosporidial infection with impaired weight loss , brush-border enzyme alteration and intermittent diarrhea . these studies further suggest that a t-lymphocyte population is involved in recovery from cryptosporidium infection and that this recovery is associated with both cellular and humoral immune responses to specific cryptosporidial antigenic macromolecules . this model should open further avenues for the study of the pathogenesis and protective immunity in cryptosporidial infection . 
elevated alpha-tumor necrosis factor levels in spinal fluid from hiv-1-infected patients with central nervous system involvement . to assess the role of alpha-tumor necrosis factor in the pathogenesis of central nervous system involvement during human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection , we recorded clinical data and measured alpha-tumor necrosis factor levels in serum and cerebrospinal fluid samples from 45 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 , classified as group ii/iii ( 10 ) , group iv a ( 5 ) , group iv b ( 10 ) , and group iv c-1 ( 20 ) of the centers for disease control acquired immunodeficiency syndrome classification system and 42 controls . alpha-tumor necrosis factor was above the limit of detection in only 3 of 15 sera and 3 of 15 cerebrospinal fluid samples from patients in group ii/iii and group iv a , whereas it was detected in 17 of 30 sera ( p less than 0.05 ) and 22 of 30 cerebrospinal fluid ( p less than 0.0002 ) samples from clinically more advanced patients ( group iv b and group iv c-1 ) . alpha-tumor necrosis factor mean values were 21.5 pg/ml in sera and 50.0 pg/ml in cerebrospinal fluid from group iv b patients and 30.4 pg/ml in sera and 24 pg/ml in cerebrospinal fluid from group iv c-1 patients . 
major differences in the dynamics of primary and secondary progressive multiple sclerosis . in patients with primary and secondary progressive multiple sclerosis ( ms ) , major differences in the pattern and extent of abnormality on cerebral magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) between the two groups have recently been demonstrated . in the present study , 24 patients , matched for age , sex , duration of disease , and disability , had serial gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid-enhanced mri over a 6-month period . the 12 patients in the secondary progressive group had a total of 109 new lesions over this time ( 18.2 lesions per patient per year ) and 87 % of these enhanced . enhancement also occurred within and at the edge of preexisting lesions . in contrast , only 20 new lesions were seen in the primary progressive group ( 3.3 lesions per patient per year ) and only one of these enhanced . there was no difference in the degree of clinical deterioration between the two groups over the 6-month period . these findings may indicate a difference in the dynamics of disease activity between the two forms of progressive ms , particularly in relation to the inflammatory component of the lesions , and have important implications for the selection of patients and the monitoring of disease activity in therapeutic trials . 
correlation of phasic muscle strength and corticomotoneuron conduction time in multiple sclerosis . central motor conduction times for the adductor pollicis muscle , the twitch force of that muscle to scalp magnetic motor cortex stimulation , and the maximum force of phasic voluntary contraction of the same muscle were measured in 15 patients with multiple sclerosis . two tests of manual dexterity of the same hand also were studied : the purdue pegboard test , and the maximal frequency of a scissors movement of the thumb and index finger . the patients had normal strength or minimal weakness of the intrinsic muscles of the hand on clinical examination . the mean central motor conduction times for the adductor pollicis muscle for the patients were longer than normal , the peak twitch force of the adductor pollicis muscle evoked by cortical stimulation and the maximum force of a phasic voluntary contraction of the adductor pollicis muscle were smaller than normal . there were strong correlations between all these measures . central motor conduction time in the patients was inversely correlated with voluntary phasic force and the twitch force after cortical stimulation . that is , the longer the central motor conduction time , the weaker the force . prolonged central motor conduction time is likely to be accompanied by conduction block in corticomotoneuron pathways . the correlation of central motor conduction time with voluntary phasic force and the twitch force most likely reflects the degree of conduction block and temporal dispersion rather than delay in conduction per se . these results indicate that objective assessments of phasic muscle strength may reveal correlations with central motor conduction time that are not evident on conventional clinical examination which assesses tonic muscle contraction strength . 
lymphoma , motor neuron diseases , and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis . we studied 9 patients with motor neuron disease and lymphoma . the following several observations have not been recognized in the past : ( 1 ) motor neuron syndromes are associated with either hodgkin 's disease or non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . ( 2 ) the syndromes are not restricted to lower motor neuron disorders ; 8 of 9 patients had definite or probable upper motor neuron signs as well , qualifying for the diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis . corticospinal tracts were affected in both postmortem examinations . ( 3 ) the combination of motor neuron disease and lymphoma is often accompanied by paraproteinemia ( 3 of 7 patients studied ) , increased cerebrospinal fluid protein content ( 6 of 9 patients ) , and cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal bands ( 3 of 9 patients ) . ( 4 ) in 2 patients , asymptomatic non-hodgkin 's lymphoma was found only because the discovery of paraproteinemia gave impetus to examine the bone marrow . ( 5 ) patients with both upper and lower motor neuron signs ( amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ) may show physiological evidence of conduction block in peripheral nerves or autopsy abnormalities in peripheral nerves . the cause of this syndrome is not known . both lymphoma and motor neuron disease could have a common cause , possibly a retroviral infection . the frequency of paraproteinemia suggests that an immunological disorder may play a role in the pathogenesis of the neurological disorder . 
allergic histories and reactions of patients treated with digoxin immune fab ( ovine ) antibody . the digibind study advisory panel . seven hundred seventeen adult patients with life-threatening digitalis intoxication were treated with fab fragments of ovine antidigoxin immunoglobulin g ( igg ) . results of the efficacy of treatment and adverse effects were collected with standard report forms . eighty-two ( 11 % ) of the patients were recorded as having histories of allergy ( 71 patients ) and/or asthma ( 11 patients ) . of the " allergic " subjects , 35 described reactions to antibiotics , 19 to other medications , 3 to foods , and 2 to pollens ; in 12 subjects the etiologic agent was not specified . six subjects had adverse reactions that were probably or possibly due to allergy to components of the antibody preparation . of these 4 ( 5 % ; 95 % confidence interval ( cl ) 1.8 % to 12 % ) occurred in the 82 subjects with histories of allergy or asthma and 3 ( 9 % ; 95 % cl 1.8 % to 23 % ) of these occurred in the 35 persons with histories of allergy to an antibiotic . in contrast , only 2 ( 0.3 % ; 95 % cl 0.04 % to 1.1 % ) similar reactions occurred in the 635 subjects with no histories of allergy or asthma . all reactions responded to symptomatic treatment . the authors conclude that treatment of digitalis intoxication with ovine antidigoxin igg-fab ( digibind ) is generally well tolerated and allergic reactions are rare . however , there is a significantly increased risk of reactions in patients with histories of allergy or asthma . 
inflammatory response in retrieved noncemented porous-coated implants . one hundred forty-six noncemented porous-coated hip and knee implants retrieved from 97 patients were evaluated histologically for the type , amount , and anatomic distribution of tissue ingrowth . the degree of inflammatory cell infiltrate present was also evaluated and the predominant cell type was identified . an inflammatory infiltrate was present in the components of 21 of 97 patients ( 22 % ) . in 16 of the 21 cases the infiltrate was lymphocytes and histiocytes with a minor population of plasma cells . one of the remaining five cases had a predominately plasma cell reaction , and the other four had significant populations of plasma cells . vascular proliferation was observed in nine of the 21 cases . bone ingrowth was present in ten of the 21 cases . a 38 % incidence of removal for persistent pain was present in cases with an inflammatory infiltrate . seventeen of 87 patients ( 20 % ) with cobalt-chromium devices and four of ten patients ( 40 % ) with titanium devices were identified as having an inflammatory infiltrate . the origin of the inflammatory infiltrate is unclear . all patients with inflammatory infiltrates had noninfected implants , which were not loose roentgenographically or clinically at the time of removal . hypersensitivity and allergic responses to metal ions may produce such infiltrates . it is impossible , however , in the present study to definitively determine the etiology of the infiltrates . 
bronchial asthma . asthma is one of the most common respiratory problems in modern industrialized countries , affecting over 5 % of the population . it affects all age groups from infants to senior citizens , and mortality rates from asthma appear to be increasing during the past few years in the united states as well as in other industrialized countries . asthma tends to occur in families , associated with other allergic disease , and may be induced by a wide variety of environmental antigens , most commonly inhaled allergens such as pollen and dust . bronchial challenge with a specific allergen results in an early bronchospastic response with a relatively brief duration , and in a significant number of patients there is a late response with onset after 3 to 4 hours , lasting hours to days . this late response is associated with a bronchial hypersensitivity reaction , which is demonstrable by nonspecific challenge testing in the laboratory . during the period of bronchial hyperresponsiveness patients are prone to develop attacks following exposure to a wide variety of " triggers , " including cold air , fumes , or cigarette smoke . the current approach to management of patients with asthma emphasizes prevention , with avoidance of specific allergens when possible , and chronic use of anti-inflammatory agents including corticosteroids and cromolyn sodium . the goal is to decrease the bronchial hyperresponsiveness . management of the acute asthma attack consists of bronchodilator therapy , primarily with inhaled beta-adrenergic agonists , and administration of oral or systemic corticosteroids if the attack is not rapidly relieved . additional therapeutic agents including theophylline and anticholinergics may be useful in some situations . response to therapy during the first couple of hours in the emergency room is the most important predictor of the course of the acute attack , and patients who have not responded significantly after 2 hours of maximum therapy are candidates for hospital admission or prolonged emergency room observation . the goal of acute therapy is to wean the patient from intravenous drugs and place him or her on rapidly tapering doses of oral prednisone while initiating a vigorous program of preventive therapy . follow-up observation , both in the office and in the patient 's home , is vital and involves extensive patient education and objective testing of peak airflow . in general , the course of asthma is relatively benign compared with other obstructive airway diseases ; however , significant mortality exists , especially in older patients and those with late-onset asthma . 
pneumocystis carinii infection of the thyroid in a hypothyroid patient with aids : diagnosis by fine needle aspiration biopsy . a 49-yr-old homosexual man with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome presented with a left-sided neck mass . he was found to have a firm goiter . he was clinically euthyroid , but had laboratory evidence of primary hypothyroidism . radioactive iodine scan of the thyroid showed homogeneous uptake over an enlarged right lobe and absence of uptake over the left lobe . two fine needle aspiration biopsies of the thyroid revealed the presence of pneumocystis carinii ( p. carinii ) organisms on the gomori 's methenamine silver strain . after courses of iv and oral therapy with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole , a third fine needle aspiration biopsy failed to reveal any organisms . a repeated radioactive iodine scan of the thyroid showed return of uptake over the left lobe . thyroid function tests normalized with levothyroxine , and the goiter decreased in size . to our knowledge , this is the first report of hypothyroidism associated with p. carinii infection of the thyroid . p. carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus infected individuals presenting with cold thyroid nodules . fine needle aspiration biopsy is a valuable tool in assessing these patients . 
monocytoid b cell lymphoma . the clinical , light microscopic , ultrastructural , immunocytochemical and cytogenetic features of a case of monocytoid b cell lymphoma were investigated . the tumour initially affected the cervical and supraclavicular nodes , but 33 months later affected the left parotid salivary gland . the patient had subclinical sjogren 's syndrome . the neoplastic cells showed characteristic morphological features and had peri - and interfollicular distribution in the node . immunocytochemically the tumour cells were l26 , 4kb5 , mb2 , cd19 , cd20 , cd22 and igm/kappa positive . prominent plasmablastic plasmacytoid differentiation was present in the recurrent tumour , suggesting an origin from post-follicular b cells . the lymphoma cells showed unusual cytogenetic abnormalities . 
serum non-organ specific autoantibodies in human immunodeficiency virus 1 infection . serum samples from 66 seropositive subjects ( 56 with a history of intravenous drug abuse ) , including asymptomatic carriers and patients with persistent generalised lymphadenopathy ( pgl ) , aids related complex ( arc ) , and aids , were tested by indirect immunofluorescence on rat tissue sections and hep-2 cells for the presence of antibodies to nuclei , smooth muscle , intermediate filaments ( anti-imf ) and microfilaments ( anti-mf ) . counterimmunoelectrophoresis was also used to detect antibodies to extractable nuclear antigens . smooth muscle antibodies with the v pattern or antinuclear antibodies , mainly of the speckled type , or anti-imf , occurred in 35 cases , being widely distributed in all groups . such an autoantibody response resembles the " viral " autoimmunity described in various infectious diseases and in particular that of non-a , non-b post-transfusion hepatitis . autoantibodies may be of some prognostic relevance , as the prevalence of smooth muscle antibodies v increased as the disease progressed ( asymptomatic carriers 20 % , those with pgl 29 % , those with arc 47 % , and those with aids 63 % . in the pgl group autoantibody positivity correlated with the presence of skin anergy . the fact that autoantibodies were more frequently detected in patients with circulating immune complexes suggests that these can contain autoantibodies and the corresponding autoantigens . 
immunoassay of p2 protein in cerebrospinal fluid in neurological disorders . cerebrospinal fluid samples were obtained at lumbar puncture from 53 patients with a wide variety of neurological disorders . cerebrospinal fluid samples were tested for the presence of p2 protein , a constituent of myelin , with an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay technique using a specific polyclonal antibody . high concentrations of p2 in the cerebrospinal fluid paralleled a raised igg index ( clearance ratio ) , the presence of oligoclonal bands , as well as raised white cell counts or depressed albumin : igg ratios . twenty one patients had been diagnosed as having definite or probable multiple sclerosis and the remaining 32 had other conditions . of the 13 patients with high positive p2 , 12 ( 92 % ) were in the multiple sclerosis category ; of the 40 patients with low ( 12 ) or undetectable ( 28 ) p2 concentrations , only nine ( 23 % ) were diagnosed as having multiple sclerosis . in this patient population the presence of high immunoreactive p2 concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid was closely associated with evidence of intrathecal immunoglobulin synthesis and with the clinical diagnosis of multiple sclerosis . on this basis it is suggested that immunoassay of p2 concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid may be of potential value in the investigation of patients with demyelinating disorders . 
cytogenetic analysis of a granulocytic sarcoma in a patient without systemic leukaemia . granulocytic sarcoma is a rare complication of leukaemia . occasionally it presents before the development of systemic leukaemia when diagnosis may be difficult . a case of granulocytic sarcoma occurring in a patient with no overt evidence of leukaemia , but in whom cytogenetic analysis of the bone marrow showed a clonal t ( 12 ; 13 ) translocation , is reported . cytogenetic analysis of tissues in this disease may indicate evidence of systemic disease before overt morphological changes . 
gastric lymphoma causing granulocytopenia and cold intolerance , with recovery after treatment . a 34-year-old man was found to have granulocytopenia with a white blood count of 2.3 x 10 ( 9 ) l-1 , consisting of 10 % segmented neutrophils , 50 % monocytes and 40 % lymphocytes . a bone marrow aspirate showed 20 % promyelocytes and 10 % blasts with monoblastic features , and a smouldering myelomonocytic leukaemia was considered to be a possible diagnosis . in cold weather the patient experienced cold intolerance with acrocyanosis and small ulcerations on the ears . the test for heparin-precipitable protein ( ' cryofibrinogen ' ) was strongly positive . during the following year , these signs and symptoms persisted , and the patient also developed constant moderate pain in the epigastric region . gastroscopy revealed a large lymphoma of the stomach , which was a high-grade malignant centroblastic type of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . after successful removal of the tumour , and six courses of potent cytostatic combinations , the patient recovered completely , and the granulocytopenia and cold intolerance disappeared . 
neuropsychological performance in patients with mild multiple sclerosis . although changes in cognitive function in patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) have been reported , these changes have been traditionally associated with the later stages of the disease . in the current study , a comprehensive neuropsychological battery was administered to ms patients ( n = 86 ) in whom the disease progression was relatively mild and in remission and a demographically well-matched control group ( n = 46 ) . besides the expected differences in tests of motor function , the two groups also differed on a number of cognitive tests with no motor demands . the two cognitive functions that appear impaired were learning and memory . given that similar deficits have been found in ms patients with more severe symptoms , it is argued that changes in cognitive function can occur in the mild stages of the disease . 
systemic lupus erythematosus in iceland 1975 through 1984 . a nationwide epidemiological study in an unselected population . in a nationwide study the 1982 revised ara criteria were applied for the classification of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . this unselected group of patients included all cases diagnosed and managed in hospitals , as well as outside hospitals in iceland over the 10-year period from 1975 to 1984 . seventy-six new cases were found , with an incidence of 5.9 and 0.8 / 100,000 for females and males at risk , respectively . the mean age at diagnosis was 46.6 years . twenty-five percent of the patients would have been missed had the study included hospital patients only . a clinical pattern different from previous studies was found as illustrated by a low incidence of kidney disease ; nephritis was found in 20 % of patients . comparison with a former study on sle in iceland shows an actual increase in incidence over a period of 10 years . the 5 year survival was 84 % and the 10 year survival 78 % . 
juvenile systemic lupus erythematosus among egyptian children . a prospective analysis of 30 egyptian children with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) was conducted throughout a 3 year period . the average followup period was 13 months . the age of onset ranged from 8 to 14 years . most cases presented with more than one of the classical features of the disease . however , 23.3 % presented primarily with major organ involvement . one case presenting with cardiac tamponade is reported in our series . the clinical and laboratory manifestations of the disease are presented , though more complete studies are required to confirm any possible differences in these disease manifestations compared with those found in other populations . contrary to the frequently held view , our results suggest that childhood onset sle is not rare in africa or at least some parts of the continent . 
prevalence of antibody to borrelia burgdorferi in children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis . lyme arthritis and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ( jra ) share a number of clinical features . our study was performed in order to determine the prevalence of antibody to borrelia burgdorferi in 50 children with jra who reside in a nonendemic area . three patients were weakly reactive and one patient was reactive when tested using an enzyme immunoassay to detect serum antibody to b. burgdorferi . no patient , however , had definitive serologic evidence of b. burgdorferi infection by western blot analysis . we conclude that the prevalence of antibody to b. burgdorferi is very low in children with jra who reside in a nonendemic area . 
hiv associated arthropathy : hiv antigen demonstration in the synovial membrane . light and electron microscopic studies were performed on the synovial membranes of 5 patients with hiv associated arthropathy . an immunoperoxidase technique with the use of monoclonal antibodies against cd4 , cd8 , b and dr lymphocytes , and hiv p24 antigen was also used . mild to moderate nonspecific proliferative changes and increased vascularity of the subsynovial space were seen . electron dense deposits and viral-like particles were not observed . immunohistochemical staining revealed hiv p24 positive staining in cells of the synovial lining layer and in the mononuclear cells of the subsynovial space . cd4 , cd8 , with predominance of cd8 , and b and dr cells were also present . the presence of hiv p24 antigen may be indicative of a role , yet to be defined , in the pathogenesis of hiv associated rheumatic disorders . 
fibromyalgia in human immunodeficiency virus infection . tenderness was assessed by point count and by scored palpation in 51 patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection as well as 51 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 50 patients with psoriatic arthritis ( psa ) . fifteen of 51 ( 29 % ) patients with hiv infection met criteria for fibromyalgia , based on the presence of 10 tender ( of 14 ) " fibrositic " points . similar results were observed among patients with psa ( 24 % ) . the prevalence of fibromyalgia was higher among patients with ra ( 57 % ) . patients with hiv and psa were less tender than patients with ra . fibromyalgia in patients with hiv was significantly associated with myalgia and arthralgia , but not with age , duration of hiv infection , stage of hiv disease , or zidovudine therapy . 
hypoglycemia due to antiinsulin receptor antibodies in systemic lupus erythematosus . an elderly woman with unexplained episodic fasting hypoglycemia was hospitalized for ascites . evaluation revealed polyserositis , arthritis and immunologic abnormalities that suggested the diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . antibodies to insulin receptor with insulin binding inhibitory activity were detected in her serum . treatment with prednisone was accompanied by resolution of hypoglycemic episodes and disappearance of the antireceptor antibodies . autoantibody mediated alterations in serum glucose may be included in the growing list of autoimmune phenomena in sle . antiinsulin receptor antibodies should be sought in patients with sle and idiopathic hypoglycemia . 
lymphoma presenting as a popliteal mass in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis . a patient with hla-b27 and rheumatoid factor positive rheumatoid arthritis presented with a painless swelling in his popliteal fossa . clinical features were atypical for a baker 's cyst , and subsequent investigation showed this lesion to be a primary malignant lymphoma . 
effect of a short course of prednisone in the prevention of early relapse after the emergency room treatment of acute asthma . background . relapse after the treatment of acute asthma in the emergency room is common ( occurring in 25 to 30 percent of cases ) and is not accurately predicted by any available measurements . we studied the usefulness of prednisone in reducing this high rate of relapse . methods . one hundred twenty-two patients treated in the emergency room for acute exacerbations of asthma were assigned in a randomized , double-blind fashion to receive at discharge either prednisone for eight days ( the dose being tapered from 40 to 0 mg per day ) or matching placebo . ninety-three were subsequently discharged from the emergency room and participated in the trial . on days 1 , 7 , and 14 after discharge , the patients were assessed during home visits with spirometry and diary-card review ; they were contacted by telephone on day 21 . relapse was defined as an unscheduled medical visit occasioned by the patient 's perceived need for further asthma treatment . results . the overall risk of relapse was significantly lower in the prednisone group ( p less than 0.05 ) , with a significantly reduced rate of relapse during the first 10 days of follow-up ( 3 of 48 , as compared with 11 of 45 in the placebo group ; p less than 0.05 ) . thereafter ( days 11 through 21 ) , there was no further significant difference in relapse rates between treatment groups ( five in the prednisone group and six in the placebo group ) . during the first week after discharge , patients receiving prednisone reported significantly lower mean ( + / - sd ) daily symptom scores for shortness of breath ( 1.4 + / - 0.4 vs. 2.5 + / - 0.4 , p less than 0.01 ) and less frequent use of an inhaled bronchodilator ( 5.2 + / - 0.5 vs. 6.9 + / - 0.2 puffs per day , p less than 0.05 ) than patients receiving placebo . subsequently , symptom scores and bronchodilator use were similar in the two groups . conclusions . a short course of prednisone reduced early relapse rates after the treatment of acute asthma in the emergency room , an effect limited to the period of steroid administration . 
neuropathy caused by spontaneous intraneural hemorrhage : case report . a case of ulnar neuropathy at the elbow produced by spontaneous intraneural hemorrhage in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and thrombocytopenia is reported . intraneural hemorrhage in patients with bleeding disorders occurs infrequently . it consists of acute intrafascicular bleeding , presumably producing very high elevations of endoneurial fluid pressure . the clinical features and treatment of this condition are considered , the pertinent literature is reviewed , and the involved pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed . 
grinspan 's syndrome : a drug-induced phenomenon ? three cases of apparently drug-induced grinspan 's syndrome involving the triad of oral lichen planus , diabetes mellitus , and hypertension are reported . because drug therapy for diabetes mellitus and hypertension is capable of producing lichenoid reactions of the oral mucosa , the question arises as to whether grinspan 's syndrome is an iatrogenically induced syndrome . 
pathologic characteristics of human t-cell lymphotropic virus ( htlv ) - related extranodal orofacial lymphomas . eleven cases of extranodal orofacial lymphomas ( eofl ) , consisting of four htlv-related and seven htlv-unrelated eofl , were investigated with respect to the immunohistochemical and clinical features . htlv-related eofl were of t-cell phenotype and were associated with a poorer prognosis than htlv-unrelated eofl , most of which were of b-cell origin . the appearance of giant cells with cerebriform nuclei was helpful in identifying htlv-related eofl . the relatively high incidence of t-cell type eofl in our series was considered to be related to the high percentage of htlv carriers in our district , an area endemic for adult t-cell leukemia-lymphoma . 
respiratory distress in a child in the office . we have reviewed respiratory distress from a pathophysiologic approach . two specific disease entities , epiglottitis and asthma , which commonly present with respiratory distress , are reviewed . the office management of respiratory distress encompasses early recognition of disease to prevent symptoms from progressing . referral should be considered in any difficult cases . 
cerebral venous thrombosis : new causes for an old syndrome ? the range of disorders affecting the cerebral veins and sinuses is increasing and now includes blood disorders , abnormalities in the patterns of blood flow , and infiltrative or inflammatory conditions , all of which may promote thrombosis . we describe 10 patients with cerebral venous thrombosis : two had protein s deficiency , one had protein c deficiency , one was in early pregnancy , and there was a single case of each of the following : dural arteriovenous malformation , intracerebral arteriovenous malformation , bilateral glomus tumours , systemic lupus erythematosus , wegener 's granulomatosis , non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . the recognition of such diverse aetiology may be importance since clinical features are non-specific , and may consist only of raised intracranial pressure , allowing confusion with ' benign intracranial hypertension ' . the existence of effective treatment both for the thrombosis and for many of the underlying disorders makes early diagnosis essential . the prognosis of treated patients may be favourable . 
enhancement of hiv-1 cytocidal effects in cd4 + lymphocytes by the aids-associated mycoplasma . coinfection with mycoplasma fermentans ( incognitus strain ) enhances the ability of human immunodeficiency virus type-1 ( hiv-1 ) to induce cytopathic effects on human t lymphocytes in vitro . syncytium formation of hiv-infected t cells was essentially eliminated in the presence of m. fermentans ( incognitus strain ) , despite prominent cell death . however , replication and production of hiv-1 particles continued during the coinfection . furthermore , the supernatant from cultures coinfected with hiv-1 and the mycoplasma contained a factor that inhibited the standard reverse transcriptase enzyme assay . the modification of the biological properties of hiv-1 by coinfection with mycoplasma may be involved in the pathogenesis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . 
immunohistochemical characterization of microvascular endothelial cells in primary b cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract . microvascular endothelial cells ( enc ) in primary b cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract were immunohistochemically studied . based on the morphological structure , the microvasculatures were divided into high endothelial cell vessels ( hev ) and flat endothelial cell vessels ( fev ) . there were distinct phenotypic differences between hev and fev in lymphoma tissues . hev were characterized as okm1 - okm5 - , accompanied by the cluster of non-neoplastic t lymphocytes , and fev were okm1 - okm5 + not accompanied by t lymphocyte infiltration . factor viii-related antigen was clearly identified in both enc , and major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii antigens and interleukin 1 were absent or only faintly visible on enc in lymphoma tissues , whereas they were expressed on enc in non-lymphoma tissues . these findings suggest that microvascular enc in primary b cell lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract lack a property as antigen-presenting cells , and that hev are involved in the migration of non-neoplastic t lymphocytes . 
the role of the physician in the late diagnosis of primary malignant tumors of the small intestine . survival from primary malignancies of the small intestine has not improved during the last four decades . one reason for this is the advanced stage of disease at the time of surgery . in order to determine why diagnosis is made late , we reviewed the records of all patients with small bowel malignancy diagnosed between 1967 and 1988 . the time from the onset of symptoms to the first medical contact and the time from medical contact until diagnosis were evaluated in 77 patients . the average delay in diagnosis attributable 1 ) to the patient failing to report symptoms was less than 2 months , 2 ) to the physician not ordering the appropriate diagnostic test was 8.2 months , and 3 ) to the radiologist failing to make the diagnosis was 12 months . thus , the major delay in diagnosis was after medical help was sought and not from the onset of symptoms to first medical consultation . physicians must increase their sensitivity to the subtle but persistent symptoms that necessitate a small bowel evaluation . 
cluster of fulminant hepatitis b in crack users . fulminant hepatitis occurs in only 1 % of acute hepatitis b patients , requiring hospitalization , but coinfection with delta virus increases the incidence . hepatitis b and d infection are commonly associated with intravenous drug abuse , but there have been no previous reports of an association with nonparenteral cocaine . crack use , via sexual promiscuity , is associated with an increased risk for human immunodeficiency virus infection , but has never been associated with viral hepatitis . we report four fatal cases of fulminant hepatitis b including , one with delta virus coinfection and one with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , in young , sexually active , heterosexual crack users . these patients denied a history of intravenous drug abuse . our patients probably contracted hepatitis b infection via heterosexual contact . chronic cocaine exposure may or may not have contributed to the fulminant outcome . crack users may be at increased risk of developing hepatitis b and d infection . epidemiological studies are needed to evaluate their risk of viral hepatitis and the effect of cocaine on its outcome . 
perforation and tumor formation of the intestine in primary amyloidosis . we report a case of primary amyloidosis with repeated bowel perforations . this patient also had localized amyloid deposition creating a tumorous region mimicking malignancy in the rectum . perforation of the intestine is common in systemic amyloidosis . the ischemic change due to amyloid infiltration into the vessel wall may lead to perforation of the affected bowel . amyloid tumors occur more often in localized amyloid than in systemic amyloidosis . macroscopically , it is difficult to distinguish amyloid tumor of the intestine from neoplasia . 
cytomegalovirus diaper dermatitis . cytomegalovirus inclusions have been reported in perineal ulcers from immunosuppressed adults . the importance of this finding is unknown . we report the first pediatric case of cutaneous cytomegalovirus infection in an infant with congenital human immunodeficiency virus infection , presenting as a diaper dermatitis . cytomegalovirus was cultured from the skin biopsy specimen , and characteristic inclusions were seen on hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections . results of this biopsy specimen analysis prompted further investigation revealing disseminated cytomegalovirus infection , including retinitis . aggressive pursuit of a pathogen in common conditions such as diaper dermatitis is strongly recommended in immunosuppressed pediatric patients . 
evaluation of treatment protocols on minimal to moderate spasticity in multiple sclerosis . thirty men and women diagnosed with definite multiple sclerosis ( ms ) were treated for ten weeks in a blinded , cross-over study . patients with minimal to moderate spasticity were randomized to one of three sequences to evaluate the effects on ms-related spasticity of baclofen alone , stretching regimen with placebo , placebo alone , and stretching regimen with baclofen . the cybex ii isokinetic unit , timed gait , ashworth scale , and subject 's assessment of function were objective and subjective measures used to evaluate changes in hypertonicity . there was significant correlation between the cybex and ashworth as methods of measuring spasticity . overall , treatment with baclofen alone significantly improved moderate quadriceps spasticity as measured by cybex flexion scores . a trend , indicative of enhancing the beneficial effects of baclofen , was noted when stretching exercises were added to the treatment . 
changing disease patterns in patients with aids in a referral centre in the united kingdom : the changing face of aids objective -- to study the changes in morbidity , mortality , and survival patterns in a population of patients with aids in the united kingdom from 1982 to 1989 . design -- a retrospective analysis of inpatient and outpatient records of patients with aids . subjects -- 347 patients with aids , predominantly homosexual or bisexual men . setting -- departments of immunology and genitourinary medicine , st mary 's hospital , london . main outcome measures -- presenting diagnosis of aids , occurrence of other opportunist diseases , cause of death , and survival since aids was diagnosed , in particular for those patients with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia or kaposi 's sarcoma . results -- the overall proportion of patients who developed p carinii pneumonia dropped from 56 % ( 20/36 ) in 1984 to 24 % ( 46/194 ) in 1989 , although it has remained the index diagnosis in about half of new patients . kaposi 's sarcoma has decreased as index diagnosis from 30 % ( 20/67 ) to 20 % ( 15/74 ) over the same period , though the prevalence has remained constant at around 35 % . p carinii pneumonia accounted for 46 % ( 16/35 ) of known causes of death in 1986 but only 3 % ( 1/31 ) in 1989 . conversely , deaths due to kaposi 's sarcoma rose from 14 % ( 1/7 ) to 32 % ( 10/31 ) between 1984 and 1989 . lymphoma accounted for an increased proportion of deaths among these patients with 16 % ( 5/31 ) of deaths in 1989 . their median survival increased from 10 months in 1984-6 to 20 months in 1987 . conclusions -- the changing patterns of disease in patients with aids have important implications both for health care provision and future medical research . medical and nursing provision must be made for the increased morbidity of these diseases and the increased survival of these patients . research should now be directed towards developing effective treatments for the opportunist infections which are currently more difficult to treat , the secondary malignancies of aids , as well as more effective immunorestorative treatments . future changes in disease patterns must be recognised at an early stage so that resources can be adequately planned and allocated . 
nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis in aids patients . objective -- to describe a nosocomial outbreak of cryptosporidiosis during four months after june 1989 . setting -- a department of infectious diseases in copenhagen , seeing about half the patients with aids in denmark . subjects -- 73 hiv antibody negative subjects and 60 antibody positive subjects admitted as inpatients during the transmission period of the outbreak ( 20 june-14 august ) , of whom 18 ( 17 with aids , one with aids related complex ) , developed cryptosporidiosis . two further hiv negative subjects ( one departmental secretary , one visiting relative ) developed cryptosporidiosis . main outcome measures -- cryptosporidia in stool samples , clinical symptoms , cd4 cell count , hiv antigen concentration , chemotherapeutic treatment . results -- the source of the outbreak was identified as ice from an ice machine in the ward , contaminated by an incontinent , psychotic patient with cryptosporidiosis picking out ice for cold drinks . the mean incubation time was at least 13 days-that is , twice that in hiv-negative patients . of the 18 patients with aids who developed cryptosporidiosis , five recovered , two were symptomless carriers , three died of unrelated causes , and eight died after prolonged diarrhoea . among the 57 exposed hiv antibody positive inpatients ( excluding two patients and the index case with cryptosporidiosis diagnosed elsewhere ) , significantly more of those who developed symptomatic cryptosporidiosis received oral sulphonamides than those who did not ( 91 % , 10/11 v 48 % , 21/44 , p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- the clinical and epidemiological findings indicate that infection was the consequence of very small inocula . increased sensitivity to cryptosporidiosis may be an unrecognised side effect of oral sulphonamide treatment in patients with aids . 
intrathecal immunoglobulin m synthesis in multiple sclerosis . relationship with clinical and cerebrospinal fluid parameters . intrathecal igm synthesis was assessed through the detection of oligoclonal bands in cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) and through calculation of igm index values and total csf igm amounts . intrathecal production of igm was then evaluated along with other csf parameters and clinical variables in 150 patients with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) . intrathecal production of igm was detected in 55 % of patients and was found to correlate with disease activity , manifesting as a recent relapse , as well as the total number of relapses . an inverse correlation was found between csf oligoclonal igm and both the time interval between the last relapse and lumbar puncture , and duration of the disease process . it also correlated with the number of leucocytes , free kappa and lambda light chain bands in csf . no correlation was found between intrathecal igm synthesis and degree of disability ( kurtzke scale ) , disease progression index ( poser scale ) , or total cerebral plaque burden ( detected by enhanced ct and mri scans ) . oligoclonal igm bands were found to be more specific for active disease process than either igm index or total csf igm amount . it is concluded that intrathecal synthesis of igm , as detected by csf oligoclonal bands , is a useful parameter in monitoring disease relapse activity in ms. 
diagnosis of sulfite and aspirin sensitivity . in addition to the well-recognized allergic responses of individuals to high mol wt substances , such as pollens , molds , and animal dander , susceptible asthmatics may also experience adverse reactions to low mol wt substances such as sulfites , asa , and nsaids . the diagnosis of sulfite and aspirin sensitivity can only be made by appropriately conducted provocative challenge . every precaution should be taken to assure the safety of the patients , since life-threatening reactions can occur . a better understanding of the mechanism or mechanisms involved in the adverse reactions to these substances will not only provide information to better diagnose the reaction , but also improve our understanding of the treatment of asthma . 
using pulmonary function testing in the diagnosis and treatment of asthma . asthmatics have remarkable changes in their pulmonary function in response to numerous external stimuli and internal controls . serial pulmonary function testing in the office , hospital , at home , or the work place allows the objective measurement that is necessary to intelligently diagnose and treat these patients . once the patient and the physician understand how to use the techniques for monitoring the degree of airways obstruction , they become a key in medical management decisions . 
prognostic significance of doppler measures of diastolic function in cardiac amyloidosis . a doppler echocardiography study . background . we have previously characterized the left ventricular diastolic filling abnormalities in cardiac amyloidosis by doppler methods . the various filling patterns were shown to be related to the degree of cardiac amyloid infiltration . the purpose of this study was to determine the value of doppler diastolic filling variables for assessing prognosis in cardiac amyloidosis . methods and results . we performed pulsed-wave doppler studies of the left ventricular inflow and obtained clinical follow-up data in 63 consecutive patients with biopsy-proven systemic amyloidosis . all patients had typical echocardiographic features of cardiac involvement . the patients were subdivided into two groups according to deceleration time : group 1 ( 33 patients ) had a deceleration time of 150 msec or less , indicative of restrictive physiology , and group 2 ( 30 patients ) had a deceleration time of more than 150 msec . of the 63 patients , 32 ( 51 % ) died during a mean follow-up period of 18 + / - 12 months . of these deaths , 25 ( 78 % ) were cardiac deaths , and 19 of the 25 patients ( 76 % ) were from group 1 . the 1-year probability of survival in group 1 was significantly less than that in group 2 ( 49 % versus 92 % , p less than 0.001 ) . bivariate analysis revealed that the combination of the doppler variables of shortened deceleration time and increased early diastolic filling velocity to atrial filling velocity ratio were stronger predictors of cardiac death than were the two-dimensional echocardiographic variables of mean left ventricular wall thickness and fractional shortening . conclusions . doppler-derived left ventricular diastolic filling variables are important predictors of survival in cardiac amyloidosis . 
human growth hormone-variant is a biologically active somatogen and lactogen . the human gh-variant ( hgh-v ) gene , a member of the gh-prl gene family , is expressed by the placenta during the second and third trimesters of gestation . the secreted hgh-v protein differs from pituitary gh ( hgh-n ) by only 13 amino acids . we have previously demonstrated that hgh-v can bind to both somatogen and lactogen cell surface receptors in vitro , but that the ratio of its somatogen to lactogen receptor-binding affinities is substantially higher than that of hgh-n . we now characterize the somatogen and lactogen bioactivities of hgh-v and contrast them to the bioactivity of hgh-n . somatogen bioactivity was assayed by stimulation of weight gain in hypophysectomized rats , and lactogen bioactivity was assayed by the mitogenic response of the nb2 lymphoma cell line . while the average increase in rat body weight in response to a fixed concentration of hormone was comparable using either hgh-v or hgh-n , the mitotic response of the lactogen-inducible nb2 cells was significantly less for hgh-v . the comparable somatogen , but lower lactogen , bioactivity of hgh-v relative to hgh-n parallels the previously reported receptor binding profiles of the two hormones and suggests that hgh-v has the potential to perform a unique role during human gestation . 
islet cell antibodies in patients with autoimmune thyroid disease . islet cell antibodies ( icas ) were assayed in 316 patients with autoimmune thyroid disease ( aitd ; 190 with graves ' disease , 126 with hashimoto 's thyroiditis ) , 53 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) , and 144 healthy control subjects . icas were measured by an immunohistochemical method with peroxidase-labeled protein a and human pancreatic tissues . the prevalence of icas in patients with aitd was 7.6 % ( 24 of 316 ) , whereas the prevalence in control subjects was 0.7 % ( 1 of 144 ) . among 24 ica + patients , 20 ( 83 % ) had iddm . in these 20 patients , the duration of diabetes from clinical onset was 5.4 + / - 5.1 yr . icas in patients with iddm alone were positive in 90.9 % at 1 yr and 7.7 % at 5 yr after the onset of diabetes . these data have shown that most ica + patients with aitd have iddm and that the prevalence of icas in patients with aitd in japanese is as high as that found among whites , whereas the incidence of iddm in japanese is approximately one-thirtieth or one-fiftieth of that in whites . 
the sensitized liver represents a rich source of endogenous leukotrienes . the ability of livers to produce endogenous leukotrienes after immunological stimulation was tested with organs from rats and guinea pigs . passive sensitization of rats in vivo with monoclonal murine antidinitrophenol-ige before antigen challenge in the isolated perfused liver system elicited a rapid hepatic production and biliary excretion of leukotrienes as judged by radioimmunoassay after separation of individual leukotrienes by high-performance liquid chromatography . within 10 min after antigen infusion , mainly leukotriene c4 , but also leukotriene d4 and n-acetyl-leukotriene e4 , appeared in the bile . the biliary excretion rate of antigen-induced cysteinyl leukotrienes rose from less than 2 pmol.min-1 . ( kg body mass ) -1 before challenge to about 30 pmol.min-1 . ( kg body mass ) -1 for 20 min before it declined toward prechallenge level . quantitatively similar hepatic production of cysteinyl leukotrienes was elicited in isolated perfused guinea pig livers challenged with ovalbumin after active sensitization of the animals with ovalbumin plus al ( oh ) 3 . to exclude extrahepatic contributions to the observed leukotriene production , both passive sensitization with anti-dinitrophenol-ige and subsequent antigen challenge were performed on isolated rat livers perfused with blood-free medium . such exclusively hepatic sensitization and challenge also resulted in massive production of leukotrienes . the biliary excretion rate of cysteinyl leukotrienes amounted to approximately 20 pmol.min-1 . ( kg body mass ) -1 during the 10 to 20 min period after antigen challenge as compared with less than 1 pmol.min-1 . ( kg body mass ) -1 before challenge . 
leukocyte counts and activation in spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive rats the etiology for the progressive organ injury in hypertension is largely speculative . recent studies have shown that leukocytes play a key role in several cardiovascular diseases . as an initial step toward investigating the role of leukocytes in hypertension , we measured leukocyte counts and spontaneous activation of granulocytes of freshly drawn unseparated blood samples in spontaneously hypertensive rats and in their normotensive counterpart , wistar-kyoto rats . the animals were derived from one breeder in the united states and from two breeders in europe . total leukocyte counts in young , mature , and old hypertensive rats were 50-100 % above the controls . the number of granulocytes in mature and old spontaneously hypertensive rats in more than 100 % elevated compared with control rats . in young hypertensive rats the mean granulocyte count was only slightly elevated . the number of spontaneously activated granulocytes , as detected by the nitroblue tetrazolium reduction , increases with age in both species ; in mature spontaneously hypertensive rats , it is more than 300 % above the values in the controls . furthermore , in mature hypertensive rats the number of monocytes , activated monocytes , and the lymphocyte count are also significantly elevated over the values in the normotensive controls . it is proposed that these elevated leukocyte counts may constitute an enhanced risk for organ injury in the spontaneously hypertensive rat . 
transforming growth factor-beta and suppression of humoral immune responses in hiv infection . we reported previously that pbmc from hiv + patients spontaneously release increased levels of tgf beta 1 , contributing to defects in cellular immune responses . this study defines the implications of tgf beta overexpression for humoral immunity in hiv infection . we found that upon staphylococcus aureus cowan i ( sac ) stimulation of cells from hiv + donors , b-lymphocyte proliferative responses were decreased . this deficiency correlated closely ( r = 0.7 , p less than 0.001 ) with increased tgf beta secretion by pbmc from hiv-infected donors . conditioned medium from hiv + pbmc and purified tgf beta 1 had similar inhibitory effects on sac - or ebv-induced b-cell proliferation , and b cells from hiv-infected donors were as sensitive to inhibition by tgf beta as cells from normal donors . antibodies to tgf beta 1 neutralized the inhibitory effect of hiv + culture supernatants on normal b cells and increased low proliferative responses by hiv + cells . using pwm as stimulus for b cell differentiation , it was shown that activated tgf beta from hiv + pbmc is able to significantly reduce the induction of immunoglobulins and this effect was also abrogated by anti-tgf beta . these studies support the concept that in hiv infection , tgf beta is a potent suppressor , not only of the cellular , but of the humoral immune responses as well . 
vaccination with legionella pneumophila membranes induces cell-mediated and protective immunity in a guinea pig model of legionnaires ' disease . protective immunity independent of the major secretory protein of legionella pneumophila . we have examined the capacity of legionella pneumophila membranes to induce cell-mediated immune responses and protective immunity in a guinea pig model of legionnaires ' disease . guinea pigs immunized by aerosol with l. pneumophila membranes developed strong cell-mediated immune responses to l. pneumophila membranes as demonstrated by cutaneous delayed-type hypersensitivity and in vitro splenic lymphocyte proliferation . guinea pigs immunized by aerosol or by subcutaneous inoculation with l. pneumophila membranes developed strong protective immunity against lethal aerosol challenge with l. pneumophila . overall , in six independent experiments , 39 of 49 ( 80 % ) guinea pigs immunized with l. pneumophila membranes survived challenge compared with 2 of 40 ( 5 % ) sham-immunized controls ( p = 2 x 10 ( -13 ) . in contrast , guinea pigs immunized by aerosol with formalin-killed l. pneumophila did not develop either a strong cell-mediated immune response to l. pneumophila antigens or protective immunity to lethal aerosol challenge . the capacity of l. pneumophila membranes to induce protective immunity was independent of the major secretory protein of l. pneumophila , which we previously demonstrated is an immunoprotective molecule . purified l. pneumophila membranes did not contain detectable major secretory protein ( msp ) on immunoblots ; immunization of guinea pigs with l. pneumophila membranes did not induce anti-msp antibody ; and guinea pigs developed comparable protective immunity after immunization with membranes from either an l. pneumophila strain that secretes the major secretory protein or an isogenic mutant that does not . this study demonstrates that ( a ) immunization with l. pneumophila membranes but not formalin-killed l. pneumophila induces strong cell-mediated immune responses and protective immunity , ( b ) l. pneumophila membranes contain immunoprotective molecules distinct from the major secretory protein of l. pneumophila , and ( c ) l. pneumophila membranes have potential as a vaccine against legionnaires ' disease . 
an autocrine role for urokinase in phorbol ester-mediated differentiation of myeloid cell lines . the human myeloid cell line hl60 secretes urokinase-type plasminogen activator ( upa ) and expresses its receptor . when stimulated with phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) , both secretion of upa and the expression of its receptor are up-regulated , and these cells differentiate to an adherent phenotype . this adhesive response is markedly reduced in the presence of upa antibodies . the pma response is restored by the addition of native upa , an amino-terminal fragment of upa ( residues 1-143 ) devoid of proteolytic activity , or a synthetic peptide ( residues 12-32 ) from the upa growth factor domain known to mediate receptor binding . in contrast , the addition of catalytically active low molecular weight upa , which is missing the growth factor domain , or a peptide from the catalytic domain ( residues 247-266 ) is ineffective . the influence of upa antibodies on a second marker of macrophage differentiation , cysteine proteinase activity , was also examined . cysteine proteinase activity of hl60 cells is increased in pma-treated cells after 24 h but it fails to increase in the presence of anti-upa . this increase in cathepsin b-like activity is also restored by exogenous upa . these experiments indicate that an autocrine interaction of the growth factor domain of upa with its receptor mediates an essential step in pma-mediated myeloid cell differentiation . 
tumor necrosis factor downregulates granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor receptor expression on human acute myeloid leukemia cells and granulocytes . tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) inhibits granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) - induced human acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) growth in vitro . incubation of blasts from three patients with aml in serum-free medium with tnf ( 10 ( 3 ) u/ml ) , and subsequent binding studies using 125i-g-csf reveal that tnf downregulates the numbers of g-csf receptors by approximately 70 % . g-csf receptor numbers on purified blood granulocytes are also downmodulated by tnf . downregulation of g-csf receptor expression becomes evident within 10 min after incubation of the cells with tnf at 37 degrees c and is not associated with an apparent change of the dissociation constant ( kd ) . the tnf effect does not occur at 0 degrees c and can not be induced by il-2 , il-6 , or gm-csf . tnf probably exerts its effect through activation of protein kinase c ( pkc ) as the tnf effect on g-csf receptor levels can be mimicked by 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13 - acetate . the pkc inhibitor staurosporine ( sigma chemical co. , st. louis , mo ) as well as protease inhibitors can completely prevent g-csf receptor downmodulation . thus , it appears tnf may act as a regulator of g-csf receptor expression in myeloid cells and shut off g-csf dependent hematopoiesis . the regulatory ability of tnf may explain the antagonism between tnf and g-csf stimulation . 
identification of lymphotoxin and tumor necrosis factor in multiple sclerosis lesions . multiple sclerosis ( ms ) brain tissue , spleen , and pbmc were studied using immunocytochemistry and facs for immunoreactivity for lymphotoxin ( lt ) and tnf . both cytokines were identified in acute and chronic active ms lesions but were absent from chronic silent lesions . lt was associated with cd3 + lymphocytes and leu-m5 + microglia cells at the lesion edge and to a lesser extent , in adjacent white matter . tnf was associated with astrocytes in all areas of the lesion , and with foamy macrophages in the center of the active lesion . in acute lesions , immunoreactivity for tnf in endothelial cells was noted at the lesion edge . no lt or tnf reactivity was detected in alzheimer 's or parkinson 's disease brain tissues but was present at lower levels in central nervous system ( cns ) tissue from other inflammatory conditions , except for adrenoleucodystrophy which displayed high levels of lt in microglia . no increase in lt and tnf reactivity was detected in spleen and pbmc of ms patients suggesting specific reactivity within the cns . these results indicate that lt and tnf may be involved in the immunopathogenesis of ms , and can be detected in both inflammatory cells and cells endogenous to the cns . 
infantile acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin : study of ten cases . infantile acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin is not included as a separate entity in the current english-language literature as it is in continental europe . therefore we have attempted to clarify the nosologic position of acute hemorrhagic edema among cutaneous vasculitides in children , on the basis of our experience in 10 cases . our study confirms that acute hemorrhagic edema affects infants between 4 and 24 months of age . the two main features are an ecchymotic purpura , often in a cockade pattern , and an inflammatory edema of the limbs and face . visceral involvement is uncommon . spontaneous and complete resolution occurs within 1 to 3 weeks ; one to four attacks may occur . histopathologic examination demonstrates a leukocytoclastic vasculitis . perivascular iga deposits can occasionally be found . besides typical acute hemorrhagic edema , some cases in 2 - to 4-year-old children appear to overlap with schonlein-henoch purpura . we suggest that typical acute hemorrhagic edema should be regarded as a separate clinical entity . this allows an appropriate prognosis to be made for this generally benign disease of infants . 
allergy and toxicodermia from shiitake mushrooms . skin and respiratory symptoms developed within 2 months of exposure in a patient involved in the commercial production of shiitake mushrooms . a diagnosis of contact urticaria and allergic contact dermatitis from shiitake mushrooms was confirmed by prick and patch tests . the respiratory symptoms , their timing , the presence of precipitating igg antibodies to shiitake spores and increased amounts of inflammatory cells and t lymphocytes in bronchoalveolar lavage indicated allergic alveolitis ( mushroom worker 's disease ) . a generalized exanthem developed in a second patient after eating raw shiitake mushrooms . reactions to prick and patch tests with shiitake mushrooms were negative . the skin eruption in this patient corresponded to the previously reported shiitake-induced toxicodermia . 
a syndrome characterized by nodular eosinophilic infiltration of the skin and immunoglobulin isotype imbalance . a 9-year-old boy had recurrent acute , plaquelike , nodular infiltrations with overlying vesicles and bullae of the face and right hand . histologically , the lesions consisted of a perivascular and periadnexal lymphohistiocytic infiltrate with many eosinophils . the lesions responded to dapsone therapy . laboratory studies revealed blood eosinophilia , hyperimmunoglobulinemias e and g4 , and hypoimmunoglobulinemias m and g1-3 , which normalized after treatment . the patient 's immune deviation is consistent with a transient imbalance of lymphokine production in helper t cells . 
group a streptococcal cellulitis-adenitis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . a rapidly enlarging left inguinal adenitis , with positive groove sign , and fever , chills , malaise , hypotension , headache , scarlatiniform rash , choleroid diarrhea , and proteinuria developed in an homosexual man who was positive for human immunodeficiency virus . the needle aspiration of the inguinal mass showed group a beta-hemolytic streptococci and the blood cultures were negative , suggesting group a streptococcal cellulitis-adenitis with toxic strep syndrome . treatment with penicillin and surgical drainage was successful . bacterial infections associated with defective humoral immunity appear to be common in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , and some of these infections have a remarkable extensive and lethal evolution . therefore streptococcal adenitis should be considered in any patient with aids or aids-related syndrome in whom rapidly enlarging inguinal nodes develop . 
symptomatic polyneuropathy in human immunodeficiency virus antibody seropositive men with and without immune deficiency : a comparative electrophysiological study . symptomatic polyneuropathy in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection was studied in ten men with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) and in ten men without the immune deficiency . in both groups of patients electrophysiological signs of polyneuropathy of the axonal type were present in the sural , median and peroneal nerves . the aids patients had a greater reduction of the mean ( sd ) sural nerve action potential , 3.1 ( 2.7 ) microv , than in patients without aids , 10.2 ( 6.1 ) microv ( p less than 0.01 ) and greater slowing of peroneal nerve conduction velocity , 42.6 ( 1.4 ) m/s in aids patients versus 52.6 ( 3.3 ) m/s in patients without aids ( p less than 0.0001 ) . these findings indicate that in most hiv infected patients the severity but not the type of neuropathy depends on whether an immune deficient state has developed . seven patients with symptomatic polyneuropathy were treated with azidothymidine ( azt ) for an average of 10 months and compared with a group of five untreated patients with similar symptoms . no effect of azt treatment on sural or median nerve amplitude or conduction velocity or on the vibratory or temperature thresholds was observed . 
cauda equina syndrome associated with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts in ankylosing spondylitis : improvement following surgical therapy . a case of cauda equina syndrome with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts complicating ankylosing spondylitis ( as ) is described . the value of computerised tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) as a non-invasive means of establishing the diagnosis is emphasised . in contrast to previously reported cases the patient showed neurological improvement following surgical therapy . surgery may be indicated in some patients , particularly when there is nerve root compression by the arachnoid cysts and when the patient is seen early before irreversible damage to the cauda equina has occurred . 
binary methods for continuous outcomes : a parametric alternative . often a " disease " or " state of disease " is defined by a subdomain of a continuous outcome variable . for example , the subdomain of diastolic blood pressure greater than 90 mmhg has been used to define hypertension . the classical method of estimating the risk ( or prevalence ) of such defined disease states is to dichotomize the outcome variable according to the cutoff value . the standard statistical analysis of such risk of disease then exploits methods developed specifically for binary data , usually based on the binomial distribution . we present a method , based on the assumption of a gaussian ( normal ) distribution for the continuous outcome , which does not resort to dichotomization . specifically , the estimation of risk and its variance is presented for the one - and two-sample situations , with the latter focusing on risk differences and ratios , and odds ratios . the binomial approach applied to the dichotomized data is found to be less efficient than the proposed method by 67 % or less . the latter is found to be very accurate , even for small sample sizes , although rather sensitive to substitutions of the underlying distribution by thicker tailed distributions . canadian total cholesterol data are used to illustrate the problem . for the one-sample case , the approach is illustrated using data from a study of the arterial oxygenation of 20 patients during one-lung anesthesia for thoracic surgery . for the two-sample case , data from a prognostic study of the renal function of 87 lupus nephritic patients are used . 
the history of nitrite in human nutrition : a contribution from german cookery books . in order to settle the question of when saltpetre ( nitrate ) came in use as an additive to human food , a number of historic cookery books from germany and austria were reviewed . obviously , the change from vegetable dyes to saltpetre for the coloring or color preservation , respectively , of meat occurred between 1600 and 1750 , probably near 1700 . the addition of sugar which favours the reduction of nitrate to the active agent nitrite became common practice during the 19th century . thus some historic parallels to the appearance of colorectal cancer , multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis in the medical literature became apparent . 
human growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-1 enhance the proliferation of human leukemic blasts . as the number of long-term survivors of childhood leukemia increases , growth retardation has emerged as a significant complication . treatment of these children with growth hormone ( gh ) has been suggested and sporadically implemented . we , therefore , studied the effect of human gh ( hgh ) and its by-product insulin-like growth factor-1 ( igf-1 ) on the growth of leukemic cells in vitro . under serum-free conditions hgh and igf-1 induced a significant dose-dependent proliferative effect on promyelocytic leukemia ( hl60 ) and burkitt 's lymphoma ( daudi ) cell lines . anti-hgh antibodies negated the stimulatory effect of hgh and anti-igf-1 serum abrogated the growth-promoting effect enhanced by igf-1 . similar statistically significant stimulatory properties were found when freshly obtained marrow cells from four of five acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) of childhood and four acute myelogenous leukemia ( aml ) patients were studied in all and aml blast-cell clonogenic assays . all colonies increased numerically by 72 % ( p less than .025 ) and aml colonies by 92 % ( p less than .01 ) in the presence of hgh at concentrations of 2.5 x 10 ( 2 ) and 3.0 x 10 ( 2 ) ng/ml , respectively . igf-1 stimulated all and aml blast-colony growth at concentrations ranging from 0.05 to 0.5 ng/ml by up to 105 % ( p less than .025 ) and 65 % ( p less than .03 ) , respectively . our in vitro data suggest that circulating hgh and igf-1 may promote leukemic blast cell replication in vivo , and the supplemental administration of hgh to leukemia patients in remission must be carefully monitored for early relapse . 
a phase i clinical trial of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine in pediatric patients with acute leukemia . to evaluate its toxicity and clinical efficacy in children with relapsed or refractory leukemia , we performed a phase i trial of 2-chloro-2 ' - deoxy-adenosine ( 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine ; 2-cda ) given as a continuous 5-day infusion at doses of 3 to 10.7 mg/m2/d . in this study of 31 children with acute leukemia , the only dose-limiting toxicity was myelosuppression . at the highest dose level , three of seven patients developed fatal systemic bacterial or fungal infections . at dose levels above 6.2 mg/m2/d , significant oncolytic responses occurred in all patients . in addition , there was a significant correlation between both the responsiveness by cell type and dose of 2-cda , such that more oncolytic responses were noted in acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) patients than acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) patients ( p = .02 ) . although this was a phase i trial in heavily pretreated patients with refractory disease , two aml patients treated at 5.2 and 10.7 mg/m2/d , respectively , had complete hematologic responses , and one patient treated at 10.7 mg/m2/d had a partial response . in addition , there was a dose-response relationship in all patients with improved cytoreduction of peripheral blast cells at higher doses of 2-cda . in vitro evaluation of 2-cda uptake and anabolism by leukemic blast cells from 22 patients demonstrated that 2-chloro-2 ' - deoxyadenosine ( cld-amp ) and 2-chloro-2 ' - deoxyadenosine 5 ' - striphosphate ( cldatp ) reached concentrations close to steady-state levels within 1 hour . intracellular nucleotide disappearance rates were high with half-lives of 1.29 and 2.47 hours for cldamp and cldatp , respectively . this suggests that continuous infusion is necessary to maintain the desired plasma concentration . the results of this study confirm the antileukemic activity of 2-cda and the lack of prohibitive nonhematologic toxicity . phase ii trials in patients with aml and all are warranted . 
a phase i trial of monoclonal antibody m195 in acute myelogenous leukemia : specific bone marrow targeting and internalization of radionuclide . ten patients with myeloid leukemias were treated in a phase i trial with escalating doses of mouse monoclonal antibody ( mab ) m195 , reactive with cd33 , a glycoprotein found on myeloid leukemia blasts and early hematopoietic progenitor cells but not on normal stem cells . m195 was trace-labeled with iodine-131 ( 131i ) to allow detailed pharmacokinetic and dosimetric studies by serial sampling of blood and bone marrow and whole-body gamma-camera imaging . total doses up to 76 mg were administered safely without immediate adverse effects . absorption of m195 onto targets in vivo was demonstrated by biopsy , pharmacology , flow cytometry , and imaging ; saturation of available sites occurred at doses greater than or equal to 5 mg/m2 . the entire bone marrow was specifically and clearly imaged beginning within hours after injection ; optimal imaging occurred at the lowest dose . bone marrow biopsies demonstrated significant dose-related uptake of m195 as early as 1 hour after infusion in all patients , with the majority of the dose found in the marrow . tumor regressions were not observed . an estimated 0.33 to 1.0 rad/mci 131i was delivered to the whole body , 1.1 to 6.1 rad/mci was delivered to the plasma , and up to 34 rad/mci was delivered to the red marrow compartment . 131i-m195 was rapidly modulated , with a majority of the bound immunoglobulin g ( igg ) being internalized into target cells in vivo . these data indicate that whole bone marrow ablative doses of 131i-m195 can be expected . the rapid , specific , and quantitative delivery to the bone marrow and the efficient internalization of m195 into target cells in vivo also suggest that the delivery of other isotopes such as auger or alpha emitters , toxins , or other biologically important molecules into either leukemia cells or normal hematopoietic progenitor cells may be feasible . 
program directors ' attitudes towards residents ' care of patients who have aids . objective : to evaluate the educational strategies and experiences of residency programs regarding the training of primary care providers in the care of patients who have aids . design : cross-sectional , self-administered questionnaire survey . setting : survey conducted november 1988-april 1989 . participants : all 771 non-military u.s. internal medicine and family medicine program directors were surveyed ; 80 % responded . interventions : none . measurements and main results : while 91 % of the directors felt that primary care of aids patients was an important educational experience and 94 % reported that their programs usually had aids inpatients , only 16 % reported that the majority of trainees cared for aids patients in their continuity clinics . even at programs that typically had six or more aids inpatients , only 26 % of directors reported that most residents had cared for an aids patient in their continuity clinics . among the 57 % who did not believe or were unsure whether their residents were adequately trained in aids ambulatory care , only 38 % reported improving resident education in this area to be a high priority . among the 39 % who did not encourage residents ' assumption of primary care , 60 % had at least one of the following concerns : aids care too stressful for residents ( 24 % ) , aids care too complicated for generalists ( 31 % ) , or clinic faculty not qualified to supervise residents ' caring for aids patients ( 39 % ) . conclusion : although program directors view education in aids ambulatory care as important , most do not believe that residents are adequately trained , many do not encourage residents ' assumption of primary care of aids patients , and residents usually have not provided such care in their programs . strategies to augment residents ' ambulatory experience in aids care are needed . 
differences in access to zidovudine ( azt ) among symptomatic hiv-infected persons . object : to evaluate socioeconomic factors that determine whether symptomatic hiv-infected persons are offered zidovudine ( azt ) . design : cross-sectional survey conducted as part of the robert wood johnson foundation 's aids health services program . setting : public hospital clinics and community-based aids organizations in nine american cities . patients : 880 hiv-seropositive outpatients interviewed between october 1988 and may 1989 . main results : males were more likely to have been offered azt than were females ( adjusted odds ratio 2.99 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.67 to 5.36 ) , those with insurance were more likely to have been offered azt than were those without ( adjusted odds ratio 2.00 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.25 to 3.21 ) , and whites more likely to have been offered azt than were non-whites ( adjusted odds ratio 1.73 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.11 to 2.69 ) . intravenous drug users were less likely to have been offered azt than were non-drug users ( adjusted odds ratio 0.44 ; 95 % confidence interval 0.28 to 0.69 ) . persons who had had an episode of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia were more likely to have been offered azt than were persons who had aids and had not had pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( adjusted odds ratio 2.95 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.71 to 5.11 ) . conclusion : the authors conclude that traditionally disadvantaged groups have less access to azt , the only antiretroviral agent demonstrated to increase survival of patients who have symptomatic hiv infection . 
pathogenesis and recent therapeutic approaches to graft-versus-host disease . effective prophylaxis of acute gvhd should bring about improved patient survival by decreasing severe infections during the first 3 months after transplantation and reducing the incidence of chronic gvhd while not compromising the quality of hematopoietic engraftment or increasing the incidence of leukemic relapse by impairing the graft-versus-leukemia effect . none of the current approaches to prevention of gvhd succeed at meeting these expectations , although postgrafting immunosuppressive therapy comes closest to the ideal . the technique of t cell depletion has been very effective in reducing the incidence of gvhd , but conditioning programs must be developed that will be more successful at eliminating host immune and malignant cells . it is doubtful that this will be achieved with systemic chemotherapy and total body irradiation . innovative approaches such as the use of monoclonal antibodies , either alone or linked to short-lived radioactive isotopes with short linear energy transfer , promise to result in less toxic but more efficient programs , not only providing better eradication of malignant disease but also ameliorating the problem of graft failure . it is conceivable , however , that it will never be possible to kill all leukemic cells with chemoradiotherapy of any form , and the graft-versus-leukemia effect may be essential . perhaps in the future it will be possible to distinguish lymphocytes causing the graft-versus-leukemia effect from those causing gvhd , isolate them , and use them in attempts at therapy . in the meantime , postgrafting immunosuppressive drugs are used most frequently to prevent and treat gvhd , and steadily improving survival statistics can be expected . 
a hospital-based prospective study of perinatal infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . most infants with pediatric acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and infections with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) are infected perinatally by their mothers . to determine the proportion of exposed infants who are infected , we conducted a hospital-based prospective study in hiv-1-infected women whose infants were delivered at a single metropolitan hospital in miami , fla . a population of uninfected women and their infants was also enrolled and followed longitudinally for 2 years to assess laboratory and clinical measurements . the median follow-up is now 18 months for 82 infants born to hiv-1-infected mothers . the proportion of infected infants in this group is 0.30 ( 25/82 ) . none of the infants born to 110 hiv-1-seronegative mothers were seropositive . infected infants were easily distinguished from noninfected infants by virus isolation . no single immunologic or hematologic measure was predictive of infection for all infants at risk for hiv-1 infection who were 6 months of age or younger . as a group , however , infected infants could be distinguished from uninfected index infants by a number of immunologic measures by 6 months of age ; the absolute number of cd4 + lymphocytes and the cd4 + / cd8 + lymphocyte ratio were the variables most predictive of infection . as in retrospective studies , clinical disease developed in 80 % of infected infants within the first 24 months of life . this study provides documentation of hiv-1 perinatal transmission risk and early correlates of infection in young infants from a single hospital . 
gastrointestinal dysfunction and disaccharide intolerance in children infected with human immunodeficiency virus . because gastrointestinal dysfunction is a major problem in children with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , we utilized breath hydrogen measurements to determine the relationship between disaccharide malabsorption and gastrointestinal dysfunction in hiv-infected children . we found a strong association between lactose intolerance and persistent diarrheal disease in this population ( p less than 0.007 , mann-whitney u test ) . we also found evidence of sucrose malabsorption and persistent diarrheal disease in three of the children . extensive microbiologic evaluations failed to reveal an etiologic agent related to the occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms . our findings indicate that disaccharide intolerance is a common occurrence in hiv-infected children with persistent diarrheal disease . careful attention to dietary intake may be required to ameliorate clinical symptoms and to maintain adequate nutrition . 
effect of therapeutic plasma concentrations of theophylline on behavior , cognitive processing , and affect in children with asthma [ published erratum appears in j pediatr 1991 jul ; 119 ( 1 pt 1 ) :164 ] a double-blind , randomized , crossover study assessed the effects of theophylline on behavior , mood , and efficiency of cognitive processing . thirty-one children aged 8 to 12 years with moderate asthma were randomly assigned to 10-day theophylline followed by placebo or to placebo followed by theophylline experimental conditions separated by 2-day washout periods . theophylline plasma concentrations and pulmonary function tests were performed throughout the study . cognitive functioning tests and self-report measures were administered at baseline and after each medication phase . behavior ratings were obtained from parents and teachers . parents ' and teachers ' ratings did not reflect a theophylline effect on attention or activity level ; children 's self-reports showed no changes in mood , and no statistically significant differences were found on measures of cognitive processing . large individual differences in sensitivity to theophylline effects were present . although most of the children tolerated theophylline well , those already having attentional or achievement problems appeared vulnerable to adverse effects . individual response differences should be a focus of future studies . 
blood contacts during surgical procedures operating room personnel are at risk for infection with blood-borne pathogens through blood contact . to describe the nature and frequency of blood contact and its risk factors , trained observers monitored a sample of operations performed by six surgical services at grady memorial hospital , atlanta , ga , for 6 months . in 62 ( 30.1 % ) of 206 operations , at least one blood contact was observed . of 1828 operating room person-procedures observed , 96 ( 5.3 % ) had 147 blood contacts ( 133 skin contacts [ 90 % ] , 10 percutaneous injuries [ 7 % ] , and four eye splashes [ 3 % ] ) . the mean number of blood contacts per 100 person-procedures was highest for surgeons ( 18.6 ) . the frequency of percutaneous injury was similar among surgeons and scrub staff ( mean , 1.2 per 100 worker-procedures for each group ) . risk factors for surgeons ' blood contacts were ( 1 ) performing a trauma , burn , or orthopedic emergency procedure ( odds ratio [ or ] , 4.1 ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 2.0 to 8.7 ) ; ( 2 ) patient blood loss exceeding 250ml ( or , 2.1 ; 95 % ci , 1.2 to 3.7 ) ; and ( 3 ) being in the operating room longer than 1 hour ( or , 3.3 ; 95 % ci , 1.6 to 7.1 ) . of 110 blood contacts among surgeons , 81 ( 74 % ) were potentially preventable by additional barrier precautions , such as face shields and fluid-resistant gowns . twenty-one ( 84 % ) of 25 blood contacts among surgeons in procedures in which all three risk factors were present were potentially preventable by additional barriers . of 29 blood contacts among anesthesia and circulating personnel , 20 ( 69 % ) would have been prevented by glove use . for surgical procedures in which operating room personnel are at increased risk of blood contact , reevaluation of surgical technique , use of appropriate barrier precautions , and development of puncture-resistant glove materials are indicated . 
ditiocarb sodium ( diethyldithiocarbamate ) therapy in patients with symptomatic hiv infection and aids . a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled , multicenter study . we randomized 389 symptomatic patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection to ditiocarb sodium ( 400 mg/m2 orally for 24 weeks ) or a placebo . patients were well balanced according to centers for disease control ( cdc ) group , cd4 + cell number , and duration of disease prior to entry . ten new acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) - defining opportunistic infections occurred in the treated patients and 21 in the controls . reduction of new opportunistic infections in the ditiocarb group was significant in all patients ( relative risk [ rr ] , 0.44 ) and in patients with aids ( cdc groups iv-c1 and iv-d ) ( rr , 0.12 ) . the size of the effect of ditiocarb was maintained when data were reanalyzed after exclusion of a patient who progressed to pneumocystis carinii pneumonia who was not strictly cdc-defined ( rr , 0.46 ) , or when considering as new opportunistic infections three events , which were clinically active at entry , but for which the definitive diagnosis was made during study ( rr , 0.49 ) . the administration of ditiocarb did not induce any major adverse clinical or biological reactions . we conclude that , in this study , ditiocarb was safe and reduced the incidence of opportunistic infections in patients with symptomatic hiv infection . 
cutaneous vasoconstrictor response to glucocorticoids in asthma . the aim of the study was to find out whether asthma patients whose airways obstruction is sensitive ( cs ) or resistant ( cr ) to corticosteroid treatment also differ in their cutaneous vasoconstrictor response to a potent topical glucocorticoid . corticosteroid resistance was defined by failure of forced expiratory volume in 1 s ( fev1 ) and peak expiratory flow rate to improve by at least 15 % after a 2-week trial of corticosteroids ( prednisolone 20 mg daily for 1 week , then 40 mg daily for 1 week ) despite more than 15 % improvement with inhaled beta agonists . beclomethasone dipropionate in concentrations of 3 micrograms/ml , 10 micrograms/ml , 30 micrograms/ml , and 100 micrograms/ml was applied to forearm skin ; the site was occluded under plastic and the degree of blanching assessed after 18 h. cs asthmatic subjects ( n = 31 ) , asthma patients with mild airways obstruction ( n = 26 ) , asthma patients taking long-term prednisolone ( n = 13 ) , and healthy volunteers showed similar vasoconstrictor responses . in cr asthmatic subjects ( n = 15 ) , the response ( expressed in terms of either blanching intensity or the proportion of patients showing a positive response ) was significantly lower than that in the cs group at concentrations of 3 micrograms/ml ( p less than 0.01 ) , 10 micrograms/ml ( p less than 0.01 ) , and 30 micrograms/ml ( p less than 0.05 ) , but not at 100 micrograms/ml . this resistance to glucocorticoids in the skin , together with reported evidence of glucocorticoid resistance in peripheral blood leucocytes , suggests a general defect in the ability of tissues to respond to glucocorticoids in cr asthma . 
meniere 's disease : an immune complex-mediated illness ? the cause of meniere 's disease is unknown . recent clinical research suggests that one etiology is immune-mediated damage to the inner ear . the diagnosis of autoimmune meniere 's syndrome is largely based on history , response to steroids , or results of nonspecific laboratory tests such as serological studies . polyethylene glycol ( peg ) assay was used to determine levels of circulating immune complexes ( cic ) in 30 patients with meniere 's disease and 20 control subjects . patients with meniere 's disease had a statistically significant elevation of serum circulating immune complexes when compared to the control group . this suggests that cics may be involved in the pathogenesis of meniere 's disease , either as a direct cause of damage , or as a by-product of an underlying autoimmune abnormality . therapeutic implications include use of plasmapheresis to remove the complexes or cic monitoring to serve as a marker for treatment efficacy . 
the effect of indoor air pollutants on otitis media and asthma in children . this case-control study investigated the possible association between home environmental air pollutants and their effect on otitis media and asthma in children . patients with physician-diagnosed otitis ( n = 125 , 74 % response ) , with asthma ( n = 137 , 80 % response ) , and controls ( n = 237 , 72 % response ) from a private pediatric practice seen between october 1986 and may 1987 were studied . a questionnaire inquired about housing characteristics ( i.e. , age , insulation , heating system ) and sources of indoor air pollution such as cigarette smoking , use of woodburning stoves , household pets , etc . analysis of the responses confirmed previous findings of significant relationships between maternal smoking ( p = .021 ) , and the presence of pets ( p = .034 ) and the occurrence of asthma . a newly reported relationship between exposure to woodburning stoves and the occurrence of otitis ( p less than .05 ) was reported . this implicates yet another risk factor ( wood burning ) in the etiology of otitis media . 
travel in eastern europe . guidelines for patients . some patients need medical preparation and physician counseling before traveling to eastern european countries . in addition to baseline immunizations , a measles booster , a polio booster , typhoid vaccination , and immune globulin prophylaxis against hepatitis a may be indicated . advice should also be given regarding air pollution , contaminated food and water , civil unrest , motor vehicle mishaps , and each country 's policy on hiv screening . because the level of healthcare may be poor , contact with american or british embassies or consulates is recommended in an emergency . 
screening for sexually transmitted diseases by primary care physicians . the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome epidemic has drawn attention to screening for sexually transmitted diseases by primary care physicians . a telephone survey of primary care physicians in an area with a high incidence of stds ( washington , dc ) to ascertain the determinants and the extent of screening and counseling for stds was completed in 1987 . ninety-nine physicians ( 33 internists , 38 obstetrician/gynecologists , and 28 family/general practitioners ) , representing 61 % of those eligible , completed the interview . one third ( 39.4 % ) were screening for gonorrhea , more than one half ( 57.5 % ) for syphilis , and almost all ( 94 % ) had tested at least one individual for human immunodeficiency virus infection . analysis suggested that concomitant screening for hepatitis b was significantly and positively associated with screening for gonorrhea and syphilis . less than half ( 45.9 % ) of the physicians asked new patients about their sexual practices . physicians should take histories of sexual practices and do more preventive counseling . 
profound papilledema due to cryptococcal meningitis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome : successful treatment with fluconazole . although cryptococcal meningitis is a frequent infection in patients with aids , papilledema is rarely reported . we have reported a case of profound papilledema associated with cryptococcal meningitis in a patient with aids . after treatment failure with amphotericin b , the patient was successfully treated with fluconazole , and the papilledema resolved . 
focal hepatic tuberculosis in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . patients infected with hiv are known to have unusual manifestations of a variety of infections . we have described the third reported case of a patient with aids having an apparent pyogenic liver abscess subsequently diagnosed as focal hepatic tuberculosis . this case emphasizes the need for aggressive diagnostic procedures for evaluation of focal liver abnormalities in these patients . 
lymphoma of the gastric stump : report of a case . we report a case of primary lymphoma on a previously resected stomach in a 62-year-old man . the patient was treated 22 years earlier with a partial gastrectomy and billroth ii reconstruction for a benign gastric ulcer . the rarity of this entity and its possible relationship with pseudolymphoma or lymphoid nodular hyperplasia is discussed , and the literature is reviewed . 
histologic abnormalities of large and small coronary arteries , neural structures , and the conduction system of the heart found in postmortem studies of individuals dying from the toxic oil syndrome . hundreds died and thousands were poisoned by rapeseed oil adulterated with aniline and sold illegally in spain in 1981 . the clinical manifestations , now known as the toxic oil syndrome , include pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy plus widespread vascular and neural lesions in other organs . many of the late deaths ended with a scleroderma-like illness . because scleroderma involves the heart , in this study we examined the small and large coronary arteries , neural structures , and conduction system from eight victims dying with the toxic oil syndrome . dense fibrosis of the sinus node in two hearts resembled changes found in scleroderma . atrionodal junctional hemorrhages and cystic degeneration of the sinus node present in the other six hearts resembled changes found in lupus erythematosus . small and large coronary arteries exhibited focal fibromuscular dysplasia and a proliferative cystic myointimal degeneration . this latter abnormality was associated with sloughing of the inner wall and embolization of the detached fragment downstream in the same coronary artery . every heart had many degenerative lesions within nerves , ganglia , and the coronary chemoreceptor . both the arterial and neural abnormalities prominently involved the conduction system . based upon observations by others with experimental feeding of rapeseed oil containing either high or low erucic acid , we suggest that this oil must remain a major suspected cause of the toxic oil syndrome , particularly in conjunction with some as yet unexplained facilitative influence by oleoanilids . if this is so , it is important to reconsider the widely recommended use of any rapeseed oil product as a suitable food for man or other animals . 
hypercalcemia with excess serum 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d in lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma . hypercalcemia has been described in a variety of granulomatous and lymphoproliferative disorders in association with elevated serum levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d. in such cases , hypercalcemia appears to be the consequence of excessive production of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d by the lymphocyte/macrophage line . the authors report a patient with lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma who developed hypercalcemia with extreme elevation in serum 1,25 ( oh ) 2d . therapy with steroids reduced the serum calcium and 1,25 ( oh ) 2d levels to normal . hypercalcemia has not previously been reported in lymphomatoid granulomatosis/angiocentric lymphoma . the distinctive features of this malignancy , and the derangement in the metabolism of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d in lymphoproliferative disorders in general , are discussed . 
marked plasmacytosis and immunoglobulin abnormalities following infusion of streptokinase . marked plasmacytosis is an uncommon clinical finding associated with plasma cell dyscrasias and certain reactive states , particularly serum sickness . moreover , serum sickness-like reactions are a well-recognized complication of therapy with streptokinase . in this report , the authors describe a patient who developed a transient , but striking , plasmacytosis and an unexplained fever following streptokinase treatment for a pulmonary embolus . an evaluation for multiple myeloma was completely negative except for the occurrence of serum monoclonal-like proteins which largely disappeared over an eight month period . 
susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3-induced chronic myocarditis maps near the murine tcr alpha and myhc alpha loci on chromosome 14 . this study was undertaken to determine the genetic control of host susceptibility to coxsackievirus b3 ( cvb3 ) - induced chronic myocarditis in a mouse model . an autosomal recessive autoimmune myocardial disease ( amd ) gene ( possibly more than one gene ) , which determined susceptibility to cvb3-induced chronic myocarditis in the a/j and dba/2j inbred mouse strains , was mapped to a segment of chromosome 14 . data from both the axb/bxa recombinant inbred ( ri ) strains and the b10.d2 ( 57n ) h-8b congenic mice supported this linkage relationship . analysis of the axb/bxa ri strain distribution patterns suggested that amd maps distal to the np-2 , tcr alpha , and myhc alpha loci . 
