mistaken diagnoses in continuous muscle fiber activity of peripheral nerve origin . the syndrome of continuous muscle fiber activity of peripheral nerve origin has manifestations that resemble those of many other more common neurologic disorders during childhood and infancy . this similarity often leads to misdiagnosis when an adequate index of suspicion is not entertained and a comprehensive electromyographic examination is not performed . two affected patients from 1 family are reported to illustrate the type of diagnostic errors that were made before the establishment of the correct diagnosis . 
haemophilus influenzae meningitis with prolonged hospital course . a retrospective evaluation of haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis observed over a 2-year period documented 86 cases . eight of these patients demonstrated an unusual clinical course characterized by persistent fever ( duration : greater than 10 days ) , cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis , profound meningeal enhancement on computed tomography , significant morbidity , and a prolonged hospital course . the mean age of these 8 patients was 6 months , in contrast to a mean age of 14 months for the entire group . two patients had clinical evidence of relapse . four of the 8 patients tested for latex particle agglutination in the cerebrospinal fluid remained positive after 10 days . all patients received antimicrobial therapy until they were afebrile for a minimum of 5 days . subsequent neurologic examination revealed a persistent seizure disorder in 5 patients ( 62.5 % ) , moderate-to-profound hearing loss in 2 ( 25 % ) , mild ataxia in 1 ( 12.5 % ) , and developmental delay with hydrocephalus which required shunting in 1 ( 12.5 % ) . one patient had no sequelae . 
eeg correlation of improvement in hemolytic-uremic syndrome after plasma infusion . we report a previously undescribed electroencephalographic pattern of epochs of diffuse delta background ( 85-240 sec ) alternating with epochs of classic " burst suppression " ( 90-270 sec ) in a 13-month-old girl with hemolytic-uremic syndrome . a dramatic electroencephalographic improvement was evident on continuous monitoring of cerebral function 3 hours after initiating fresh frozen plasma infusion , well before any clinical improvement was apparent . this patient , in addition to the unusual electroencephalographic findings , illustrates the role of continuous electrophysiologic monitoring of cerebral function and supports the use of fresh frozen plasma in hemolytic-uremic syndrome . 
reversible myopathy due to labetalol . a severe , generalized myopathy developed in 2 children treated with labetalol . an 11-year-old girl and a 14-year-old boy demonstrated proximal weakness and markedly elevated creatine kinase levels during labetalol therapy . clinical improvement began immediately when labetalol administration was halted ; muscle strength was normal within 2 months . muscle biopsies were consistent with rhabdomyolysis . 
threat of unemployment and cardiovascular risk factors : longitudinal study of quality of sleep and serum cholesterol concentrations in men threatened with redundancy . objective -- to assess whether the threat of unemployment affects risk factors for cardiovascular disease . design -- longitudinal study of a cohort of middle aged shipyard workers followed up for a mean of 6.2 ( sd 1.9 ) years and a group of controls observed for the same period . the first investigation took place during a period of relative economic stability for the shipyard and the second during the phase of its closure . setting -- an age cohort health screening programme in malmo , sweden . participants -- 715 male shipyard workers and 261 age matched male controls . main outcome measures -- changes in 19 variables related to the risk of cardiovascular disease , and psychological variables , alcohol consumption , smoking , and dietary habits as assessed by questionnaire . results -- serum cholesterol concentrations increased more ( mean 0.25 ( sd 0.68 ) mmol/l v 0.08 ( 0.66 ) mmol/l ) and serum calcium concentrations decreased less ( -0.06 ( 0.10 ) mmol/l v -0.08 ( 0.09 ) mmol/l ) in the shipyard workers than in the controls . a correlation was found between scores for sleep disturbance and changes in serum cholesterol concentration . in the whole series there was a greater increase in serum cholesterol concentrations among men threatened with unemployment ( 437/976 ; 44.8 % ) than among those who were not . in stepwise regression analysis the change in serum cholesterol concentration was correlated with changes in haemoglobin concentration , body weight , and serum triglyceride and calcium concentrations . a positive correlation was found between change in cholesterol concentration and change in blood pressure , indicating that the overall risk profile had worsened among men with increased serum cholesterol concentrations . conclusions -- risk of unemployment increases the serum cholesterol concentration in middle aged men , the increase being more pronounced in those with sleep disturbance . the increase in serum cholesterol is related to changes in other established risk factors for cardiovascular disease . these findings might partly explain the excessive mortality due to cardiovascular disease recorded among the unemployed and people with sleep disturbance . 
permanent external striated sphincter stents in patients with spinal injuries . nine patients with complete quadriplegia underwent external striated sphincter stenting with the wallstent in place of an external striated sphincterotomy . although suprapubic catheters were placed to provide an outlet should problems develop with the stent , they were successfully removed within 6 weeks in all but 1 patient . complete bladder emptying with reduced voiding pressures was achieved , together with a significant reduction in the duration of hyper-reflexic contractions . epithelialisation of the stent was almost complete within 3 months and intermittent catheterisation or endoscopy ( and resection ) is possible through the stent . although this is a preliminary report of this new technique , it is hoped that sphincter stenting will provide a rapid , safe and effective method of treating high pressure hyper-reflexia and detrusor sphincter dyssynergia in quadriplegic patients . 
hypercalcemia in infants presenting with apnea . to our knowledge apnea in infants has not been associated with hypercalcemia . we describe seven hypercalcemic infants aged 2 days to 3 months who had presented with apnea ; six of the seven were otherwise healthy . the apneic attacks were brief , and normal breathing was restored spontaneously or after tactile stimulation . the attacks stopped and the apnea monitoring was discontinued when the children were 1 month to 2 years of age . the only abnormal finding common to all of the patients was hypercalcemia . idiopathic infantile hypercalcemia was diagnosed in six of the patients and familial benign hypercalcemia in one . our findings suggest that determination of the plasma calcium level be included in the investigation of apnea in infancy . 
headache : a marker of depression patients who presented with a chief complaint of headache in the outpatient family practice setting were found to have a high prevalence of depression ( 63 % ) by the zung self-rating depression scale ( sds ) index . a statistically significant relationship was found between the frequency of headaches ( p = .03 ) with level of depression . in fact , 74 % of patients with headaches recurring almost every day had a clinically significant depression diagnosed as defined by the zung sds score . the zung sds score also correlated with the length of time that the problem of headache existed ( p less than .05 ) . item analysis of the individual 20-item depression score revealed that four questions accounted for 93 % of the variance . this analysis suggests that shorter , more abbreviated screening questions could be developed and refined in the future for use by the busy clinician . headache is an important marker for depression in the primary care setting . it can be inferred from this study that the clinician may need to focus more on treating the entity of depression than on treating just the symptom of headache . 
botulinum toxin treatment of cranial-cervical dystonia , spasmodic dysphonia , other focal dystonias and hemifacial spasm . in the past five years , 477 patients with various focal dystonias and hemifacial spasm received 3,806 injections of botulinum a toxin for relief of involuntary spasms . a definite improvement with a global rating greater than or equal to 2 on a 0-4 scale , was obtained in all 13 patients with spasmodic dysphonia , 94 % of 70 patients with blepharospasm , 92 % of 13 patients with hemifacial spasm , 90 % of 195 patients with cervical dystonia , 77 % of 22 patients with hand dystonia , 73 % of 45 patients with oromandibular dystonia , and in 90 % of 21 patients with other focal dystonia who had adequate follow up . while the average duration of maximum improvement lasted about 11 weeks after an injection ( range seven weeks in patients with hand dystonia to 15 weeks in patients with hemifacial spasm ) , some patients benefited for over a year . only 16 % of the 941 treatment visits with follow up were not successful . except for transient focal weakness , there were very few complications or systemic effects attributed to the injections . this study supports the conclusion that botulinum toxin injections are a safe and effective therapy for patients with focal dystonia and hemifacial spasm . 
botulinum toxin treatment in spasmodic torticollis . botulinum toxin a was administered to 19 patients in a double-blind placebo controlled trial . toxin was more effective than placebo for improving both head position and pain which was measured by an objective rating scale and videofilm assessments . following the controlled trial , treatment with botulinum toxin was continued in an open fashion . a total of 60 patients with torticollis received toxin in a total of 117 treatment periods . the mean follow up period was 8.4 months . in 39 patients with pain there was benefit in 77 % of treatment periods . some improvement in neck posture occurred in 83 % of the treatment periods with a mean duration of 12 weeks . side effects were frequent with dysphagia being the most common ( 28 % of treatment periods ) . botulinum toxin is an effective treatment for toticollis but treatment should be initiated with doses at the lower end of the range used in this study ( 400-600 mouse units ) . 
central nervous system haemangioblastoma : a clinical and genetic study of 52 cases . fifty two cases of haemangioblastoma were reviewed for their clinical , genetic and prognostic features . of 34 patients with apparently isolated cerebellar lesions , postoperative outcome was good in 79 % . six isolated spinal lesions presented more insidiously and morbidity was related to incomplete resection . twelve ( 23 % ) of the patients definitely had von hippel-lindau disease ( vhld ) . the true proportion may be higher as this diagnosis was not definitely excluded in many of the remainder ; only ten patients with seemingly isolated cerebellar tumours were appropriately investigated and two had evidence of vhld . four out of 26 cases ( 15 % ) with apparently completely resected , isolated , cerebellar lesions later developed recurrent tumours . brainstem and supratentorial haemangioblastomas were rare and were always associated with vhld . the cerebellar or spinal haemangioblastomas due to vhld had no distinctive clinical features compared with isolated tumours and there was considerable overlap in age of onset between the two groups of cases . all patients with an apparently isolated cns haemangioblastoma should be investigated for evidence of von hippel-lindau disease . 
vesicular changes in the myopathies of aids . ultrastructural observations and their relationship to zidovudine treatment . six patients with aids and aids related complex ( arc ) who developed neuromuscular symptoms associated with vesicular changes in muscle fibres are reported . two patients in the advanced stages of aids , who did not receive zidovudine , developed proximal limb weakness and wasting : both had a necrotising myopathy with an unusual segmental vesicular change of myofibres . there were numerous vesicles 0.1 to 2 microns in diameter produced by dilatations of the sarcoplasmic reticulum in fibres depleted of myofibrils . four patients developed a myopathy while receiving zidovudine for aids . one of these had an inflammatory myopathy which showed the development of vesicular change due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria . the three other patients with arc developed muscle pains or weakness and elevated serum ck while on zidovudine . these patients also showed vesicular changes due to enlargement and electron lucency of mitochondria associated with disruption of sarcomeres and the presence of cytoplasmic bodies . the muscular symptoms resolved when ziduvodine was stopped and repeat biopsy in one case revealed no abnormalities . 
the relationship of antibody levels to the clinical spectrum of human neurocysticercosis . one hundred proven cases of cerebral cysticercosis were studied with an enzyme linked immunoassay ( elisa ) employing cyst fluid as antigen , with a view to detecting specific antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) . antibody levels were correlated with the clinical presentation of the patients , the type and number of cysts detected on their brain scans , the anatomical position of these cysts and the presence of lymphocytes in the csf . patients could be divided into two distinct categories , one with low levels of antibody in the serum and absent antibody in the csf , and the other with high levels in both the serum and the csf . this differentiation matched the clinical presentation of a benign and a malignant group . antibody levels could not be related to the type of cysts as observed on the brain scan , but depended on the anatomical position of the cyst , being lower if the cysts were confined to the cerebral cortex . a correlation of antibody levels with the number of cysts was only found in the benign group . 
low plasma iron status and akathisia . thirty patients were examined to test the hypothesis that a depletion of iron levels is associated with symptoms of akathisia . fifteen akathisic patients were pair-matched with 15 non-akathisic patients . plasma ferritin levels were significantly decreased in the akathisic patients , and there was a significant inverse correlation between plasma iron levels and akathisia rating . in addition , akathisia ratings were found to be correlated with a scale measuring symptoms of tardive dyskinesia . 
extradural implantation of sacral anterior root stimulators . a technique for extradural deafferentation of the s2 to s5 segments and extradural implantation of stimulating electrodes is described , and its application to twelve patients with spinal cord lesions is reported . nine patients use their implants for micturition , and seven are fully continent . the advantages and disadvantages of this technique compared with the more usual intrathecal procedure are discussed . 
bimanual simultaneous motor performance and impaired ability to shift attention in parkinson 's disease . the ability to share time and to shift attention between bimanual simultaneous motor tasks were studied in 18 patients with parkinson 's disease ( pd ) and 19 age - and intelligence-matched controls . the task consisted of drawing triangles with the dominant hand and squeezing a rubber bulb with the nondominant hand . motor performance was measured using the variables : amplitude of squeezing , frequency of squeezing and velocity of drawing triangles . after eliminating variance due to baseline differences in single-handed performance , the bimanual simultaneous performance of pd and controls turned out to be similar to the frequency of squeezing and the velocity of drawing triangles . the amplitude of squeezing , however , differed between the two groups : it was significantly reduced in pd . arguably the disturbance in the bimanual performance of pd patients was not due to a disorder of time sharing , but to a decreased ability to shift attention from the visually cued task to the non visually cued task . the results agree with current evidence that pd patients are more impaired when they have to rely upon internal control for the regulation of shifting attention than when external cues are available . 
the treatment of gilles de la tourette syndrome by limbic leucotomy . a patient with gilles de la tourette syndrome and severe self-injurious compulsions who had failed to respond to drug treatment and behavioural therapy obtained a complete and sustained resolution of his destructive behaviour and improvement in his tics following bilateral limbic leucotomy . 
stiffman syndrome : a rare paraneoplastic disorder ? an unusual case of the stiffman syndrome , associated with an oat cell carcinoma of the bronchus , is reported . pathological examination showed that it was due to an encephalomyelitis similar to that seen in paraneoplastic disorders . this suggests that atypical cases of the stiffman syndrome may occasionally be paraneoplastic . 
ldh isoenzymes in cerebrospinal fluid in various brain tumours . this study examined the isoenzymatic pattern of ldh in the cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) as well as the ratio between the five fractions of ldh among patients with various brain tumours , carcinomatous meningitis and control groups . ldh 1/ldh 2 less than 1 was found significant for carcinomatous meningitis ( p less than 0.001 ) and brain metastases ( p less than 0.001 ) . ldh 1/ldh 2 ratio was found to be significantly lower in carcinomatous meningitis than in brain metastases ( p less than 0.05 ) . no ldh 1/ldh 2 ratios smaller than 1 were found in the other groups . the ldh 1/ldh 2 ratio smaller than 1 was found in the early stage of carcinomatous meningitis without other evidences of the involvement of the leptomeninges . examination of ldh 1/ldh 2 can be found as an adjunctive method to identify brain metastases and carcinomatous meningitis at the initial stage . 
misperceptions of comprehension difficulties of stroke patients by doctors , nurses and relatives . doctors , nurses and relatives involved with 30 recently aphasic stroke patients were asked to predict how the patient would perform on a comprehension test . results show that not only do doctors , nurses and relatives underestimate the receptive disability of these patients , but they also illustrate a lack of agreement between health professionals . implications for management are considered . 
practice effects on the preprogramming of discrete movements in parkinson 's disease . the effects of practice on the simple and choice reaction times ( rts ) of parkinson 's disease ( pd ) and control subjects in a discrete aiming task were analysed . for controls , practice led to a selective decrease in choice rts , as has been reported previously . an opposite effect was seen in the pd group , with little change in choice rts and substantial reduction in simple rts . the results suggest that pd subjects can use advance information to initiate discrete movements more rapidly , but that this ability to " preprogramme " movements requires practice . reconciliation of these results with studies reporting an inability to preprogramme in pd are made in a discussion of task characteristics which may allow or preclude preprogramming . 
blood pressure reactivity predicts myocardial infarction among treated hypertensive patients . high blood pressure ( bp ) defines a prognostically heterogeneous group . because bp varies according to time , setting and means of observation , it has been postulated that bp reactivity might better predict cardiovascular disease ( cvd ) than does unidimensional measurements . to assess bp reactivity , the difference between pretreatment nurse ( rn ) and physician ( md ) diastolic bp ( dbp ) -- systematically recorded in that order -- or md-rn dbp , was obtained in 1737 previously untreated patients with sustained , rn bp greater than or equal to 160 and/or 95 mmhg . patients stratified by tertiles of md-rn dbp [ ( i ) less than or equal to - 3 , ( ii ) -2 to 3 and ( iii ) greater than or equal to 4 mmhg ] were similar by sex , race , age , body mass index , cholesterol , electrocardiography , prior cvd , smoking and pretreatment or attained in-treatment bps . during 14 years of followup , myocardial infarction ( mi ) incidence per 1000/year were , tertile i ( 3.2 ) , ii ( 3.7 ) , iii ( 7.6 ) ( relative risk = 2.4 , iii vs i + ii , p less than 0.05 ) , whereas stroke incidence and non-cvd mortality were evenly distributed . by cox survival analysis , controlling for other entry characteristics only age , sex and dbp reactivity remained predictive ( p less than or equal to 0.03 ) of mi or total cvd . thus , bp reactivity , probably a centrally-mediated phenomenon , identifies a subgroup of hypertensives with an increased propensity for mi despite successful bp control . 
the relationship of headache symptoms with severity and duration of attacks . efforts to develop clinically useful headache classification schemes have generally focused on linking specific symptom groupings with specific headache subtypes . an alternative conceptual approach , the " severity model " of headache , considers a continuum of headache ranging from mild to severe forms with specific headache subtypes distinguished by level of severity rather than unique constellations of symptoms . a population-based telephone interview was carried out among 10,169 subjects aged 12-29 to estimate the prevalence of serious headaches and better characterize symptoms that accompany headache attacks . in an analysis of frequency of occurrence , pain and duration of recent ( within 4 weeks prior to interview ) headache attacks , the data revealed that common symptoms ( such as forehead pain and pain in the back of the head , neck and shoulders ) were reported frequently , but headaches with these symptoms were generally characterized by low levels of pain and short duration . although not an original study objective , the data were analyzed to determine whether distinct symptom constellations could be identified or whether symptoms overlapped between headache types . symptoms of migraine were frequently experienced concomitant with tension-type symptoms ; the resultant headaches were usually characterized as moderate in intensity . in contrast , symptoms usually associated with migraine in the absence of concomitant tension-type symptoms were infrequently experienced , but resulted in headaches causing the greatest disability . the data provide some support for the severity model of headache . 
surgical management of exophytic chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors of childhood . sixteen children underwent 18 operations for radical resection of chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors . the clinical presentation correlated with age : infants under 1 year of age presented with macrocephaly , failure to thrive , and severe visual failure ; children aged 1 to 5 years predominantly had precocious puberty with mild visual deficits ; and older children ( greater than 5 years old ) had slowly progressive loss of vision . all three infants had biologically aggressive tumors in spite of low-grade histology , and died from progressive tumor growth . eleven of the 13 children aged 1 year or over are alive and well , without clinical or radiographic evidence of disease progression , 4 months to 4 1/2 years following surgery . six of these patients , with a follow-up period of 10 months to 4 1/2 years ( mean 27 months ) , have had no adjuvant therapy following radical surgical resection . the authors conclude that : 1 ) radical surgical resection of chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors can be performed with minimal morbidity ; 2 ) radical resection may delay the time to disease progression in older children and postpone the need for irradiation ; 3 ) resection of postirradiation recurrent tumors may provide neurological improvement and long-lasting clinical remission ; and 4 ) chiasmatic-hypothalamic tumors of infancy are aggressive neoplasms that require multimodality therapy . 
long-term follow-up review of 31 children with severe closed head trauma . thirty-one children aged 3 to 15 years were followed for 5 to 11 years after suffering severe closed head trauma which caused coma for 1 week or more ( median duration of coma 3 weeks ) . one patient remained in a persistent vegetative state until his death 9 years later . the other 30 recovered consciousness and were discharged . all suffered diminution of their abilities , and 24 of them had major permanent disability . the most common motor disabilities were pure spastic hemiparesis ( seven cases ) , basal ganglia syndromes ( four cases ) , ataxia ( three cases ) , and a combination of hemiparesis and ataxia ( five cases ) . of the 30 patients , 26 regained independent ambulation , seven were epileptic , and 14 were dysarthric in various degrees . only 10 had the cognitive ability to profit from the normal educational system , and none had attempted postsecondary education . social problems were common . the worst outcomes were associated with intracranial bleeding and/or brain contusion seen on computerized tomography ( ct ) scans at the acute stage ; the best were associated with normal ct scans . the degree of residual disability in these children seems no less than that of adults with trauma of similar severity . 
initial ct findings in 753 patients with severe head injury . a report from the nih traumatic coma data bank . in this prospective multicenter study , the authors have examined data derived from the initial computerized tomography ( ct ) scans of 753 patients with severe head injury . when the ct findings were related to abnormal intracranial pressure and to death , the most important characteristics of the scans were : midline shift : compression or obliteration of the mesencephalic cisterns : and the presence of subarachnoid blood . diffuse hemispheric swelling was also found to be associated with an early episode of either hypoxia or hypotension . 
neurobehavioral outcome 1 year after severe head injury . experience of the traumatic coma data bank . the outcome 1 year after they had sustained a severe head injury was investigated in patients who were admitted to the neurosurgery service at one of four centers participating in the traumatic coma data bank ( tcdb ) . of 300 eligible survivors , the quality of recovery 1 year after injury was assessed by at least the glasgow outcome scale ( gos ) in 263 patients ( 87 % ) , whereas complete neuropsychological assessment was performed in 127 ( 42 % ) of the eligible survivors . the capacity of the patients to undergo neuropsychological testing 1 year after injury was a criterion of recovery as reflected by a significant relationship to neurological indices of acute injury and the gos score at the time of hospital discharge . the neurobehavioral data at 1 year after injury were generally comparable across the four samples of patients and characterized by impairment of memory and slowed information processing . in contrast , language and visuospatial ability recovered to within the normal range . the lowest postresuscitation glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) score and pupillary reactivity were predictive of the 1-year gos score and neuropsychological performance . the lowest gcs score was especially predictive of neuropsychological performance 1 year postinjury in patients who had at least one nonreactive pupil following resuscitation . notwithstanding limitations related to the scope of the tcdb and attrition in follow-up material , the results indicate a characteristic pattern of neurobehavioral recovery from severe head injury and encourage the use of neurobehavioral outcome measurements in clinical trials to evaluate interventions for head-injured patients . 
meningiomas mimicking cerebral schwannoma . a brain tumor with histological features reminiscent of schwannoma with underlying meningioangiomatosis was subjected to electron microscopic and immunohistochemical analysis , which confirmed the neoplasm as a meningioma . this prompted reexamination of a similar tumor , described in a previous publication as a cerebral schwannoma , with identical immunohistochemical techniques . the results obtained favored alteration of this diagnosis to that of meningioma . this experience has led the authors to recommend the use of immunohistochemistry techniques when evaluating unusual intracranial neoplasms . 
use of ct and mr imaging to distinguish intracranial lesions and to define the need for biopsy in aids patients to explore the potential usefulness of imaging studies in the diagnosis of focal central nervous system ( cns ) lesions associated with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , the authors retrospectively examined the radiographic studies of 149 aids patients who presented with signs and symptoms of the three most common focal cns lesions . of these patients , 74 ( 50 % ) had toxoplasma abscesses , 45 ( 30 % ) had primary cns lymphoma , and 30 patients ( 20 % ) had progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ( pml ) . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was more sensitive than computerized tomography ( ct ) in detecting lesions , especially in cases of pml . whereas ct was unable to distinguish mass lesions caused by toxoplasmosis from those caused by lymphoma , 71 % of the solitary lesions seen on mr images were lymphomas . these results indicate that empirical treatment for toxoplasmosis , the most common initial treatment for aids patients with neurological symptoms stemming from mass lesions , is not likely to be successful for patients with solitary lesions on mr images . rather , early biopsy is advisable . if the presence of lymphoma is confirmed , the rapid initiation of treatment can allow prolonged high-quality survival . 
hormonal dependency of cerebral meningiomas . part 1 : female sex steroid receptors and their significance as specific markers for adjuvant medical therapy . female sex steroid receptors were examined in 50 human cerebral meningiomas . for estrogen receptors , high-affinity binding sites ( dissociation constant ( kd ) : 0.05 to 0.2 nm ) were found in the cytosolic fraction with a capacity of less than 4 fmol/mg protein in 10 meningiomas using a dextran-coated charcoal ( dcc ) assay . in the same cytosolic fraction , the solid-phase enzyme immunoassay revealed only one cytosol with a positive colorimetric reaction equal to 5 fmol/mg protein . however , in the nuclear compartment , none of the tumors stained positively for estrogen receptors with immunohistochemical techniques . in addition , the most convincing evidence for the absence of estrogen receptors was obtained by in situ hybridization using an oligonucleotide probe complementary to a fraction of the human receptor messenger ribonucleic acid ( mrna ) . in none of the 50 meningiomas was the expression of estrogen mrna coding for the estrogen receptor detected . for progesterone receptors , high-affinity binding sites ( kd : 0.3 to 2.6 nm ) were found in 49 of the 50 tumors using a dcc assay . in the same cytosols , solid-phase enzyme immunoassay revealed that each tumor was positive for progesterone receptors . however , in the nuclear compartment , only five tumors had partially positive staining for progesterone receptors with immunohistochemical techniques . within the confines of this study , it is concluded that : 1 ) the estrogen receptor is generally absent in meningioma tissue , and 2 ) the progesterone receptor is mainly absent in the nuclear compartment , leading to the conclusion that the cytosolic progesterone receptor may be an inactive form . this study suggests that female sex steroid receptors are not primarily involved in the proliferative rate of cerebral meningiomas and that they are of no current significance as markers for adjuvant medical therapy of most meningiomas . 
hormonal dependency of cerebral meningiomas . part 2 : in vitro effect of steroids , bromocriptine , and epidermal growth factor on growth of meningiomas . cell culture and biochemical techniques have been employed to examine the effects of steroids , bromocriptine , and epidermal growth factor ( egf ) on the growth and proliferative potential of meningiomas . in cell culture , the growth of meningiomas was not altered by progestogens , antiprogestogens , or 17beta-estradiol . the progestogen , norethisterone , had no effect on the uptake by meningiomas cell cultures of 3h-thymidine . furthermore , cytosolic deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) polymerase activity of meningiomas did not correlate with the progesterone receptor status of the same tumors . in contrast , the androgen antagonists , cyproterone acetate and 11-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone , and the dopamine agonist , bromocriptine , all inhibited the in vitro growth of meningioma cells . the growth of meningioma cell cultures was stimulated by egf , and there was a positive correlation between the egf content and dna polymerase activity in meningioma cytosols . these results demonstrate that female sex steroids do not influence growth of meningiomas in vitro , whereas antiandrogens and bromocriptine have an antiproliferative effect . consequently , bromocriptine and antiandrogens may have a role in the medical treatment of meningiomas . in addition , these results suggest that egf may be involved in the genesis and/or progression of meningiomas . 
intracarotid hydroxyethyl methacrylate solution causing stroke in dogs . hydroxyethyl methacrylate ( hema ) has been advocated as a polymerizing solution with which to prevent deflation of detachable balloons in interventional neuroradiology . it is pertinent to know if unpolymerized hema would have untoward effects if accidentally released into the carotid artery by balloon rupture or deflation . seven mongrel dogs underwent transfemoral catheterization of the common carotid artery and subsequent injection of hema solution in volumes of 1 cc in five dogs , 2 cc in one , and 4 cc in one . angiography performed at the time of injection revealed evidence of intravascular thrombosis as well as possible spasm . three surviving animals were sacrificed at 48 hours ; the brains were fixed and examined histopathologically . one brain was normal and one was autolyzed and could not be examined . five of the seven animals had histopathologically documented cerebral infarctions of varying size . no foreign substance was seen within the blood vessels to suggest intravascular polymerization . the animals injected with 2 or 4 cc hema solution did not survive 48 hours . literature review reveals little documentation of the toxicology of intravascular hema . with its increasing popularity as a compound for polymerization in detachable balloons introduced into the brain , further investigations are warranted to understand the physical properties of the compound and potential risks of its use . 
hemiparkinsonism as a complication of an ommaya reservoir . case report . the authors describe the case of a 28-year-old woman who developed the following symptoms in her right hand : a lasting resting tremor , transient focal rigidity , and paresthesia . these deficits occurred following treatment with intrathecal methotrexate via an ommaya reservoir which was placed too deeply , resulting in trauma to the contralateral mesencephalon . 
fourth ventricular schwannoma . case report . a schwannoma arising from the dorsum of the pontomedullary junction and presenting as an exophytic mass in the fourth ventricle is described . a ventricular schwannoma has not previously been reported in the literature . the presenting clinical and radiographic features and the pathology of this tumor are summarized , and an explanation is sought for its unusual location . 
myxomatous cyst of the brachial plexus . case report . the case of a myxomatous cyst of the brachial plexus is presented . the clinical course is reported , and the frequency of the lesion , diagnostic workup , histopathology , and surgical therapy are discussed . 
postlaminectomy ossified extradural pseudocyst . case report . a large ossified spurious meningocele accompanied by recurrent lumbar disc herniation occurred 7 years after posterior intervention for laminectomy and discectomy in a 53-year-old man . the cyst wall , histologically composed of mature bone tissue , was sparsely covered with connective tissue and lined with fibrocyte - or fibroblast-like cells on the inside . the ossified pseudocyst was presumed to have originated from a minute defect in the dura mater which occurred at the time of the first operation . 
intradural epithelial cyst at the craniovertebral junction . case report . a case of an intradural epithelial cyst at the craniovertebral junction is reported in a 37-year-old man . the classification of these rare lesions is discussed . 
stereotactic investigation of limbic epilepsy using a multimodal image analysis system . technical note . a methodology has been developed for stereotactic investigation of limbic epilepsy using an image-analysis system that simultaneously displays different structural and functional images of the brain . the validity and accuracy of this system were established with phantom studies . surgical planning and electrode implantation are guided by stereotactic magnetic resonance imaging , digital subtraction angiography , and position emission tomography . this methodology provides the spatiotemporal relationship of cerebral structure and function necessary to identify seizure onset and propagation in human limbic system epilepsy . 
disturbances in the cerebral perfusion of human immune deficiency virus-1 seropositive asymptomatic subjects : a quantitative tomography study of 18 cases . quantitative measurements of cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) by xenon-133 ( 133xe ) tomography , together with magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , electroencephalography ( eeg ) , psychometric tests , and laboratory analyses were performed on 18 human immunodeficiency virus 1 ( hiv-1 ) seropositive asymptomatic subjects . abnormalities of cerebral perfusion were observed in 16 cases ( 88 % ) . these abnormalities were particularly frequent in the frontal regions ( 77 % of cases ) . mri demonstrated leucoencephalopathy in only two cases . eeg showed only induced diffuse abnormalities in two cases . psychometric tests showed restricted moderate disturbances in 55 % of patients . these disturbances mostly concerned those sectors involved in cognitive functions and memorization . these results indicate that quantitative measurements of cbf by 133xe-spect is capable of detecting abnormalities of cerebral perfusion at a very early stage ( phase ii ) of hiv-1 infection . these abnormalities are indications of disturbances resulting from unidentified metabolic or vascular lesions . this technique appears to be superior to mri at this stage of the disease 's development . it could provide objective information leading to earlier treatment , and prove useful in evaluating potential antiviral chemotherapy . 
hmpao-spect imaging resembling alzheimer-type dementia in mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes ( melas ) . single-photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) of the brain using hexamethyl propylene amine oxime ( hmpao ) was performed in a 37-year-old patient suffering from mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes ( melas ) . reduced blood flow was observed bilaterally in the parieto-occipital regions ( resembling alzheimer type dementia ) and in the right parietal lobe . 
an evaluation of sensory changes and pain relief in trigeminal neuralgia following intracranial microvascular decompression and/or trigeminal glycerol rhizotomy . nineteen patients with trigeminal neuralgia were treated with either trigeminal ganglion glycerolysis or glycerolysis and intracranial microvascular decompression . all had a good degree of pain relief . of those receiving glycerol alone ( group a ) , 50 % subjectively reported a mild reduction of fine tactile sensation . a similar response was reported by those treated with both glycerol and decompression ( group b ) . the degree of sensory loss was so mild that thermal testing was useless as a discriminatory tool . the degree of sensory loss was not greater when both surgical procedures were performed than when the less-invasive trigeminal ganglion glycerolysis alone was used . 
assessment of proplast-teflon disc replacements [ published erratum appears in j oral maxillofac surg 1991 feb ; 49 ( 2 ) :220 ] this retrospective study reports the findings in the follow-up of 31 temporomandibular joints in which proplast-teflon ( vitek inc , houston , tx ) replacements were used . among the problems noted were pain , malocclusion , restricted opening , and degenerative changes in the condyle and fossa . 
normalization of plasma arginine vasopressin concentrations when children with meningitis are given maintenance plus replacement fluid therapy we hypothesized that plasma arginine vasopressin ( avp ) concentrations in children with meningitis are appropriate for the children 's degree of hypovolemia , even though the concentrations were higher than expected for the serum osmolality . a randomized study was conducted to compare the effect on plasma avp concentrations of giving maintenance fluid requirements plus replacement of any deficit versus restricting fluids to two thirds of maintenance requirements for 24 hours . plasma avp concentrations and serum osmolality were measured before fluid therapy was begun and again after 24 hours . nineteen children , 2 months to 17 years of age , were studied ; 13 had bacterial meningitis ( 12 with haemophilus influenzae type b ) . ten children ( seven with bacterial meningitis ) received a mean of 1.42 times the calculated maintenance fluid requirements , and nine ( six with bacterial meningitis ) were restricted to a mean of 0.65 times maintenance . children in the maintenance group also received significantly more sodium ( mean = 6.3 meq/kg/24 hr ) than children in the fluid-restricted group ( mean = 2.0 meq/kg/24 hr ) . the two groups were comparable for plasma avp concentration and serum osmolality before fluid therapy was begun . the plasma avp concentration was significantly lower after 24 hours of maintenance plus replacement fluids than after fluid restriction ( p = 0.005 ) , and the change in avp concentration correlated with the amount of sodium given ( p less than 0.02 ) . this study supports the hypothesis that serum avp concentrations are elevated in patients with meningitis because of hypovolemia and become normal when sufficient sodium is given to facilitate reabsorption of water by the proximal tubule of the kidney . patients with meningitis can be given maintenance plus replacement fluids but should be monitored for the development of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone . 
diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell anemia by magnetic resonance angiography the study of blood flow by means of magnetic resonance techniques has led to a noninvasive magnetic resonance angiography ( mra ) technique for imaging large cerebral vessels . ten children with sickle cell hemoglobinopathy and a history of acute neurologic syndromes were studied with combined parenchymal magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) and mra . six had abnormal mri findings and mra-defined luminal lesions in the vascular distribution of these parenchymal infarctions . the three children with previous intraarterial angiography had mra abnormalities that corresponded with vascular lesions on conventional angiograms . four had normal mri and mra findings . we conclude that a combination of mri and mra provides a noninvasive screening test for large-vessel disease in this population . 
assessing clinical significance of apnea exceeding fifteen seconds with event recording . using event recording , we determined how often apnea exceeding 15 seconds in duration was associated with bradycardia and how often patients with apnea resumed breathing spontaneously . of 1306 documented apnea events exceeding 15 seconds ( 54 patients ) , 926 lasted 16 to 20 seconds , 262 lasted 21 to 25 seconds , and 118 exceeded 25 seconds . of these episodes , 75.3 % were isolated and 14.9 % were associated with pulse deceleration , 4.4 % with irregular transthoracic impedance , and 5.4 % with bradycardia . event recording provided data supporting discontinuation of monitoring in 50 of 54 patients : 36 spontaneously resumed breathing before the auditory alarm and 14 had a decreased incidence of apnea with maturation . follow-up of 51 patients ( three not located ) showed that none had subsequent apparent life-threatening events or sudden infant death syndrome . our results in these older infants and children ( median age 6.7 months ) provide substantiation that such patients with apnea of less than 20 seconds without bradycardia do not require continued monitoring . further , these data suggest that in selected older infants , longer isolated apnea may be well tolerated ; however , hemoglobin saturation during sleep and the ability to resume breathing after the apnea alarm delay is prolonged should be verified . our patient population had a wide age range and heterogeneity of diagnoses , and was typically free of symptoms , so these results should not be extrapolated uncritically to premature infants , infants with chronic lung disease , and patients with symptomatic apnea . 
measurement of progressive cerebral ventriculomegaly in infants after grades iii and iv intraventricular hemorrhages . to develop guidelines that might help predict prospectively which infants with severe intraventricular hemorrhage ( ivh ) would require intervention , we obtained serial cranial sonograms to measure the rate of growth of cerebral ventricular volumes in 48 preterm infants with and without ivh . the infants were divided into three groups : ( 1 ) those with no ivh ( 22 infants ) , ( 2 ) those with ivh with acute ventricular dilation ( 13 infants ) , and ( 3 ) those with ivh with progressive ventricular dilation requiring intervention ( 13 infants ) . the decision to intervene because of progressive ventricular dilation was based on clinical criteria and the subjective assessment of increasing ventricular size on weekly cranial sonograms . the rate of cerebral ventricular volume growth in infants with ivh who needed intervention was greater ( 4.2 + / - 3.3 ml/day ) than that in infants without ivh ( 0.0 + / - 0.1 ml/day ; p less than 0.001 ) and in infants with ivh and acute ventricular dilation ( 0.0 + / - 0.2 ml/day ; p less than 0.001 ) . using these data , we generated guidelines for predicting prospectively which infants with ivh and ventricular dilation will need intervention for posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus . the guidelines were then confirmed prospectively in 10 infants . 
dysmorphogenesis elicited by microinjected acetaminophen analogs and metabolites in rat embryos cultured in vitro . direct additions of acetaminophen ( apap ) , 3,5-dimethylacetaminophen , 3-hydroxyacetaminophen or 3-methoxyacetaminophen to the medium of cultured embryos each produced an increased incidence of morphologically similar , abnormally open anterior neuropores . approximate concentrations required to produce an equal incidence were 0.5 mm , 1.0 mm , 0.1 mm and 0.75 mm , respectively . in contrast , 2.6-dimethylacetaminophen and n-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine failed to produce elevated incidences of abnormal neurulation unaccompanied by marked growth retardation . however , with intra-amniotic microinjections , 3-hydroxyacetaminophen and n-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine were roughly equipotent for eliciting abnormal neurulation , whereas 3-methoxyacetaminophen required greater than 30-fold higher concentrations . this suggests that n-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine does not readily transit the visceral yolk sac and would likely not be a major factor in apap-elicited neural tube abnormalities unless generated in target tissues . the differential effects produced by two dimethylated ( 2.6 and 3.5 ) apap analogs further suggest that sulfhydryl oxidation is associated more closely than sulfhydryl conjugation with the neurulation defect . intra-amniotic microinjections of large quantities ( 3500 ng ) of 7-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene ( 7-oh-aaf ) or apap failed to produce the specific neurulation defect . microinjections of 7-oh-aaf into the exocoelomic cavity effected the characteristic abnormal neurulation . conversion by conceptal homogenates of 7-oh-aaf was roughly 7 - to 8-fold more rapid than conversion of apap to respective catechol metabolites , and specific activities in yolk sac tissues were greater than those in the embryo . rates of conceptal conversion to the quinoneimine were approximately 2 - to 3-fold lower than catechol generation . 
importance of a neurologic evaluation in women with lower urinary tract dysfunction . the normal coordinated functions of the bladder and urethra are controlled by a set of central and peripheral reflex mechanisms . disruptions of these neuronal reflexes may produce abnormalities in the storage and expulsion of urine . electrophysiologic testing can be employed to complement other urodynamic tests used in the evaluation of these patients and also to document that abnormalities previously thought to be anatomic in origin in reality may be secondary to neurologic dysfunction . 
a practical approach to the painful bladder syndrome . the painful bladder syndrome ( pbs ) is a progressive and painful disease of the bladder that may lead to fibrosis , contracture and reduction of bladder capacity . the usual symptoms are urinary urgency , frequency , nocturia , chronic pelvic pain and lower abdominal pain upon filling of the bladder . a retrospective analysis was performed on 21 women with pbs between march 1987 and march 1988 . the patients were treated weekly with a bladder pillar block , bladder distention and dimethyl sulfoxide instillation . symptomatic relief was observed in 80 % of the patients so treated . the maximum bladder volume increased from 185 to 475 ml ( p less than .01 ) . the side effects were minimal . 
rheumatoid arthritis and comorbidity . data collected from 288 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) indicated that 54 % of respondents also reported other chronic conditions , and that 20 % rated at least one of these other conditions as severe . both the frequency and severity of these comorbidities affected scores on measures of depressive symptoms , social connectedness and on the arthritis impact measurement scales . these findings suggest that the absence of controls for comorbidity may bias measures of functional status among patients with ra . 
an unusual manifestation of paget 's disease of bone : spinal epidural hematoma presenting as acute cauda equina syndrome . neurologic sequelae of paget 's disease of bone include involvement of the spinal cord or cauda equina due to mechanical compression by enlarged vertebrae , ischemia caused by a spinal artery , steal syndrome or neoplasm . we describe a patient with paget 's disease of bone who presented with acute cauda equina syndrome due to a spinal epidural hematoma . clinicians need to recognize this entity since surgical intervention may result in a favorable outcome . 
acute central nervous system symptoms caused by ibuprofen in connective tissue disease . we describe 2 cases of acute encephalopathy in patients with connective tissue disease caused by small doses of ibuprofen . in addition to aseptic meningitis , both patients had altered mental status and focal neurologic signs , ophthalmoplegia in one and hemiparesis in the other . the spectrum of neurologic manifestations of ibuprofen hypersensitivity is reviewed . 
recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome . recurrent symptoms develop in 15 % to 20 % of patients undergoing either first rib resection or scalenectomy for thoracic outlet syndrome . over the past 22 years 134 operations for recurrence were performed in 97 patients . four operations were used : transaxillary first rib resection ( 26 ) ; supraclavicular first rib resection with neurolysis ( 15 ) ; scalenectomy with neurolysis ( 58 ) ; and brachial plexus neurolysis ( 35 ) . complications included temporary plexus injury ( 0.7 % ) , temporary phrenic palsy ( 3.7 % ) , and permanent phrenic palsy ( 1.4 % ) . the combined primary success rate of all four operations for recurrence was 84 % in the first 3 months . this fell to 59 % at 1 to 2 years ; 50 % at 3 to 5 years ; and 41 % at 10 to 15 years . no significant difference was found in results between the four operations used for recurrence . when recurrence was caused by trauma the results of reoperations were better than when recurrence was spontaneous . the primary success rates of three initial operations for thoracic outlet syndrome were compared to their secondary success rates ( improved after reoperation ) . by use of life-table methods , reoperation improved the 5 - to 10-year success rate of transaxillary first rib resection from 69 % to 86 % and for scalenectomy from 69 % to 84 % . reoperation is successful in most cases of recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome and better when recurrence is the result of a neck injury . 
the influence of neutralizing heparin after carotid endarterectomy on postoperative stroke and wound hematoma . the influence of neutralizing or not neutralizing heparin after carotid endarterectomy on postoperative stroke and wound hematoma is unknown . during the past 6 years some of the authors frequently gave protamine sulfate to neutralize heparin , whereas others did not unless a patch was used or wound hemostasis was not readily obtained . to determine the influence of protamine sulfate on stroke and wound hematoma the records of 697 patients having a carotid endarterectomy from january 1984 to september 1989 were reviewed . protamine sulfate was given to 328 patients , and 369 did not receive protamine sulfate . the incidence of stroke in the two groups was 1.8 % ( n = 6 ) and 2.7 % ( n = 10 ) , respectively , and the difference was not significant ( p = 0.6019 ) . excluding three strokes that could not be related to neutralizing or not neutralizing heparin , the difference remained insignificant ( 1.5 % vs 2.2 % , p = 0.7290 ) . the incidence of wound hematoma was 1.8 % ( n = 6 ) in patients given protamine sulfate and 6.5 % ( n = 24 ) in patients not given protamine sulfate , and this difference was significant ( p = 0.0044 ) . the difference remained significant when three hematomas not related to protamine sulfate were excluded ( 1.2 % vs 6.2 % , p = 0.0013 ) . in patients not given protamine sulfate draining the wound lessened the incidence of wound hematoma ( 4.4 % vs 8.6 % ) , but this difference was not statistically significant ( p = 0.1475 ) . in patients given protamine sulfate the dose of protamine sulfate ( 15 to 45 mg vs 50 to 75 mg ) had no statistically significant effect on the incidence of stroke ( 0.8 % vs 2.0 % , p = 0.6530 ) or wound hematoma ( 1.6 % vs 1.0 % , p = 1.000 ) . 
duplex scanning of normal or minimally diseased carotid arteries : correlation with arteriography and clinical outcome . this study evaluated the role of duplex scanning in the management of patients with normal or minimally diseases carotid arteries . carotid duplex scans were interpreted according to previously established criteria and considered normal when pulsed doppler spectral waveforms showed laminar flow or only minor flow disturbances . normal flow patterns were noted by duplex scanning in 100 carotid bifurcations of 72 patients who also underwent carotid arteriography . neurologic symptoms ( amaurosis fugax , transient ischemic attack , or stroke ) were present in relation to 23 arteries and absent in relation to 77 arteries . on the 23 symptomatic sides arteriography was interpreted as normal in eight , 1 % to 15 % stenosis in 14 , and 16 % to 40 % stenosis in one . for the 77 asymptomatic sides , arteriography showed normal vessels in 15 , 1 % to 15 % stenosis in 43 , and 16 % to 40 % stenosis in 19 . one symptomatic patient was treated by carotid endarterectomy for an irregular 1 % to 15 % stenosis . none of the asymptomatic lesions were in the range of 80 % to 99 % stenosis , which would justify endarterectomy for asymptomatic disease . clinical follow-up for a mean interval of 28 months on 20 of the 22 symptomatic patients not undergoing surgery revealed no strokes and transient recurrent symptoms in two patients . assuming that the single operation in this study was indicated , duplex scanning correctly identified lesions not requiring carotid endarterectomy in 96 % ( 22/23 ) of the symptomatic patients . a normal duplex scan also predicted a benign clinical outcome without operation . duplex scanning can reliably exclude surgically treatable carotid bifurcation lesions in asymptomatic patients , and endarterectomy is rarely indicated in symptomatic patients with normal duplex scan results . this study supports a nonoperative therapeutic approach for most patients with neurologic symptoms and a normal carotid duplex scan on the appropriate side . 
changes in quality of care for five diseases measured by implicit review , 1981 to 1986 we measured quality of care before and after implementation of the prospective payment system . we developed a structured implicit review form and applied it to a sample of 1366 medicare patients with congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction , pneumonia , cerebrovascular accident , or hip fracture who were hospitalized in 1981-1982 or 1985-1986 . very poor quality of care was associated with increased death rates 30 days after admission ( 17 % with very good care died vs 30 % with very poor care ) . the quality of medical care improved between 1981-1982 and 1985-1986 ( from 25 % receiving poor or very poor care to 12 % ) , although more patients were judged to have been discharged too soon and in unstable condition ( 7 % vs 4 % ) . except for discharge planning processes , the quality of hospital care has continued to improve for medicare patients despite , or because of , the introduction of the prospective payment system with its accompanying professional review organization review . 
prospective payment system and impairment at discharge . the ' quicker-and-sicker ' story revisited since the introduction of the prospective payment system ( pps ) , anecdotal evidence has accumulated that patients are leaving the hospital " quicker and sicker . " we developed valid measures of discharge impairment and measured these levels in a nationally representative sample of patients with one of five conditions prior to and following the pps implementation . instability at discharge ( important clinical problems usually first occurring prior to discharge ) predicted the likelihood of postdischarge deaths . at 90 days postdischarge , 16 % of patients discharged unstable were dead vs 10 % of patients discharged stable . after the pps introduction , instability increased primarily among patients discharged home . prior to the pps , 10 % of patients discharged home were unstable ; after the pps was implemented , 15 % were discharged unstable , a 43 % relative change . efforts to monitor the effect of this increase in discharge instability on health should be implemented . 
acute sensorineural deafness in lassa fever a prospective audiometric evaluation of 69 hospitalized febrile patients in sierra leone , west africa , revealed a sensorineural hearing deficit ( snhd ) in 14 ( 29 % ) of 49 confirmed cases of lassa fever and in 0 of 20 febrile controls . an snhd was present in nine ( 17.6 % ) of 51 people who had evidence of previous lassa virus infection . twenty-six of 32 local residents who had previously sustained a sudden deafness had antibody titers to lassa virus of 16 or greater , compared with six of 32 matched controls . lassa fever is associated with an incidence of snhd , which considerably exceeds that previously reported with any other postnatally acquired infection , and accounts for a prevalence of virus-related hearing impairment in the eastern province of sierra leone that is greater than that reported from anywhere else in the world . 
transcranial doppler ultrasonography : clinical applications in cerebrovascular disease . transcranial doppler ultrasonography was introduced in 1982 as a noninvasive procedure for assessment of the intracranial cerebral circulation . the lightweight and portable equipment used for transcranial doppler examination facilitates its use in the bedside assessment of critically ill hospitalized patients and outpatients . clinical applications include the diagnosis of vasospasm in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage , assessment of intracranial collateral flow in patients with extracranial arterial occlusive disease , detection of intracranial arterial stenosis , identification of the feeding arteries of arteriovenous malformations and monitoring the hemodynamic effects of their treatment , confirmation of the clinical diagnosis of brain death , intensive-care unit monitoring of brain-injured patients , and intraoperative and postoperative monitoring of neurosurgical patients . transcranial doppler technology is also providing new insights into the pathophysiologic mechanisms of a variety of cerebrovascular conditions . clinicians will find transcranial doppler technology most helpful if they have a specific question about the status of the intracranial circulation . further investigations may expand the clinical and research utility of this technology . 
arterial responses during migraine headache . the superficial temporal artery has been thought to be the main focus of pain during migraine attacks , but its diameter has never been measured directly . the use of a new , high-resolution ultrasound machine to measure arterial size in 25 migraine patients with unilateral head pain showed that the lumen was wider on the painful than on the non-painful side during a migraine attack . the diameters of both radial arteries and the temporal artery on the non-painful side were smaller during than between attacks . the generalised vasoconstriction was not shared by the temporal artery on the affected side , which suggests a local vasodilatory response . the findings suggest that cephalic arteries may play a role in migraine pathogenesis . 
evoked potentials in assessment and follow-up of patients with wilson 's disease . treatment of 9 patients with wilson 's disease was prospectively studied with evoked potentials and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . oral penicillamine therapy led to a decrease in auditory brainstem ( abp ) and somatosensory ( sep ) conduction times in 6 and 4 neurologically symptomatic patients , respectively . abp and sep were normal in 3 other symptom-free patients . mri showed cerebral lesions in 4 of 7 patients . quantified indices of brain atrophy were unaffected by treatment . abp and sep may reveal a reversible component of the disease that can not be detected by mri , and may be a more sensitive measure of treatment efficacy . 
neurological sequelae of cerebral malaria in children . out of 604 gambian children admitted with falciparum malaria to one hospital between september and december , 1988 , 308 had cerebral malaria and 203 were severely anaemic ( haemoglobin less than 60 g/l ) . 14 % of those with cerebral malaria died , as did 7.8 % of those with severe anaemia . 32 ( 12 % ) of children surviving cerebral malaria had residual neurological deficit . 69 other children were admitted with clinical features strongly suggestive of cerebral malaria but with negative blood films ; 16 of these died and 3 had residual neurological deficits . the commonest sequelae of cerebral malaria were hemiplegia ( 23 cases ) , cortical blindness ( 11 ) , aphasia ( 9 ) , and ataxia ( 6 ) . factors predisposing to sequelae included prolonged coma , protracted convulsions , severe anaemia , and a biphasic clinical course characterised by recovery of consciousness followed by recurrent convulsions and coma . at follow up 1-6 months later over half these children had made a full recovery , but a quarter were left with a major residual neurological deficit . cerebral malaria in childhood may be an important cause of neurological handicap in the tropics . 
effects of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty on sleep architecture and patterns of obstructed breathing . in this retrospective study , 72 obstructive sleep apnea patients with polysomnograms taken before and after uvulopalatopharyngoplasty were evaluated . postoperatively , there was a significant improvement of sleep architecture and respiratory indices . in addition , a second group of 17 patients also had position recordings with their polysomnograms . time spent in supine and lateral sleep positions changed postoperatively . there was significant decrease of the apnea plus hypopnea index in the lateral position . this study indicates that there is significant improvement of sleep architecture and respiratory indices in the majority of patients after uvulopalatopharyngoplasty , particularly in the lateral sleep position . 
mitochondrial encephalomyopathies . the mitochondrial diseases present with great heterogeneity . they are often multisystemic and vary considerably in age at onset , distribution of weakness , severity , and course . only nonthyroidal hypermetabolism has a distinctive clinical presentation . therefore , attempts at classification have generated some controversy . this article discusses the general classification that takes into account genetic and biochemical features , which has resulted from the fast pace of biochemical and molecular genetic investigations . 
peroxisomal disorders . although peroxisomes were once considered a vestige , their importance in cellular metabolism is clearly established by the many inherited diseases that have been described in the past two decades . unfortunately there is no definitive treatment for the various disorders , but based on the recognition of the biochemical abnormalities , prenatal testing and appropriate genetic counseling can be provided . it is essential for clinicians to be aware of this group of diseases , as diagnosis and further study of these patients are essential in understanding the basic etiologic mechanisms underlying these complex groups of disorders . clearly , there is much to be learned about the relationship between biochemical abnormalities and the phenotypic variability of the peroxisomal disorders . 
the molecular biology of occlusive stroke in childhood . it is very likely that many of the same factors involved in occlusive disease in the adult are operative in the child . the major difference may be in the factors that damage endothelium in these two age groups and thereby initiate this catastrophe ( atherosclerosis versus " other " causes of endothelial changes ) . our task in this next decade is the rational exploration of the effects of endothelium-mediated kinins , endothelial secretory products , angiospasm , platelet aggregration , prostaglandins , and lipoproteins on pediatric stroke . 
bacterial meningitis : an update . antibiotics and improvements in supportive care have greatly reduced the mortality from bacterial meningitis . nevertheless , the incidence of neurodevelopmental sequelae remains unacceptably high . ampicillin and chloramphenicol remain the standard for antimicrobial therapy against which other agents must be compared . a number of adjunct therapies are being investigated for their possible effectiveness in reducing hearing loss and other neurologic effects of this disease . there continues to be a need for carefully performed follow-up studies to assess any possible benefit of these agents . a significant percentage of children surviving an episode of bacterial meningitis have obvious or subtle neurodevelopmental deficits . the role of the pediatric neurologist should not end with management of acute problems such as seizures but should be expanded to aid in close developmental monitoring of these high-risk children . 
the classification of childhood seizures and epilepsy syndromes . the classification of seizures and the epileptic syndromes is particularly relevant to those who treat children , as most syndromes are age related , with onset between the neonatal and adolescent periods . whereas seizures are characterized by ictal behavior and eeg findings , epilepsy syndromes are defined by seizure type , etiology , age of onset , natural history , possible genetic factors , and prognosis . limitations exist , but attempts to use these classifications typically lead to a better understanding of the patient and allow for more precise evaluation and treatment . 
infantile spasms . infantile spasms are a seizure disorder in young infants with diverse etiologies , suggesting that they arise from any disturbance of central nervous system function during susceptible periods of development . the prognosis for normal intellectual and neurologic development parallels that of the underlying etiology . early and appropriate treatment with acth may lead to seizure control in a majority of patients . the treating physician must anticipate the side effects of this modality . 
status epilepticus in infancy and childhood . status epilepticus implies a prolonged seizure or recurrent seizures with persistent decreased consciousness , lasting at least 30 minutes . both convulsive and nonconvulsive forms exist , either of which may lead to death or additional neurologic deficit . therapy involves careful supportive care plus some combination of benzodiazepines , phenytoin , or phenobarbital . the outcome depends first on the etiology and second on the rapidity with which seizures are controlled . 
rett syndrome and the autistic disorders . rett syndrome is a disorder noted to date only in females and characterized by a pervasive developmental disability following apparently normal early infancy . in addition to gait difficulties , stereotypic hand movements , and loss of communication and purposeful hand skills , autistic-like behavior is an early sign that often results in misdiagnosis . despite these significant clinical abnormalities , neuropathologic features are modest , and no consistent laboratory abnormality or diagnostic marker has been identified . the current status of research in rs is considered within the context of autism and other disorders in which autistic features may occur , such as the fragile x syndrome . the concept of autism as neurobiologically based behavior is developed . as such , autism is regarded as an umbrella category containing an ever-expanding list of specific disorders . 
tourette syndrome : recent advances . clinical and genetic studies have allowed the limits of tourette syndrome to be broadened . there is now strong evidence that chronic motor tics and tourette syndrome are different manifestations of an autosomal dominant gene with high penetrance . a genetic link with obsessive-compulsive disorder also appears to have been established . up to 10 % of cases of tourette syndrome may be nongenetic phenocopies , however . there is also an association between tourette syndrome and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder . this complicates therapy , as psychostimulant drugs may precipitate or exacerbate tics in some individuals . a high proportion of patients with tourette syndrome also has neuropsychological deficits and learning disabilities . the pathophysiology is incompletely understood . the best supported hypothesis is that there is dopamine receptor supersensitivity , although there are strong suggestions of abnormalities in serotonin metabolism . the possibility of abnormalities in neuropeptide systems is being explored . treatment of tics relies primarily on neuroleptics with dopamine receptor blocking activity . clonidine may be useful in some patients , especially those with behavior problems . obsessive-compulsive symptoms can be treated using appropriate pharmacologic agents . the treatment of attention deficit disorder in patients with tics should begin with behavioral strategies . clonidine can be tried as the first-line drug , and psychostimulants should be used only if necessary and with great caution . in rare instances it may be necessary to combine a psychostimulant and a neuroleptic . 
the floppy infant : recent advances in the understanding of disorders affecting the neuromuscular junction . the clinician is often asked to evaluate the floppy infant . numerous conditions that cause hypotonia in infancy are briefly outlined in this article . these conditions may affect the brain , spinal cord , or motor unit . several disorders of neuromuscular transmission , including four distinct and recently described congenital myasthenic syndromes and infant botulism , are discussed thereafter . 
rehabilitation of the pediatric patient with a neuromuscular disease . a rehabilitation program for a patient with a neuromuscular disease can be developed only after an accurate diagnosis has been established . the diagnosis and its ramifications should suggest a natural course of disease which , it is hoped , can be improved upon with a rational and realistic program . the program is best developed by an interdisciplinary team , including a pediatric neurologist , who should have the greatest understanding of the patient 's problem and should ultimately be responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the program . a child with cerebral palsy commonly requires the services of physical and occupational therapists as well as knowledgeable orthopedists . is the program appropriate ? does it consider the child 's potential as well as his limitations ? a child with a traumatic brain injury requires , in addition to the above , psychological intervention and an intensive educational program . will the child and family need help from mental health professionals ? a child with a motor unit disease such as duchenne 's muscular dystrophy requires , in addition to the above services , a " philosophy " of care . will the child ever ambulate independently ? if so , at what cost ? what will be necessary for the child to reach this potential , including items such as orthoses and adaptive equipment ? will respirator care become necessary ? what issues must be addressed for this form of care to be established ? there is no one program for all children . the programs must be individualized to meet the needs of the patient and the family . this point can not be overemphasized . 
magnetic resonance in pediatric and adolescent neuroimaging . with improved availability and a practical understanding of the principles of utilization , mri will continue to replace ct and us in pediatric neuroimaging , just as it has impacted upon the more invasive modalities . in general , us remains the procedure of choice for screening of fetal and infant cns abnormalities , and ct continues as the principal screening modality beyond infancy and especially for acute , emergent presentations . mri has now emerged as a primary option for screening as well as for more definitive assessment of many intracranial and most intraspinal conditions . 
the use of ultrasound in evaluating neurologic diseases of childhood . real-time cranial sonography , intracranial doppler , and neuromuscular sonography are the sonographic techniques that are applicable to the neurologic evaluation of infants and children . although limited by age , specificity , and operator skill and experience , the advantages of real-time cranial and intracranial doppler sonography make them useful techniques in the evaluation of the young infant , particularly in the serial assessment of ventricular size and in the study of the critically ill infant . the use of neuromuscular sonography in the assessment of the floppy infant and in the guidance of biopsy makes this an increasingly valuable tool . 
coffee , caffeine , and cardiovascular disease in men background . for many years , an association between coffee consumption and the risk of coronary heart disease has been suspected . although based on small numbers of end points , a prospective study has suggested a particularly strong association between recent coffee drinking and the incidence of cardiovascular disease . methods . we examined prospectively the relation of coffee consumption with the risk of myocardial infarction , need for coronary-artery bypass grafting or angioplasty , and risk of stroke in a cohort of 45,589 u.s. men who were 40 to 75 years old in 1986 and who had no history of cardiovascular disease . results . during two years of follow-up observation , 221 participants had a nonfatal myocardial infarction or died of coronary heart disease , 136 underwent coronary-artery surgery or angioplasty , and 54 had a stroke . total coffee consumption was not associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease or stroke . the age-adjusted relative risk for all cardiovascular disease among participants who drank four or more cups of coffee per day was 1.04 ( 95 percent confidence intervals , 0.74 to 1.46 ) . increasing levels of consumption of caffeinated coffee were not associated with higher risks of cardiovascular disease . higher consumption of decaffeinated coffee , however , was associated with a marginally significant increase in the risk of coronary heart disease ( relative risk , 1.63 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 1.02 to 2.60 ) . finally , we observed no pattern of increased risk across the subgroups of participants with increasing intakes of caffeine from all sources . adjustment for major cardiovascular-risk indicators , dietary intake of fats , and cholesterol intake did not materially alter these associations . conclusions . these findings do not support the hypothesis that coffee or caffeine consumption increases the risk of coronary heart disease or stroke . 
dwarf locus mutants lacking three pituitary cell types result from mutations in the pou-domain gene pit-1 . mutations at the mouse dwarf locus ( dw ) interrupt the normal development of the anterior pituitary gland , resulting in the loss of expression of growth hormone , prolactin and thyroid-stimulating hormone , and hypoplasia of their respective cell types . disruptions in the gene encoding the pou-domain transcription factor , pit-1 , occur in both characterized alleles of the dwarf locus . the data indicate that pit-1 is necessary for the specification of the phenotype of three cell types in the anterior pituitary , and directly link a transcription factor to commitment and progression events in mammalian organogenesis . 
pre-trigeminal neuralgia . eighteen patients who subsequently developed typical trigeminal neuralgia experienced a prodromal pain termed " pre-trigeminal neuralgia . " these patients described their prodromal pain as a toothache or sinusitis-like pain lasting up to several hours , sometimes triggered by jaw movements or by drinking hot or cold liquids . typical trigeminal neuralgia developed a few days to 12 years later , and in all cases affected the same division of the trigeminal nerve . six additional patients experiencing what appeared to be pre-trigeminal neuralgia became pain-free when taking carbamazepine or baclofen . recognition of pretrigeminal neuralgia makes it possible to relieve the pain with appropriate medications and avoid unnecessary irreversible dental procedures . 
hemiplegia in posterior cerebral artery occlusion . we report 4 patients with hemiplegia due to a posterior cerebral artery occlusion . associated clinical signs were aphasia , alexia or a neglect syndrome , hemianopia , and hemisensory loss . hemiplegia was due to infarction in the lateral midbrain . the level of the occlusion in the posterior cerebral artery may be located distal to the junction with the posterior communicating artery . 
capsular genu syndrome . we report 5 patients with unilateral infarct and 1 with hemorrhage limited to the genu of the internal capsule . the most prominent finding was contralateral facial and lingual hemiparesis with dysarthria . three patients also showed unilateral mastication-palatal-pharyngeal weakness , and 1 had unilateral vocal cord paresis . mild limb involvement was limited to hand weakness in 4 patients . our findings suggest that the majority of motor corticopontine and corticocobulbar fibers are located in the genu of the internal capsule . the faciolingual syndrome and its variants are highly suggestive of capsular genu stroke . 
tonic contraversive ocular tilt reaction due to unilateral meso-diencephalic lesion . we studied 4 patients with tonic contraversive ocular tilt reactions due to unilateral , paramedian , mesodiencephalic lesions . this is in contrast to the only 2 previously reported patients with ocular tilt reactions due to unilateral mesodiencephalic lesions , each of whom had a paroxysmal ipsiversive ocular tilt reaction . this new finding is considered in the context of previous clinical and experimental data on the various types of ocular tilt reactions that follow stimulation or destruction of the peripheral and central vestibular system . otolithic inputs to the interstitial nucleus of cajal from the contralateral vestibular nucleus and motor outputs from the interstitial nucleus of cajal to cervical and ocular motoneurons could be involved in the ocular tilt reaction . we propose that in patients with unilateral meso-diencephalic lesions , a tonic contraversive ocular tilt reaction could be due to persistently decreased resting activity of ipsilateral interstitial nucleus neurons , whereas a paroxysmal ipsiversive ocular tilt reaction could be due to transiently increased activity of the same interstitial nucleus neurons . cases of ocular tilt reaction due to unilateral meso-diencephalic lesion point to the existence of a crossed graviceptive pathway between the vestibular nucleus and the contralateral interstitial nucleus of cajal . 
acute naming deficits following dominant temporal lobectomy : prediction by age at 1st risk for seizures . age at 1st risk for seizures may predict anomia following dominant anterior temporal lobectomy . we assessed confrontation naming before and 2 to 3 weeks after surgery in 45 right-handed patients grouped by side of focus and presence or absence of early ( less than or equal to 5 years ) risk factors . after left lobectomy , 6 of 10 ( 60 % ) patients with no early risks demonstrated significant decline ( greater than or equal to 25 % ) in naming , but none of the patients with early risks showed this decline . after right lobectomy , there was no change . cerebral representation of naming may be atypical in patients with early risks . 
an estimate of the incidence of dementia in idiopathic parkinson 's disease . the proportion of patients with idiopathic parkinson 's disease ( pd ) who are considered demented ranges from 10 % to 15 % . because dementia may affect survival in pd , the incidence rate of dementia , rather than proportion , would be a more accurate measure of disease frequency . we previously estimated the proportion of patients with pd and dementia to be 10.9 % from the records of a cohort with the idiopathic form of pd in a major medical center . we reviewed the clinical records of this cohort after 4 years and 9 months to estimate the incidence rate of dementia . we identified 65 new cases of dementia from the 249 patient-records available . using the number of person-years of follow-up for each case as the denominator , we estimated the overall incidence rate to be 69 per 1,000 person-years of observation . the mean age of this cohort was 71.4 years . the cumulative incidence of dementia increased with age . by 85 years of age , over 65 % of the surviving members of the cohort were demented . the age-specific incidence rates for dementia in this cohort of pd were significantly greater than for a similarly aged cohort of healthy elderly people . the age-specific standard morbidity ratios indicated that , compared with people of similar ages , patients with pd have the highest increase in risk for dementia between ages 65 and 75 . 
antemortem diagnosis of diffuse lewy body disease . using the presence of widespread cortical lewy bodies ( lb ) as the pathologic criteria of diffuse lewy body disease ( dlbd ) , we describe serial neurologic and mental status examinations in 6 patients with dlbd , 3 patients with alzheimer 's disease ( ad ) , and 1 patient with parkinson 's disease ( pd ) . the 6 patients with dlbd included 3 with neocortical neurofibrillary tangles ( nft ) consistent with coincident ad . most patients with dlbd had gait impairment concurrent with mild to moderate dementia . abnormalities of tone or resting tremor were also prominent early symptoms in the subjects with dlbd , but not ad . patients with dlbd frequently had abnormal eegs with background posterior slowing and a frontally dominant burst pattern at the time of mild to moderate dementia . agitation , hallucinations , and delusions were frequent early symptoms in dlbd patients . patients with dlbd without concomitant ad had numerous alz-50 negative cortical plaques . patients with dlbd have a distinct clinical syndrome that can be differentiated from ad . pathologic features , including the absence of alz-50 immunoreactivity , also differentiate dlbd from ad . 
variable expression of parkinson 's disease : a base-line analysis of the datatop cohort . the parkinson study group . the datatop database , which includes clinical information on 800 patients with early untreated parkinson 's disease ( pd ) , is well suited to explore clinical heterogeneity in pd . patients with early-onset pd ( less than or equal to 40 years , n = 33 ) reached the same level of disability as the late-onset pd ( greater than or equal to 70 years , n = 85 ) group at a significantly slower rate ( 2.9 vs. 1.7 years ) . early-onset pd patients functioned cognitively better than late-onset pd patients . bradykinesia , and postural instability and gait difficulty ( pigd ) , were more common at onset in patients with a rapid rate of disease progression ( " malignant pd " ; duration of symptoms less than 1 year and hoehn/yahr stage of 2.5 , n = 11 ) as compared with those with a relatively slow rate of progression ( " benign pd " ; duration of symptoms greater than 4 years , n = 65 ) . comparisons of tremor-dominant pd ( mean tremor score/mean pigd score less than or equal to 1.5 , n = 441 ) with the pigd-dominant type ( mean tremor score/mean pigd score greater than or equal to 1.0 , n = 233 ) provided support for the existence of clinical subtypes . the pigd group reported significantly greater subjective intellectual , motor , and occupational impairment than the tremor group . stage ii patients had higher depression scores than stage i patients . among the patients participating in the datatop , older age at onset with bradykinesia , or with the pigd form of pd , is associated with more functional disability than when the symptoms are dominated by tremor or begin at a younger age . 
chinese-white differences in the distribution of occlusive cerebrovascular disease . the distribution of cerebrovascular lesions is affected by race . blacks and japanese have more intracranial occlusive cerebrovascular disease , while whites have more extracranial disease . despite a high incidence of stroke in china , there are few formal studies of the distribution of vascular occlusive disease in chinese populations . we compared clinical and angiographic features of 24 white and 24 chinese patients with symptomatic occlusive cerebrovascular disease . in symptomatic vascular territories , whites had more severe ( greater than or equal to 50 % stenosis ) extracranial lesions , while chinese had more severe intracranial lesions . when we counted mild and severe lesions in a symptomatic territory , whites had more extracranial lesions while chinese had more intracranial lesions . when we combined symptomatic and asymptomatic territories , whites had more extracranial lesions , while chinese had more intracranial lesions . white patients reported more transient ischemic attacks . the distribution of lesions , however , was not explained by differences in incidence of transient ischemia , hypertension , diabetes , hypercholesterolemia , or ischemic heart disease between the groups . the preponderance of intracranial vascular lesions in chinese patients is similar to that seen in blacks and japanese . racial differences in the occurrence of extracranial and intracranial lesions raise the possibility of a different underlying pathophysiology for the 2 locations . 
abnormal pulsatile secretion of luteinizing hormone in men with epilepsy : relationship to laterality and nature of paroxysmal discharges . we compared the pulsatile secretion of luteinizing hormone ( lh ) between 13 men with clinically and electrographically documented temporal lobe seizures and 8 age-matched controls . serum for lh measurement was drawn every 15 minutes during 8 hours of eeg telemetry in both groups . the 2 groups did not differ significantly in average mean baseline lh secretion , total lh secretion , or average pulse amplitude . the group with seizures , however , showed a significantly greater ( p less than 0.05 ) variability of baseline lh secretion and pulse frequency . among the men with unilateral paroxysmal eeg findings , pulse frequency was significantly greater ( p = 0.05 ) with right epileptiform discharges or left slowing ( 6.4 + / - 0.4 ) than with left epileptiform discharges or right slowing ( 3.0 + / - 1.3 ) . the relationship of pulse frequency to the nature and laterality of paroxysmal discharges makes it unlikely that endocrine abnormalities can be attributed to medication alone and strengthens the notion that temporal lobe epileptiform discharges may disrupt hypothalamic regulation of pituitary secretion . 
dystonia in parkinson 's disease , multiple system atrophy , and progressive supranuclear palsy . adult-onset dystonia-parkinsonism is a syndrome in search of a pathology . we therefore reviewed the literature on dystonic manifestations in autopsy-proven cases of multiple system atrophy ( msa ) , progressive supranuclear palsy ( psp ) , and idiopathic parkinson 's disease ( pd ) . only 6 of 140 autopsy reports of msa remarked on the presence of dystonia in life , but personal observations suggest prominent antecollis may develop at some stage in up to 1/2 of sufferers . similarly , very few ( 15/118 ) clinicopathologic observations on psp included convincing dystonic manifestations , in contrast to some clinical reports where blepharospasm and early limb dystonia were prominent . virtually any form of focal and segmental dystonia may sometimes occur with clinically diagnosed pd , with occasional descriptions of hemidystonia-hemiparkinsonism . however , there is pathologic confirmation of this diagnosis in only 1 case . with many patients thought clinically to have pd proving pathologically to have another cause for their parkinsonism , the true frequency and the range of dystonic manifestations acceptable in pd remain unknown . 
neuroexcitatory plasma amino acids are elevated in migraine . to investigate the role of glutamic ( glu ) and aspartic acid ( asp ) in migraine , we measured the plasma amino acids in migraine patients with and without aura , between and during attacks , and compared the profiles with the plasma amino acid profiles of tension headache patients and healthy controls . between attacks , migraineurs ( notably with aura ) had substantially higher plasma glu and asp levels than did controls and tension headache patients . in addition , patients with migraine without aura showed low plasma histidine levels . during migraine attacks , glu ( and to a lesser extent asp ) levels were even further increased . the results suggest a defective cellular reuptake mechanism for glu and asp in migraineurs , and we hypothesize a similar defect at the neuronal/glial cell level , predisposing the brain of migraineurs to develop spreading depression . 
borderzone hemodynamics in cerebrovascular disease . to investigate the possible existence of chronic selective hemodynamic impairment in the arterial borderzone regions of the brain , we used positron emission tomography ( pet ) to measure regional mean vascular transit time ( rt , equal to the ratio of regional cerebral blood volume to cerebral blood flow ) and regional oxygen extraction fraction ( roef ) in 32 patients with either severe internal carotid artery stenosis or occlusion and 11 normal controls . twenty-four of the patients had had tias or amaurosis fugax from 1 to 60 days before pet ; all had normal brain ct . we used a stereotactic localization method to locate the anterior and posterior borderzone regions of the middle cerebral artery ( mca ) territory . we then calculated ratios of each borderzone to the ipsilateral mca territory for both rt and roef . there was no significant difference from control ratios in any patient subgroup including those with greater than or equal to 75 % stenosis or occlusion , those with or without contralateral greater than or equal to 50 % stenosis , or those with abnormal hemodynamics in the mca territory . we therefore found no evidence for selective borderzone hemodynamic impairment in this group of patients with severe carotid artery disease . 
fresnel prisms improve visual perception in stroke patients with homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect . we randomly assigned 39 patients with stroke and homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect to treatment with 15-diopter plastic press-on fresnel prisms ( n = 18 ) or to serve as controls ( n = 21 ) . baseline evaluations of visual perception and activities-of-daily-living ( adl ) function were similar for both groups . after 4 weeks , the prism-treated group performed significantly better than controls on the following : ( 1 ) motor free visual perception test ; ( 2 ) line bisection task ; ( 3 ) line cancellation task ; ( 4 ) harrington flocks visual field screener ; and ( 5 ) tangent screen examination . there was no significant difference in barthel adl assessment at 4 weeks . thus , treatment with 15-diopter fresnel prisms improves visual perception test scores but not adl function in stroke patients with homonymous hemianopia or unilateral visual neglect . 
comparison of algorithms of testing for use in automated evaluation of sensation . estimates of vibratory detection threshold may be used to detect , characterize , and follow the course of sensory abnormality in neurologic disease . the approach is especially useful in epidemiologic and controlled clinical trials . we studied which algorithm of testing and finding threshold should be used in automatic systems by comparing among algorithms and stimulus conditions for the index finger of healthy subjects and for the great toe of patients with mild neuropathy . appearance thresholds obtained by linear ramps increasing at a rate less than 4.15 microns/sec provided accurate and repeatable thresholds compared with thresholds obtained by forced-choice testing . these rates would be acceptable if only sensitive sites were studied , but they were too slow for use in automatic testing of insensitive parts . appearance thresholds obtained by fast linear rates ( 4.15 or 16.6 microns/sec ) overestimated threshold , especially for sensitive parts . use of the mean of appearance and disappearance thresholds , with the stimulus increasing exponentially at rates of 0.5 or 1.0 just noticeable difference ( jnd ) units per second , and interspersion of null stimuli , bekesy with null stimuli , provided accurate , repeatable , and fast estimates of threshold for sensitive parts . despite the good performance of bekesy testing , we prefer forced choice for evaluation of the sensation of patients with neuropathy . 
gadolinium-mri in acute transverse myelopathy . a patient with acute transverse myelopathy ( atm ) had serial magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) studies before and after administration of gadolinium ( gd-dtpa ) . gd-dtpa-mri was useful in estimating the pathologic extent and residual deficit expected in atm . 
right-left disorientation in dementia of the alzheimer type . we demonstrated that right-left orientation ( r/l-o ) on a confronting subject is more impaired in patients with dementia of the alzheimer type than in patients with multi-infarct dementia of comparable degree of dementia . the impairment in r/l-o is independent of aphasia and spatial disorientation . 
effect of plasmapheresis on serum and csf autoantibody levels in cns paraneoplastic syndromes . we compared the effect of plasmapheresis on antineuronal autoantibody titers in the serum and csf of 3 patients with cns paraneoplastic syndromes . plasmapheresis reduced the serum autoantibody titer to 20 % of the initial levels in the 3 patients , but the csf autoantibody titer decreased only in the patient with severe damage of the blood-brain barrier . 
aggravation of human and experimental myasthenia gravis by contrast media . after observing a 72-year-old myasthenic patient develop an acute myasthenic exacerbation following the administration of routine diagnostic iv contrast material , an observation rarely described in the literature , we used the experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis model in rabbits injected with a contrast agent to simulate the situation . there was significant worsening of the decremental response to 3 hz repetitive nerve stimulation from 40 + / - 29 % to 55 + / - 27 % following the iv administration of contrast agent at doses similar to those used in humans . iv calcium partially reversed this aggravation . caution is merited when myasthenic patients are administered contrast media . 
dopamine beta-hydroxylase activity in cerebrospinal fluid of idiopathic torsion dystonia . since a postmortem biochemical study and a genetic linkage study of idiopathic torsion dystonia suggested possible involvement of dopamine beta-hydroxylase ( dbh ) , we determined csf dbh activities of jewish and non-jewish patients with childhood-onset idiopathic torsion dystonia and found no differences from a control population . 
inconsistent response to divalproex sodium in hemichorea/hemiballism . we report 6 patients with hemichorea/hemiballism of vascular origin who were treated with divalproex sodium ( depakote ) . four of 6 responded initially . marked improvement was seen in 2 patients only and in 1 of these hemiballism recurred despite continuing therapy . divalproex sodium is not uniformly effective in the treatment of hemichorea/hemiballism . 
oxidation reactions in parkinson 's disease . free radicals generated from oxidation reactions may contribute to the pathogenesis of parkinson 's disease ( pd ) . free radicals are capable of reacting almost instantaneously with membrane lipids and causing lipid peroxidation , membrane injury , and cell death . dopamine is metabolized by oxidation reactions capable of generating free radicals . recent evidence indicates that the substantia nigra of patients with pd contains increased iron , which enhances oxidation , and decreased glutathione , which protects against the formation of free radicals . further , the end products of lipid peroxidation are increased in the substantia nigra of patients with pd , supporting the notions that free radicals are being generated and may contribute to dopamine neuronal death . this hypothesis suggests that antioxidant therapies may slow the rate of progression of pd and raises concern that metabolites of levodopa therapy may accelerate the rate of neuronal degeneration . 
the modified superior based pharyngeal flap . part iii . a retrospective study . a retrospective study of 31 patients who had diagnosed velopharyngeal incompetence and were surgically managed with the modified superior based pharyngeal flap was completed . the following were analyzed : age at time of operation , gender , physical status , diagnostic protocol , length of operation ( length of total surgery ) and length of superior based pharyngeal flap , length of postoperative hospital stay , length of total hospital stay , length of follow-up , speech results , complications , patient care , and medication . the result showed that the optimal timing for correction of velopharyngeal incompetence was between 3 and 6 years of age . the mean length of total hospital stay was 2.7 days , postoperative complications were minimal , and speech results were generally good . 
a unique indexing splint for use in combined le fort and nasal injuries to avoid tracheostomy . midface fractures with associated displaced and/or comminuted nasal fractures can require tracheostomy for a general anesthetic airway if these fractures are to be reduced simultaneously . we describe a unique indexing splint that allows oral intubation yet also allows simultaneous reduction of midface and nasal fractures under one anesthetic . furthermore , tracheostomy with its potential complications is avoided . the case report illustrates the technique , and alternative treatments for these injuries are discussed . 
patient compliance -- a factor in facial trauma repair . the clinical records of 25 consecutive patients who were treated for facial trauma were reviewed and analyzed to ascertain what effect patient cooperation had on the outcome of facial fracture repair . the study was designed to establish the incidence of complications and to discover what factors contributed to untoward sequela in such patients . overall , 15 patients ( 60 % ) were noncompliant in one or more aspects of their care . six patients ( 24 % ) had significant postoperative complications associated with their facial injuries . four of these patients were not fully cooperative . 
febrile status epilepticus as part of a study of status epilepticus in children ( maytal j , shinnar s , moshe sl , alvarez la . pediatrics . 1989 ; 83:323 -331 ) ; 44 children with febrile convulsions lasting more than 30 minutes were followed for a mean of 28 months ( range 4 to 72 ) . thirty children were followed prospectively . children with prior afebrile seizures or evidence of acute central nervous system infection were excluded . nine ( 20 % ) children had prior neurological deficits . the duration of the febrile seizure was 0.5 to 1 hour in 41 cases ( 85 % ) , 1 to 2 hours in 5 ( 10 % ) , and greater than 2 hours in 2 children ( 5 % ) . no child died or developed new neurological deficits following the seizures . the risk of recurrent seizures was increased , but only in the group with prior neurological abnormality . six ( 66 % ) of these children had subsequent febrile seizures compared with 12 ( 34 % ) of the normal children ( p = .08 ) . three ( 33 % ) had recurrent febrile status epilepticus compared with only 1 ( 3 % ) normal child ( p = .023 ) . the 2 children in the prospective arm of the study with recurrent febrile status epilepticus were both neurologically abnormal ( p = .035 ) . all 3 of the children who subsequently had afebrile seizures ( 2 prospective ) were neurologically abnormal ( p = .006 overall , p = .035 for prospective only ) . it is concluded that the occurrence of febrile status epilepticus in a neurologically impaired child is a risk factor for subsequent febrile as well as afebrile seizures . the occurrence of febrile status epilepticus in an otherwise normal child does not significantly increase the risk for subsequent febrile ( brief or prolonged ) or afebrile seizures in the first few years following the episode . 
bacterial or viral meningitis ? measuring lactate in csf can help you know quickly . measurement of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) lactate is a useful test when properly applied to the appropriate clinical situation and can offer information other csf parameters can not provide . except for gram 's stain of csf , lactate level is the most important csf parameter in the early differentiation of viral ( aseptic ) and bacterial purulent meningitis . 
understanding dizziness . how to decipher this nonspecific symptom . dizziness is a common but often nonspecific symptom . through careful history taking and physical examination , primary care physicians can usually determine the type of sensation ( vertigo or light-headedness ) and its source . although most causes of dizziness are benign , disorders of the central nervous system tend to be ominous and require immediate referral to a specialist . 
levels of mrna for a putative kainate receptor are affected by seizures . in situ hybridization and rna blot-hybridization techniques were used ( i ) to examine the regional distribution of mrna for a putative kainate receptor in adult rat brain and ii ) to test the possibility that seizures affect expression of the receptor gene . the highest densities of hybridization were distributed within hippocampal pyramidal and granule cells , medial habenula , purkinje cells and the molecular layer of cerebellum , and olfactory bulb . recurrent limbic seizures caused a massive , delayed , and reversible reduction in levels of the kainate receptor mrna in dentate gyrus ; lesser decreases were found in pyramidal cell fields of hippocampus and superficial cortex . these findings provide evidence that unusual patterns of physiological activity can alter genomic expression for a subclass of glutamate receptors in brain . 
immunodominant regions for t helper-cell sensitization on the human nicotinic receptor alpha subunit in myasthenia gravis . in myasthenia gravis an autoimmune response against the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) occurs . the alpha subunit of the achr contains both the epitope ( s ) that dominates the antibody response ( main immunogenic region ) and epitopes involved in t helper cell sensitization . in this study , overlapping synthetic peptides corresponding to the complete achr alpha-subunit sequence were used to propagate polyclonal achr-specific t helper cell lines from four myasthenic patients of different hla types . response of the t helper lines to the individual peptides was studied . four immunodominant sequence segments were identified -- i.e. , residues 48-67 , 101-120 , 304-322 , and 419-437 . these regions did not include residues known to form the main immunogenic region or the cholinergic binding site , and they frequently contained sequence motifs that have been proposed to be related to t-epitope formation . 
concurrent and construct validity of the pediatric evaluation of disability inventory . the purpose of this study was to determine the validity of the development edition ( pilot version ) of the pediatric evaluation of disability inventory ( pedi ) in groups of disabled and nondisabled children . the pedi is a new functional assessment instrument for the evaluation of disabled children aged 6 months to 7 years . the pedi has been developed to identify functional status and change along three dimensions : 1 ) functional skill level , 2 ) caregiver assistance , and 3 ) modifications or adaptive equipment used . the pedis were administered as a parental-report questionnaire , and the results were compared with data obtained by the battelle developmental inventory screening test ( bdist ) . the bdist is a standardized assessment with developmental and adaptive content . subjects were 20 children between the ages of 2 and 8 years with arthritic conditions and spina bifida and 20 nondisabled children matched for age and sex . all subjects ' scores on the bdist cognitive domain were no greater than 1.50 standard deviations below the mean for their age group . concurrent validity was supported by moderately high pearson product-moment correlations between bdist and pedi summary scores ( r = .70 -.80 ) . construct validity was supported by significant differences between the disabled and nondisabled groups ' pedi scores and by discriminant analysis identifying the pedi scores as better group discriminators than the bdist scores . results validate the developmental edition of the pedi and support the further development and standardization of the final version . use of the pedi in clinical pediatric physical therapy practice is discussed . 
effects of neuro-developmental treatment and orthoses on knee flexion during gait : a single-subject design . the interactive effects of neuro-developmental treatment and inhibitive ankle-height orthoses on gait were examined via a single-subject research design . knee flexion during gait at initial contact , mid-stance , heel-off , and mid-swing were measured in a 2-year-old girl with diplegia by use of a goniometer and freeze-frame videography . during the treatment and treatment/orthoses phases , a decrease in excessive knee flexion was noted . changes in trend over time were greater in the 3-week treatment phase than in the 3-week treatment/orthoses phase . changes in level at the initiation of the treatment/orthoses phase were greater than in the treatment phase . the described neuro-developmental treatment activities were conducted correctly 92 % of the time according to an independent observer . the interrater reliability of goniometric data measured by videography was .93 using intraclass correlation coefficients . the results of this study suggest that both methods of treatment can be used to decrease excessive knee flexion during gait in a child with diplegia . 
conditioning of the spinal stretch reflex : implications for rehabilitation . the purpose of this article is to describe a new technique that can potentially be applied to patients with hyperactive spinal stretch reflexes ( ssrs ) . the progression of clinical research from conditioning of individual muscles or muscle groups ( electromyographic biofeedback ) to conditioning ssrs is explained . research data from subhuman primates in addition to the first human experiments are reviewed . potential applications of ssr conditioning are discussed , as are the issues requiring further delineation and research before the specificity of a training effect can be ascertained . 
a clinicopathological study of the paraneoplastic neuromuscular syndromes associated with lung cancer . the highest incidence of remote neuromuscular disorders in cancer has previously been reported in lung carcinoma . the clinical incidence of neuromuscular disorder was estimated and correlated with muscle histology and the histological type of lung tumour in 100 patients with lung carcinoma who were studied prospectively . thirty-five patients had small cell carcinoma and 65 patients non-small cell lung cancer . clinically , 33 patients had a polymyopathy , of whom 18 had a cachectic myopathy and 15 had a proximal myopathy ( two patients had lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome , one presented with dermatomyositis and one had evidence of ectopic acth production ) . cachexia was more common in non-small cell cancer ; proximal myopathy was more common in small cell cancer . ninety-nine patients had abnormal muscle histology ; 74 had type ii atrophy , 12 had type i and ii atrophy , one had type i atrophy and 12 had necrosis . the majority of patients were affected sub-clinically and the clinical entities of cachectic and proximal myopathy did not correspond to previous pathological classifications . atrophy was not related to the duration of tumour symptoms , ageing , clinical type of myopathy or histological type of lung tumour , and was statistically different from that seen in controls . qualitatively , the presence of weight loss , muscle wasting and metastatic disease were not factors in the development of atrophy . similarly , necrosis was not related to the type of lung tumour , the presence of metastases , ageing , weight loss , muscle wasting , duration of tumour symptoms or the clinical form of myopathy . this study demonstrates that lung carcinoma has a direct effect on the motor unit , including atrophy , a necrobiotic myopathy and lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome . clinical assessment does not accurately assess the ' remote ' neuromuscular effects of cancer on the motor unit . 
wilson 's disease : 35 years ' experience . thirty-seven chinese patients fulfilling the criteria for wilson 's disease seen during a 35-year period were reviewed . males and females were equally affected . twenty-two patients were symptomatic and 15 asymptomatic ; most of them presented before the third decade . thirty-one per cent of the relatives screened showed evidence of disease , and parents were rarely affected ( 13 per cent ) . half of the adult symptomatic females presented with primary amenorrhoea . liver laboratory tests were abnormal in only 50 per cent of patients , with gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase being the most sensitive index . renal disease was infrequent . serum caeruloplasmin level was the single biochemical parameter of prognostic significance ( p = 0.0001 ) . seventy per cent of the symptomatic patients showed an improvement after treatment with penicillamine . 
progression of diabetic autonomic neuropathy over a decade in insulin-dependent diabetics . the prognosis for diabetics with autonomic neuropathy is little known . we therefore studied the progress of young insulin-dependent diabetics , first identified as having abnormal autonomic function 10-15 years ago . we have shown that the mortality of diabetics with symptomatic autonomic neuropathy is increased , but is less than previously reported . mortality in asymptomatic diabetics with an isolated abnormality in autonomic function tests is not increased . the heart rate variability declines at 1.02 + / - 0.47 ( sd ) per annum in diabetics with an initially normal heart rate variability . while symptoms of autonomic neuropathy do not usually remit even over a decade , they do not commonly progress . three groups of young insulin-dependent diabetics had heart rate variability tested between 1972 and 1977 and have been reviewed 10-15 years later . group a ( n = 49 ) had symptomatic autonomic neuropathy and an abnormal heart rate variability ( less than 12 ) , group b ( n = 24 ) were asymptomatic yet had an abnormal heart rate variability and group c ( n = 38 ) were asymptomatic and had a normal heart rate variability ( 16-26 ) . the 10-year survival in group a ( 73.4 per cent ) was less ( p less than 0.05 ) than in groups b ( 91.7 per cent ) or c ( 89.5 per cent ) which did not differ from each other . the 18 group a deaths were due predominantly to renal failure ( n = 4 ) , myocardial infarction in patients with nephropathy ( n = 3 ) and sudden unexpected death ( n = 3 ) . the chief symptoms of autonomic neuropathy -- diarrhoea , postural hypotension and gustatory sweating , were very persistent but did not necessarily deteriorate or become disabling in the majority of patients . the development of autonomic symptoms in asymptomatic patients with abnormal heart rate variability was uncommon over a decade . 
hyponatraemia in patients with cirrhosis . hyponatraemia occurs in nearly half of patients in hospital with cirrhosis and ascites , and is due to the excessive retention of free water which results from the kidney 's inability to excrete it normally . the morbidity and mortality associated with hyponatraemia is largely attributable to central nervous system disturbances . the degree to which brain water content increases depends on the duration of hyponatraemia and on compensatory mechanisms . altered steroid and peptide hormones in cirrhotic patients may contribute to the development of hyponatraemic encephalopathy , symptoms of which overlap with hepatic encephalopathy and uraemia . the occurrence of central pontine myelinolysis is unrelated to the rate of correction of hyponatraemia . the appearance of hyponatraemia in cirrhotic patients , long regarded as a poor prognostic sign , may be a function of unrecognized underlying impaired renal function . therapy for hyponatraemia remains suboptimal . 
temporal bone : three-dimensional ct . part ii . pathologic alterations . three-dimensional ( 3d ) surface renderings were obtained from routine axial computed tomographic ( ct ) images in 15 patients with a variety of complex temporal bone abnormalities . the 3d ct reformations served as an adjunct to conventional sectional ct examination . while no diagnosis was substantially changed because of the 3d ct images , they did provide a more global perspective in cases of large tumors and fractures and at the postmastoidectomy site . three-dimensional ct surface reformations are now practical and may be potentially useful for visualizing temporal bone lesions characterized by complex destructive change . 
unusual cerebral manifestations in hereditary fructose intolerance . five children with hereditary fructose intolerance developed symptoms of neurological impairment . in three of them , neurological involvement was related to the acute hepatic toxicity of fructose ( hypoglycemia , abnormal coagulation , cardiovascular collapse ) ; in the other two , such a relationship could not be demonstrated . neurological impairment is not classic in hereditary fructose intolerance , but its occurrence in the acute phase of the disease is possible and does not constitute an argument against the diagnosis . 
gynecologic cancer in patients with subacute cerebellar degeneration predicted by anti-purkinje cell antibodies and limited in metastatic volume . between 1982 and 1989 , 19 patients with gynecologic carcinoma , paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration , and seropositivity for anti-purkinje cell cytoplasmic antibodies were identified at our institution . seven of the patients had no clinical , computed tomographic , or magnetic resonance imaging evidence of cancer but had undergone laparotomy solely because anti-purkinje cell antibodies were found in their serum ; all had high-grade adenocarcinoma . cerebellar symptoms preceded or coincided with the initial cancer diagnosis in 15 patients and preceded the diagnosis of recurrent cancer in 4 patients . the cancers were 14 ovarian , 2 fallopian tube , 2 surface papillary , and 1 poorly differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma in a periaortic lymph node . two remarkable surgical observations in patients with high-grade ovarian and tubal cancers were the conspicuous lack of peritoneal implants and the small metastatic volume . a comparison of the 8 patients who had primary stage iii cancer with 24 matched control patients without paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration revealed no difference in primary tumor volume but a significantly smaller volume of metastatic tumor in the seropositive group ( p = 0.05 ) . anti-purkinje cell antibodies were not detected in 111 neurologically normal patients with advanced ovarian cancer . the small metastatic volume in the face of high-grade and advanced stage malignancy in seropositive patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration suggests that an immune response to the tumor ( presumably cross-reactive with cerebellar cells ) may impair the metastatic process . earlier diagnosis and treatment of cancer , based on prompt serologic testing , may offer an improved neurologic and oncologic prognosis . 
selected neurologic complications of pregnancy . many neurologic disorders , such as eclampsia , pseudotumor cerebri , stroke , obstetric nerve palsies , subarachnoid hemorrhage , pituitary tumors , and choriocarcinoma , can develop in the pregnant patient . maternal mortality from eclampsia , which ranges from 0 to 14 % , can be due to intracerebral hemorrhage , pulmonary edema , disseminated intravascular coagulation , abruptio placentae , or failure of the liver or kidneys . associated fetal mortality ranges from 10 to 28 % and is directly related to decreased placental perfusion . pseudotumor cerebri can be associated with serious visual complications ; thus , the therapeutic goal is to prevent loss of vision . the risk of stroke in the pregnant patient is 13 times the risk in the nonpregnant patient of the same age . the major causes of stroke in pregnant patients are arterial occlusion and cerebral venous thrombosis . lumbar disk prolapse is common in pregnant patients , and lumbosacral plexus injuries can occur during labor or delivery . in addition , peripheral nerve compression or entrapment syndromes are thought to be caused by the retention of fluid during pregnancy . the incidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage during pregnancy is 1 in every 10,000 patients , a rate 5 times higher than in nonpregnant women . because of a proliferation of prolactin-secreting cells , the pituitary gland can enlarge dramatically during pregnancy , a change that can disclose a previously unknown tumor or cause a known pituitary tumor to become symptomatic . the incidence of choriocarcinoma is 1 in 50,000 full-term pregnancies but 1 in 30 molar pregnancies . this malignant tumor has a high rate of cerebral metastatic lesions . in addition to these disorders that develop during pregnancy , the pregnant state can affect numerous preexisting neurologic conditions , including epilepsy , headaches , multiple sclerosis , myasthenia gravis , spinal cord injury , and brain tumors . we discuss advice for patients with such conditions who wish to become pregnant , recommendations for medical and surgical management , and surgical considerations for neurologic complications during pregnancy . 
quinine-induced disseminated intravascular coagulation . recurrent disseminated intravascular coagulation occurred in 3 women after ingestion of quinine tablets for cramp . all had circulating quinine-dependent antibodies to platelets and in 2 there was initial evidence of antibody consumption , with low titres that rose steeply over the next few days and remained high for many months . 
the effect of epilepsy or diabetes mellitus on the risk of automobile accidents background . previous studies of possible associations between chronic medical conditions and traffic safety have been inconsistent and subject to bias because of the incomplete identification of affected persons . recent advances in the diagnosis and management of epilepsy and diabetes mellitus have improved the control of these disorders and suggest a need to reexamine the risk of traffic mishaps among patients with these conditions . methods . we conducted a population-based retrospective cohort study of 30,420 subjects 16 to 90 years of age , with and without epilepsy or diabetes mellitus . subjects included all the licensed drivers in seven contiguous zip code areas in which the marshfield clinic and st. joseph 's hospital , marshfield , wisconsin , are the primary sources of medical care . standardized rates of moving violations and accidents over a four-year period ( 1985 through 1988 ) were compared in affected and unaffected cohorts . results . standardized mishap ratios for subjects with diabetes were 1.14 for all moving violations ( p = 0.23 ) and 1.32 for accidents ( p = 0.01 ) ; for subjects with epilepsy the ratios were 1.13 for moving violations ( p = 0.26 ) and 1.33 for accidents ( p = 0.04 ) . conclusions . we conclude that drivers with epilepsy or diabetes mellitus have slightly increased risks of traffic accidents as compared with unaffected persons . the increases in risk observed in our study were generally smaller than those in previous studies , and we believe they are not great enough to warrant further restrictions on driving privileges . 
imaging the fetal brain in the second and third trimesters using transvaginal sonography . high-frequency transvaginal probes were used at 20-40 weeks ' gestation to develop a systematic examination of the fetal brain . modeling the procedure after the standard neonatal neurosonographic examination , we attempted to obtain three coronal sections ( anterior , midline , posterior ) and two sagittal sections ( midsagittal , right or left parasagittal ) . in 70 normal patients , all planes were imaged with a similar frequency ( 74-76 % ) except for the posterior coronal plane , which was imaged 59 % of the time . among the first 35 cases , 17 % had a complete study , compared with 71 % of the second 35 cases . transvaginal sonography established or changed the diagnosis in five of the 13 cases with central nervous system or other abnormalities . we recommend that a complete fetal neurosonographic examination include transvaginal sonography to complement and enhance the transabdominal examination , especially for cases in which a fetal abnormality is suspected . 
botulinum treatment of childhood strabismus . four hundred thirteen children ranging in age from 2 months to 12 years were treated for strabismus by botulinum injection of extraocular muscles . an average of 1.7 injections per patient was given . follow-up at an average of 26 months after the last injection ( minimum , 6 months ) was available on 362 children ( 88 % ) . the frequency of correction of 10 prism diopters ( pd ) or less in various groups of strabismus cases was : all 362 cases , 61 % ; all esotropia , 66 % ; infantile esotropia , 65 % ; and exotropia , 45 % . smaller deviations ( 10-20 pd ) were more frequently corrected ( 73 % ) than were larger deviations ( 20-110 pd , 54 % ) . the frequency of correction to 10 pd or less of previously operated cases was not different from that of unoperated cases . there was no globe perforation , amblyopia , or visual loss produced by the injection treatment in this series . 
bicarbonate-buffered lidocaine-epinephrine-hyaluronidase for eyelid anesthesia . a double-masked , randomized clinical trial was conducted to determine if subcutaneous eyelid injections of a bicarbonate-buffered lidocaine-epinephrine-hyaluronidase mixture were less painful than unbuffered injections . twenty-one patients received both buffered ( ph = 7.4 ) and unbuffered ( ph = 4.6 ) injections . after each injection , patients recorded pain on a scale of 0 , " no pain , " to 10 , " severe pain . " mean pain score for buffered injections was 2.0 versus 4.1 for unbuffered injections ( p = 0.0003 ) . seventeen ( 81 % ) of 21 patients ranked the buffered injection less painful . use of a bicarbonate-buffered lidocaine-epinephrine-hyaluronidase mixture is effective in making ophthalmic anesthesia less painful . 
optic nerve sheath meningoceles . clinical and radiographic features in 13 cases with a review of the literature thirteen patients with dilated intraorbital optic nerve sheaths with an expanded , patulous cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) space were studied with high-resolution computed tomography ( ct ) or magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . eleven patients had bilateral findings . headache or visual complaints , or both , were present in all patients . signs of optic nerve dysfunction were present in eight patients . three patients had visual acuity worse than 20/200 . cerebrospinal fluid pressure was mildly elevated in two patients . three patients underwent a surgical procedure ; visual acuity improved in one . the authors propose the term meningocele for this condition and suggest mri with fat-suppression techniques and off-axis sagittal views as the radiographic procedure of choice . 
long-term visual outcome in patients with optic nerve pit and serous retinal detachment of the macula serous detachment of the macula is a well-known complication in patients with an optic nerve pit . despite the many descriptions of this condition and possible treatment options , the long-term natural history is not well known . the authors identified 15 eyes of 15 consecutive patients seen over 21 years who were diagnosed with a serous detachment of the macula arising from an optic nerve pit . average length of follow-up was 9 years . twelve eyes lost three or more lines of vision , two eyes remained unchanged , and only one eye improved . all of the 12 eyes losing three or more lines of vision experienced this decrease within the first 6 months of follow-up . although only two patients had a visual acuity of 20/200 or less initially , 12 of 15 patients had a visual acuity of 20/200 or less at the time of their last examination . the appearance of the macula at last examination included cystic changes of the neurosensory retina , full-thickness hole formation , retinal pigment epithelial mottling , and lamellar hole formation in the outer retinal layer . the long-term visual prognosis in patients with optic nerve pit and untreated serous retinal detachment of the macula is poor , and visual loss occurs within 6 months of the serous detachment . 
the risk for systemic vascular diseases and mortality in patients with central retinal vein occlusion . in this cross-sectional study , the authors evaluated 197 patients diagnosed with central retinal vein occlusion ( crvo ) at the wilmer ophthalmological institute between 1980 and 1985 to determine the risk of systemic disease and mortality . complete follow-up information for mortality was obtained in 191 ( 97 % ) . national health interview survey ( nhis ) patients and wilmer cataract patients formed two comparison groups . the prevalence of hypertension was significantly elevated in the crvo cases when compared with both comparison groups ( p less than 0.03 , 0.005 ) . the prevalence of diabetes mellitus was increased in crvo cases in comparison with the nhis group ( p less than 0.005 ) . the prevalence of cerebrovascular or cardiovascular disease was the same for all three groups , as was overall mortality . mortality was not increased in crvo cases as compared with united states mortality rates . 
strategies underlying the control of disordered movement . the purpose of this article is fourfold . first , a theory of motor control -- the dual-strategy hypothesis -- is outlined . second , the methodologies and theoretical framework that are used to develop this theory are examined . third , motor dysfunction is discussed in the context of this theory . in particular , down syndrome , parkinson 's disease , cardiovascular accidents , and spasticity are discussed . finally , potential applications of the theory to physical therapy are considered . 
a new challenge -- robotics in the rehabilitation of the neurologically motor impaired . rehabilitation robotics is a research area , originating in engineering , that has emerged in the last decade . its broad aim is to use robot technology to assist people with movement dysfunction . the neurologically impaired population might gain considerably from the provision of robots as " assistants " or " therapy aides , " but the interface with the machine must match both the physical and intellectual abilities of the user . we therefore consider a multidisciplinary approach , encompassing both behavioral and engineering perspectives , to be essential in achieving this aim . however , to date , published reports have been largely restricted to engineering journals or conference reports , and relatively little has appeared in the therapy literature . this article seeks to introduce physical therapists to robotics , describe possible applications to the rehabilitation of neurologically impaired patients , and suggest issues deserving further investigation . 
brain potentials associated with movement in traumatic brain injury . brain potentials may be used to assess the functional abnormalities that underlie impairments of movement . the purpose of this article is to illustrate the usefulness of examining these potentials . in addition to an overview of the topic , the article includes a report of a study demonstrating that there were differences between the brain potentials of five patients with traumatic brain injury and those of four healthy control subjects . all five patients were in the postacute phase of hemiplegia . slow cortical potentials associated with simple goal-directed forearm and finger movements were recorded from frontal and parietal electrodes . two seconds of movement-related electroencephalographic activity ( movement-related potential ) were recorded . the patients showed reduced brain potentials for movements associated with their paretic limb and , to a lesser extent , reduced brain potentials for movements associated with their nonparetic limb . the waveforms obtained from the patients were unusual , with uncharacteristic cross-cortical movement-related potential correlations associated with specific electrode configurations , as well as with specific movement conditions . brain potentials associated with the fore-period interval of a simple reaction time paradigm were later recorded in two of the patients with traumatic brain injury and in a control subject to help determine the functional significance of the relative positivity apparent in their movement-related potential data . this preliminary study indicates that electroencephalographic potentials obtained during the preparation for and execution of movement can provide information regarding the basis for motor dysfunction . 
movement disorders -- limb movement and the basal ganglia . the primary concern of this article is to review experimental methods that may lead to a better understanding of the functional role of the basal ganglia in the control of movement . two models of basal ganglia impairment are considered : parkinson 's disease and huntington 's disease . the review focuses primarily on akinesia and bradykinesia because they are key abnormalities of basal ganglia dysfunction . in general , through electromyography and kinematic analysis of movement , it may be possible to characterize specific movement disorders . specifically , if damage sustained by the central nervous system is traced to a certain structure , it may provide insight on the extent of involvement and functional role of that structure in the control of movement . much of the data reviewed suggests that the basal ganglia may play a specific role in the initiation and regulation of force control . 
three-dimensional reconstructed mr imaging of the inner ear . the three-dimensional fourier transform fast imaging with steady precession ( fisp ) technique was used to obtain high-resolution magnetic resonance ( mr ) images of the temporal bone region and to generate three-dimensional reconstructed images of the inner ear . the three-dimensional reconstructed images of the inner ear were directly synthesized from two-dimensional images of the temporal bone region by means of an external processing computer . with use of three-dimensional reconstructed images and stereoscopic observations , structures inside the temporal bone region and the positional relationship among them were easily recognized . these structures are difficult to demonstrate with two-dimensional images . this three-dimensional method was also shown to be useful for recognition of disease and anatomic malformations in the temporal bone region . 
neuroophthalmologic effects of intravenous magnesium sulfate . to test the hypothesis that visual disturbances are more common during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration than at 1 to 4 days after discontinuation of the drug , 13 women underwent bedside neuroophthalmologic examinations during intravenous magnesium sulfate tocolysis at 2.0 to 3.0 gm hr and again at 1 to 4 days after cessation of therapy . visual symptoms were common during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration . blurred vision was present in 12 of 13 patients and diplopia was present in 10 of 13 patients . abnormal findings during neuroophthalmologic examination occurred in all patients during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration . findings included ptosis , accommodative and convergence insufficiency , and abnormal pupillary responsiveness to light and near . all patients were symptom-free and had normal examinations after magnesium sulfate was discontinued . these findings suggest that visual disturbances with therapeutic magnesium sulfate are common . 
oral contraception in disease states . oral contraceptives are clearly contraindicated in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease , ischemic heart attack , or cerebral stroke . patients requiring long-term anticoagulant treatment can be treated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs to prevent ovulation , because ruptured follicles can cause massive intraperitoneal bleeding . patients with essential hypertension and severe liver diseases should also discontinue treatment 4 weeks before major elective surgery . migraine and diabetes mellitus are regarded as relative contraindications , depending on the individual situation . long-term diseases , such as crohn 's disease , epilepsy , and sickle cell anemia , also require individualized consultation . 
treatment of patients with aortic dissection presenting with peripheral vascular complications . the incidence of peripheral vascular complications in 272 patients with aortic dissection during a 25-year span was determined , as was outcome after a uniform , aggressive surgical approach directed at repair of the thoracic aorta . one hundred twenty-eight patients ( 47 % ) presented with acute type a dissection , 70 ( 26 % ) with chronic type a , 40 ( 15 % ) with acute type b , and 34 ( 12 % ) with chronic type b dissections . eighty-five patients ( 31 % ) sustained one or more peripheral vascular complications : seven ( 3 % ) had a stroke , nine ( 3 % ) had paraplegia , 66 ( 24 % ) sustained loss of a peripheral pulse , 22 ( 8 % ) had impaired renal perfusion , and 14 patients ( 5 % ) had compromised visceral perfusion . following repair of the thoracic aorta , local peripheral vascular procedures were unnecessary in 92 % of patients who presented with absence of a peripheral pulse . the operative mortality rate for all patients was 25 % + / - 3 % ( 68 of 272 patients ) . for the subsets of individuals with paraplegia , loss of renal perfusion , and compromised visceral perfusion , the operative mortality rates ( + / - 70 % confidence limits ) were high : 44 % + / - 17 % ( 4 of 9 patients ) , 50 % + / - 11 % ( 11 of 22 patients ) , and 43 % + / - 14 % ( 6 of 14 patients ) , respectively . the mortality rates were lower for patients presenting with stroke ( 14 % + / - 14 % [ 1 of 7 patients ] ) or loss of peripheral pulse ( 27 % + / - 6 % [ 18 of 66 patients ] ) . multivariate analysis revealed that impaired renal perfusion was the only peripheral vascular complication that was a significant independent predictor of increased operative mortality risk ( p = 0.024 ) ; earlier surgical referral ( replacement of the appropriate section of the thoracic aorta ) or more expeditious diagnosis followed by surgical renal artery revascularization after a thoracic procedure may represent the only way to improve outcome in this high-risk patient subset . early , aggressive thoracic aortic repair ( followed by aortic fenestration and/or abdominal exploration with or without direct visceral or renal vascular reconstruction when necessary ) can save some patients with compromised visceral perfusion ; however , once visceral infarction develops the prognosis is also poor . increased awareness of these devastating complications of aortic dissection and the availability of better diagnostic tools today may improve the survival rate for these patients in the future . the initial surgical procedure should include repair of the thoracic aorta in most patients . 
return to work for persons with traumatic brain injury : a supported employment approach . supported employment was used to place 41 persons into competitive employment during 30 months . all individuals had experienced severe head injuries ; almost 70 % of injuries were due to motor vehicle accidents . a mean of seven years had passed since injury for all referred clients , who had been unconscious a mean of 53 days . only 36 % of referred clients had achieved any competitive postinjury employment , compared with 91 % of the same group who were competitively employed before injury . a job retention rate of 71 % was reported , with most jobs in warehouse , clerical , and service-related occupations . a mean of 291 hours of job coaching was required to place and maintain all clients in supported employment . 
functional evaluation of quadriplegic patients using a hand neuroprosthesis . the objective of this retrospective study was to compare the abilities of quadriplegic patients to complete activities of daily living with and without the use of a portable hand neuroprosthesis . the neuroprosthesis provided synthetic hand grasp through functional neuromuscular stimulation of paralyzed forearm and hand muscles . data were obtained from telephone interviews , patient records , and videotapes . twenty-two quadriplegic patients were included in the study ; 15 were functional at a c5 spinal cord injury level and seven at a c6 level . the median success rate ( ie , the percentage of patients who could complete each activity ) across the ten activities was 89 % with the hand neuroprosthesis but was only 49 % without the hand neuroprosthesis . all patients could perform more tasks when the neuroprosthesis was used , although the relative improvement of c5 patients was larger than that of c6 patients . 
impaired awareness of behavioral limitations after traumatic brain injury . sixty-four traumatically brain injured patients were divided into three groups . patients in group i overestimated their behavioral competencies . patients in group ii showed behavioral ratings similar to relatives ' reports concerning behavioral competencies . patients in group iii underestimated their behavioral competencies . group i patients had greater evidence of bilateral and multiple-site lesions than group ii and iii patients . speed of left-hand finger tapping was also worse in group i than groups ii and iii , but other standard neuropsychologic test findings failed to separate the groups . specific brain lesion sites were not related to group membership . impaired awareness of behavioral limitations after traumatic brain injury may be related to neuropsychologic changes not measured by standard tests . bilateral impairment of heteromodal cortex may be important to this phenomenon when it exists several months or years postinjury . 
maximal exercise testing of mentally retarded adolescents and adults : reliability study . few data are available regarding maximal exercise testing of mentally retarded individuals . no data are available on the reliability of maximal exercise testing of mentally retarded individuals . the purpose of this study was to determine the reliability of graded exercise testing of mentally retarded adolescents and adults . the testing was conducted at two geographically different centers . at center a , 14 mentally retarded adolescents ( 11 boys , three girls ) with down syndrome , who were educable or trainable , were recruited from a nonresidential school . the subjects completed two balke-ware treadmill protocols until exhaustion . the treadmill time and heart rate ( hr ) were recorded . the time between tests was approximately one week . at center b , 21 mentally retarded adults ( 14 women , seven men means iq = 56 ) were recruited from local workshops and group homes . these subjects completed a treadmill walking protocol , with metabolic measurements , until exhaustion . the time between tests varied from one to four months . at center a , the subjects achieved a mean treadmill time of 8.72 min on test one and 8.84 min on test two ( means hr = 174 and 175bpm , respectively ) . the reliability coefficient between the two tests was .94 . at center b , the subjects achieved a mean v0 ( 2 ) max of 27.2ml.kg-1 . min-1 on test one and 26.9ml.kg-1 . min-1 on test two . the reliability coefficient was .93 . these data show that maximal exercise testing is reliable for these populations of mentally retarded individuals , exhibiting similar values to their nonretarded peers . 
recovery from vegetative state of six months ' duration associated with sinemet ( levodopa/carbidopa ) . certain pharmacologic interventions may improve outcome for brain injury in animals and humans . medications affecting the dopaminergic pathway appear to be important . we present the case of a 24-year-old man with traumatic brain injury who remained unresponsive to commands and unchanged for six months despite periodic aggressive therapy . within days of beginning sinemet ( levodopa/carbidopa ) , the patient became conversant and responsive . the reported low likelihood of spontaneous recovery of cognition in patients who are vegetative for six months suggests that sinemet was responsible for this patient 's recovery . in this case , the relatively small risk of side effects from sinemet was greatly outweighed by the change in functional outcome . 
threshold perimetry in tilted disc syndrome . twelve consecutive patients ( 17 eyes ) with tilted disc syndrome underwent quantified visual field examination with the g1 octopus program ( interzeag ag , schlieren , switzerland ) . visual fields were abnormal in all cases . although field loss was more pronounced in the superotemporal quadrant ( p less than .001 ) , it also involved the other three quadrants , thus demonstrating that optic nerve hypoplasia in tilted disc syndrome is apparently not entirely sectorial . linear regression analysis showed that an increase in mean defect correlated with increase in myopic refractive error ( p less than .05 ) . however , the increase in myopic refractive error was found to be related to a decrease in corrected loss variance ( p less than .05 ) , indicating that in tilted discs with higher myopia , field loss is more homogeneous . with this series of patients , short-term fluctuation was within normal ranges in all visual fields , showing that this may be an additional clue for differential diagnosis from acquired disorders . 
familial trigeminal anesthesia . familial congenital trigeminal anesthesia as an isolated abnormality is an unusual disorder . to our knowledge , only one family has previously been reported . we report here a family with three affected members demonstrating facial anesthesia , bilateral corneal changes , and nasal septal damage secondary to self-traumatization . magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated hypoplasia of gasserian ganglia and trigeminal nerves in the affected father of two affected sons . the pathogenesis of this disorder appears to be congenital hypoplasia of the trigeminal nerves and gasserian ganglia that is inherited in a dominant fashion . 
tumor necrosis factor and severe malaria . to investigate the relation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf alpha ) to plasmodium falciparum infection , plasma tnf alpha concentrations were measured in zairian children with severe malaria , mild malaria , or other illnesses . the initial geometric mean plasma concentration of tnf alpha among 61 children with p. falciparum infection , ( 71 pg/ml ) was higher than the level in 26 severely ill , aparasitemic children ( 10 pg/ml ; p less than .001 ) . among 29 parasitemic children , initial geometric mean tnf alpha levels decreased from 77 to 5 pg/ml ( p less than .001 ) at day 7 . tnf alpha levels increased with parasite density and were associated with hyperparasitemia , severe anemia , hypoglycemia , and young age but not with cerebral malaria or fatal outcome . however , tnf alpha levels were elevated equally in children with cerebral malaria and with other signs of severe malaria . with multiple linear regression , tnf alpha levels were elevated independently in children with hyperparasitemia ( p = .001 ) and severe anemia ( p = .04 ) . in this study , high tnf alpha levels were associated with several manifestations of severe malaria and were not specific to cerebral malaria . 
tumor-associated neurological dysfunction prevented by lazaroids in rats . the efficacy of u-74006f and u-78517f in the treatment of blood-tumor barrier permeability and tumor-associated neurological dysfunction was evaluated in a brain-tumor model in rats . u-74006f is a 21-aminosteroid and u-78517f is a 2-methylamino chroman . rats with stereotactically implanted walker 256 tumors were treated with methylprednisolone , u-74006f , u-78517f , or vehicle ( 0.05 n hcl ) on days 6 through 10 following implantation . neurological function and vascular permeability were assessed on day 10 . methylprednisolone and u-74006f were equally effective at preventing neurological dysfunction compared to the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) ; u-78517f was slightly less effective than u-74006f and methylprednisolone but was significantly better than vehicle in preventing neurological dysfunction . delivery of methylprednisolone resulted in a significant decrease in tumor vascular permeability ( p less than 0.006 ) while u-74006f and u-78517f had no effect on permeability . this suggests that u-74006f and u-78517f prevented tumor-associated neurological dysfunction by a mechanism other than decreasing permeability in tumor capillaries , and that u-74006f or u-78517f could prove useful in the treatment of brain tumors . 
enhanced in vitro uptake and retention of 3h-tetraphenylphosphonium by nervous system tumor cells . photodynamic therapy is a promising treatment for human brain tumors because of the selective retention of certain compounds by tumor cells . certain lipophilic cationic compounds , such as tetraphenylphosphonium ( tpp ) , are selectively taken up by a variety of carcinomas . although preferential retention of tpp has been demonstrated for the breast carcinoma cell line mcf-7 , this compound had not been tested previously on cells derived from nervous system tumors . in the present study , tritiated-tpp ( 3h-tpp ) uptake and retention for eight different cell cultures of three histologically different types of nervous system tumors was measured and the data were compared to a positive control ( mcf-7 ) and negative controls ( normal african green monkey kidney epithelium ( cv-1 ) and the normal human fibroblast ( wi-38 ) cell lines ) . uptake and retention characteristics could be grouped by specific pathological tumor types , but individual tumor variability was notable . malignant astrocytoma ( grade iii/iii glioblastoma ) and malignant neurofibrosarcoma cells showed preferential uptake and retention of 3h-tpp relative to meningioma cells and normal controls . a clonogenic assay utilizing the cytotoxic lipophilic cationic compound dequalinium showed strong retainers of 3h-tpp to be more susceptible to the effects of dequalinium than weak retainers . these data demonstrate that certain human and experimental animal nervous system tumor cell lines retain lipophilic compounds possessing a delocalized positive charge . lipophilic cationic compounds may be useful in the intraoperative delineation of tumor margins and in the photodynamic therapy of certain nervous system tumors . 
epidermoid cysts of the brain stem . report of three cases . the authors report the cases of three patients with epidermoid cysts which insinuated themselves into the brain stem . in all three patients , the tumor occupied the pons , although in one it was predominantly located in the medulla . the cyst contents and nonadherent tumor capsule were removed in all three patients , but no attempt was made to remove tumor densely adherent to the brain stem . one patient 's cyst was removed in one operation , but maximal resection in the other two required two operations . after surgery , sixth nerve function completely returned in one patient ; another patient had a stable pontine gaze palsy but developed new facial weakness ; and the third patient had stable cranial nerve deficits with a diminished hemiparesis . the last patient developed a pseudomeningocele and communicating hydrocephalus , and required a lumboperitoneal shunt . in all three patients , computerized tomography scans demonstrated hypodense tumors not enhanced by contrast material . magnetic resonance imaging was performed on two patients ; in both , the tumors showed increased signal intensity relative to brain on t1-weighted images and decreased signal intensity relative to brain on t2-weighted studies . magnetic resonance imaging , the most accurate modality for localizing these lesions and determining their extent , was also invaluable for postoperative monitoring and follow-up evaluation . safe and adequate resection includes decompression of cyst contents and removal of nonadherent portions of the cyst capsule . cyst wall adherent to the brain stem , however , should not be removed . 
pseudopsammomatous meningioma with elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen : a true secretory meningioma . case report . a sphenoid-wing meningioma in a 60-year-old woman was accompanied by elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) levels , which returned to normal after removal of the tumor . light microscopic examination revealed a secretory meningioma containing numerous pseudopsammoma bodies and a prominent vascular pattern . immunohistochemical analysis showed the tumor cells and pseudopsammoma bodies to be cea-positive . this case illustrates the possibility that secretory meningioma may be associated with clinically detectable secretion of cea . the report also documents the rare occurrence of elevated serum cea in a primary benign intracranial tumor . 
tension pneumocephalus : treatment with controlled decompression via a closed water-seal drainage system . case report . the successful treatment of a patient with tension pneumocephalus by controlled decompression via external drainage is described . the advantage of the technique includes the immediate release of high pressure and the capability of maintaining constant low pressure to enable and facilitate sealing of dural tears . the method has been used in three other patients , leading to resolution of the tension pneumocephalus without recurrence or other complications . 
risks factors for cerebral infarction in good-grade patients after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery : a prospective study . a prospective series of 265 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) of grades i to iii ( hunt and hess classification ) upon admission were evaluated as to neurological outcome and computerized tomography ( ct ) findings 1 to 3 years ( mean 1.4 years ) after the sah and surgery . a total of 73 patients underwent acute surgery ( within 72 hours after the bleed : days 0 to 3 ) , 86 were operated on subacutely ( between days 4 and 7 ) , and 91 had late surgery ( on day 8 or later ) . fifteen patients died before surgery was undertaken and another 20 patients died during the follow-up period . a total of 104 patients received nimodipine and the rest of the patients received either placebo ( 109 patients ) or no medication ( 52 patients ) . a logistical regression analysis revealed the following prognostic factors for cerebral infarction , in order of importance : the amount of blood on the primary ct scan ; postoperative angiographic vasospasm ; the timing of the operation ; and a history of hypertension . the use of nimodipine was associated with a significant reduction of cerebral infarcts visualized by ct scanning in patients who received intermediate or late surgery . in patients who underwent acute surgery no significant difference between the incidence of cerebral infarcts was observed . 
cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea following acoustic neurinoma surgery . technical note . the authors describe a method of preventing cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) rhinorrhea following surgery for acoustic neurinoma . mastoid air cells exposed during craniectomy are skeletonized and packed with bone dust , then covered with surgicel soaked with tisseel fibrin glue . the use of this technique has reduced the number of acoustic neurinoma cases requiring secondary mastoidectomy for csf leakage from 16 % to 5 % . 
the effect of glucose administration on carbohydrate metabolism after head injury . the role of intravenous infusion of glucose in limiting ketogenesis and the effect of glucose on cerebral metabolism following severe head injury were studied in 21 comatose patients . the patients were randomly assigned to alimentation with or without glucose . systemic protein wasting , arterial concentrations of energy substrates , and cerebral metabolism of these energy substrates were monitored for 5 days postinjury . both groups were in negative nitrogen balance , and had wasting of systemic proteins despite substantial protein intake . blood and cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) glucose concentrations were highest on day 1 , but remained higher than normal fasting levels on all days of study , even in the patients who received no exogenous glucose . although there were no differences in blood or csf glucose concentrations in the two groups of patients , the glucose group had higher plasma insulin levels , with a mean + / - standard deviation of 14.8 + / - 7.3 microu/ml compared to 10.3 + / - 4.2 microu/ml in the saline group . the blood concentrations of beta-hydroxybutyrate , acetoacetate , pyruvate , glycerol , and the free fatty acids were higher in the saline group than in the glucose group . cerebral oxygen consumption was similar in the two groups , while the cerebral metabolism of glucose and of the ketone bodies was dependent on whether glucose was administered . in the glucose group , glucose was the only energy substrate utilized by the brain . in the saline group , the ketone bodies beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate replaced glucose to the extent of 16 % of the brain 's total energy production . cerebral lactate production and csf lactate concentration were lower in the saline group . these studies suggest that administration of glucose during the early recovery period of severe head injury is a major cause of suppressed ketogenesis , and may increase production of lactic acid by the traumatized brain by limiting the availability of nonglycolytic energy substrates . 
shunt surgery for hydrocephalus in tuberculous meningitis : a long-term follow-up study . hydrocephalus is a common complication of tuberculous meningitis . case studies of 114 patients with tuberculous meningitis and hydrocephalus , who underwent shunt surgery between july , 1975 , and june , 1986 , were reviewed to evaluate the long-term outcome and to outline a management protocol for these patients based on the results . seven factors were studied in each case : 1 ) age at admission ; 2 ) grade on admission ( i to iv , classified by the authors ; grade i being the best and grade iv being the worst ) ; 3 ) duration of alteration of sensorium ; 4 ) cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) cell content at initial examination ; 5 ) csf protein levels at initial examination ; 6 ) number of shunt revisions required ; and 7 ) the necessity for bilateral shunts . during a long-term follow-up period ranging from 6 months to 13 years ( mean 45.6 months ) , the mortality rate was 20 % for patients in grade i ; 34.7 % for patients in grade ii ; 51.9 % for patients in grade iii ; and 100 % for patients in grade iv . only the grade at the time of admission was found to be statistically significant in determining final outcome ( p less than 0.001 ) . based on these results , the authors advocate early shunt surgery for grade i and ii patients . for patients in grade iii , surgery may be performed either if external ventricular drainage causes an improvement in sensorium or without selection . all patients in grade iv should undergo external ventricular drainage and only those who show a significant change in their neurological status within 24 to 48 hours of drainage , should have shunt surgery . 
management of meralgia paresthetica meralgia paresthetica is a syndrome of pain or dysesthesia , or both , in the anterolateral thigh caused by entrapment or neurinoma formation of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve . conservative treatment was successful in relieving symptoms in 91 % of 277 patients with this syndrome ; however , 24 patients required surgical treatment for intractable symptoms . although neurolysis with transposition is the most common procedure , sectioning of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve was performed in 24 cases and was successful in 23 . one patient had early symptomatic relief , but subsequently developed different neurological signs and symptoms because of an undetected pelvic neoplasm . anatomical variations of the nerve and neurinomas , which occur frequently , are easily handled with sectioning but may lead to recurrence with neurolysis and transposition . 
long-term effects of nimodipine on cerebral infarcts and outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery . a total of 213 patients with verified aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) of grades i to iii ( hunt and hess classification ) were enrolled in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial to determine the effect of intravenous nimodipine on delayed ischemic deterioration and computerized tomography ( ct ) - visualized infarcts after sah and surgery . the administration of the drug or matching placebo was started immediately after the radiological diagnosis of a ruptured aneurysm had been made . of the 213 patients enrolled in the study , 58 were operated on early ( within 72 hours after the bleed : days 0 to 3 ) , 69 were operated on subacutely ( between days 4 and 7 ) , and 74 had late surgery ( on day 8 or later ) . eleven patients died before surgery was undertaken and one was not operated on . a follow-up examination with ct scanning , performed 1 to 3 years after the sah ( mean 1.4 years ) , revealed no significant differences in the overall outcome between the groups . however , nimodipine treatment was associated with a significantly lower incidence of deaths caused by delayed cerebral ischemia ( p = 0.01 ) and significantly lower occurrence of cerebral infarcts visualized by ct scanning in the whole population ( p = 0.05 ) , especially in patients without an associated intracerebral hemorrhage on admission ct scan ( p = 0.03 ) . 
effects of tromethamine and hyperventilation on brain injury in the cat . the metabolic brain acidosis after trauma has been thought to be harmful and to contribute to neurological deterioration . amelioration of the brain acidosis either by systemic buffering agents or by hyperventilation has been proposed as a method of treatment . the objective of this study was to explore with magnetic resonance ( mr ) spectroscopy the metabolic changes in brain that occur with the use of hyperventilation , tham ( tromethamine ; tris [ hydroxymethyl ] aminomethane ) , and a combination ( tham and hyperventilation ) therapy in experimental fluid-percussion injury . brain lactate , brain ph , inorganic phosphate ( pi ) , and adenosine triphosphate levels were measured by 1h and 31p mr spectroscopy . arterial and cerebrovenous lactate and water content in brain tissue was determined in 29 cats using the specific gravimetric technique . following injury , the phosphocreatine ( pcr ) / pi ratio , which is an index of cerebral energy depletion , decreased to 76 % in four untreated animals , to 79 % in 11 tham-treated animals , to 68 % in seven animals receiving hyperventilation , and to 66 % in seven animals with combination tham and hyperventilation therapy . the pcr/pi ratio returned to a normal level in 8 hours in animals treated with tham and tham in combination with hyperventilation . the brain lactate index increased to 157 % in the hyperventilation group after trauma . in cats receiving tham plus hyperventilation , the brain lactate index was reduced to 142 % , while the minimum rise of 126 % was associated with treatment of tham alone . in the tham-treatment and combination-treatment groups , the water content of the white and gray matter was significantly decreased compared with that in untreated cat brains . prolonged hyperventilation provided relative ischemia in brain tissue and promoted more production of brain lactate , no recovery of the pcr/pi ratio , and no decrease in brain edema . on the other hand , administration of tham decreased production of brain lactate and brain edema and promoted the recovery of cerebral energy dysfunction . it was found that tham ameliorates the deleterious effects of hyperventilation by minimizing energy disturbance and that it also decreases brain edema . the authors conclude that tham may be effective in reducing brain tissue acidosis and helpful as a metabolic stabilizing agent following severe head injury . 
post-traumatic intracerebral pneumatocele : case report . pneumocephalus occurs in 0.5 to 1.0 % of head trauma , but may also occur after neurologic surgery , or as a result of eroding infection or neoplasm . the pathophysiology involves the presence of craniodural fistula allowing ingress of air . a ball-valve mechanism may allow air to enter but not exit the cranium , or csf leak permits air entrance as fluid leaves the intracranial space . while a " succession splash " is considered diagnostic of pneumocephalus , most patients have nonspecific signs and symptoms such as headache . therefore , a high index of suspicion in a patient with recent head trauma is necessary . the diagnosis is made radiographically by ct scan . this is generally performed to rule out intracranial hematoma or cerebral contusion in head trauma , but will reveal even very small quantities of air to the unsuspecting physician . therapy is often noninvasive , allowing the craniodural defect to heal spontaneously . selected situations require immediate operative repair of the fistula . 
fracture-dislocation of the base of the fifth metacarpal with an ulnar motor nerve lesion : case report . we report a case of delayed diagnosis of a fracture dislocation of the base of the fifth metacarpal with a resultant ulnar motor nerve lesion . the patient achieved marked improvement after fracture reduction and ulnar neurolysis . 
otolaryngologic management of patients with subdural empyema . from 1979 to 1988 , 17 patients presented to duke university medical center for treatment of subdural empyema . empyemas were caused by sinusitis in 53 % of the patients and by otitis media in 12 % . none of those with otologic causes required mastoid drainage , while all patients with sinus infections required sinus drainage . external frontoethmoidectomies were associated with a lower incidence of frontoethmoid re-exploration ( p = 0.048 ) , and antrostomies with a lower incidence of maxillary re-exploration ( p = 0.111 ) , than were more limited drainage procedures . sinus drainage performed simultaneously with neurosurgical drainage reduced the incidence of sinus re-exploration ( p = 0.167 ) , neurosurgical reexploration ( p = 0.048 ) , and length of hospitalization ( p = 0.020 ) . 
magnetic resonance imaging of facial nerve neuromas . facial nerve neuromas are uncommon tumors often confused with other tumors of the temporal bone and cerebellopontine angle . radiologically , it may be impossible to differentiate an intracanalicular facial nerve neuroma from an acoustic neuroma . we present three case reports of facial nerve neuromas arising within the internal auditory canal to show the important magnetic resonance imaging features of these tumors . one tumor extended into the cerebellopontine angle , middle cranial fossa , and middle ear . another filled the internal auditory canal and extended through the cerebellopontine angle to the brain stem . the third occurred in a patient who had neurofibromatosis as well as numerous other intracranial tumors . we feel that gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging provides the most useful information in the preoperative assessment of this disorder . 
sternocleidomastoid muscle transfer and superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication in the prevention of frey 's syndrome parotidectomy may be associated with a significant depression in the retromandibular region and a significant incidence of gustatory sweating ( frey 's syndrome ) . superiorly and inferiorly based sternocleidomastoid flaps and posterior plication of the superficial musculoaponeurotic system were evaluated for their ability to ameliorate both consequences . sixteen patients with sternocleidomastoid flaps and 16 patients with superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication were compared to a control group of 104 patients . the incidence of frey 's syndrome was 47.1 % in the control group , 12.5 % ( p = 0.025 ) in the sternocleidomastoid flap group , and 0 % ( p = 0.005 ) in the superficial musculoaponeurotic system plication group . the surgical techniques are described . the prevalence of frey 's syndrome is discussed with respect to age , sex , radiation therapy , and the type of parotidectomy performed . the indications and contraindications of the three surgical techniques are described . 
neurotologic findings in basilar migraine . treatment of a patient with otologic symptoms and associated migraine-like headache presents the otolaryngologist with formidable problems . although clinical practice and scientific publications recognize their frequent association , relationships have yet to be well defined . this study seeks to add order to disarray by delineating symptoms and signs of a clearly identified group of migraine patients . fifty patients with well-defined basilar migraine underwent a thorough neurotologic examination , as well as comprehensive auditory and vestibular testing . patients were selected from 5880 patients seen over a 2-year period and were prospectively entered into the study after detailed questionnaires and testing were completed for each patient . the most common symptoms found were dysequilibrium , phonophobia , and head pressure . the most common signs were positional nystagmus , low-frequency hearing loss , abnormal loudness discomfort level , and an abnormality on caloric examination . advanced vestibular testing showed abnormal amplitude scaling , abnormal toes-down pertubation , and an abnormal sway ( condition 6 ) on dynamic posturography . there was frequently an asymmetry on computerized rotation . the author concludes that the majority of patients have subtle findings on testing , but a few have severe peripheral injury due to the basilar migraine . findings are consistent with the theory that basilar migraine is a central nervous system maladaptation syndrome which creates otoneurologic symptoms and , in a small percentage of cases , may injure the peripheral end-organ . 
headache . public health problem . headache is , and apparently always has been , a frequent pain syndrome . it is reported in american and western european societies in very high percentages of the population . headache , and specifically severe headache , have also been reported as prevalent from a variety of societies worldwide , although prevalence rates have varied ( they are very low , for example , in the people 's republic of china ) . whether prevalence varies with different socioeconomic groups remains uncertain . severe headache and specifically migraine is , for reasons still unknown , much more common in women , and , in most studies , is reported to decrease in prevalence in older age groups . positive family histories are common , but the precise role of genetics is unknown . a major problem in the epidemiologic studies remains the difficulty of uniform definition of headache syndromes . 
the classification and diagnosis of headache disorders . headache disorders recently have been reclassified , and new operational diagnostic criteria assist in making the correct diagnosis . these diagnostic criteria have been accepted worldwide . 
basic mechanisms in vascular headache . to better understand and treat painful conditions , one needs to identify the cause , discover the source , and develop knowledge of peripheral and central pain transmission ; headaches are no exception . the development of appropriate animal models is important . accordingly , we have reviewed the anatomy , neurochemistry , electrophysiology , and pharmacology of the trigeminovascular system in experimental animals and emphasized whenever possible the relevance of this final common pathway to migraine , cluster , and other headache syndromes in humans . for example , based on recent anatomic dissections , the pericarotid cavernous sinus plexus was suggested as an important focus to investigate cluster headache pathophysiology . this plexus is an anatomic point of convergence for the nerves giving rise to the signs of sympathetic and parasympathetic activity and sensory symptoms that develop in cluster patients . as in other nociceptive systems , trigeminovascular axons assume at least two important roles . one concerns the transmission of nociceptive information . electrophysiologic evidence supports the trigeminal nucleus caudalis as an important site for the convergence of visceral ( vessel ) and somatic ( forehead ) inputs to mediate the referral of vascular pain to superficial tissues . a second important role concerns the initiation of local increases in blood flow and enhanced protein permeability ( sterile inflammation ) via the axonal release of vasoactive neuropeptides . plasma extravasation develops within the dura mater following trigeminal stimulation . extravasation can be blocked by the administration of ergot alkaloids or sumatriptan , a new serotonin-like agonist , and a prejunctional ( neuronal ) mechanism of action for these drugs ( such as blockade of release ) was suggested based on experimental evidence . whether vasoconstriction also relates to the therapeutic efficacy remains to be determined . as in other organ systems , real or threatened tissue injury provides an important stimulus for depolarizing sensory fibers . the stimulus may come from external conditions such as reduced blood flow or hypoglycemia . the brain may also possess intrinsic neuronal mechanisms by which nociceptors may be synthesized ( e.g. , glutamate-induced neurotoxicity , seizures ) . molecules of relevance include bradykinin , prostaglandins , leukotrienes , and potassium . experimental evidence was presented demonstrating that the trigeminal nerve mediates hyperemia within cortical gray matter by axon-reflex like mechanisms . an important role for this nerve was established during the hyperemic period of recirculation after ischemia or during severe hypertension above the limits of autoregulation . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
the concept of migraine as a state of central neuronal hyperexcitability . this article explores the hypothesis that migraine with aura is associated with a state of central neuronal hyperexcitability . the authors propose that this central neuronal hyperexcitability involves overactivity of the excitatory amino acids , glutamate , and possibly aspartate . stimuli that activate the migraine attack evoke neuronal depolarization , slow depolarization shifts , and spreading suppression of spontaneous neuronal activity possible by glutamate and k + dependent mechanisms . a low brain mg2 + and consequent reduced gating of glutamatergic receptors may provide the link between the physiologic threshold for a migraine attack and the mechanisms of the attack itself by promoting glutamate hyperactivity , neuronal hyperexcitability , and susceptibility to glutamate-dependent spreading depression . 
developments in 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor pharmacology in migraine . because a satisfactory animal model for migraine does not exist , attempts to determine a common mechanism of action for effective antimigraine agents may be of benefit in elucidating the pathogenesis of this neurologic syndrome . the present review demonstrates that the clinical data that has developed over the past 30 years may allow for the elucidation of the role of specific 5-ht receptor subtypes in the pathophysiology of migraine . a large number of both acute and prophylactic antimigraine agents share an ability to interact with 5-ht receptor subtypes in human brain . as summarized in table 3 , acute antimigraine drugs ( e.g. , ergots , sumatriptan ) share high affinity for 5-htid receptors and somewhat lower affinity for 5-ht1a receptors . these receptors are present in certain intracranial blood vessels . 5-ht1d receptors are also located on nerve terminals where they act to inhibit the release of 5-ht and other neurotransmitters . theoretically , 5-htid receptor agonists may acutely inhibit the release of vasoactive or pain-inducing substances in the perivascular space . conceivably , drugs acting at this receptor would stop the progression of this perivascular process . in addition , a number of prophylactic antimigraine drugs display a relatively high affinity for both 5-ht2 and 5-ht1c receptors in human brain . although these receptors are also found in certain blood vessels , they are present throughout the nervous system . the receptors appear to mediate neuronal depolarizations at the cellular level . moreover , the 5-ht2 receptor appears to play a key role in the development of inflammation in certain smooth muscle systems . theoretically , the ability of 5-ht2 antagonists to protect perivascular inflammation may account for their efficacy in the prophylactic treatment of migraine . these data offer a novel approach to the analysis of antimigraine agents . drugs could be selected for use in clinical migraine studies based on their selectivity for a specific 5-ht receptor subtype . for example , an agent that displays both high affinity and selectivity for 5-ht1d receptors could be clinically evaluated . its effectiveness , or lack thereof , would indicate the importance of this specific 5-ht receptor site in the pathogenesis of migraine . future attempts to determine a common mechanism of action for effective antimigraine agents should facilitate the elucidation of the pathogenesis of this neurologic syndrome . 
manifestations of migraine . migraine is a disorder with multiple manifestations affecting the circulation , gastrointestinal tract , and the central nervous system . involvement of the autonomic nervous system is responsible for many of the clinical features . an attack of migraine can vary from a fragment of the clinical spectrum to one with several phases and potentially permanent sequelae . 
modern pharmacotherapy of migraine . rectal ergotamine and naproxen are the major candidates for the ad hoc treatment of migraine attacks ; for particularly dramatic episodes , intravenous dhe with prochlorperazine is the author 's preference . for long-term stabilization , after simpler measures fail , valproate appears to be a major addition to migraine therapy . 
advances in cluster headache . the physician may have to combine the art and science of medicine in the management of this most fascinating of human ailments . the choice of drugs and the length of treatment prescribed are greatly influenced by the individual physician 's experience , convictions , and reasoning . needless to say , chronic use of narcotics should be avoided . the author 's own regimen is to use combinations of ergotamine prophylaxis with either verapamil or prednisone in episodic cluster headache and with lithium for chronic cluster headache . management of the treatment-resistant patient remains problematic , but a carefully performed trigeminal radiofrequency thermocoagulation procedure may be worthwhile . 
drug-induced headache . headache induced by medications used for nonheadache conditions , and more importantly , headache perpetuated by symptomatic medications used for primary headache disorders are discussed in detail in this article . the clinical features and mechanisms of drug-induced headaches are reviewed . ergotamine and analgesic rebound phenomena are described . management strategies for drug-induced headaches are outlined . 
oromandibular disorders and headache . a critical appraisal . oromandibular disorders are functional disorders and associated pains in the anatomic region of the temporomandibular joint . their diagnosis and treatment are controversial because of the lack of conformity concerning these disorders among health care providers . this article provides a clear classification of these disorders and critically reviews their evaluation and treatment . 
headache and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . because the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) virus is neurotropic , physicians will continue to see a rise in the number of neurologic complications of this syndrome . much of this increase will be accompanied by headache , not only as a primary symptom of hiv infection or opportunistic disease but also as a result of diagnostic tests and therapeutic efforts . complete understanding of the ramifications of headache in aids will be important in the 1990s as we continue to treat a younger population , usually affected by benign vascular and muscle contraction-type headache . 
psychologic and behavioral aspects of chronic headache . it is important for physicians to be aware of the expectations and psychologic needs patients have , to understand how psychologic and personality variables can impact care , to realize the importance of patient education , and to be cognizant of how environmental factors can influence headache pain behaviors . empirical data indicate that the nonpharmacologic treatments of biofeedback , relaxation , and stress coping training can serve as useful adjunctive or alternative procedures , and that the combined use of medication and nonpharmacologic treatments yields the greatest clinical outcome . certain headache types show minimal response to nondrug therapies alone ( cluster , menstrual , and post-traumatic headache ) . age and personality variables have a bearing on nondrug treatment outcome as well . 
development of a traumatic intracranial hematoma after a " minor " head injury . we have analyzed features of patients who had what appeared initially to be a minor head injury but who developed an acute traumatic intracranial hematoma . over a 10-year period , 183 patients who were able to open their eyes spontaneously , were oriented to person , place , and time , and who obeyed commands when they were first seen at a hospital subsequently underwent operation for an acute intracranial hematoma . the hematoma was extradural in 54 % of these patients . a history of altered consciousness or symptoms of headache and vomiting were present in 61 % of the patients ; 33 % had a focal neurological deficit , and 43 % had either focal deficit or signs of a basal skull fracture . a skull fracture was shown radiologically in 60 % of patients , including 52 % of those not clinically suspected of having an intracranial lesion . six months after injury , 77 % of the patients had made a moderate or good recovery . the possibility that a patient who has recently sustained a head injury might develop an acute intracranial hematoma can never be completely discounted , even when there are no abnormal clinical signs , and a skull x-ray retains a useful place in the investigation of selected patients with a minor head injury . 
experimental intracerebral hemorrhage : early removal of a spontaneous mass lesion improves late outcome . the purpose of the present study was to determine whether early removal of an experimental intracerebral mass altered cerebral blood flow , brain water content , neuropathological findings , or neurological function 24 hours later . in three experimental series , a 50-microliter balloon was inflated within the right caudate nucleus in rats . at 24 hours after inflation , we studied cerebral blood flow by quantitative autoradiography , brain specific gravity , and qualitative histopathology by light microscopy . the animals were also assessed using a simple neurological deficit scale . in each series , half of the animals had the balloon inflated for 10 minutes ( group 1 ) , and half had the balloon inflated permanently ( group 2 ) . after transient inflation , there were surprisingly small differences in the blood flow between the two cerebral hemispheres at 24 hours . by contrast , in animals with permanent inflation , several indices of blood flow were significantly worse in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the balloon : the mean and median blood flow levels in the caudate nucleus ; the mean blood flow in the cerebral cortex ; and the area of cortex with ischemic levels of blood flow . the specific gravity was reduced in areas surrounding the site of balloon insertion after either transient or permanent inflation , and there was evidence of ischemic cell damage in all animals studied . these changes were more severe after permanent inflation , but the differences were not significant . neurological outcome was significantly better after transient as compared with permanent inflation . the present findings contradict previous results and suggest that early removal of an intracerebral mass may have subsequent benefits . 
the children 's orientation and amnesia test : relationship to severity of acute head injury and to recovery of memory . the children 's orientation and amnesia test ( coat ) was developed to assess cognition serially during the early stage of recovery from traumatic brain injury in children and adolescents . the norms for the coat , which is composed of 16 items evaluating general orientation , temporal orientation , and memory , were defined from data obtained from 146 children aged 3 to 15 years . in 37 patients with head injuries , the duration of posttraumatic amnesia , as indicated by the number of days coat scores were in the impaired range , was significantly related to both verbal and nonverbal memory at the baseline and 6 and 12 months after injury . coat scores were a better predictor of verbal and nonverbal memory performance than the glasgow coma scale score at 6 and 12 months after the injury . this study shows that the coat has adequate reliability and validity as a measure of the duration of posttraumatic amnesia in children and adolescents . 
surgical decompression without transposition for ulnar neuropathy : factors determining outcome . fifty-one surgical decompressions without nerve transposition for ulnar neuropathy were performed in 46 patients . all of the patients were men with an average age of 59 years at the time of surgery . the follow-up range was between 5 and 32 months ( average , 17.8 months ) . the disease involved the nondominant arm in 24 patients ( 52 % ) and was bilateral in 5 ( 11 % ) . in 23 cases ( 50 % ) , no predisposing condition could be identified , whereas 15 patients ( 33 % ) abused alcohol and 8 patients ( 17 % ) had diabetes mellitus . fifty-seven percent of the patients helped by surgery had symptoms for less than 1 year , whereas only 30 % of patients with symptoms for more than 1 year had symptomatic improvement . the relative magnitude of the slowing of ulnar nerve conduction velocity across the elbow was not significantly correlated with the success of decompression in relieving symptoms . ulnar nerve conduction velocities across the elbow were 36.13 + / - 11.76 m/s in those responding to surgery and 38.97 + / - 13.91 m/s in those not responding ( c = 0.06 , df = 50 , p less than 0.3 ) . a total of 37 patients showed symptomatic improvement after decompression . simple decompression of the ulnar nerve was performed under local anesthesia without transposition of the nerve . in all of these cases , compression of the nerve occurred predominantly in the epicondylar groove . narrowing of the nerve in the groove was present in 28 cases ( 55 % ) ; scar tissue was found adhering to the nerve in 21 cases ( 41 % ) ; and two pseudoneuromas were found ( 4 % ) . forty-one operations ( 80 % ) resulted in symptomatic improvement , typically noted by the patient within the first month postoperatively . 
hemorrhagic pituitary adenomas : clinicopathological features and surgical treatment . forty-five ( 9.9 % ) of 453 pituitary adenomas operated on between january 1973 and november 1988 demonstrated hemorrhagic changes at surgery : 24 had a blood collection , 12 had a blood collection associated with hemorrhagic necrosis , and 9 had hemorrhagic necrosis . thirteen patients ( 28.9 % ) experienced the acute symptoms of pituitary apoplexy , whereas another 32 had an " asymptomatic " hemorrhage , that is , the clinical course was comparable to an uncomplicated adenoma . nineteen tumors ( 42.2 % ) showed marked suprasellar extension , 8 ( 17.8 % ) showed moderate extension , and 11 ( 24.5 % ) showed slight extension ; another 2 ( 4.4 % ) were laterosellar and 5 ( 11.1 % ) were intrasellar . invasive behavior was present in 32 cases ( 71.1 % ) and this may suggest another hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of tumoral hemorrhage . the incidence of hemorrhagic complications in invasive adenomas with marked suprasellar extension was particularly impressive ; therefore , we do not suggest preoperative bromocriptine treatment in this type of tumor . two of 14 patients operated on by the transcranial route died after surgery , whereas there was no operative mortality in the 31 patients operated on by the transsphenoidal route . it proved advantageous to operate as early as possible , even during the acute phase of pituitary apoplexy . the transsphenoidal approach gave the best results , but to achieve satisfactory late results multidisciplinary treatment was necessary , namely , postoperative radiotherapy in 23 patients , bromocriptine in 12 , and endocrine replacement therapy in almost all . in an average follow-up period of 6.2 years , 5 ( 11.1 % ) symptomatic recurrences were observed . 
the association of hydrocephalus with intramedullary spinal cord tumors : a series of 25 patients . 171 patients with intramedullary spinal cord tumors were operated on , of which 25 patients ( 15 % ) , mostly children , developed symptomatic hydrocephalus . twenty patients ( 12 % ) had malignant tumors , with 13 of the 20 cases ( 63 % ) complicated by increased intracranial pressure and ventriculomegaly . of the remaining 151 patients with benign tumors ( 89 % ) , only 12 ( 8 % ) developed symptomatic hydrocephalus . in an effort to understand the relationship between hydrocephalus and intramedullary spinal cord tumor , the authors analyze the level and histology of the neoplasm , as well as its association with spinal cysts . a review of the neurosurgical literature reveals that 34 similar cases of hydrocephalus associated with intramedullary spinal cord tumors have been reported to date . the authors note that the presence of hydrocephalus in patients with malignant intramedullary astrocytomas is associated with a shorter rate of survival than in those patients with high-grade lesions but without hydrocephalus , apparently due to rapid tumor progression . the ventriculomegaly seen with benign spinal cord gliomas has no statistically significant effect upon long-term prognosis . 
antimigraine treatment for slit ventricle syndrome . slit ventricle syndrome is characterized by chronic or recurring headaches associated with subnormal ventricular volume in patients who have undergone shunt treatment for hydrocephalus . there appear to be at least three pathophysiological mechanisms that cause this syndrome : 1 ) intermittent shunt malfunction ; 2 ) intracranial hypotension ; and 3 ) paroxysms of increased intracranial pressure in the presence of normal shunt function . to treat seven patients with slit ventricle syndrome caused by paroxysms of elevated intracranial pressure , we successfully used antimigraine therapy rather than standard calvarial expansion procedures . none of these patients has required shunt revision or calvarial expansion during a mean follow-up period of 2 years . the symptoms of slit ventricle syndrome may be a form of " acquired " migraine in shunt patients . we suggest that , in clinically stable patients with normal shunt function , treatment against migraine may stabilize symptoms resulting from paroxysms of increased intracranial pressure . such treatment may prevent unnecessary shunt revisions and/or calvarial expansion procedures . 
meningiomas involving the clivus : a six-year experience with 41 patients . a series of 41 meningiomas involving the clivus operated on from july 1983 to january 1990 is reported . the presenting symptoms and signs of these patients were similar to those reported previously . all the patients were evaluated by pre - and postoperative thin-section , high-resolution computed tomography using soft tissue and bone algorithms . most of the patients also underwent magnetic resonance imaging . the regions of the clivus involved by tumor were divided into upper , middle , or lower regions on the basis of anatomical landmarks . the diameter of the tumor was measured in three axes , and a tumor volume and a tumor equivalent diameter were computed to categorize tumors as small , medium , large , or giant types . there were 9 medium , 27 large , and 5 giant tumors in this series . some simple and some complex operative approaches were employed to effect tumor removal . large and giant tumors often required more than one operative approach to remove the tumor . intraoperative technical difficulties included tumor consistency , vascularity , dissection from the brain stem , and vascular and cranial nerve encasement . postoperative computed tomographic scans documented total excision in 32 patients ( 78 % ) . residual tumor remained in the clival or cavernous sinus areas . these patients were either being observed , or were treated with gamma knife radiosurgery . there was one operative death due to pneumonia ( 2 % ) , and three patients ( 7 % ) suffered permanent major neurological changes , presumably due to vascular occlusions in the posterior circulation . in the follow-up period , which ranged from 3 to 76 months , 2 patients ( 6 % ) with tumors that had appeared to be totally excised experienced recurrence . these patients were treated by a second operation , alone or in combination with radiation therapy . two patients who had subtotal excisions ( 25 % ) had evidence of regrowth . in 2 patients , tumor growth continued despite gamma knife radiosurgery or external beam radiotherapy . 
entrapment neuropathy of the median nerve at the level of the ligament of struthers . the presence of a supracondylar process and struthers ' ligament is a rare congenital anomaly that may cause compression of either the median nerve , the brachial artery , or both . the authors present a case in which the supracondylar process and struthers ' ligament compressed both the median nerve and the brachial artery . this case is unusual , in that the symptoms of compression of the brachial artery increased -- namely , the pulse intensity decreased and the pain increased with elbow flexion . 
spinal hemangioblastoma , syrinx , and hydrocephalus in a two-year-old child . a two-year-old child presented with an acute inability to bear weight . radiological investigation revealed a large cervicothoracolumbar syrinx of no known cause . during investigation , acute communicating hydrocephalus developed , which required a shunt . at surgery , a small thoracic spinal cord hemangioblastoma was discovered and excised . complete recovery with collapse of the syrinx followed . the clinical features of this rare childhood tumor and its associated effects are discussed . 
an intracranial mass lesion in systemic xanthogranulomatosis : case report . the authors describe a 42-year-old woman with systemic xanthogranulomatosis and bilateral intraorbital tumors , who subsequently developed multiple lesions of the intracranial dura mater , spinal cord , retroperitoneum , pericardium , and mediastinum . systemic xanthogranulomatosis is histologically similar to systemic weber-christian disease , except for the absence of subcutaneous panniculitis . immunohistochemical studies suggest that this clinical entity can be differentiated from histiocytosis x , because foamy cells in systemic xanthogranulomatosis demonstrate macrophages but not t-zone histiocyte markers . differentiation of this disease from other intracranial xanthogranulomas and treatment are discussed . 
fine surface structure of an intraspinal neurenteric cyst : a scanning and transmission electron microscopy study . the case of an 11-year-old boy with an intraspinal neurenteric cyst , which recurred 8 years and 3 months after surgery , is presented . scanning and transmission electron microscopy of the cyst epithelium revealed marked resemblance to that of the respiratory tract , despite the presence of numerous goblet cells mimicking intestine on light microscopy study . detailed ultrastructural findings are described . 
syringomyelia secondary to compression of the cervical spinal cord by an extramedullary lymphoma . a case of syringomyelia secondary to an extramedullary cervical spinal cord compression by a non-hodgkin 's lymphoma is described . after radiotherapy , the syrinx was no longer seen . the pathogenesis of this type of syrinx is discussed , and the potential benefit of radiotherapy in these cases is suggested . 
stridor : intracranial pathology causing postextubation vocal cord paralysis . during an 18-month period in a pediatric intensive care unit , nine patients with vocal cord paralysis were identified using flexible bronchoscopy . when tracheally extubated , each child was found to have stridor . the children ranged in age from 17 days to 5 1/2 years . two patients had unilateral paralysis , but neither required tracheostomy . seven patients displayed bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis . of these , six patients required tracheostomy . surgical injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve was the probable cause in two patients . the other seven patients had neurologic disorders with documented or suspected increases of intracranial pressure . four of the seven patients with bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis regained cord mobility within 4 months . both children with unilateral cord paralysis have no stridor and vocalize well 1 year later . cord paralysis in the setting of intracranial hypertension probably results from compression or ischemia of the vagus nerve before it exits the skull . early visualization of the larynx should be done in patients who become stridulous when extubated , especially those with prior thoracic procedures or with neurologic disorders associated with intracranial hypertension . 
relationship between duration of spinal cord ischemia and postoperative neurologic deficits in animals . stagnara wake-up tests , blood flow measures , somatosensory evoked potentials ( seps ) , and neurogenic-motor evoked potentials ( nmeps ) were elicited from 20 hogs before and after spinal cord overdistraction at l3-l4 . overdistraction was maintained from 5 to 30 minutes after loss of nmeps . results suggest that the longer the duration of overdistraction the greater the likelihood of paraplegia . blood flow measures indicated that reduced perfusion was greatest at the distraction site but extended proximally and distally . finally , nmeps were more sensitive to onset of overdistraction and a more valid indicator of paraplegia than seps . nmeps should provide the surgeon with more time for initiation of intervention techniques than seps . because nmeps and seps provide information regarding different spinal cord tracts , the authors continue to use both methods for monitoring the functional integrity of the human spinal cord during corrective spine surgery . 
urologic function after experimental cauda equina compression . cystometrograms versus cortical-evoked potentials . twenty female beagle dogs underwent an l6-7 laminectomy and six dogs each had 25 , 50 or 75 % constriction of the cauda equina and 2 control dogs had laminectomy only . cystometrograms were performed pre - and post-operatively and three months after constriction . cortical evoked potentials were monitored pre - and post-operatively and monthly for three months . after three months of constriction , the cauda equina of these dogs in each group was examined histologically and vascular circulation was examined by latex and india ink injection ( spalteholz technique ) . the control dogs had normal cmgs and ceps . twenty-five percent constriction caused no cmg changes and mild cep changes . fifty percent constriction caused no statistically significant cmg changes , major cep changes and venous congestion of the nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia . seventy-five percent constriction produced severe cmg changes with detrusor areflexia , increased bladder capacity and clinical incontinence . ceps also had marked deterioration . vascular analysis revealed severe arterial narrowing at the level of constriction and venous congestion of the nerve roots and dorsal root ganglia . blockage of axoplasmic flow and nerve root atrophy was seen in all dogs with 75 % constriction . cortical evoked potentials were the most sensitive predictor of neural compression . cmgs were not sensitive until severe compression was achieved . bladder dysfunction , i.e. , detrusor areflexia , appears to occur with blockage of axoplasmic flow and early sensory changes occur with neurovenous congestion . 
delayed anterior decompression in patients with spinal cord and cauda equina injuries of the thoracolumbar spine . forty-nine patients with complete and incomplete injuries of the spinal cord or cauda equina who had undergone anterior decompression at a minimum of 3 months after injury were examined . follow-up was from 12 months to 19 years . postoperative neurologic improvement occurred in 46.5 % of patients with incomplete injuries . if the surgery was performed less than 2 years after injury , neurologic improvement occurred in 68 % with an improvement in frankel grade of 32 % . bladder function improved in 27 % of patients and if operated on less than 2 years after injury improvement occurred in 43 % . conus medullaris decompression resulted in a 50 % improvement . there was an 83 % improvement in the pattern of pain after decompression . of 23 patients with preoperative spasticity , 10 improved but 6 were worse after surgery . 
blood flow direction in the lumbar nerve root . the effect of clipping on lumbar nerve root blood flow rates in the region of the nerve root canal was studied experimentally in the hog . blood flow rate was measured using the hydrogen washout technique . when the entrance zone was clipped with a microvascular clip , blood flow rate of the nerve root was decreased by 37 % in comparison with the initial control rate ; clipping at the exit zone reduced blood flow rate by 69 % . blood flow direction in the lumbar nerve root within the nerve root canal was found to be predominantly proximal . the current data indicate that the more lateral the impingement of the nerve root occurs , the more ischemic changes are induced . 
therapy of diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats with nimodipine . we investigated the therapeutic effect of nimodipine or parathyroidectomy in old , diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats by observing 98 male 1-year-old rats over 5 months . after stroke had occurred , the rats were divided into three groups : 1 ) parathyroidectomy , 2 ) nimodipine , and 3 ) controls . in the nimodipine group , the rats survived longer than those in the other groups . blood pressure of the controls did not differ from the nimodipine-treated and parathyroidectomy animals . the increase in calcium content of brain and kidney tissues and of plasma renin activity , urea , and creatinine was attenuated by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy . the histology of the kidneys revealed widespread fibrinoid necrosis of arteries in all rats . in the nimodipine-treated or parathyroidectomy groups , healing of the lesions was detectable . cerebral lesions were mainly characterized by fibrinoid necrosis . nimodipine-treated as well as parathyroidectomied animals showed significantly fewer hypertensive cerebral lesions . in old , diseased stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats , therapy with nimodipine or parathyroidectomy increased their survival rate . the cerebrovascular and renovascular lesions of treated animals were attenuated , and morphologic signs of healing were observed . reduction of calcium overload by nimodipine or parathyroidectomy , even in an advanced stage of disease , had a therapeutic effect . 
preventing stroke by the modification of risk factors . epidemiologic research has revealed the major risk factors in cerebrovascular disease . this review will concentrate on three important risk factors : elevated blood pressure , the most common and important , since it is responsible for up to 70 % of all strokes ; raised cholesterol ; and smoking . these factors are important not only because they increase the risk of stroke , but also because they are amenable to modification by drugs , diet , or other interventions . strategies to avoid stroke can either 1 ) try to produce substantial reductions , usually with drugs , in the level of the risk factor in the few individuals in the population with high levels ( the " high-risk " approach ) , or 2 ) try to produce modest reductions in the level of the risk factor in every individual in the population , usually not with drugs but with lifestyle modification ( the " mass " approach ) . the prevention of stroke could best be achieved through continuing medical efforts to deal with high-risk individuals and through political strategies to encourage a healthier lifestyle in the population as a whole . 
cytosolic free calcium during focal cerebral ischemia and the effects of nimodipine on calcium and histologic damage . the role of calcium as a mediator in neuronal death during ischemia is now quite strong . evidence supporting this link includes studies in cell cultures and measurements of calcium accumulation in the mitochondria during ischemia , as well as direct measurements of shifts in extracellular calcium using microelectrodes . since it is dangerously high concentrations of the intracellular free calcium that have been hypothesized to lead to neuronal damage , direct in vivo measurements of this parameter in ischemia are important . a technique for the measurement of intracellular free calcium is described , along with data from studies that dramatically demonstrate the time course of changes in intracellular free calcium induced by focal ischemia . additional data are also presented that indicate that cellular damage can be attenuated by the use of agents that block calcium channels ( nimodipine , which blocks voltage-sensitive calcium channels , and mk-801 , which blocks receptor-operated channels ) and support the concept that these agents owe their beneficial effects to their ability to reduce the accumulation of intracellular calcium . 
effect of nimodipine on acute ischemic stroke . pooled results from five randomized trials . in a review of pooled data from five double-blind , placebo-controlled studies of nimodipine in acute ischemic stroke , we compared the effect of 120 mg nimodipine given orally with that of placebo . in the five studies , 871 patients were followed , and 781 adhered to entry and inclusion criteria . end points were mortality and outcome at the end of the treatment period ( 21 or 28 days ) . outcome was assessed with mathew 's scale and the physician 's clinical judgement . the treatment and control groups were well matched with respect to demographic data , risk factors , and baseline mathew scores . in the treatment group , 34 patients ( 7.9 % ) died during the treatment period , whereas 54 ( 12.3 % ) in the control group died , corresponding with a mortality reduction of 36 % . significantly less neurologic impairment at the end of the treatment period was documented under nimodipine treatment , and this impairment improved more in patients with moderate-to-severe stroke ( baseline mathew score less than 66 ) if administration of nimodipine occurred within 12 hours after stroke onset or if the patient was more than 65 years old . the overall incidence of adverse reactions was relatively modest , and these were of minor severity ; only a few appeared to have more than a remote relation to the study medication . 
effects of nimodipine on infarct size and cerebral acidosis after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat . the objective of this study was to determine the effect of nimodipine on infarct development and local brain ph after middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat . female fischer-344 rats were subjected to permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery by electrocoagulation . after 6 , 12 , or 24 hours , brains were frozen , and infarct size , degree of edema formation , and local brain ph were quantified by standard histology or the umbelliferone technique , respectively . in control rats , cortical infarct size was increased from 29.5 microliters at 6 hours to 72.5 microliters at 24 hours after vessel occlusion . in striatum only , an insignificant increase from 15.2 to 24.7 microliters in infarct volume was observed during this period . edema increased from 7 % to 22 % in cortical and from 4 % to 39 % in the striatal infarct areas during this time . nimodipine ( 0.1 mg/kg s.c. ) , given 45 minutes before and again 8 and 16 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion , did not alter infarct size at 6 hours but considerably improved outcome at later times . edema formation was lower at 12 hours in the group treated with the calcium antagonist ( p less than 0.05 ) . by contrast , effects on local brain ph were seen as early as 6 hours after the vessel occlusion . nimodipine greatly reduced the areas exhibiting the lowest ph values beyond ph 6.0 ( p less than 0.05 ) . similar effects by nimodipine on brain ph were observed in the 12-hour series , whereas at 24 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion , a shift to more alkalotic values was noted with no overt differences between control and drug-treated groups . 
effects of dietary calcium on nimodipine-sensitive calcium channel function in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats . we studied the effects of dietary ca2 + on blood pressure , survival , and calcium channel function to investigate cardiovascular disease mechanisms in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats . beginning at 3 weeks of age , rats were fed high sodium chloride diets ( 8.0 % ) in combination with either high ( 2.0 % ) or low ( 0.2 % ) ca2 + diets for 8 weeks . at 12 weeks of age , survival was 90 % in the high ca2 + group and 30 % in the low ca2 + group . the higher blood pressure and lower survival in the low ca2 + group suggest an intensification of altered vascular muscle cell mechanisms by a dietary ca2 + deficit . nimodipine ( 1-10 nm ) effectively blocked l-type ca2 + currents in isolated vascular muscle cells from both groups . contraction of isolated cells that were not patch clamped to high potassium solutions were also blocked by 1 nm nimodipine . disappearance of the l-type ca2 + channel current was accelerated by holding at depolarizing potentials ( positive to -50 mv ) and by depolarizing steps to 0 mv . nimodipine block of the l-type ca2 + currents in vascular muscle is believed to contribute substantially to antihypertensive properties and stroke prevention , actions that may develop fully only in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats on a diet of at least normal ca2 + . 
tardive dyskinesia . tardive dyskinesia is a potentially irreversible syndrome of involuntary hyperkinetic movements that occur in predisposed persons receiving extended neuroleptic ( antipsychotic ) drug therapy . it is usually characterized by choreoathetoid dyskinesias in the orofacial , limb , and truncal regions , but subtypes of this syndrome may include tardive dystonia and tardive akathisia . although the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of this disorder are unproven , altered dopaminergic functions will likely play a role in any explanation of it . tardive dyskinesia develops in 20 % of neuroleptic-treated patients , but high-risk groups such as the elderly have substantially higher rates . risk factors include age , female sex , affective disorders , and probably those without psychotic diagnoses , including patients receiving drugs with antidopaminergic activity for nausea or gastrointestinal dysfunction for extended periods . total drug exposure is positively correlated with tardive dyskinesia risk . management strategies include a careful evaluation of both the psychiatric and neurologic states , a broad differential diagnosis , and adjustment of neuroleptic agents to the lowest effective dose that controls psychosis and minimizes motor side effects . no drug therapy is uniformly safe and effective for treating this disorder . a favorable long-term outcome of improvement or resolution correlates with younger age , early detection , lower drug exposure , and duration of follow-up . 
cerebellar syndrome caused by isoniazid . treatment of tuberculosis in a hemodialysis patient with isoniazid , rifampin , and pyrazinamide resulted in the development of acute cerebellar dysfunction . this resolved rapidly following the discontinuation of isoniazid and pyrazinamide , reinstitution of isoniazid at a lower dose , and addition of pyridoxine . we discuss why we believe this syndrome was caused by isoniazid . patients with renal failure who undergo antituberculous therapy with isoniazid should receive supplemental pyridoxine to reduce the likelihood of isoniazid-related neurotoxicity . 
excipients in valproic acid syrup may cause diarrhea : a case report . a 5-year-old child receiving valproic acid syrup for seizure control developed diarrhea probably from the excipient ingredients . each 5 ml of valproic acid syrup contains sucrose 3 g , glycerin 0.75 g , and sorbitol 0.75 g , providing daily amounts of 36 , 9 , and 9 g of sucrose , glycerin , and sorbitol , respectively . the diarrhea resolved when the child was switched to another valproic acid product . clinicians should be aware of potential problems that may occur from excipient ingredients in pharmaceutical products when evaluating adverse effects of medications . 
the relationship between viral rna , myelin-specific mrnas , and demyelination in central nervous system disease during theiler 's virus infection . the da strain of theiler 's murine encephalomyelitis virus ( dav ) causes a chronic demyelinating disease in susceptible mouse strains . to elucidate the pathogenesis of dav-induced demyelination , the authors investigated the spatial and chronologic relationship between virus ( antigen and rna ) , myelin-specific mrnas , and demyelination in dav-infected mice using immunohistochemistry , in situ hybridization , and slot blot hybridization analyses . in spinal cord white matter , viral rna was detected easily in ventral root entry zones 1 to 2 weeks after infection . viral rna increased to maximum levels by 4 weeks after infection , which was associated with inflammation and mild demyelination . at 8 to 12 weeks after infection , when demyelination became most extensive , viral rna was significantly decreased . demyelination did not chronologically or spatially parallel the presence of viral rna within the spinal cord . decrease of myelin-specific mrnas , including myelin-basic protein and proteolipid protein mrnas , was observed within the demyelinating lesions with or without detectable viral rna . these results indicate that a viral infection of white matter in the early phase of the infection initiates spinal cord disease leading to demyelination , but later an ongoing immunopathologic process contributes to the presence of extensive demyelination . 
sleep disturbances in survivors of the nazi holocaust . objective and method : sleep disturbances are commonly reported by victims of extraordinary stress and can persist for decades . this study was designed to test the hypothesis that survivors of the nazi holocaust would have significantly more and different sleep problems than depressed and healthy comparison subjects and that the severity of the survivors ' problems would be correlated with length of time spent in a concentration camp . forty-two survivors , 37 depressed patients , and 54 healthy subjects of about the same age , all living in the community , described their sleep patterns over the preceding month on the pittsburgh sleep quality index , a self-rating instrument that inquires about quality , latency , duration , efficiency , and disturbances of sleep , use of sleep medication , and daytime dysfunction . results : the survivors had significantly greater sleep impairment than the healthy comparison subjects , as measured by all subscales of the index , but had less impairment than the depressed patients except on the sleep disturbances and daytime dysfunction subscales . however , for specific items within these subscales , survivors had significantly more frequent awakenings due to bad dreams and had less loss of enthusiasm than the depressed subjects . sleep disturbances and frequency of nightmares were significantly and positively correlated with the duration of the survivors ' internment in concentration camps . conclusions : these findings suggest that for some holocaust survivors , impaired sleep and frequent nightmares are considerable problems even 45 years after liberation . 
use of neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms to predict future vulnerability to side effects . objective : susceptibility to neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal syndromes varies widely , even within age and sex subgroups . individual vulnerability to extrapyramidal syndromes has been assumed to explain this , but the utility of past history for predicting future occurrence of extrapyramidal syndromes has not been studied extensively . this investigation was undertaken to determine whether patients ' previous histories of extrapyramidal syndromes predict future episodes of extrapyramidal syndromes and to compare the importance of this predictive factor with patient age , sex , neuroleptic dose , and anticholinergic dose as predictors of extrapyramidal syndromes . methods : the charts of 62 schizophrenic patients with multiple neuroleptic treatment episodes were reviewed . extrapyramidal syndromes , neuroleptic drug doses , and anticholinergic drug doses during the first 21 days of each treatment episode were recorded . results : previous extrapyramidal syndromes correctly predicted extrapyramidal syndromes in subsequent treatments for 84 % of the patients . variations in neuroleptic potency , neuroleptic dose , and anticholinergic dose partially explained incorrect predictions . conclusions : these results support the hypothesis that patients with a history of extrapyramidal syndromes are at greater risk for future extrapyramidal syndromes . if confirmed , these results strongly support individual susceptibility as a major predictor of extrapyramidal syndromes and indicate that prophylaxis of extrapyramidal syndromes should be considered for patients who have previously suffered extrapyramidal syndromes from similarly prescribed neuroleptic therapy . 
acute phase reactants and risk of bacterial meningitis among febrile infants and children . study objective : to test the hypothesis that quantitation of either c-reactive protein ( crp ) or the total peripheral wbc count can improve clinical detection of underlying bacterial meningitis among young febrile children . design : cross-sectional survey of selected symptoms of central nervous system infection , signs of meningeal irritation and/or elevated intracranial pressure , levels of crp in serum , and total peripheral wbc counts among unselected pediatric patients undergoing lumbar punctures for evaluation of acute febrile illnesses . setting : emergency department and acute care " walk-in " clinic of an urban , university-affiliated general hospital . participants : 160 previously well , acutely febrile infants and children ( median age , 6 months ) . results : the prevalence of bacterial meningitis was 6 % . sensitivity of symptoms was 1.00 and specificity was 0.17 . sensitivity of signs was 0.70 and specificity was 0.81 . of the acute phase reactants , sensitivity of a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl was 0.80 , while that of a total peripheral wbc count of more than 15,000 / mm3 was 0.40 . the presence of signs and/or a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl correctly identified all children with bacterial meningitis ( sensitivity , 1.00 ) . the absence of signs and a crp level of 1.0 mg/dl or less correctly identified 71 of 150 children without bacterial meningitis ( specificity , 0.47 ) . of 125 children without meningeal signs , the combination of symptoms and a crp level of more than 1.0 mg/dl correctly identified all three children with bacterial meningitis ( sensitivity , 1.00 ) . the absence of these symptoms and/or a crp level of 1.0 mg/dl or less correctly identified 80 of 122 children without bacterial meningitis ( specificity , 0.66 ) . conclusion : quantitation of crp but not the total peripheral wbc count can increase the sensitivity of physical examination findings and the specificity of symptoms for the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis . measurement of crp in serum is useful as an adjunct to history and physical examination for the detection of acute bacterial meningitis in the acutely febrile child . 
emergency department approach to managing seizures in pregnancy . seizures in pregnancy pose risks for both the mother and the fetus and must be managed aggressively . antiepileptic drugs have some teratogenic potential , but the risks are not as profound as reported in earlier literature . there is definitely less risk to the fetus from anticonvulsant exposure than from uncontrolled seizures . the evaluation of a pregnant woman with new-onset seizures is the same as for the nonpregnant patient , including head computed tomography with appropriate abdominal shielding . status epilepticus management is based on iv benzodiazepines , phenytoin , or phenobarbital . good fetal outcome is dependent on rapid seizure control . management of eclampsia is controversial . there is little evidence that magnesium sulfate has anticonvulsant properties , and its use as such will probably decline steadily in the future . at present , it is reasonable to manage eclamptic seizures in the same way that status epilepticus is managed . 
large-scale neurocognitive networks and distributed processing for attention , language , and memory . cognition and comportment are subserved by interconnected neural networks that allow high-level computational architectures including parallel distributed processing . cognitive problems are not resolved by a sequential and hierarchical progression toward predetermined goals but instead by a simultaneous and interactive consideration of multiple possibilities and constraints until a satisfactory fit is achieved . the resultant texture of mental activity is characterized by almost infinite richness and flexibility . according to this model , complex behavior is mapped at the level of multifocal neural systems rather than specific anatomical sites , giving rise to brain-behavior relationships that are both localized and distributed . each network contains anatomically addressed channels for transferring information content and chemically addressed pathways for modulating behavioral tone . this approach provides a blueprint for reexploring the neurological foundations of attention , language , memory , and frontal lobe function . 
impairment of sequences of memory-guided saccades after supplementary motor area lesions . different paradigms of saccades were recorded electro-oculographically in 2 patients with infarction affecting the left supplementary motor area . saccades made toward visual targets ( visually-guided saccades ) or away from them ( antisaccades ) were normal in both patients . memory-guided saccades , made to the remembered position of a flash occurring 2 seconds before , were preserved in 1 patient and only slightly impaired in the other . however , sequences of two or three memory-guided saccades were severely impaired in both patients . it has previously been reported that the supplementary motor area plays an important role in programming sequential limb movements . our data suggest that this area plays a similar role in the control of sequential eye movements . 
brain ph in head injury : an image-guided 31p magnetic resonance spectroscopy study . it has been suggested that brain acidosis may follow head trauma , and therapies aimed at correcting acidosis have been proposed . direct measurements of intracellular ph , however , have thus far not been possible in clinical situations . we have studied the intracellular brain ph in 22 patients after head injury ( mean glasgow coma score 6.1 ) . patients were investigated by a combined approach of phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging ( overall examination time 50-75 min ) at a mean time of 11 days after injury ( 36 hours to 24 days ) . 31p spectra were obtained in 11 patients on assisted ventilation and in 11 patients on spontaneous ventilation . these spectra were analyzed to yield the ph in the regions studied in all the patients . all ph values were in the normal or alkalotic range when compared with 6 age-matched normal controls . no differences were found between patients on assisted ventilation and patients on spontaneous ventilation . when analyzed as a group , the brain ph in the focal lesions appeared to increase in the first days , to reach a peak in the alkalotic range in the second week , and to return toward normal within 3 weeks from acute injury . our results suggest that there is no evidence of posttraumatic intracellular brain acidosis in recent human head injury , and therefore , therapies aimed at alkalinizing brain cells need to be reconsidered . 
respiratory failure and unilateral caudal brainstem infarction . we report clinicotopographic correlations in 2 patients with central hypoventilation and unilateral infarct in the caudal brainstem . one patient had nearly complete loss of ventilation involving both automatic and voluntary components . he showed no ventilator response during a co2 retention test ( paco2 62 mm hg , pao2 82 mm hg ) , while consciousness was preserved until death . the infarct involved the reticular formation , nucleus tractus solitarius , nucleus ambiguus , and nucleus retroambiguus on the right but spared the dorsal motor nucleus of the tenth cranial nerve , and sensory and corticospinal tracts . the second patient showed hypoventilation more selectively involving automatic responses ( ondine 's curse ) . the infarct involved the medullary reticular formation and nucleus ambiguus but spared the nucleus tractus solitarius . we suggest that unilateral involvement of pontomedullary reticular formation and nucleus ambiguus is sufficient for generating loss of automatic respiration , while associated lesion of the nucleus tractus solitarius may lead to more severe respiratory failure involving both automatic and voluntary responses . 
magnetic motor-evoked potentials in epilepsy : effects of the disease and of anticonvulsant medication . magnetic motor-evoked potentials were recorded in 53 patients with medically intractable , mainly temporal lobe epilepsy and compared with potentials of 110 healthy volunteers . the motor-evoked potentials were reevaluated in 16 of the 53 patients after substantial reduction of antiepileptic drug doses . the objective was to assess the effect of epilepsy and of anticonvulsant medication on the central motor system . in subjects receiving antiepileptic treatment , cortical threshold intensities were markedly elevated and peripheral latencies were prolonged . cortical threshold intensities and peripheral latencies decreased to approach control values after anticonvulsant medication was reduced but were increased in patients treated with 2 or 3 anticonvulsant agents instead of 1 . additionally , high levels of interictal epileptiform activity and a high frequency of seizures significantly decreased the central motor conduction time and , in part , threshold intensities . the central motor conduction time was further diminished after reduction of anticonvulsant treatment and increased when several drugs were administered . the duration of epilepsy , the location of the epileptic focus , and the type of the epileptic seizure did not affect motor-evoked potentials . conclusively , central motor pathways are endogenously facilitated by epileptiform activity even if clinical signs of their involvement are absent . anticonvulsant medication exerts major reversible effects on magnetic motor-evoked potentials . 
isolation of a complementary dna clone encoding an autoantigen recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration . we isolated a complementary dna clone encoding a 52-kd protein recognized by an anti-neuronal cell antibody in serum from a patient with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration associated with uterine carcinoma . the recombinant protein expressed in prokaryotic cells was specifically recognized by the anti-neuronal cell antibody from the patient , and its molecular weight was identical to that of antigenic proteins in the cerebellum . the deduced protein consisted of 450 amino acids dominated by hydrophilic residues , the calculated relative molecular mass was 51,238 , and the predicted value of the isoelectric point was 4.99 . this complementary dna sequence and the deduced protein sequence have not been reported previously , and the sequences showed no homologies with the complimentary dna or the amino acid sequences in the genbank , embl , or nbrf databases , including the complementary dna for a 34-kd cerebellar protein ( cdr34 ) that is recognized by an anti-purkinje cell antibody . unexpectedly , the transcript of this gene was detected not only in the cerebellum and the brain stem but also in an extraneural tissue , the intestine . 
a follow-up study of intractable seizures in childhood . one hundred forty-five children with seizures that were refractory to medical therapy for at least 2 years were followed 5 to 20 years after onset . the majority of children with uncontrollable seizures ( 61 % ) were mentally retarded , and most of these ( 73 % ) had onset of seizures at younger than 2 years of age . age of onset was significantly later ( mean 5.0 + / - 0.5 yr [ sem ] ) in the group of children with borderline to normal intelligence . follow-up data showed remission of seizures in a significant proportion of children with borderline or normal intelligence , with a linear decrease of the percentage with persistent seizures at a rate of about 4 % per year . remission of seizures was much less frequent ( 1.5 % / yr ) in the group with mental retardation . seizure type had some effects on outcome . children with focal atrophic brain lesions did no worse than those without definable pathology on brain-imaging studies . 
stiff-man syndrome : a gabaergic autoimmune disorder with autoantigenic heterogeneity . autoantibodies that reacted with cell bodies and axon terminals of gamma-aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) ergic neurons were present in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid in a patient with stiff-man syndrome with type i diabetes . immunoblot experiments using this patient 's serum and cerebrospinal fluid did not corroborate an earlier observation that these autoantibodies are directed against the gabaergic cytosolic enzyme , l-glutamic acid decarboxylase . while l-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoantibodies may be associated with this syndrome , they do not appear to be easily demonstrated . 
relationship of clinical features with psychological status in primary fibromyalgia . clinical features and psychological status determined by the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory ( mmpi ) in 103 patients with primary fibromyalgia syndrome ( pfs ) were analyzed by univariate and multivariate techniques to determine if clinical features were related to psychological status or were intrinsic to pfs per se . the central features of pfs , e.g. , number of pain sites , number of tender points , fatigue , and poor sleep , were independent of psychological status . however , discriminant analysis identified 4 variables -- patient-reported depression , anxiety , stress , and pain severity -- which together predicted 3 mmpi subgroups with an accuracy of 55 % ( p less than 0.001 ) ; the only musculoskeletal feature -- pain severity -- alone provided an accuracy of only 34 % ( p greater than 0.05 ) . these data suggest a new concept , that the central features of fibromyalgia are independent of the psychological status and are more likely related to the pfs itself . however , pain severity may be influenced by psychological factors . 
septic arthritis of the c1-c2 lateral facet joint and torticollis : pseudo-grisel 's syndrome . we present the case of a 76-year-old man who experienced the sudden development of fever , rightsided neck pain and stiffness , and torticollis . a soft tissue mass was noted on the right side of his neck , but his head was tilted to the left . computed tomography scans ( with reformatted sagittal and coronal images ) of the patient 's cervical spine revealed destructive changes of the right lateral masses of c1 and c2 and the clivus , and a well-delineated peridontoid soft tissue mass ( confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging ) . after the second episode of right-sided hemiparesis , he underwent transoral surgical exploration , with anterior decompression and odontoidectomy . histologic examination of the surgical material revealed granulation tissue , fibrosis , and chronic inflammation , consistent with abscess formation with invasion and compression of the spinal cord and bone . this case suggests that nonreducible rotational head tilt to the side opposite the side of lateral mass collapse should raise the suspicion of a possible infection . 
sleep disturbances in hiv-infected homosexual men . to provide a better understanding of the etiology of subjective sleep complaints in hiv-infected individuals , a study to evaluate sleep/wake disturbances in 10 healthy hiv-infected male volunteers was performed . all subjects were hiv-infected but had no history of aids-related infections , and considered clinically asymptomatic . interviews and sleep questionnaires revealed sleep complaints in nine subjects . five healthy hiv-seronegative male subjects , with no history of sleep complaints , were also evaluated . sleep architecture analyses detected that , in comparison to published normative data and to negative controls , there was a significant increase in the total percentage of slow wave sleep ( sws ) and an increase in the percentage of sws in the later sleep cycles . when compared with normative data , an increase in stage 1 shifts , rapid eye movement ( rem ) periods , and arousals were also observed in the hiv-infected group . significant decreases in sleep latency , total percentage stage 2 sleep , and average rem durations were also observed in the hiv-infected group compared with normative data . these sleep architecture abnormalities could not be attributed to known sole primary sleep disorders , first night effect , medications , anxiety or depression . this study indicates that sleep disturbances occur early in the course of hiv infection and suggests that the observed alterations of sleep physiology may be a consequence of central nervous system involvement and/or immune defense mobilization in the early phases of hiv infection . 
new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors . their role in the management of hypertension . the introduction of orally active angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors has revolutionized the treatment of hypertensive disorders and provided an effective alternative for the management of congestive heart failure ( chf ) . by interfering with the formation of angiotensin ii , the active agent of the renin system , ace inhibitors block the system 's vasoconstrictive and sodium-retaining effects , with a consequent reduction in systemic blood pressure . the net effect is improved blood flow and reduced cardiac work . thus , ace inhibitors are likely to improve cardiac work capacity and quality of life . their mechanism of action differs markedly from that of traditional antihypertensive agents which lower blood pressure while reducing cardiac output and blood flow . since the primary action of ace inhibitors is to block the renin system , a dramatic response to monotherapy suggests a large renin factor while the lack of a response suggests a low-renin state more amenable to treatment with a diuretic or calcium antagonist . because of their many attributes , ace inhibitors are increasingly used as first-line therapy for the treatment of hypertension or chf . the prototype orally active ace inhibitor , captopril , is a sulfhydryl compound with a good safety profile at the recommended dosages but reported toxicity at higher dosages . second-generation ace inhibitors ( eg , enalapril and quinapril ) are more potent sulfhydryl-free esters with a greater affinity for the converting enzyme . these newer agents are pro-drugs requiring ester hydrolysis to form the active free acid compound . 
brain death and organ donation in a neurosurgical unit : audit of recent practice objective -- to assess the potential for increasing the yield of donors by comparing the current pattern of brain death and organ donation in a neurosurgical unit with that reported in 1981 and with a recent national audit . design -- retrospective review of all deaths for 1986 , 1987 , and 1988 and prospective data for 1989 . setting -- a regional neurosurgical unit serving 2.7 million population . results -- of 553 deaths , 35 % ( 191 ) patients died while on a ventilator and 17 % ( 92 ) after discontinuation of ventilation . medical contraindications to donation were found in 23 % ( 32 ) of 141 patients tested for brain death , in 38 % ( 19 ) of 50 patients who died while being ventilated who were not tested , and in 12 % ( 11 ) of 92 patients no longer being ventilated . consent for donation was sought in 88 % ( 96 ) of 109 medically suitable brain dead patients and granted in 70 % ( 67 ) of these . half those with permission for multiorgan donation had only the kidneys removed . conclusions -- more organs may be lost owing to transplant team logistics than by failure to seek consent from relatives of brain dead patients . the estimated size of the pool of potential donors depends on what types of patients might be considered . ensuring that all who die while being ventilated are tested for brain death and considering the potential for donation before withdrawing ventilation could yield more donors . ventilating more patients who are hopelessly brain damaged to secure more donors raises ethical and economic issues . 
the appearance of the piriformis muscle syndrome in computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging . a case report and review of the literature . the piriformis syndrome ( ps ) is a controversial cause of hip pain because of the lack of objective findings to support the diagnosis . computed tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging revealed ps in a 27-year-old woman . this case may be one of the first reports in the literature on a piriformis muscle enlargement documented by ct and mr imaging . 
noncardiogenic pulmonary edema complicating massive diltiazem overdose . non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema has not been previously described in calcium channel blocker overdose . we describe a case of non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema occurring during the course of therapy for massive diltiazem overdose in a young patient with anorexia nervosa . review of the current literature suggests that major and minor pulmonary complications occur with some frequency in the setting of calcium channel blocker overdose although their exact incidence remains unclear . 
visceral perception in health and functional dyspepsia . crossover study of gastric distension with placebo and domperidone . the symptoms of functional dyspepsia are still unexplained . to evaluate the possible role of abnormal visceral perception , we studied the symptomatic responses and the pressure variations during progressive gastric distension in 10 female healthy control subjects ( mean age 33.6 years ) and in 10 female patients with functional dyspepsia ( mean age 35.2 years ) . a rubber balloon was positioned 4 cm below the lower esophageal sphincter ( les ) and inflated with progressively larger volumes of air by steps of 50 ml ; pressures at the gastric fundus and at the les were continuously recorded by perfused manometric catheters . each subject was studied on two separate occasions after randomized double-blind administration of either placebo or 20 mg of domperidone . symptomatic responses and the manometric data were analyzed at the time of the initial recognition of distension ( bloating step ) and at the time of reporting pain or up to a maximum of 700 ml of balloon inflation ( pain or 700-ml step ) . on placebo , the volumes of gastric distension were more than two times lower in patients than in control subjects at the bloating step ( 185 + / - 32 ml vs 470 + / - 40 ml , p = 0.001 ) and at the pain or 700-ml step ( 265 + / - 54 ml vs 600 + / - 34 ml , p less than 0.005 ) , while the pressure gradients ( pressure at inflation steps minus baseline pressure before beginning inflation ) were not statistically different between the two groups . 
bowel dysfunction in fibromyalgia syndrome . fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome frequently coexist . in this study , we utilized a previously validated self-administered questionnaire to assess the prevalence of symptoms of bowel dysfunction and irritable bowel syndrome in 123 patients with fibromyalgia as compared to 54 patients with degenerative joint disease ( djd ) and 46 normal controls . ninety ( 73 % ) of the fibromyalgia patients reported altered bowel function as compared to 20 ( 37 % ) djd patients and none of the normal controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . ninety-nine patients ( 81 % ) reported normal alternating with irregular bowel pattern , and 77 ( 63 % ) had alternating diarrhea and constipation . in contrast , only 24 ( 44 % ) of djd patients and six ( 13 % ) of controls had regular alternating with irregular bowel pattern and only 12 ( 22 % ) of the djd patients and none of the healthy controls had alternating constipation and diarrhea ( p less than 0.01 ) . other bowel dysfunction complaints noted in the fibromyalgia group were abdominal gas ( 59 % ) , nausea ( 21 % ) , diarrhea ( 9 % ) , and constipation ( 12 % ) . seventy-nine ( 64 % ) fibromyalgia patients reported frequent abdominal pain that was stress-related 47 % of the time . laxative use was frequent in the fibromyalgia group ( 19 % ) and absent in the other two groups . fifty percent of fibromyalgia patients , compared to 28 % of djd patients , felt that their bowel complaints were worse during exacerbations of their joint disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . in conclusion , patients with fibromyalgia have a high prevalence of gastrointestinal complaints that should be carefully assessed . if the diagnosis of ibs is confirmed , appropriate treatment may improve patients ' symptoms , although this approach requires further study . 
treatment of fulminant hepatic failure with insulin and glucagon . a randomized , controlled trial . insulin and glucagon are among the therapeutic modalities that have been investigated in the treatment of fulminant hepatic failure ( fhf ) . we have completed a randomized , controlled trial of insulin and glucagon in 38 patients with fhf from either viral or toxin exposure . the control and treatment groups consisted of 21 and 17 patients , respectively , and did not differ significantly in etiology or admission laboratory values . mortality was not significantly different between control and treatment groups and was 67 % and 82 % , respectively . time from randomization to death or discharge was not significantly different between the two groups . peak levels of alpha-fetoprotein were statistically higher in survivors than in nonsurvivors ( p less than 0.01 ) . we conclude that even though a type-2 error may exist , the combination of insulin and glucagon is not useful in the treatment of fhf . 
analgesic use : a study of treatments used by patients for migraine prior to attending the city of london migraine clinic . eighty-three unselected patients attending the city of london migraine clinic for the first time were asked about their drug intake and use of alternative treatment . thirty-one of those questioned took regular daily doses of medication . fifteen were taking a combination of drugs bought ' over the counter ' ( otc ) and drugs prescribed by their gp ; eleven took otc drugs only ; and 5 took prescription drugs only . it was noticeable that those taking drugs prescribed both by the gp and obtainable over the counter were more likely than the other groups to be taking several drugs rather than a single type . thirty five of the 83 ( 42.2 % ) had tried alternative treatments for their attacks . 
vasospasm contributes to monosodium glutamate-induced headache . consumption of monosodium glutamate has long been considered to precipitate headaches in susceptible patients . in this study the direct effects of glutamate and its metabolite , glutamine , on arterial contractility were examined using rings of rabbit aorta . in a high concentration glutamate caused significant concentration-dependent contractions ( ec50 , 10 ( -1 ) m ; maximum tension , 188.4 + / - 33.3 mg wt tension/mg tissue ) . agonists and antagonists for alpha-adrenergic , histaminergic , serotonergic , cholinergic , and gaba-nergic receptors as well as inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis failed to influence glutamate contractions . at high concentrations ( 10 ( -5 ) m ) the calcium channel blocker , verapamil , inhibited the glutamate response . glutamate and glutamine both exhibited concentration dependent relaxation of norepinephrine ( ne ) , phenylephrine ( pe ) , histamine , serotonin ( 5-ht ) , and prostaglandin f2 alpha ( pgf2 alpha ) - induced contractions . kainic acid ( 10 ( -4 ) m ) , an agonist of one subpopulation of central glutamate receptor , potentiated glutamate-induced vasoconstriction ; a higher concentration ( 10 ( -3 ) m ) produced an irreversible inhibition of glutamate contractility . only the central glutamate receptor antagonist , ketamine ( 10 ( -4 ) -10 ( -2 ) m ) , induced a reversible , concentration dependent inhibition of glutamate-induced contractions . glutamate contractility was not dependent on extracellular calcium , an intact endothelium or neuronal function . these results demonstrate a direct effect of glutamate on peripheral arterial tone . dietary consumption of large quantities of msg may represent a serious health hazard to certain individuals with pre-existing vascular disease . 
alteration of platelet serotonin in patients with chronic tension-type headache during cold pressor test . change of 5-hydroxytryptamine ( 5-ht ) concentrations in platelets from patients with chronic tension-type headache ( th ) and controls were observed during cold pressor test ( cpt ) . before cold stimulation , 5-ht concentrations in platelets from patients with th were significantly lower than those found in controls . one minute after the start of cold stimulation , 5-ht levels in platelets from patients with th were significantly much lower than in the controls , as control levels rose and th levels fell . the results show that , under stress , the absorbance of 5-ht into the platelets in patients with th is reduced . it is suggested that , in patients with th , there are abnormalities of 5-ht uptake into platelets and factors which cause release of 5-ht from platelets . 
the blink reflex in cluster headache . to investigate the involvement of the trigeminal system in cluster headache , in twelve subjects the electrically-elicited blink reflex during a symptomatic period was examined . in eleven cases , the amplitude of the contralateral r2 response on the symptomatic side was significantly lower , at the same stimulus intensity , than on the asymptomatic side ( p = 0.005 ) . the blink reflex can be useful to evaluate biological and drug-induced phenomena in cluster headache . 
assessment and treatment of children 's headaches from a developmental perspective . childhood headache is a common pediatric problem . clinical researchers have evaluated several behavioral treatment , such as biofeedback and relaxation training , that may be viable interventions . adding a developmental perspective to the evaluation and treatment of childhood headache is a likely way to increase the effectiveness of these strategies . this paper presents developmental issues related to the assessment and treatment of childhood headache . three major areas of development are examined and the impact of these areas on the treatment and assessment of headache are discussed . the three major areas are cognitive development , self-regulation and psychosocial development . provided are practical suggestions for the application of child development principles to assessment and intervention practices that may be more developmentally appropriate . 
health status in patients with tension headache treated with acupuncture or physiotherapy . sixty-two female patients with chronic tension headache were randomly divided into two treatment groups -- acupuncture and physiotherapy . their overall function ( sickness impact profile ) , and mental well-being ( mood adjective check list ) and the intensity and frequency of headache were assessed before and after treatment . before treatment the patients showed significantly more dysfunction and less positive mental well-being than a general population sample . both treatment groups improved in overall function , the physiotherapy group somewhat more . the mental well-being increased only in the physiotherapy group . the intensity and frequency of headache was significantly reduced in both the physiotherapy group and the acupuncture group . the intensity of headache was significantly more improved in the physiotherapy group . the improvement of headache intensity persisted unchanged 7-12 months after treatment . 
nocturnal sleep recording with cassette eeg in chronic headaches . many headache patients complain of poor sleep , and sleep disturbance has been shown to play a role in chronic pain . we recorded nocturnal sleep with a 4-channel cassette eeg monitoring device in 10 common migraine patients , 10 individuals with muscle contraction ( tension ) headache , and 10 chronic tension-vascular headache sufferers . migraine patients had essentially normal sleep , although rapid eye movement ( rem ) sleep and rem latency were increased . patients with tension headache had reduced sleep time and sleep efficiency , decreased sleep latency but frequent awakenings , increased nocturnal movements , and marked reduction in slow wave sleep , without change in rem sleep or latency . mixed-element headaches with both tension and vascular features were associated with reduced sleep , increased awakening , diminished slow wave sleep , and rem sleep that was decreased in amount and reduced in latency . the findings suggest that patients with intermittent migraine may have minimal sleep disturbance , while chronic headache may be worsened by chronically poor sleep . muscle contraction headache may be associated with frequent awakenings and decreased slow wave sleep similar to the sleep changes of fibrositis , while chronic tension-vascular headache may have a depressive substrate . four-channel sleep recording may miss contributory sleep apnea , but nonetheless cassette eeg may facilitate outpatient evaluation of refractory headaches . 
contingent negative variation in migraine . the contingent negative variation ( cnv ) is an event-related slow potential . it was recorded in healthy volunteers ( n = 8 ) and in patients suffering from migraine without ( n = 12 ) or with ( n = 5 ) aura , during one ( cnv1 ) and three second ( cnv3 ) foreperiods in a forewarned reaction time task . cnv1 was recorded at the vertex while cnv3 was recorded at multiple electrode sites to assess topographical differences . seven out of twelve migraine patients without aura had increased cnv1 amplitudes . cnv3 amplitudes were increased as well , but only at electrode positions c3 and c4 and not at fz . cnv3 , which allows for analysis of both an early and a late cnv component , could improve the discrimination of migraine without aura beyond that of cnv1 . in migraine with aura all cnv parameters were at control levels , confirming previous results . the data obtained are discussed in terms of arousal , activation and stress and the " biobehavioral model of migraine " ( welch , 1986 ) . 
centrifugal intensity and duration as countermeasures to soleus muscle atrophy . mechanical acceleration is a countermeasure that may be employed to prevent atrophy of slow-twitch muscle during non-weight bearing . in the present study , daily centrifugation of rats for different durations ( 1 or 2 h ) and at different gravitational intensities ( 1.5 or 2.6 g ) was used to test whether mechanical acceleration could ameliorate the atrophy of the soleus muscle induced by non-weight bearing ( tail-traction model ) . the soleus muscle atrophied 32 % during 7 days of non-weight bearing without countermeasures . centrifugation treatment did not completely prevent atrophy relative to precontrol wet weight of the soleus muscle . non-weight-bearing groups receiving 2-h daily treatments of 1 , 1.5 , or 2.6 g had 48 , 56 , and 65 % , respectively , of the atrophy observed in the non-weight-bearing-only group compared with the precontrol group . no evidence was obtained that centrifugation at 2.6 g was more effective than exposure to 1 or 1.5 g as a countermeasure to non-weight-bearing-induced atrophy of the soleus muscle . 
effects of carotid denervation and decerebration on ventilatory response to co . to clarify the mechanisms involved in the ventilatory response to the inhalation of low concentrations of co ( 0.18-0 .22 % in air ) , the roles of the arterial chemoreceptors and the forebrain structures have been investigated in unanesthetized adult cats . the ventilatory response was observed in conscious animals intact , after carotid denervation ( cd ) , and after midcollicular decerebration . the results show that the initial small ventilatory depression was unaffected by cd but that the subsequent characteristic tachypnea was blunted after cd even after more prolonged exposure to co . the co tachypnea was not observed after decerebration , but a residual hyperventilation was noted with the higher concentration used . it may be concluded that carotid chemoreceptors do not mediate the co tachypnea , which may then originate in suprapontine structures as shown by comparison of intact and decerebrate animals . the blunting of the tachypnea after cd may be caused by the relative hypercapnia observed in cd animals . the residual hyperventilation observed in decerebrate animals may be caused by central acidosis and/or some peripheral potentiation of chemoreceptor activity resulting from the decrease in arterial blood pressure that accompanied co inhalation in decerebrate animals . 
the association of carotid artery stenosis with carotid sinus hypersensitivity . transitory cerebral ischaemic attack provoked by carotid sinus reflex the association of internal carotid stenosis with the carotid sinus syndrome represents a special clinical entity . transitory cerebral ischaemic attack ( tia ) will usually be manifested by activation of carotid sinus reflex . eighteen patients were observed suffering from both carotid sinus hypersensitivity and tia . the patients had had tia 's for many years . unilateral internal carotid stenosis was detected in 15 cases , while 3 patients had bilateral carotid stenosis . on carotid sinus stimulation , syncope appeared and a tia could be provoked . the mean duration of the syncopic attack was 5500 ms and was based on sinus arrest in 14 cases and on third degree av block in 4 cases . in all patients carotid artery disobliteration was performed ; in 14 patients pacemaker implantation was necessary , while 4 patients could be treated by atropine medication . the development of a tia could be abolished in every patient and 14 patients remained totally symptom free . 
elevated serum concentrations of ige antibodies to environmental antigens in hiv-seropositive male homosexuals . forty-five homosexual male subjects with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , who received care during a 4-month period in an ambulatory center for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , were classified according to their principal presentation with characteristic secondary infections ( cdc group iv c , n = 28 ) , cancers ( iv d , n = 10 ) , or limited or no symptoms ( groups ii , iii , iv a , or iv b , n = 7 ) . the incidence of allergic rhinitis and conjunctivitis increased after hiv seroconversion by approximately twofold in patients of groups iv c and iv d. the mean serum concentration of ige was significantly higher for group iv c than for the other hiv-seropositive groups and for a control group of 45 hiv-seronegative homosexual male subjects from the same community who were studied concurrently . more patients in groups iv c and iv d had positive rasts for a panel of environmental antigens than patients in the other hiv-seropositive groups and the hiv-seronegative control group . patients with aids presenting with typical secondary infections thus have a high frequency of some clinical and laboratory manifestations of allergic diseases . 
florid refractory schizophrenias that turn out to be treatable variants of hla-associated narcolepsy . narcolepsy in which the hallucinatory component is unusually prominent may lead to the development of an illness indistinguishable from the schizophrenic syndrome . psychotic symptoms dominate the symptomatology , so that the primary illness is obscured . five patients are described for whom conventional antipsychotic drugs were ineffectual , but for whom treatment with stimulants produced substantial improvement . the diagnosis of narcolepsy was confirmed by human leukocyte antigen typing and sleep laboratory testing . these results support the " rem intrusion " hypothesis of the causation of schizophrenia in as many as 7 % of a series of schizophrenic patients . implications for diagnosis and treatment are discussed . 
the long-distance effects of brain lesions : visualization of myelinated pathways in the human brain using polarizing and fluorescence microscopy . we describe several new possibilities for the study of degenerated myelinated tracts in the human central nervous system ( cns ) . the methods are based on the visualization of myelin breakdown products that show birefringence in polarized light and , when stained with nile blue and benzpyrene-3 ,4 , exhibit fluorescence . even after lengthy formalin fixation , the methods permit the localization of anterogradely degenerated tracts in a variety of fiber systems in the brains of patients who died between five and 20 months after the onset of neurological symptoms . particularly the polarizing technique , because of its simplicity , can be added to the usual neuropathological methods for demonstrating the long-distance effects of a brain lesion . as research tools , these methods would also aid in the study of the anatomical substrate of human neurological symptomatology . 
the neuromuscular pathology of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) is a recently reorganized disorder in patients ingesting pharmacologic doses of l-tryptophan . we studied the lesions of skeletal muscle , peripheral nerve and skin in 12 cases of ems . perimyositis was severe in four , moderate in two , mild in three and absent in three cases . the lesions contained many eosinophils , t-helper cells , mast cells and activated macrophages . type 2 myofiber atrophy was present in five cases and in one , this was the only pathologic finding . severe epineurial inflammation was seen in the three sural nerve biopsies . indirect evidence for peripheral neurologic involvement in three other cases consisted of inflammation surrounding intramuscular nerve twigs ( two cases ) and neurogenic atrophy ( one case ) . phlebitis accompanied the connective tissue inflammation in five cases and endarteritis in one . fasciitis was present in three of four skin biopsies and dermal fibrosis in one . 
magnetic resonance imaging and tomographic evaluation of occlusal appliance treatment for advanced internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint . this study evaluates the positional relationship of the disc and mandibular condyle in patients with late opening clicks treated with appliance therapy . a total of 30 joints ( 18 patients ) were studied . twenty-seven of these 30 joints were treated with the appliance until the joints were silent to auscultation . the patients were then evaluated with axial corrected tomography and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in the centric occlusion position and with their bite appliance ( sved-type ) in place . comparisons were made between condyle position in centric occlusion and with the appliance in place . magnetic resonance imaging was then used to evaluate disc positional changes . each imaging procedure was made in the same sagittal plane . only changes in condyle positioning could be identified . evidence of disc repositioning with the appliance in place was seen in only three mri examinations . the remaining 27 joints continued to exhibit disc displacement with various changes in disc morphology . it is concluded that the concept of " disc capture " is a clinical term only , and that such perceived clinical success should not lead to the assumption that an actual change in intra-articular anatomic relationships has occurred . joint noises may decrease because joint space is increased , allowing smoother condylar translation beyond disc surface irregularities and positional abnormalities . 
neurotoxic action of veratridine in rat brain neuronal cultures : mechanism of neuroprotection by ca + + antagonists nonselective for slow ca + + channels . the effect of various ca + + antagonists and local anesthetics on neuronal cell degeneration induced by veratridine was studied in primary rat brain neuronal cultures . cell death was quantified by measuring lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) released in the culture medium . the neuronal cell degeneration was ca + ( + ) - dependent because , in the absence of extracellular ca + + , 16 hr of exposure to 30 microm veratridine failed to produce release of ldh . ca + + antagonists , nonselective for slow ca + + channels ( flunarizine , cinnarizine , lidoflazine , prenylamine and bepridil ) inhibited veratridine-induced release of ldh with ic50 values between 0.11 and 0.47 microm . ca + + antagonists selective for slow ca + + channels were less potent and inhibited veratridine-induced release of ldh at concentrations in the following order of potency : nicardipine greater than gallopamil and verapamil greater than niludipine greater than nitrendipine greater than nifedipine greater than nimodipine greater than diltiazem . tested local anesthetics were incomplete inhibitors of veratridine-induced release of ldh . a good correlation was found between the potency of the drugs to inhibit released ldh induced by 30 microm veratridine in neuronal cultures and their binding affinity for the batrachotoxin binding site of na + channels in rat cortex synaptosomal preparation . it is concluded that protection against veratridine-induced neurotoxicity can be mediated by blocking a veratridine-sensitive na + channel . it is a property of certain nonselective ca + + antagonists . there is apparently no direct relationship with ca + + antagonistic activity . the effect is unrelated to local anesthetic activity . 
the cholecystokinin receptor antagonist devazepide enhances morphine-induced analgesia but not morphine-induced respiratory depression in the squirrel monkey . the effects of the cholecystokinin antagonist devazepide on analgesia and respiratory depression induced by morphine in squirrel monkeys were examined . pain thresholds were determined using the tail withdrawal procedure , in which monkeys restrained in chairs kept their tails in cool ( 35 degrees c ) water for at least 20 sec , but withdrew them from warm ( 55 degrees c ) water in less than 4 sec . morphine produced a dose-related increase in tail withdrawal latencies from warm water . devazepide ( injected i.p. or p.o. ) had no effect on tail withdrawal latencies when given alone but enhanced the analgesic effects of morphine . the devazepide dose-response curve for morphine enhancement was bell-shaped with doses of 3 , 10 , 30 and 100 micrograms/kg injected i.p. increasing morphine analgesia whereas higher and lower dose did not . in a separate group of monkeys , morphine produced dose-dependent decreases in respiratory rate and oxygen tension and increases in carbon dioxide tension . in contrast to its effects on morphine analgesia , devazepide had no effect on the various indices of morphine-induced respiratory depression . these data suggest that devazepide may have therapeutic utility as an adjuvant to morphine analgesia allowing lower dose of the opiate to be used to relieve pain and reducing the risk of opiate-induced respiratory depression . 
central adenosinergic system involvement in ethanol-induced motor incoordination in mice . to clarify if the behavioral interaction between ethanol and adenosine reported previously occur centrally or due to a peripheral hemodynamic change , the effect of i.c.v. adenosine agonists , n6 - ( r-phenylisopropyl ) adenosine ( r-pia ) , n6 - ( s-phenylisopropyl ) adenosine , 5 ' - ( n-cyclopropyl ) - carboxamidoadenosine , antagonists , theophylline and 8-p - ( sulfophenyl ) theophylline as well as enprofylline on ethanol - ( i.p. ) - induced motor incoordination was evaluated by rotorod . adenosine agonists and antagonists dose dependently accentuated and attenuated , respectively , ethanol-induced motor incoordination , thereby suggesting a central mechanism of adenosine modulation of this effect of ethanol and confirmed our previous reports in which adenosine agonists and antagonists were given i.p. enprofylline , a weak adenosine antagonist but potent inhibitor of cyclic amp phosphodiesterase , did not alter ethanol 's motor incoordination , further supporting involvement of brain adenosine receptor mechanism ( s ) in ethanol-adenosine interactions . results from r-pia and n6 - ( s-phenylisopropyl ) adenosine experiments showed nearly a 40-fold greater potency of r-vs . s-diastereoisomer , suggesting predominance of adenosine a1 subtype . however , 5 ' - ( n-cyclopropyl ) - carboxamidoadenosine data indicate complexity of the mechanism ( s ) and point toward an additional involvement of a yet unknown subtype of adenosine a2 . no effect of ethanol on blood or brain levels of [ 3h ] r-pia was noted and sufficient amount of the latter entered the brain to suggest adenosine receptor activation adequate to produce behavioral interaction with ethanol . there was no escape of i.c.v.-administered [ 3h ] r-pia from brain to the peripheral circulation ruling out a peripheral and supporting a central mechanism of ethanol-adenosine interaction . 
interactions between n-methyl-d-aspartate and cgs 19755 administered intramuscularly and intracerebroventricularly in pigeons . behavioral effects of n-methyl-d-aspartate ( nmda ) and the competitive nmda antagonist cis-4-phosphonomethyl-2-piperidine-carboxylic acid ( cgs 19755 ) were studied in pigeons . nmda decreased responding under a fixed-ratio schedule of food presentation and was 8000 times more potent administered intracerebroventricularly ( i.c.v. ) as compared to intramuscularly ( i.m. ) . cgs 19755 was 870 times more potent in producing catalepsy when administered i.c.v. ; however , the duration of catalepsy was similar by the two routes of administration . administered i.m. cgs 19755 decreased response rates only at doses that also produced catalepsy ; administered i.c.v. some doses of cgs 19755 decreased responding without producing other behavioral effects . rate-decreasing effects of i.m. nmda were attenuated by i.m. cgs 19755 ; however , when cgs 19755 was administered i.c.v. , there was little or no antagonism of nmda . rate-decreasing effects of i.c.v. nmda were not attenuated by i.m. or i.c.v. cgs 19755 up to doses that produced catalepsy or eliminated responding . the large difference in potency between i.m. and i.c.v. administration for nmda and for cgs 19755 , as well as the slower onset of catalepsy when cgs 19755 was administered i.m. , suggests these compounds do not readily cross the blood-brain barrier when administered parenterally . the inability of cgs 19755 to attenuate the rate-decreasing effects of nmda when cgs 19755 or nmda was administered i.c.v. suggests nmda might decrease responding by different mechanisms when administered i.m. or i.c.v. in pigeons . together these results indicate antagonism of nmda in this study , and perhaps in other studies , when both nmda and cgs 19755 were administered parenterally , might result from a peripherally mediated interaction . moreover , this agonist-antagonist interaction is not a simple , competitive antagonism . 
mechanical restraint use among residents of skilled nursing facilities . prevalence , patterns , and predictors the patterns of and risk factors for mechanical restraint use were determined in 12 skilled nursing facilities . restraints were being used for 59 % of residents at the beginning of the study ; 31 % of remaining residents were restrained during the follow-up year . no facility characteristic was associated with restraint use . the resident characteristics independently associated with initiation of restraints were older age , disorientation , dependence in dressing , greater participation in social activities , and nonuse of antidepressants . unsteadiness ( 72 % ) , disruptive behavior such as agitation ( 41 % ) , and wandering ( 20 % ) were the most frequently cited reasons for initiation of restraints . 
the j-curve phenomenon and the treatment of hypertension . is there a point beyond which pressure reduction is dangerous ? we critically appraised the medical literature to evaluate whether there is a point beyond which blood pressure reduction in hypertensive subjects is no longer beneficial and possibly even deleterious . thirteen studies that stratified cardiovascular outcomes by level of achieved blood pressure in treated hypertensive subjects who had been followed up for at least 1 year were critiqued by four independent reviewers . data addressing population , protocol , and methodological characteristics were evaluated . studies did not show a consistent j-shaped relationship between treated blood pressure and stroke , but they did demonstrate a consistent j-shaped relationship for cardiac events and diastolic blood pressure . the beneficial therapeutic threshold point was 85 mm hg . we conclude that low treated diastolic blood pressure levels , ie , below 85 mm hg , are associated with increased risk of cardiac events . 
response to treatment with antihistamines in a family with myotonia congenita . in a family in which myotonia congenita was found in five generations , both great-grandparents of the index case were affected . in subsequent generations mild and severely affected cases were clearly segregated down parallel lines of this family . the grandmother of the index case had noted improvement with an antihistamine . when the index case was prescribed trimeprazine , she showed a striking reduction in severity of symptoms . antihistamines seem to deserve further evaluation as a safe and effective treatment for myotonia congenita . 
nd : yag-laser in the microsurgery of frontobasal meningiomas . forty-three patients with big frontobasal meningiomas underwent a microsurgical removal of the tumor . the 1.32 microns nd : yag-laser has proved useful in this prospective series particularly with the contactless shrinkage of the tumors and the necrotization of the dural and bony attachments . tumor shrinkage was achieved by radiating the tumor surface with the nd : yag-laser . this technique facilitated the microsurgical dissection and reduced the blood loss by half . the nd : yag-laser necrotization of the dural and bony attachments reduced the recurrence rate following grade two resections from 20 % to zero . the postoperative quality of life was excellent with a complete rehabilitation in 76 % of the patients . the use of the 1.32 microns nd : yag-laser improved significantly the results of microsurgery for frontobasal meningioma . 
fulminating multiple sclerosis-like leukoencephalopathy revealing human immunodeficiency virus infection . a 66-year-old french homosexual man and a 42-year-old brazilian man with no known risk factors for hiv infection developed headaches , asthenia , and neurologic episodes of abrupt onset . ct showed multiple hypodense , nonenhancing lesions . serology for hiv was positive . they died respectively 2 months and 1 month after onset of the illnesses . autopsy in both cases showed multiple , well-demarcated , demyelinating foci in the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres , brainstem , and cerebellum with histologic features characteristic of recent plaques of multiple sclerosis . there were no multinucleated giant cells or microglial nodules . immunostaining for hiv was negative . although a random coincidence of ms and hiv infection can not be ruled out , the close temporal relationship between the 2 disorders suggests a possible etiologic association . 
transcranial doppler in acute hemispheric brain infarction . we studied cerebrovascular anatomy using intra-arterial digital angiography , and blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery ( mca ) using transcranial doppler ( tcd ) ultrasonography in 42 patients with acute hemispheric ischemic brain infarction . we compared angiography with tcd and the clinical findings within 6 hours of the onset of symptoms . the location and extent of the chronic ischemic brain damage was assessed by ct performed 1 to 3 months after the ictus . abnormal tcd , as manifested by either an unobtainable mca flow signal or a significantly depressed mca flow velocity , was highly associated with proximal mca occlusions demonstrated by angiography . abnormal tcd predicted both larger chronic ct lesions and more extensive ischemic change within the mca territory . these data demonstrate that early tcd conveys useful information concerning cerebral tissue prognosis following hemispheric ischemia . 
serum and csf levels of il-2 , sil-2r , tnf-alpha , and il-1 beta in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis : expected lack of clinical utility . we measured interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) , soluble il-2 receptor ( sil-2r ) , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , and interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) by elisa in paired sera and csf from 50 chronic progressive multiple sclerosis ( cpms ) patients during worsening disability , 19 patients with other neurologic diseases ( ond ) , and in sera from 40 healthy volunteers . in the cpms patients , 28 % ( 14/50 ) , 10 % ( 5/50 ) , 16 % ( 8/50 ) , and 6 % ( 3/50 ) had elevated serum levels of il-2 , sil-2r , tnf-alpha and il-1 beta , respectively , compared with healthy controls . the only analyte we detected in the csf was il-2 in 1 cpms patient ( 1/50 , 2 % ) . we also saw elevated serum sil-2r in 16 % ( 3/19 ) of ond patients . we found no significant difference in mean levels of serum sil-2r between the 3 groups . our study , the largest to date of cpms patients , shows that serum and csf levels of il-2 , sil-2r , tnf-alpha , or il-1 beta are not sensitive for , and the serum sil-2r level is not specific for , cpms . therefore , measurement of these analytes will not be clinically useful for therapeutic or prognostic purposes in the majority of cpms patients . 
neonatal subependymal giant cell astrocytoma associated with tuberous sclerosis : mri , ct , and ultrasound correlation . we describe a term newborn with tuberous sclerosis who presented with a neonatal brain tumor , diagnosed as a subependymal giant cell astrocytoma . we compare the various imaging modalities used in the diagnosis of this tumor . 
absence of acetylcholine-induced current in epithelial cells from thymus glands and thymomas of myasthenia gravis patients . we investigated the activity of ion channels in epithelial cells from human thymus glands and thymomas kept in short-term cell culture by clamping the membrane potential of the cells at -85 mv and determining the membrane current flowing on application of acetylcholine , glycine , or gamma-aminobutyric acid . in concentrations of up to 10 ( -3 ) m , none of the neurotransmitters induced any detectable current . this suggests ( 1 ) that there are no acetylcholine receptors ( achrs ) or other products of the achr gene family having ion-channel properties in the membranes of these epithelial cells , and ( 2 ) that the alpha-bungarotoxin-binding protein of thymus and thymoma has no achr-like ion-channel property . these results support the hypothesis that the cross-reacting structures that elicit the anti-achr autoimmune response in thymoma-associated myasthenia gravis are antigens having only limited homology with the achr . myasthenia gravis not associated with thymoma might have a different pathogenesis . 
" pseudospasticity " in guillain-barre syndrome . we report a woman with guillain-barre syndrome who developed a flexion posture of the right arm and hand resembling upper motor neuron dysfunction . emg demonstrated that involuntary peripherally generated continuous motor unit discharges caused the posture . 
suppression of carbamazepine-induced rash with prednisone . we report our experience with 20 patients who developed a rash shortly after the introduction of carbamazepine and were treated with prednisone and an antihistamine . sixteen patients were successfully continued on carbamazepine while 4 had to discontinue the drug . 
handcuff neuropathies compressive neuropathy due to tight application of handcuffs occurred in 5 patients . the superficial radial nerve was affected in 8 hands and the median nerve in two . neurologic deficits persisted as long as 3 years after handcuffing . nerve conduction studies helped to exclude malingering and other diagnoses . all patients had been intoxicated when handcuffed or had been arrested with force . the handcuff mechanism , which allows accidental overtightening after application , is an unrecognized factor in these neuropathies . 
brain and spinal cord hemorrhage in long-term survivors of malignant pediatric brain tumors : a possible late effect of therapy . three children with malignant primary cns tumors treated with craniospinal radiotherapy developed intraparenchymal hemorrhages a median of 5 years following therapy in sites distant from the primary tumor . radical surgical procedures disclosed fresh and old hematoma , gliosis , and necrosis in all 3 patients and an aggregation of abnormal microscopic blood vessels in two . no tumor was found . all 3 patients remain in long-term ( greater than 10 years ) continuous remission . 
myelopathic neurosarcoidosis : diagnostic value of enhanced mri . neurosarcoidosis is an underdiagnosed variant of the systemic disease . we report a case of myelopathic neurosarcoidosis , noting the contribution made by mri in establishing the diagnosis , and we discuss the possibility that the disease is differentially responsive to various steroid formulations . 
mesencephalic cholinergic nuclei in progressive supranuclear palsy . using an antibody against choline acetyltransferase ( chat ) , mesencephalic cholinergic cell nuclei were studied in autopsy material from 3 cases of progressive supranuclear palsy ( psp ) and 4 controls . chat-immunoreactive neurons were quantified in sections that spanned the rostrocaudal extent of each nucleus . in psp , there was a significant decrease in the number of neurons with detectable immunoreactivity for chat in and adjacent to the central gray substance in the following nuclei : the nucleus of edinger-westphal ( 69 % ) ; the rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus ( 97 % ) ; the interstitial nucleus of cajal ( 78 % ) . a cell loss was also evident in a group of neurons found in the deep layers of the superior colliculus ( 93 % ) . in contrast , the estimated number of chat-immunoreactive cell bodies in cranial nerves iii and iv , in the mesencephalic reticular formation , and in the parabigeminal nucleus was not different from that of controls . the results are compatible with the notion that , in psp , there is a regionally selective destruction of cholinergic neurons . 
cerebral atrophy in habitual cocaine abusers : a planimetric ct study . we compared cranial cts of 35 habitual cocaine abusers , 16 self-reported 1st-time users , and 54 headache patients using linear planimetric measures . all patients met the following criteria : age 20 to 40 years , no polydrug abuse ( including alcohol ) , hiv seronegativity , normal albumin level , and no history of any other neurologic disease . the sex ratios and ages were not significantly different in the 3 groups . the planimetric measurements and calculated indices of cerebral atrophy were significantly different in the habitual cocaine abusers compared with the 2 other groups of patients . there were no differences between 1st-time cocaine users and controls . among the habitual cocaine abusers there was a positive correlation between the approximate duration of cocaine abuse and the calculated atrophy indices . the findings suggest that cerebral atrophy develops in chronic cocaine abusers , and the severity correlates with the duration of abuse . 
central nervous system involvement in von hippel-lindau disease . fifty individuals with von hippel-lindau disease ( vhl ) were studied with gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) to determine the frequency and distribution of cns lesions . the associated clinical features were also reviewed . thirty-six ( 72 % ) of the 50 had 1 or more cns tumors . the most frequently affected sites in the cns excluding the retina were the cerebellum ( 52 % ) , spinal cord ( 44 % ) , and brainstem ( 18 % ) . new regional predilections for the craniocervical junction and conus medullaris were demonstrated by this study . forty-one percent of all vhl patients with cns tumors were neurologically asymptomatic : cerebellar tumors ( 50 % ) , spinal cord tumors ( 50 % ) , and brainstem tumors ( 44 % ) were often without clinical signs or symptoms . multiple lesions were common . the mean age of all vhl patients ( 34.5 years ) was similar to the mean age of all cns vhl patients ( 34.4 years ) , suggesting a lack of age association . cns lesions commonly occurred in the 2nd decade of life . all patients at risk for vhl should be evaluated using gadolinium-enhanced mri after 10 years of age , although ophthalmic examination should be initiated within the 1st 2 years of life . enhanced mri is particularly useful in the detection of cns tumors in patients with the vhl gene . 
migraine and vertebrobasilar ischemia . i studied 9 patients with migraine and posterior circulation ischemia . inclusion criteria were ( 1 ) brainstem or cerebellar infarcts or transient ischemic attacks , ( 2 ) satisfactory vertebrobasilar angiograms , and ( 3 ) migraine . excluded were patients with only occipital lobe ischemia , known arteriosclerosis , or other nonmigrainous vascular disease . two women and 7 men , ages 6 to 58 years ( mean , 34.7 ) , had transient attacks only ( 2 ) , single strokes ( 4 ) , single stroke followed by attacks ( 1 ) , or multiple strokes ( 2 ) . five had antecedent classic , 2 common migraine , and classic migraine began only after the initial ischemic event in the other two . the 7 stroke patients all had ct - or mri-documented brainstem ( 4 ) or cerebellar ( 6 ) infarcts . angiography was normal ( 3 ) or demonstrated basilar artery ( ba ) narrowing ( 2 ) or occlusion ( 4 ) , or branch occlusion ( 1 ) . in 3 patients the initially occluded ba later reopened . at follow-up ( average 4.3 years , range 1 to 9 years ) , 5 were normal and 4 had important clinical deficits . i conclude that ( 1 ) " basilar migraine " is not always benign ; it affects both sexes and a wide age range ; ( 2 ) the pattern of headaches , attacks , and strokes varies ; ( 3 ) migraine may appear only after ischemia ; ( 4 ) some patients have ba occlusion or diffuse narrowing ; and ( 5 ) ba occlusion can be temporary . 
primary leptomeningeal lymphoma : report of 9 cases , diagnosis with immunocytochemical analysis , and review of the literature . we describe 9 patients who presented with a neoplastic meningitis of lymphomatous origin . no evidence of parenchymal central nervous system or systemic tumor was identified either at the time of presentation or throughout the course of their disease . we have chosen to call this entity " primary leptomeningeal lymphoma " ( plml ) . this unusual form of neurologic lymphoma must be differentiated from the more common clinical situations of primary parenchymal lymphoma with meningeal involvement and systemic lymphoma complicated by lymphomatous meningitis . 
dysgeusia , gustatory sweating , and crocodile tears syndrome induced by a cerebellopontine angle meningioma . facial nerve involvement in cerebellopontine angle tumors , both during their development and after excision , may be expressed in irreversible dysfunction of the parasympathetic pathways . the exact location of the lesion along the efferent nerve fibers can be established through evaluation of the functional level of those organs supplied by the cholinergic motor secretory components . this report deals with a female patient in whom peripheral facial palsy developed shortly after removal of a right cerebellopontine angle meningioma . she had slight facial asymmetry and deafness in the right ear and complained of prandial flush and sweating of the right malar area . occult ipsilateral hyposalivation and hypolacrimation were diagnosed . in patients with seventh and ninth cranial nerve pathoses , evaluation of the end organs that are supplied by their associated autonomous nerve fibers is mandatory to prevent late ocular and oral sequelae . 
cefotaxime and aminoglycoside treatment of meningitis caused by gram-negative enteric organisms . we reviewed cases of gram-negative enteric bacillary meningitis in infants and children treated with cefotaxime at texas children 's hospital from january , 1984 , through june , 1989 . seventeen of 20 children had an underlying condition predisposing to the development of meningitis . the etiologic organisms in these 20 children ( 2 days to 12 years old ; median , 12 days old ) were klebsiella sp , 9 ; escherichia coli , 4 ; enterobacter cloacae , 3 ; citrobacter diversus , 2 ; other , 2 . with the exception of one isolate of acinetobacter , all isolates were susceptible to cefotaxime . in addition to cefotaxime 17 children received an aminoglycoside intravenously . children with meningitis caused by klebsiella sp . or non-klebsiella organisms received cefotaxime for 31 + / - 14 and 37 + / - 17 days , respectively . aminoglycosides were administered for 16 + / - 10 days in both groups . five children in each group also received intraventricular doses ( 1 to 25 ) of an aminoglycoside ( 9 ) or colistimethate ( 1 ) . the mean durations of positive lumbar , ventricular cerebrospinal fluid or brain abscess cultures were 5.8 + / - 4.7 and 7.2 + / - 5.0 days after start of therapy in the klebsiella and non-klebsiella meningitis patients , respectively . only three children were normal at the time of discharge or follow-up . gram-negative enteric meningitis remains difficult to treat despite the excellent in vitro activity of cefotaxime against gram-negative enterics , in part as a result of the predisposing conditions resulting in the development of this infection . 
beneficial effects of x-irradiation on recovery of lesioned mammalian central nervous tissue . we examined the potential of x-irradiation , at clinical dose levels , to manipulate the cellular constituents and thereby change the consequences of transection injury to adult mammalian central nervous tissue ( rat olfactory bulb ) . irradiation resulted in reduction or elimination of reactive astrocytes at the site of incision provided that it was delivered within a defined time window postinjury . under conditions optimal for the elimination of gliosis ( 15-18 days postinjury ) , irradiation of severed olfactory bulbs averted some of the degenerative consequences of lesion . we observed that irradiation was accompanied by prevention of tissue degeneration around the site of lesion , structural healing with maintenance of the typical cell lamination , and rescue of some axotomized mitral cells ( principal bulb neurons ) . thus radiation resulted in partial preservation of normal tissue morphology . it is postulated that intrusive cell populations are generated in response to injury and reactive astrocytes are one such group . our results suggest that selective elimination of these cells by irradiation enabled some of the regenerative processes that are necessary for full recovery to maintain their courses . the cellular targets of these cells , their modes of intervention in recovery , and the potential role of irradiation as a therapeutic modality for injured central nervous system are discussed . 
neuropathological changes in transgenic mice carrying copies of a transcriptionally activated mos protooncogene [ published erratum appears in proc natl acad sci u s a 1991 may 1 ; 88 ( 9 ) :4060 ] independent transgenic mouse lines carrying the mouse mos protooncogene linked to a retroviral transcriptional control sequence display behavioral abnormalities including circling , head tilting , and head bobbing . this dominant phenotype shows various degrees of penetrance in different transgenic founder animals and lines . neuronal and axonal degeneration , gliosis , and inflammatory infiltrates are found in all transgenic mouse lines in which behavioral traits are present . recordings of auditory-evoked potentials in mice of one of these lines demonstrate that transgenic mice are deaf ; in these mice spiral ganglia degenerate and most of the cochlear hair cells are absent . by using an s1 nuclease protection assay , we have detected rna expression of the transgene in all tissues examined and , in particular , at high levels in brain . in situ hybridization experiments show that mos expression can be detected in specific areas of the central nervous system . lesions are present in areas with demonstrable overexpression of mos . 
structural alterations of nerve during cuff compression . whether compression nerve injury is due to ischemia , direct mechanical injury , or both remains unsettled . to assess structural changes of nerve during compression , peroneal nerves of rats were compressed at various pressures for different times , and the structural alterations were stopped by simultaneous in situ and perfusion fixation . the structural changes observed during a few minutes of compression can not be explained by ischemic injury because the pathologic alterations characteristic of ischemia take many hours to develop and in any case are different from the ones found here . the pressure - and time-related structural changes observed in the present study under the cuff were ( i ) decrease in fascicular area and increase in fiber density due to expression of endoneurial fluid ; ( ii ) compression and expression of axoplasm , sometimes to the point of fiber transection ; ( iii ) lengthening of internodes ; and ( iv ) obscuration of nodes of ranvier due to cleavage and displacement of myelin and overlapping of nodes by displaced loops of myelin . at the edges of the cuff the changes were ( i ) increase of fascicular area probably from expressed endoneurial fluid ; ( ii ) widening of nodal gaps , perhaps mainly from translocated axonal fluid ; and ( iii ) disordered structure of axoplasm . we suggest that the process of paranodal demyelination and axonal transection are linked , occur during the act of compression , and are due to shear forces . the initial event is expression of endoneurial fluid , followed by compression and expression of axoplasm and cleavage and displacement of layers of myelin . conceivably , with prolonged cuff compression ischemic injury might be found to be superimposed on mechanical injury . 
cervical muscle myoelectric response to acute experimental sternocleidomastoid pain . a method is presented for investigating the response of passive and active muscle to experimentally induced deep muscle pain . ten healthy adult males performed multiple , submaximal isometric neck flexion tasks before and after pain had been induced in the sternocleidomastoid ( scm ) muscle by injecting 5 ml of a hypertonic ( 5 % ) saline solution . a similar volume of isotonic saline was injected into the contralateral muscle as a control . cervical myoelectric signal ( mes ) root-mean-square ( rms ) response to each injection was recorded from eight neck muscles over 8 minutes . the subject rated perceived pain at regular intervals using a visual analog scale ( vas ) . sternocleidomastoid pain , which reached a mean of 36 mm on the 100-mm vas 2 minutes after the injection , resulted in significantly increased ( 1-2 microv , p less than 0.05 ) rms mes in the otherwise relaxed scm muscle during the first 2 minutes . this was followed by a gradual return to control values after 5 minutes . a similar trend in mes was found for the active scm muscle during a 10 % maximum voluntary contraction ( mvc ) isometric neck flexion effort . thus , acute deep muscle pain caused subtle , yet systematic , changes in motor output in both the relaxed and active painful muscle , and its synergists and antagonists . 
the neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders . care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery . if the clinical picture can not logically be explained by the radiologic findings , further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder . investigations may include electrophysiologic tests , transcranial magnetic stimulation , cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) analysis , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined . 
prognosticating study for cervical myelopathy using evoked spinal cord potentials . one hundred twenty-three cases of cervical spondylotic and ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament ( opll ) myelopathy cases with long tract signs subjected to surgical treatment were studied to identify the most important factors having an influence on postoperative outcome using evoked spinal cord potentials ( escp ) . disappearance and positive wave changes of these potentials at the level of responsible lesions and slow conduction velocity under 40 m indicated an unsatisfactory outcome . localized-lesion cases diagnosed by escps had excellent results , significantly more so than extensive-lesion cases , regardless of operative methods . in 123 cases , 76 % were found to have localized lesions , while the other 24 % showed extensive lesions . concerning the difference between csm and opll , 54 % of opll and only 14 % of csm demonstrated extensive lesions . 
gunshot wounds to the cervical spine . a retrospective review was performed on 28 patients with low-velocity gunshot wounds to the cervical spine . these composed 31 % of all spinal gunshot wounds seen during the study period between 1979 and 1988 . surgical decompression did not seem to improve neurologic recovery in either the incomplete or complete patients . neurologic recovery also appeared to be unaffected by the presence of retained intracanal bullet fragments . the authors found no advantage to routine neck exploration of this penetrating injury . complications were seen in 93 % of the patients . most complications were thromboembolic , pulmonary , and urinary tract infections . no cases of instability occurred as a direct result of the gunshot wound . no deaths occurred in this series . two cases of posttraumatic syrinxes were diagnosed . the authors ' current treatment recommendations for these patients include selective wound management and observation of retained intracanal bullet fragments in patients with complete lesions . surgical decompression after this injury is not recommended . 
natural history of progressive ischemic stroke in a population treated with heparin data on the acute natural history of progressive stroke with or without heparin treatment are limited . to define the acute course of patients treated with heparin for progressive stroke , we examined the charts of 69 such patients identified through the cornell neurology database from october 1979 to june 1985 . analysis included determining whether further clinical deterioration or hemorrhagic complications were associated with readily identifiable clinical or laboratory variables . twenty-five patients ( 36 % ) continued to deteriorate while receiving heparin , another two ( 3 % ) worsened due to intracerebral hemorrhage , and a total of 10 patients ( 14 % ) had bleeding complications . no clinical features or heparin dosing regimens distinguished the patients likely to benefit from heparin . clinical progression or hemorrhage did not correlate with the level of anticoagulation as measured by the average heparin dose per day or the mean partial thromboplastin time . without unequivocal evidence demonstrating heparin 's ineffectiveness for progressive stroke , many clinicians managing such patients will continue to use heparin . our results suggest that this decision should not be governed by such clinical features as a patient 's age or sex or by the vascular distribution of the stroke . furthermore , frequent measurement of and overzealous efforts to adjust the partial thromboplastin time may be unnecessary since it does not correlate with outcome . 
coagulation-fibrinolysis abnormalities in acute and chronic phases of cerebral thrombosis and embolism . we assayed plasma concentrations of fibrinogen , fibrinopeptide a , plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex , d dimer , and antithrombin iii activity in 40 patients with cerebral thrombosis and nine patients with cerebral embolism during the acute ( less than 7 days ) , subacute ( 7-27 days ) , and chronic ( greater than or equal to 28 days ) periods and compared these with 69 controls . in cerebral thrombosis , fibrinogen and fibrinopeptide a levels were elevated significantly in all stages ( p less than 0.001 ) , whereas plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex and d dimer levels were elevated significantly in the subacute and chronic periods . the antithrombin iii activity was significantly decreased in the acute stage . the elevation of fibrinogen and plasmin-alpha 2 plasmin inhibitor complex levels in the acute stage was significantly greater in patients with an infarct size greater than 10 mm2 compared to patients with an infarct size less than 10 mm2 . we observed similar changes in patients with cerebral embolism . these results suggest that enhanced coagulation exists at all stages and endogenous fibrinolysis is activated in the subacute and chronic periods in a large proportion of patients with cerebral thrombosis and embolism . 
diagnostic significance of flow separation within the carotid bifurcation demonstrated by digital subtraction angiography . the presence of an area of reversed blood flow due to flow separation in the interval carotid artery is a normal finding in doppler ultrasound studies in vivo as well as in model carotid bifurcations . this flow separation phenomenon is caused by the geometry of the carotid bifurcation and the fluid dynamics of blood . we demonstrated the flow separation phenomenon on lateral-projection intra-arterial digital subtraction angiograms in 99 of 100 carotid bifurcations . the mean duration of flow separation was 5.8 seconds , with values up to 14 seconds in normal carotid bifurcations . the presence of this flow separation phenomenon is almost independent of atherosclerotic lesions and is not correlated with cerebral ischemia . therefore , the angiographic finding of a flow separation has no diagnostic value . however , our results refer to a factor that may be important in the genesis of atherosclerosis at the carotid bifurcation , namely the duration of the stay of blood and its components within the area of flow separation . 
cerebral blood flow and oxygen metabolism in patients with vascular dementia of the binswanger type . we performed clinical and neuroradiologic studies , including positron emission tomography , in five patients with vascular dementia of the binswanger type . the clinical features of these cases consisted of slowly progressive dementia , together with vascular risk factors such as hypertension and often a history of minor stroke , and characteristic white matter lesions on brain computed tomograms or magnetic resonance images . digital subtraction angiography of the cervical and intracranial arteries demonstrated no occlusive lesion in any patient . both cerebral blood flow and the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen were markedly reduced in the white matter ( 54-77 % of control values ) , and both were decreased in the parietal ( 73 % of control ) , frontal ( 74-80 % ) , and temporal ( 74-83 % ) cortices , where no abnormalities were detected by brain computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging . we conclude that vascular dementia of the binswanger type may be caused by disconnection between the cerebral cortex and subcortical structures due to ischemic damage in the white matter . 
denervation in hemiplegic muscles . this study examined the frequency of denervation activity in hemiplegic muscles in relation to the size and location of the central lesion . we studied 20 patients , 14 with major unilateral cerebral infarctions in the middle cerebral or internal carotid territories ; four with a single lacune in the pons , internal capsule , or thalamus ; and two with precentral infarcts . using somatosensory evoked potentials , motor conduction studies , and assessments of conduction across the plexus and roots , we detected no conduction abnormalities on the affected side . fibrillation was common in both groups , especially in distal and intermediate muscles . the distribution of the fibrillation and the normal conduction studies suggested that trauma of peripheral nerves was not a factor . although the normal conduction studies and pattern of fibrillation activity do not exclude peripheral nerve trauma as the cause of the fibrillation , we suggest that transsynaptic degeneration is a reasonable alternative explanation . 
rupture of atheromatous plaque as a cause of thrombotic occlusion of stenotic internal carotid artery . we analyzed the clinical profiles and autopsy findings of five patients who died shortly after developing cerebral infarction following thrombotic occlusion of the internal carotid artery . in all five cases , thrombotic occlusion was caused by rupture of the fibrous lining over the gruel of atheroma at the origin of the internal carotid artery showing tight stenosis of the lumen . the mean + / - sd shorter diameter of the lumen at the site of occlusion was 1.5 + / - 0.4 mm . our results show that an internal carotid artery with tight stenosis of the lumen by atheroma containing gruel harbors a risk of thrombotic occlusion , which may give rise to cerebral infarction by artery-to-artery embolism or by reduced cerebral perfusion . 
sensory ataxic hemiparesis in thalamic hemorrhage . ataxic hemiparesis with cerebellar-like features has been reported following infarction or hemorrhage of the thalamus . we describe five patients with incoordination and corticospinal tract signs in the limbs opposite a dorsolateral thalamic hemorrhage . in four patients the hemorrhage extended superiorly into the lateral ventricle , the adjacent paraventricular region , and the upper and medial parts of the posterior limb of the internal capsule . instead of cerebellar dysfunction , these patients exhibited directional errors of movement that improved distinctly when performed under visual guidance . we explain the incoordination on the basis of conscious deep sensory loss in the involved limbs . perception of light touch , painful pinprick , and temperature were preserved in all patients . we use the term " sensory ataxic hemiparesis " to distinguish these patients from those with " classic " ataxic hemiparesis and cerebellar-like features , a distinction that may be important when planning functional rehabilitation . 
pontine supranuclear facial palsy . two patients presented with a unilateral supranuclear facial palsy . additional dysarthria was attributed to the pontine origin documented by magnetic resonance imaging on the contralateral side . the pontine disorder also was indicated by an isolated delay of the blink reflex r1 component or of the masseter reflex . we attribute the facial palsy to a lesion of a supranuclear fiber bundle supplying the facial nucleus . the location of the lesions favors these fibers taking a separate course from the main pyramidal tract at the mid - to upper pontine level . 
syncope of unknown origin : clinical , noninvasive , and electrophysiologic determinants of arrhythmia induction and symptom recurrence during long-term follow-up . ninety-one consecutive patients with syncope of unknown origin underwent electrophysiologic studies ( eps ) . univariate analysis identified the following variables : age , + signal-averaged ecg ( saecg ) , left ventricular ejection fraction ( lvef ) , history of myocardial infarction , coronary artery disease , left ventricular aneurysm , and history of sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( smvt ) on holter ; multivariate analysis identified + saecg , lvef , and history of smvt as risk factors for induction of smvt at eps . all patients were followed up for 19.0 + / - 8.3 months and 17 had recurrence of syncope . patients were divided into empiric , ep-guided , and no therapy groups . the ep-guided therapy group included all patients with smvt at eps . recurrence rates among all three groups were similar . we conclude that : ( 1 ) patients who have inducible smvt at eps can be identified using certain clinical and noninvasive variables . when these patients undergo ep-guided therapy , their rate of recurrence of syncope becomes compatible with that of patients who had no arrhythmia induced at eps . ( 2 ) empiric therapy does not offer any benefit over no therapy in reducing the rate of recurrent of scope . 
an open trial of high-dosage antioxidants in early parkinson 's disease . high dosages of tocopherol and ascorbate were administered to patients with early parkinson 's disease as a preliminary open-labeled trial for the eventual controlled double-blind study evaluating antioxidants as a test of the endogenous toxin hypothesis of the etiology of parkinson 's disease . the primary endpoint of the trial was the need to treat patients with levodopa . the time when levodopa became necessary in the treated patients was compared with another group of patients followed elsewhere and not taking antioxidants . the time when levodopa became necessary was extended by 2.5 y in the group taking antioxidants . the results of this pilot study suggest that the progression of parkinson 's disease may be slowed by the administration of these antioxidants . a large multicenter , controlled clinical trial currently underway in north america evaluating tocopherol and deprenyl has the potential to confirm these results . 
lumbar puncture frequency and cerebrospinal fluid analysis in the neonate . a prospective study was performed to assess the frequency and diagnostic utility of lumbar punctures in neonates both during their first week of life and thereafter . during the two 6-month periods from january 1 , 1985 to june 30 , 1985 , and february 1 , 1986 to july 31 , 1986 , 712 neonates underwent 728 lumbar punctures during their first week of life primarily as part of the evaluation for suspected infection , either congenital or postnatal . there were eight patients with positive spinal fluid cultures in the first week of life , but only one patient simultaneously had a positive blood culture and a clinical course consistent with meningitis . in contrast , a considerably higher yield , approximating five times that of the first week of life , was obtained in patients undergoing a lumbar puncture after the first week of life . 
cat-scratch disease . acute encephalopathy and other neurologic manifestations . seventy-six patients with neurologic complications of cat-scratch disease are discussed . encephalopathy occurred in 61 , while 15 had either cranial or peripheral nerve involvement . the average age of the patients with encephalopathy was 10.6 years ( range , 1 to 66 years ) , and almost twice as many males as females were affected in contrast to patients with uncomplicated cat-scratch disease , in which the ratio was almost equal . fever was not documented in 50 % of patients with encephalopathy and only 26 % had temperatures higher than 39 degrees c. convulsions occurred in 46 % and combative behavior in 40 % . lethargy with or without coma was accompanied by variable neurologic signs . results of laboratory studies , including imaging of the central nervous system , were inconsistent and nondiagnostic . biopsy tissue from 14 patients showed histopathologic findings compatible with cat-scratch disease . the " english-wear bacillus " was demonstrated by the warthin-starry stain in 10 of 14 skin or lymph node specimens . of the 15 patients without encephalopathy , two children with facial nerve paresis displayed cranial nerve symptoms and/or signs , 10 patients had cat-scratch disease neuroretinitis , and three women had peripheral neuritis . all 76 patients recovered within 12 months ; 78 % recovered within 1 to 12 weeks . there were no neurologic sequelae . treatment consisted of control of convulsions and supportive measures . commonly used antibiotics administered to more than half of the patients were apparently ineffective . 
four chromosomal breakpoints and four new probes mark out a 10-cm region encompassing the fragile-x locus ( fraxa ) . we report the validation and use of a cell hybrid panel which allowed us a rapid physical localization of new dna probes in the vicinity of the fragile-x locus ( fraxa ) . seven regions are defined by this panel , two of which lie between dxs369 and dxs296 , until now the closest genetic markers that flank fraxa . of those two interesting regions , one is just distal to dxs369 and defined by probe 2-71 ( dxs476 ) , which is not polymorphic . the next one contains probes st677 ( dxs463 ) and 2-34 ( dxs477 ) , which are within 130 kb and both detect taqi rflps . the combined informativeness of these two probes is 30 % . we cloned from an irradiation-reduced hybrid line another new polymorphic probe , do33 ( dxs465 ; 42 % heterozygosity ) . this probe maps to the dxs296 region , proximal to a chromosomal breakpoint that corresponds to the hunter syndrome locus ( ids ) . the physical order is thus cen-dxs369-dxs476 - ( dxs463 , dxs477 ) - ( dxs296 , dxs465 ) - ids-dxs304-tel . we performed a linkage analysis for five of these markers in both the centre d'etude du polymorphisme humain families and in a large set of fragile-x families . this establishes that dxs296 is distal to fraxa . the relative position of dxs463 and dxs477 with respect to fraxa remains uncertain , but our results place them genetically halfway between dxs369 and dxs304 . thus the dxs463-dxs477 cluster defines presently either the closest proximal or the closest distal polymorphic marker with respect to fraxa . the three new polymorphic probes described here have a combined heterozygosity of 60 % and represent a major improvement for genetic analysis of fragile-x families , in particular for diagnostic applications . 
identification of a highly polymorphic microsatellite vntr within the argininosuccinate synthetase locus : exclusion of the dystonia gene on 9q32-34 as the cause of dopa-responsive dystonia in a large kindred . dopa-responsive dystonia is a clinical variant of idiopathic torsion dystonia that is distinguished from other forms of dystonia by the frequent occurrence of parkinsonism , diurnal fluctuation of symptoms , and its dramatic therapeutic response to l-dopa . linkage of a gene causing classic dystonia in a large non-jewish kindred ( dyt1 ) and in a group of ashkenazi jewish families , to the gelsolin ( gsn ) and arginino-succinate synthetase ( ass ) loci on chromosome 9q32-34 , respectively , was recently determined . here we report the discovery of a highly informative ( gt ) n repeat vntr polymorphism within the ass locus . analysis of a large kindred with dopa-responsive dystonia , using this new polymorphism and conventional rflps for the 9q32-34 region , excludes loci in this region as a cause of this form of dystonia . this provides proof of genetic heterogeneity between classic idiopathic torsion dystonia and dopa-responsive dystonia . 
a family study of gilles de la tourette syndrome . previous studies have demonstrated that gilles de la tourette syndrome ( ts ) is a familial disorder and that chronic tics ( ct ) and obsessive compulsive disorder ( ocd ) appear to be etiologically related to the syndrome . in the present study we report the results from a study of 338 biological relatives of 86 ts probands , 21 biologically unrelated relatives of adopted ts probands , and 22 relatives of normal subjects . the 43 first-degree relatives of the adopted ts and normal probands constituted a control sample . the rates of ts , ct , and ocd in the total sample of biological relatives of ts probands were significantly greater than in the relatives of controls . in addition , the morbid risks of ts , ocd , and ct were not significantly different in families of probands with ocd when compared to relatives of probands without ocd . these findings provide further evidence that ocd is etiologically related to ts . 
chromosome 15 uniparental disomy is not frequent in angelman syndrome . genetic imprinting has been implicated in the etiology of two clinically distinct but cytogenetically indistinguishable disorders -- angelman syndrome ( as ) and prader-willi syndrome ( pws ) . this hypothesis is derived from two lines of evidence . first , while the molecular extents of de novo cytogenetic deletions of chromosome 15q11q13 in as and pws patients are the same , the deletions originate from different parental chromosomes . in as , the deletion occurs in the maternally inherited chromosome 15 , while in pws the deletion is found in the paternally inherited chromosome 15 . the second line of evidence comes from the deletion of an abnormal parental contribution of 15q11q13 in pws patients without a cytogenetic and molecular deletion . these patients have two maternal copies and no paternal copy of 15q11q13 ( maternal uniparental disomy ) instead of one copy from each parent . by qualitative hybridization with chromosome 15q11q13 specific dna markers , we have now examined dna samples from 10 as patients ( at least seven of which are familial cases ) with no cytogenetic or molecular deletion of chromosome 15q11q13 . inheritance of one maternal copy and one paternal copy of 15q11q13 was observed in each family , suggesting that paternal uniparental disomy of 15q11q13 is not responsible for expression of the as phenotype in these patients . 
pearson syndrome and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy in a patient with a deletion of mtdna . a patient is described who has features of pearson syndrome and who presented in the neonatal period with a hypoplastic anemia . he later developed hepatic , renal , and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction . at the age of 5 years he developed visual impairment , tremor , ataxia , proximal muscle weakness , external ophthalmoplegia , and a pigmentary retinopathy ( kearns-sayre syndrome ) . muscle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of mitochondrial myopathy . analysis of mtdna from leukocytes and muscle showed mtdna heteroplasmy in both tissues , with one population of mtdna deleted by 4.9 kb . the deleted region was bridged by a 13-nucleotide sequence occurring as a direct repeat in normal mtdna . both pearson syndrome and kearns-sayre syndrome have been noted to be associated with deletions of mtdna ; they have not previously been described in the same patient . these observations indicate that the two disorders have the same molecular basis ; the different phenotypes are probably determined by the initial proportion of deleted mtdnas and modified by selection against them in different tissues . 
surgical management of oculomotor nerve palsy we treated seven patients with unilateral oculomotor nerve palsy by transposition of the insertion of the superior oblique tendon to a point anterior and medial to the insertion of the superior rectus muscle without trochleotomy ( scott procedure ) . additionally , large recessions of the lateral rectus muscle of involved eyes and , occasionally , recess/resect procedures of horizontal recti muscles of non-involved eyes were performed . all patients were followed up between one and eight years . orthophoria in the primary position was achieved and maintained with one operation in four patients . a fifth patient had only a small residual exotropia . in two patients who had aberrant regeneration of the oculomotor nerve , surgery on horizontal recti muscles of the noninvolved eye improved the eyelid position of the involved eye after three operations . 
neuropsychological deficits in fetal alcohol syndrome and fetal alcohol effects . a clinical sample of 19 school-aged native children diagnosed with fetal alcohol syndrome ( fas ) or fetal alcohol effects ( fae ) was compared with age - and sex-matched normal controls . results on a battery of intellectual and neuropsychological tests indicated large and significant differences between alcohol-affected children and controls . fas differed significantly from controls on measures of intellectual abilities , while fae did not ; fas mean scores on these measures were significantly lower than fae means . for neuropsychological measures , fas were significantly poorer than controls on most measures , while fae showed deficits compared with controls only on grip strength . the results suggest that neuropsychological measures would be a valuable supplement to intellectual measures for the purpose of assessing alcohol effects because they are less vulnerable than intellectual measures to the influence of cultural and educational experiences . 
new approaches to research on the long-term consequences of prenatal exposure to alcohol . as the summary presentation of a symposium on prenatal alcohol-induced brain damage and long-term postnatal consequences , this paper proposes the establishment of two main research priorities -- to begin to correlate long-term behavioral effects with alterations in underlying neural substrates , and to explore the mechanisms of neuroteratogenicity . to reach these goals , three objectives are described . first , animal and human research must become more interrelated . second , experimental observations should be integrated into formal models that incorporate both neural structure and function . third , researchers should choose well-defined dependent measures that are derived from models of brain function based on modern concepts of cognitive neuroscience . examples of neuropsychological tests that may serve as the bases for structure/function relationships are presented . incorporating these objectives into future research will facilitate understanding of the fundamental issues concerning prenatal alcohol exposure and will begin to provide the bases for rational intervention or treatment . 
thymoma : results of 241 operated cases clinical and histopathological aspects of 241 thymomas were reviewed . one hundred sixty of the patients with thymoma had myasthenia gravis and 15 had other autoimmune diseases ; 55 % of the thymomas were encapsulated and 45 % invasive . operation was radical resection in 87.5 % of the patients , subtotal resection with residual tumor in 8.7 % , and simple biopsy in 3.7 % . a tumor relapse was observed in 24 patients ( 10 % ) : 2 ( 1.5 % ) of 133 with encapsulated thymomas and 22 ( 20.4 % ) of 108 with invasive thymomas ; among these patients , a relapse was found in 20.6 % of the patients who received radiotherapy postoperatively and in 24.6 % who did not . adverse prognostic factors were clinical stage iva ( multiple pleural nodes ) , not feasible resection ( for technical reasons ) , inoperable tumor relapse , and association with one of the following autoimmune diseases : pure red cell aplasia , hypogammaglobulinemia , and lupus erythematosus . conversely , myasthenia gravis is now a curable disease ; it contributes to early discovery of associated thymoma , thus allowing a better survival for patients with thymoma who have myasthenia gravis compared with patients with thymoma but without myasthenia gravis ( p less than 0.05 ) . postoperative radiotherapy does not seem necessary after removal of encapsulated thymomas , but it is advisable in case of invasive thymomas , regardless of the extent of the resection . 
tracheoesophageal anastomosis for intractable aspiration pneumonia . permanent tracheostomy and tracheoesophageal anastomosis were performed as a means of surgical intervention for the treatment of intractable aspiration pneumonia . conventional methods of tracheoesophageal anastomosis have entailed various problems . the improved method devised by us uses the special histological features and enables safe and reliable anastomosis . by this method , the tracheal perichondrium is retained and the strength of the anastomosed portion of the trachea is maintained , the failure of sutures due to tension on the anastomotic site being prevented . also , reanastomosis can be performed after the cure of primary disease . 
acute rheumatic fever in west virginia . not just a disease of children . rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community . we describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever ( arf ) in west virginia . this is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of arf in the ohio valley area in the last 4 years . in contrast to the other reports , nearly two thirds of our cases of arf were in adults , more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of arf . in these adults with recurrences , none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation . carditis was present in seven adults , two without a history of carditis . arthritis was present in all adult patients . these data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of arf and document that arf is not simply a disease of childhood . furthermore , our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of arf , especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection . 
treatment of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand ( ' trigger finger ' ) with corticosteroids . a prospective study of the response to local injection . we developed a protocol to maximize medical therapy for " trigger finger . " fifty-eight patients with 77 episodes of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand that was resistant to rest , therapy with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , and/or splinting were treated with single or multiple injections of depo-methylprednisolone acetate or triamcinolone acetonide . patients were prospectively followed up for an average of 4.6 years . results showed that symptoms and signs resolved in 61 % after a single injection . recurrent episodes , after prolonged pain-free intervals , occurred in 27 % and were effectively re-treated with injection . in 12 % of cases , either injection failed or early recurrence required surgical release . local adverse reactions to injection , including pain at the injection site , stiffness , ecchymosis , or atrophy of subcutaneous fat , were self-limited . no episodes of postinjection infection or tendon rupture occurred . the medical management of flexor tenosynovitis with local corticosteroid injection ( s ) is effective in nearly 90 % of cases and is free from serious adverse reactions . 
spontaneous electromyographic potentials in chronic spinal cord injured patients : relation to spasticity and length of nerve . nine patients with complete cervical spinal cord injury ( sci ) had their vastus medialis , tibialis anterior , and gastrocnemius muscles evaluated with an electromyographic ( emg ) examination in the acute ( four to eight weeks ) and chronic ( more than one year ) phases . the hypothesis that spontaneous emg activity changes with time was assessed . during the chronic phase evaluation , a conduction study was performed to rule out peripheral nerve damage , and the amount of reflex activity was assessed on a scale of 0 to 5 ( 0 = areflexia ; 5 = greater than 5 beats of clonus ) to estimate the amount of spasticity . subjects demonstrated normal conduction through the sensory ( sural nerve ) and/or motor segments of the peroneal and tibial nerves . in the acute phase , each muscle had spontaneous activity with no significant variation between different muscles of the same patient . in the chronic phase , there was a positive correlation between the degree of spontaneous activity in a muscle and the length of its axon ( p less than .01 ) and a negative correlation between the amount of spontaneous activity and the degree of reflex activity ( p less than .01 ) . specifically , the lower motor neuron in the chronic phase of an sci seems to behave much like an axonopathy where the degree of spontaneous emg activity is dependent on the length of the axon , with the additional concept that spontaneous activity is inhibited by spasticity . 
multimodality evoked potential testing in acute mild closed head injury . multimodality evoked potential ( mep ) testing , including brainstem auditory , visual , and somatosensory evoked potentials , have been reported to be useful in predicting outcome in severe closed head injury . brainstem auditory evoked potentials have been demonstrated to be abnormal in 10 % to 40 % of acute mild head injury . a prospective study of 18 patients with mild closed head injury was undertaken to determine the usefulness of mep screening within two weeks of the acute event . long latency event-related potentials ( p300s ) , in response to auditory stimuli with an oddball paradigm , were included in the screening . the subjects had several symptoms consistent with the postconcussive syndrome at the time of the evoked potential testing . only one patient had an abnormal evoked potential response ( greater than three standard deviations from the mean ) from all the testing done . the standard methods of mep testing were insensitive to quantifying the possible physiologic changes that are associated with memory deficits , lethargy , and emotional irritability after mild closed head injury . 
orthostatic hypotension after spinal cord injury : treatment with fludrocortisone and ergotamine . we report a case of a 28-year-old woman with c5 quadriplegia , unresponsive to conservative treatment for orthostatic hypotension . ergotamine , daily combined with fludrocortisone , successfully prevented symptomatic hypotension . in this report , neural , renal , and hormonal blood pressure regulatory mechanisms are described . experiences obtained from this case and the existing literature suggest that ( 1 ) in persons with quadriplegia , plasma catecholamine levels show little increase with sitting , indicating an inability to activate baroreceptor and chemoreceptor reflexes , ( 2 ) elevated plasma aldosterone and renin levels indicate a renal compensatory response to decreased renal perfusion secondary to low plasma volume and/or chronic hypotension , and ( 3 ) the net effect of ergotamine and fludrocortisone is probably a combination of plasma volume expansion and direct peripheral vasoconstriction . 
silent myocardial ischemia during rehabilitation for cerebrovascular disease . in asymptomatic patients the importance of silent ischemic st-t wave changes on holter monitoring is known to be a significant predictive variable for one-year mortality of postmyocardial infarction patients . this case report represents the uses of ambulatory ecg to detect ischemic st changes in patients who have had recent strokes . the cases reported here of silent myocardiac ischemia in stroke patients reflect previous reports in which 70 % of the ischemic episodes in patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease are not associated with angina and in which approximately 10 % to 15 % of acute myocardial infarctions are silent . we now believe that the incidence of " silent " ischemia may be precipitated in poststroke patients during their rehabilitation program . this belief is supported by two main factors . first , a high level of personally relevant mental stress exists which activates the sympathoadrenal system , which may lead to myocardial ischemia . second , some stroke patients become aphasic and are unable to communicate adequately even if they experience angina symptoms . we have found that poststroke , most patients could not undergo exercise treadmill testing secondary to a variety of factors : inability to coordinate limbs , poor endurance , inability to follow directions , and/or lack of attention . we now propose that 24-hour monitoring for st-t wave changes poststroke should be considered as part of a vigorous investigation for myocardial ischemia during the rehabilitation of these patients because they have an increased risk of cardiac morbidity . 
neuromuscular function in polio survivors at one-year follow-up [ published erratum appears in arch phys med rehabil 1991 mar ; 72 ( 3 ) :213 ] many polio survivors complain of progressive loss of strength , work capacity , endurance , and ability to recover from fatiguing activity . these variables were measured initially and one year later in the quadriceps muscles of 28 symptomatic and 16 asymptomatic persons who had polio and 38 control individuals . peak knee extension torque was measured isokinetically and isometrically . endurance , or the amount of time the subject could maintain isometric torque at 40 % of maximal torque , was measured . work capacity was determined as the product of isometric torque and endurance time . recovery of strength was measured at regular intervals for ten minutes after the endurance test . statistical analysis was done by repeated measures anova . although the initial measures showed significant deficits in mean peak torque , work capacity , and recovery of strength in symptomatic postpolio subjects , no significant changes were found one year later in any of the variables . we conclude that symptomatic postpolio subjects do not lose significant neuromuscular function in one year . 
open depressed skull fracture missed on computed tomography : a case report . a case of an open depressed skull fracture that was missed on standard computed tomographic ( ct ) scan is presented . the fracture was seen on a ct generated lateral scout film , and after repositioning the gantry , further ct images clearly showed the fracture and underlying brain injury . the authors recommend that all patients with head trauma undergoing head ct have either a ct generated lateral scout film or a lateral skull radiograph to assess the vertex of the skull , an area poorly visualized on standard axial images . 
vertebrobasilar occlusion following minor trauma in an 8-year-old boy . an 8-year-old boy developed seizures and coma 2 days after a trivial bicycle accident . computed tomography failed to show pathology . magnetic resonance imaging of the head showed infarction of the pons and right cerebellum . angiography showed occlusion of the right vertebral and basilar arteries . minor traumatic injuries to the cervical spine may result in vertebrobasilar occlusion . the neurologic manifestations of this disorder and emergency department diagnosis and management are discussed . 
cat-scratch disease : an unusual cause of combative behavior . acute encephalitis is an unusual manifestation of cat-scratch disease . the authors present the case of a 27-year-old man who exhibited the acute onset of encephalitis manifested by violent behavior and confusion . the diagnosis of drug abuse was presumed initially , but a careful examination revealed the true cause to be cat-scratch disease . emergency physicians are frequently faced with the challenging task of evaluating confused and combative patients . this case demonstrates the importance of a complete physical examination and a thorough laboratory evaluation . 
sudden cervical pain : spontaneous cervical epidural hematoma . three cases of cervical epidural hematoma are reported . acute neck pain usually associated with a mild effort , closely followed by radicular pain and a neurologic deficit below the lesion is the typical presentation of this extremely rare and difficult diagnosis . as prognosis depends on preoperative neurologic state , the authors emphasize the importance of prompt identification of this lesion . the diagnosis is confirmed by computed tomography , and emergency neurosurgical laminectomy is mandatory . 
differential reading recovery in patients with severe to moderate closed head injury . a differential recovery was seen when alternate forms of a nationally standardized test of reading vocabulary , literal reading comprehension and inferential reading comprehension was administered serially to 10 consecutive closed head injury admissions to a university rehabilitation hospital . inferential reading comprehension was the most impaired and had the fastest recovery rate . subtle cognitive deficits in inferential reading comprehension were detected when reading vocabulary was at or better than a twelfth grade level . maximal recovery of all three reading functions occurred within 4 months after trauma , with most occurring in the first 3 months . the reading recovery pattern parallels the recovery of intelligence scores in the literature . 
motor-evoked potentials reflect spinal cord function in post-traumatic syringomyelia . the purpose of this study was to examine electrophysiologic abnormalities , including motor-evoked potentials , in a patient with post-traumatic syringomyelia before and after syringopleural shunting . a patient with c5 quadriplegia presented with pain , ascending sensory loss , and new weakness in the left upper extremity two yr after spinal cord injury . mri revealed a syrinx extending from c2 to t12 . we measured central motor conduction times ( cmcts ) to the biceps , median f-wave latencies , needle electromyography and motor nerve conduction studies . six days before surgery , cmcts were 9.0 ms on the left and 7.8 ms on the right ( normal less than 8.0 ) , median f-waves were absent on the left and needle emg revealed evidence of denervation in the left biceps . fifteen days after syringopleural shunting at the t7 level , cmcts had dropped to 6.9 ms on the left and 4.6 ms on the right ; the left median f-wave reappeared with a normal latency . repeat mri revealed the syrinx to be smaller in diameter . these results suggest that cmcts measured from magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex may be useful in the diagnosis of post-traumatic syringomyelia , as well as for following such patients postoperatively . 
spasticity in spinal cord injured persons : quantitative effects of baclofen and placebo treatments . spasticity commonly occurs after a spinal cord injury and is characterized by increased resistance to passive movement of peripheral joints . this study examined the effect of an antispasticity medication on stiffness from the myotatic reflex response generated by passive sinusoidal ankle motion . a repeated measures , multiple base-line , single-subject , double-blind design was employed . the independent variable was spasticity medication treatment , where the levels were 40 mg/day and 80 mg/day of baclofen v placebo treatment . viscous and elastic stiffness measurements were taken at the ankle joint during a placebo base-line phase and during treatment with baclofen for five adult males with traumatic spinal cord injuries . ankle sinusoidal oscillation frequencies were from 3 to 12 hz during test sessions . mean viscous and elastic stiffness scores for all frequencies were calculated for each phase of the study . randomization tests of mean changes in stiffness measurements between each treatment phase of the study failed to provide any convincing evidence of a significant treatment effect for reduction of spasticity in the traumatic spinal cord injured subjects studied . further testing is needed to exclude potential confounding factors before this conclusion can be confirmed . the results suggest that baclofen is not a universal treatment of choice for all individuals with spasticity resulting from traumatic spinal cord injury . 
spinal nerve stimulation in the diagnosis of lumbosacral radiculopathy . direct spinal nerve stimulation was compared with needle electromyography ( emg ) in 40 patients who were suspected of having an l5 or s1 radiculopathy . for spinal nerve stimulation , we adapted a monopolar needle electrode inserted deep into the paraspinal muscle . the minimal latency , amplitude , and negative phase area of compound muscle action potential from myotomal muscles were recorded with computer assistance . abnormality was considered to be significant when the value fell outside of 2 sd of control mean values . among 17 patients with clinical evidence of radiculopathy , needle emg was abnormal in 10 patients ( 58.8 % ) , whereas in the nerve stimulation test the abnormalities were shown in 16 patients ( 94.1 % ) ; in amplitude difference and the abnormal area , differences were shown in 12 patients ( 70.6 % ) . among 23 patients with only subjective symptoms of radiculopathy , needle emg was abnormal in nine patients ( 39.1 % ) , whereas the abnormal amplitude differences were shown in 18 patients ( 78.3 % ) and 15 patients ( 65.2 % ) with abnormal area difference by spinal nerve stimulation , respectively . direct spinal nerve stimulation is recognized as an objective and sensitive test in the diagnosis of lumbosacral radiculopathy . 
spinal anaesthesia in day-care surgery with a 26-gauge needle . we studied 106 day-care surgical patients ( 52 male ) aged 18-70 yr ( mean 49.6 yr ) who received spinal anaesthesia with a 26-gauge spinal needle . the incidence of headache , back pain and patient acceptability were investigated after operation using a questionnaire . the incidence of postspinal headache was 7.5 % , and 11.3 % of patients developed back pain . one patient remained in hospital because of hypotension and dizziness . there were no major complications and patient acceptability was almost 100 % . we conclude that spinal anaesthesia for day-care surgery is easy to perform and cost effective . 
unconsciousness associated with midazolam and erythromycin . an 8-yr-old boy suffering from an asymptomatic ventricular septal defect was given erythromycin for antibiotic prophylaxis before adenoidectomy . sixty minutes after premedication with oral midazolam 0.5 mg kg-1 and oral atropine 0.03 mg kg-1 , an infusion of erythromycin 400 mg was started . when 200 mg of erythromycin had been infused , the patient lost consciousness , but other vital functions remained normal . after 45 min , he awakened spontaneously . at the time the plasma concentration of midazolam was 134 ng ml-1 . in order to investigate possible interactions between midazolam and erythromycin , we studied the pharmacokinetics of midazolam in six children of the same age undergoing minor otolaryngological surgery . the plasma concentration of midazolam in the patient who lost consciousness was significantly greater than in six other children without concomitant administration of erythromycin . the altered pharmacokinetics of midazolam may result from reduced hepatic clearance of midazolam caused by an enzyme inhibiting drug , erythromycin . 
a study of cyproheptadine in the treatment of metastatic carcinoid tumor and the malignant carcinoid syndrome . sixteen patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and the malignant carcinoid syndrome were treated with cyproheptadine ( periactin , merck , sharp & dohme , west point , pa ) at maximum tolerable doses that ranged from 12 to 48 mg daily . usual side effects were mild sedation and dry mouth , but three patients found it impossible to sustain treatment due to nausea and vomiting . most patients had significant relief of diarrhea , frequently associated with weight gain . relief of flushing was uncommon . the therapeutic benefit produced by cyproheptadine would appear to be a peripheral effect because 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5-hiaa ) excretion in these patients was not reduced . although there have been case reports of objective tumor regression with cyproheptadine therapy , this was not observed in any of these 16 patients . cyproheptadine would appear to be a useful therapeutic tool for the management of diarrhea associated with the malignant carcinoid syndrome . an appropriate initial total daily dose is 0.4 mg/kg divided in three fractions with prompt modification to produce minimal and tolerable side effects . 
radiosurgery of acoustic neurinomas . eighty-five patients with acoustic neurinomas underwent stereotactic radiosurgery with the gamma unit at the university of pittsburgh ( pittsburgh , pa ) during its first 30 months of operation . neuroimaging studies performed in 40 patients with more than 1 year follow-up showed that tumors were smaller in 22 ( 55 % ) , unchanged in 17 ( 43 % ) , and larger in one ( 2 % ) . the 2-year actuarial rates for preservation of useful hearing and any hearing were 46 % and 62 % , respectively . previously undetected neuropathies of the trigeminal ( n = 12 ) and facial nerves ( n = 14 ) occurred 1 week to 1 year after radiosurgery ( median , 7 and 6 months , respectively ) , and improved at median intervals of 13 and 8 months , respectively , after onset . hearing loss was significantly associated with increasing average tumor diameter ( p = 0.04 ) . no deterioration of any cranial nerve function has yet developed in seven patients with average tumor diameters less than 10 mm . radiosurgery is an important treatment alternative for selected acoustic neurinoma patients . 
ontogenetic features of audiogenic seizure susceptibility induced in immature rats by noise . although numerous models are currently used for systematic study of the mechanisms of epileptogenesis in mature brain , few animal models have been developed that allow similar explorations in the developing nervous system . one experimental model of epilepsy supports a premise that perinatal experience can lead to eventual seizure susceptibility , however . audiogenic seizure ( ags ) susceptibility can be induced during a critical developmental period in normal mice by auditory deprivation and therefore by cochlear trauma . we studied the developmental parameters that affect success of both induction and testing of ags-susceptibility in the rat . intense high-frequency noise exposure was used as the traumatizing agent . the wistar rat strain used is inherently seizure-resistant because in greater than 400 trials , untreated rats have never exhibited susceptibility at any age . although single prolonged exposures to high-intensity noise were administered to groups of rats at ages between postnatal days ( pnds ) 12 and 36 , pnd 14 was the age when exposure was most likely to result in eventual seizure susceptibility . furthermore , duration of initial exposure on pnd 14 determined the rate of susceptibility when measured 2 weeks later . accordingly , we noted that single noise exposures at an intensity of 125 db and ranging between 6 and 10 min in duration induced susceptibility in 100 % of rats tested on pnd 28 ; nonetheless , seizures among the rats exposed for 8 min were the most severe . typically , these seizures began as wild running attacks and were followed by tonic/clonic convulsions . 
effects of discontinuation of phenytoin , carbamazepine , and valproate on concomitant antiepileptic medication . we report a prospective , controlled study of the effects of the reduction and discontinuation of phenytoin ( pht ) ( 22 patients ) , carbamazepine ( cbz ) ( 23 patients ) , and valproate ( vpa ) ( 25 patients ) with concomitant antiepileptic drugs ( aeds ) . the principal changes in the serum concentrations of concomitant aeds were ( a ) phenobarbital ( pb ) concentrations decreased by a mean of 30 % on discontinuation of pht ; ( b ) total cbz concentrations increased by a mean of 48 % and free cbz concentrations increased by a mean of 30 % on discontinuation of pht , with no change in cbz-10 , 11-epoxide ( cbz-e ) concentrations ; ( c ) vpa concentrations increased by a mean of 19 % on discontinuation of pht ; ( d ) vpa concentrations increased by a mean of 42 % on discontinuation of cbz ; ( e ) ethosuximide ( esm ) concentrations increased by a mean of 48 % on discontinuation of cbz ; ( f ) pht concentrations decreased by a mean of 26 % on discontinuation of cbz ; ( g ) pht free fraction decreased from a mean of 0.11 to 0.07 on discontinuation of vpa ; and ( h ) the mean concentrations of total and free cbz increased by a mean of 10 and 16 % , respectively , on vpa discontinuation , with a concomitant mean 24 % decrease in total cbz-e and a 22 % decrease in free cbz-e . apart from the decrease in pb concentrations on pht discontinuation , all significant changes had occurred by 1 week after the end of aed discontinuation . the implication for clinical practice is that a serum aed concentration at this time reflects the new steady state . free concentrations did not add any clinically useful information to that gained from analysis of total serum concentrations . 
cognitive function and time-of-day variation in serum carbamazepine concentration in epileptic patients treated with monotherapy . different parameters of antiepileptic drug ( aed ) treatment have been shown to affect cognitive function . the drug , dose , and duration of treatment have been studied . the present study assessed cognitive function in relation to time-of-day variation in serum carbamazepine ( cbz ) concentration in epileptic patients treated with monotherapy . we studied 10 males and 12 females with a mean age of 36 years and a mean duration of cbz-therapy of 4.4 years . patients had been seizure-free for at least 1 month and took two daily cbz doses . the test battery included tests of motor speed , reaction time , attention , and memory . in the experimental design , the subjects were tested twice at times close to expected daily maximum and minimum serum cbz concentration . they were studied in two balanced blocks ( block 1 tested at 8 a.m. and noon , block 2 tested at noon and 8 p.m. ) . blood samples were collected every 2 hr from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. the subjects showed significant differences in serum cbz concentration between testing times , with suggested maximum concentration between 10 a.m. and noon . the test battery showed no consistent differences between performance at times of high versus low serum concentration . a supplementary analysis of correlations between mean performance level on cognitive tests and variables related to cbz treatment did not show consistent trends . 
immunologic aspects of carbamazepine treatment in epileptic patients . immune abnormalities have been found in epileptic patients receiving antiepileptic drugs ( aeds ) . phenytoin ( pht ) produces a decrease in serum iga and igm levels and a decrease in blastic transformation of circulating lymphocytes stimulated with phytohemoagglutinin ( pha ) . the effects of carbamazepine ( cbz ) on the immune response are still conflicting . to elucidate the effects of cbz on some immunologic parameters , serum concentrations of iga , igg , igm , the phagocytosis and killing properties of polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmns ) , the cytotoxic activity of natural killer cells and the response of lymphocytes to mitogenic agents were studied . forty healthy individuals and 39 epileptic patients treated with carbamazepine ( cbz ) monotherapy ( age range 18-40 years ) entered the study . student 's t test was used to evaluate the data . cbz had no effect on the serum immunoglobulin concentrations or on lymphocytic reactivity to phytohemoagglutinin ( pha ) mitogen . cbz produced a significant enhancement of phagocytosis and killing properties of pmns and an increase in natural killer ( nk ) cell activity . therefore , a negative effect of cbz therapy on the immune system was not observed in this study . 
carbamazepine-induced antinuclear antibodies and systemic lupus erythematosus-like syndrome . a 20-year-old woman developed a systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) - like syndrome and a positive antinuclear antibody ( ana ) soon after initiation of carbamazepine ( cbz ) therapy . symptoms and serology became normal after cbz was discontinued . cbz-induced sle is an important but underecognized phenomenon . 
effect of felbamate on plasma levels of carbamazepine and its metabolites . felbamate ( fbm ) is a novel antiepileptic drug ( aed ) currently undergoing clinical evaluation in the united states . during a controlled clinical trial conducted at the national institutes of health clinical center , fbm was added to constant carbamazepine ( cbz ) monotherapy . cbz total concentrations were reduced during active fbm treatment ( mean reduction 25 % , range 10-42 % , p less than 0.001 ) . the effect was evident after the first week of treatment and reached a plateau in 2-4 weeks . to clarify the interaction mechanism , free and total concentrations of cbz and its plasma metabolites were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography ( hplc ) and ultrafiltration in four patients . in these patients , fbm treatment reduced cbz concentrations and increased cbz-epoxide ( cbz-e ) concentrations ( p less than 0.01 ) . free fractions of all compounds were unmodified . fbm appears to be capable of inducing cbz metabolism . cbz-fbm interaction may be clinically relevant . 
double-blind , placebo-controlled , cross-over trial of progabide as add-on therapy in epileptic patients . in a double-blind , cross-over trial , progabide ( pgb ) and placebo were compared as add-on therapy in 59 patients with moderate to severe epilepsy . eight patients did not complete the study , 4 because of adverse drug reactions ( elevation of liver transaminases , 2 ; gastritis , 1 ; and acute psychosis , 1 ) and 4 because of administrative reasons . among the remaining 51 patients , seizure frequency was reduced greater than 50 % in 18 patients with pgb treatment and in 8 patients with placebo ( p less than 0.05 ) . the number of days with seizures was significantly ( p = 0.034 ) reduced during pgb treatment . both patients ' and physicians ' preferences at the end of the trial were in favor ( p less than 0.01 ) of pgb . mild clinical side effects were present in 54.7 % of the patients treated with pgb and in 37.7 % with placebo . increase in liver transaminases was observed in 2 patients during the double-blind study and in 1 during the follow-up period . our data show that pgb , as previously reported , is useful in 30-40 % of patients who are not responding completely to other antiepileptic drugs ( aeds ) . the compound is well tolerated , but liver function must be monitored . 
development and reversal of contingent inefficacy and tolerance to the anticonvulsant effects of carbamazepine . the relationship of the timing of drug administration to anticonvulsant efficacy against amygdala kindled seizures was studied . during kindling development , rats received carbamazepine ( cbz , 15mg/kg ) before ( cbz-before ) or after each amygdala stimulation ( cbz-after ) . after kindling to full seizures , when all animals were given cbz before the stimulation , only the cbz-after group showed a good anticonvulsant response . the rats that had received cbz before ( during development of kindled seizures ) remained unresponsive to cbz treatment ( contingent inefficacy ) . when drug-naive or cbz-after animals repeatedly received cbz before electrical stimulation , they developed tolerance to its anticonvulsant effects ( contingent tolerance ) . the tolerance could be reversed by a period of treatment with cbz-after or by kindling the animal drug-free , but not by cbz administration alone or by time off from both drug and seizures . these findings suggest that inefficacy and tolerance to cbz may be affected by the temporal contingencies of drug administration and that responsiveness can be reinstated by altering these contingencies . 
kindling susceptibility and genetic seizure predisposition in inbred mice . olfactory bulb kindling rates were studied in two inbred strains of genetically seizure-prone mice ( dba/2 and el ) and in three non-epileptic inbred strains [ c57bl/6 ( b6 ) , ddy , and c3h/he ( c3h ) ] . none of the dba/2 mice had been stimulated to seizure before or during the kindling and all mice were studied at 4-6 weeks of age , before development of spontaneous or movement-induced seizure activity in the el strain . the audiogenically seizure-susceptible dba/2 mice required the fewest number of stimulations to reach stage 5 seizure ( mean + / - se = 4.0 + / - 0.6 ) . the nonepileptic c3h mice required the most stimulations to reach stage 5 seizures ( 22.6 + / - 1.4 ) . kindling rates for b6 ( 9.6 + / - 0.6 ) , el ( 14.8 + / - 1.1 ) , and ddy ( 18.5 + / - 1.0 ) strains were intermediate , and the kindling rate for each strain was significantly different from that of the other strains . these findings show that the seizure-susceptible el mouse kindles more rapidly than the genetically similar but nonepileptic ddy control and suggest that an inherited seizure susceptibility accelerates the kindling rate . nonepileptic b6 mice kindled more rapidly than el mice , however , suggesting that genetic factors other than those that influence seizure susceptibility are of primary importance in the determination of the kindling rate . 
changes of hippocampal glucose utilization subsequent to amygdaloid-kindled generalized seizures . local changes in cerebral glucose utilization during the postictal phase of amygdaloid-kindled generalized seizures were studied with the quantitative autoradiographic 2 - [ 14c ] deoxyglucose method in conscious rats . measurement was initiated either just after termination of a behavioral seizure ( gs-i ) or 30 s after seizure termination ( gs-ii ) to determine dynamic metabolic changes in the postictal phase . although glucose utilization of the neocortex was remarkably depressed in both gs-i and gs-ii , that of the hippocampus significantly increased in gs-i and then decreased in gs-ii as compared with control . these changes of hippocampal glucose utilization were observed in all sectors of the pyramidal cell layer ( ca 1-4 ) and in the molecular layer . because metabolic changes associated with development of amygdaloid-kindled seizures begin in the limbic structures including the hippocampus , the transient increase in hippocampal glucose utilization observed in the early postictal phase indicates that the hippocampus is one of the key structures not only for initiating and maintaining but also for terminating kindled seizures . 
panic disorder in seizure patients : a diagnostic pitfall . panic disorder is a psychiatric diagnosis whose main feature is paroxysmal attacks of anxiety that strike suddenly without apparent provocation . physicians explain the attacks as an ictal phenomenon in patients with known seizures because of their similarities to complex partial seizures . we report eight patients with seizures and panic disorder . recognition of a second diagnostic entity resulted in a beneficial change in treatment in six of the eight . we did not find an increased incidence of panic disorder in our seizure clinic population as compared with the general population . 
effect of epilepsy and sleep deprivation on the rate of benign epileptiform transients of sleep . seventy-eight individuals with eeg records containing benign epileptiform transients of sleep ( bets ) were identified among 7,400 records reviewed in our laboratory in a 6-year period . the records contained no other abnormality in 51 patients ( 65 % ) . genuine epileptiform discharges were found in the records of 19 patients ; 14 had a history of epilepsy . thirty-five patients ( 45 % ) had a proven history of epilepsy with antiepileptic drug ( aed ) therapy . in the records of these patients , the mean number of bets per unit of time was significantly higher ( 11.88 + / - 2 ) than in the record of the rest of the laboratory population with bets ( 6.89 + / - 0.9 ) ( p less than 0.02 ) . among five conventional surface montages , ipsilateral ear referential montage ( ierm ) showed a significantly higher number of bets per unit of time than did any other surface montage used in the study . thirty-nine records ( 50 % ) were performed after sleep deprivation ( sd ) . when only ierm was considered , sd records showed a significantly higher number of bets per unit of time ( 7.36 + / - 1.1 ) than did non-sd records ( 3.89 + / - 0.69 ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . our findings support the general consensus that individual bets may be normal variants , but a high occurrence of bets in the record should raise suspicion of underlying epilepsy . 
dreams and epilepsy . the relationship between dreams and epilepsy is illustrated by two patients whose awake epileptic seizures and recurrent dreams during night sleep had similar content . in both of our cases the eeg showed right anterior temporal spike discharge , suggesting a role for the temporal lobe in the association between dreams and seizures . 
epilepsy with continuous spike-waves during slow sleep and its treatment . five children with epilepsy with " continuous spike-waves during slow sleep " ( csws ) are reported . the main clinical features of csws include ( a ) onset between 5 and 7 years of age , ( b ) the occurrence of several types of seizure ( i.e. , partial motor , generalized motor , and atypical absence ) , and ( c ) the presence of language disturbances and abnormal behavior based on emotional impairment . the eeg findings were characterized by sleep tracings showing almost continuous ( greater than 95 % ) , diffuse slow spike and wave activity . after treatment with valproate ( vpa ) ( or ethosuximide , esm ) and clonazepam ( czp ) , the spike and wave complex status disappeared . symptoms and signs of the csws also decreased . we suggest that combined treatment is an appropriate treatment for csws . 
postnatal epilepsy after eeg-confirmed neonatal seizures . we examined infants whose neonatal seizures were confirmed by randomly recorded ictal eeg tracings to determine the types and frequency of postnatal epilepsy ( pne ) -- unprovoked , recurring postnatal seizures . perinatal and postnatal clinical and eeg variables were also examined for their relevance to pne . forty infants with eeg-documented neonatal seizures of diverse etiologies were studied . the 27 survivors were followed for a mean of 31 months . pne developed in 56 % ( 15 of 27 ) of the cohort . the first seizure appeared at a mean-corrected age of 12.7 months and occurred despite ongoing antiepileptic medication in 60 % ( 9 of 15 ) of the group . seizures were classified as infantile spasms or minor motor ( 7 patients ) , complex partial ( 4 patients ) , or generalized tonic-clonic ( 4 patients ) . perinatal variables that significantly correlated with pne included the presence of coma but not the age at seizure onset , the estimated gestational age , or apgar scores . pne occurred in 68 % ( 13 of 19 ) of patients with moderately or markedly abnormal eeg backgrounds but in only 25 % ( 2 of 8 ) without ( p = 0.035 ) . there was a strong trend for pne to develop in patients with greater than 10 electrographic seizures per hour but in only 45 % ( 9 of 20 ) of infants with fewer seizures ( p = 0.058 ) . several postnatal variables were significantly related to pne -- the presence of cerebral palsy ( cp ) , mental retardation ( mr ) , cp with mr , and follow-up eegs . pne occurred in only 27 % ( 3 of 11 ) of patients without spikes or sharp waves on postnatal eegs performed at age 3 months but in 100 % ( 3 of 3 ) of patients with spikes or sharp waves ( p = 0.022 ) . 
photosensitive epilepsies and photoconvulsive responses in arabs . the occurrence of photosensitivity ( ps ) was examined in 327 arabs greater than or equal to 15 years of age with epilepsy by intermittent photic stimulation ( ips ) . a control group of 192 nonepileptic arabs greater than or equal to 15 years of age were also examined by ips . of the epileptic patients , 24 ( 7.3 % ) were photosensitive , an incidence comparable to that in whites in contradistinction to the reported rarity among african blacks . this finding indicates that environmental factors , particularly excessive sunshine , does not appear to influence the occurrence of ps among epileptic patients . the occurrence of ps among epileptic patients may depend more strongly on the presence of an epileptic syndrome known to have association with ps . 
sexual behavior of a sample of females with epilepsy . a sample of 700 female epileptic outpatients was examined between 1985 and 1987 . the incidence of psychosexual disorders was 18 % . epileptic females with psychosexual disorders were compared with epileptic females without sexual disorders and with normal female controls on selected clinical and eeg parameters . epileptic females with sexual disorders showed : lower marriage rates , a longer duration of illness , sexually colored prodromata , predominance of partial complex seizures ( 83 % ) and a higher incidence of menstrual abnormalities . hyposexuality and exhibitionism were the psychosexual disorders most frequently noted . temporal lobe eeg abnormalities were significantly higher . 
attitudes of major employers toward the employment of people with epilepsy : a 30-year study . beginning in 1956 , major san francisco bay area employers were sampled at 10-year intervals for a 30-year period to assess attitudes toward the employment of epileptic workers . in this time , we documented a trend of sustained positive change that appears to validate the efforts of organizations that have focused on raising public awareness of this disorder . 
antiepileptic drug monitoring at the epilepsy clinic : a prospective evaluation . to assess the value of on site therapeutic drug monitoring at the epilepsy clinic , management decisions were recorded before and immediately after antiepileptic drug ( aed ) concentrations became available . in the first year of this prospective study , 632 [ 277 carbamazepine ( cbz ) , 170 phenytoin ( pht ) , 113 valproate ( vpa ) , and 72 phenobarbital ( pb ) ] assays were performed during 488 clinic attendances in 182 actively managed epileptic patients . the results of drug analysis led to alterations in management at 114 patients visits , i.e. , 23 % of those monitored . dosage was increased in response to the circulating aed concentration in 12 % of consultations and decreased in another 7.5 % . unsuspected poor compliance was uncovered in eight patients , and in three others an aed was added or discontinued on the basis of the assay result . the time of the next appointment was rearranged in 58 attendances . only 50 % of results were in the " therapeutic " ranges for the four major aeds . dosage was adjusted ( 50 up , 16 down ) after 54 % of low results . " therapeutic " levels were followed by a change in aed dose ( 52 up , 31 down ) in 26 % . only 29 % of concentrations above the " therapeutic " range persuaded the doctor to alter the dosage regimen , and in 20 % of these an increase in dose was recommended . on-site aed monitoring had an immediate impact on clinical decision-making in greater than 23 % of consultations but in a form more subtle than the simple quest for a therapeutic result . 
effects of lactulose and lactitol on protein digestion and metabolism in conventional and germ free animal models : relevance of the results to their use in the treatment of portosystemic encephalopathy . protein digestion and metabolism have been studied in laboratory rats and miniature pigs to investigate the mechanisms of action of lactulose and lactitol when used in the treatment of patients with portosystemic encephalopathy . lactulose ( beta-d-galactopyranosyl - ( 1 ---- 4 ) - beta-d-fructofuranose ) and lactitol ( beta-d-galactopyranosyl - ( 1 ---- 4 ) - d-glucitol ) increased the excretion of nitrogenous material in the faeces and decreased nitrogen excretion in the urine in a similar degree to that reported for human patients . in studies with germ free rats given lactulose no such effect was observed , suggesting that , for lactulose at least , these effects are mediated by the gut flora . measurement of the alpha - , epsilon-diaminopimelic acid content of the faeces confirmed that the enhancement of faecal nitrogen was due to an increased contribution from bacteria . the similarity in the results for lactulose and lactitol suggests that , from the perspective of protein metabolism , lactitol acts in a similar way to lactulose in the treatment of portosystemic encephalopathy . 
posterior transfer of the adductors in children who have cerebral palsy . a long-term study . seventy-eight posterior transfers of the adductors of the hip in forty-two children who has spastic cerebral palsy were reviewed an average of 5.7 years after the operation ( range , two to 14.6 years ) . the results were assessed on the basis of the patient 's ability to walk , the range of motion of the affected hip or hips , and the radiographic measurements . in 88 per cent of the patients , the transfer was successful in improving or maintaining abduction , extension , functional walking , and stability of the hip . the failures were all in patients who were unable to walk and who had spastic quadriplegia . tenotomy of the iliopsoas tendon at the time of the transfer procedure resulted in an improved range of motion of the hip . 
deformities of the hip in adults who have sickle-cell disease and had avascular necrosis in childhood . a natural history of fifty-two patients . we report the natural course of the hip in fifty-two patients ( ninety-five hips ) who had sickle-cell disease and had had avascular necrosis in childhood . there were twenty-one african , twenty-one west indian , and ten mediterranean patients . at the most recent follow-up examination ( at an average duration of nineteen years after the onset of the disease ) , 80 per cent of the hips that had been affected by avascular necrosis during childhood were painful and had permanent damage with regard to decreased mobility , limb-length discrepancy , and an abnormal gait . when the patients were evaluated , at an average age of thirty-one years , fifteen hips ( 16 per cent ) had had an operation for progressive disability and sixty ( 63 per cent ) had major problems because of pain . of the twenty hips ( 21 per cent ) that were not painful , five were in patients who had an abnormal gait , with decreased agility . the mean iowa hip-rating score at the most recent follow-up examination was 73 points ( range , 30 to 100 points ) . correlations were found between the hip score and the patient 's age at the onset of the disease and at the latest follow-up , between the hip score and degenerative changes in the hip , and between degenerative changes and radiographic evidence of deformity of the hip . 
the relation of pain to depression among institutionalized aged . nursing home and congregate apartment residents ( n = 598 ) were classified on the basis of a dsm-iiir symptom checklist as suffering possible major , minor , or no depression ; they also completed the geriatric depression scale ( gds ) and the profile of mood states ( poms ) . possible major depressives reported more intense pain and a greater number of localized pain complaints than did minor depressives ; nondepressed individuals reported the least intense pain and fewest localized complaints . the effect remained strong even when functional disability and health status were controlled statistically . both pain intensity and number of localized complaints were correlated with gds and poms factor scores , but strength and direction of associations varied with level of depression . item-by-item examination of localized complaints again indicated that more depressed individuals were more likely to report pain , particularly where physicians had identified a physical problem that might account for the pain . results are compared with previous research on pain among younger individuals . implications for treatment of depressed elderly are discussed . 
is gastric acid responsible for the pain in patients with essential dyspepsia ? the pathogenesis of symptoms in patients with essential dyspepsia is not known . since treatment with h2-receptor antagonists has provided symptomatic relief in some reports , we carried out the present study to investigate whether gastric acid is responsible for symptoms in these patients . fifty patients with essential dyspepsia and 25 healthy control subjects were studied . after an overnight fast , a nasogastric tube was passed and its tip positioned in the antrum under fluoroscopic control . normal saline or 0.1 m hydrochloric acid was infused in a randomized , double-blind fashion . eleven ( 22 % ) patients developed pain with acid infusion , but none with normal saline ( p less than 0.005 ) . in 10 of these 11 patients , pain recurred on rechallenge with acid infusion but was promptly relieved with infusion of 1 m sodium bicarbonate . none of the healthy controls developed pain on infusion of acid or saline . these observations suggest that acid has a definite role in the pathogenesis of symptoms in some patients with essential dyspepsia , although other factors may also be important . 
oestrogen and progesterone receptors in acoustic neuroma . tissue samples from fourteen consecutive ( 8 male : 6 female ) acoustic neuromas were assayed for hormone receptors using either a monoclonal antibody ( ma ) , dextran coated charcoal ( dcc ) or isoelectric focusing ( ief ) technique . in this series there were no unequivocally positive results , a finding at variance with previously published results . 
uses and complications of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty . uvulopalatopharygoplasty has become widely performed for chronic snoring and for cases of obstructive sleep apnoea . unfortunately this operation is not without morbidity and complications . we report our results of a prospective series of 50 patients undergoing uvulopalatopharyngoplasty with a minimum follow-up of one year . snoring was abolished in 18 ( 36 per cent ) and substantially reduced in the remainder . obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome , identified in 11 patients pre-operatively , was reduced in severity in all but three . troublesome complications were seen in 18 ( 36 per cent ) patients , namely intermittent velopharyngeal incompetence in five ( 10 per cent ) , pharyngeal dryness in 11 ( 22 per cent ) and loss of taste in five ( 10 per cent ) . one patient had nasopharyngeal stenosis requiring correction . a cautious approach to this operation is required with rigorous case selection . the importance of full assessment and careful follow-up should not be underestimated . 
use of emla cream as an analgesic in the management of painful otitis externa . a new application of emla cream is described . relief of pain in otitis externa is difficult and systemic analgesics for this localized condition are often ineffective . meticulous cleaning of the external auditory meatus is an essential step in the treatment . emla cream is an effective analgesic which can be used to relieve pain and anaesthetize the external auditory meatus to allow cleaning in patients with intact tympanic membranes . 
ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis associated with sensorineural deafness sensorineural deafness is rarely associated with both ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis . a patient is described in whom acute sensorineural deafness occurred in association with episcleritis , ulcerative colitis and clinical features suggesting giant cell arteritis . 
the frequency , causes and timing of death within 30 days of a first stroke : the oxfordshire community stroke project . in a prospective , community-based study of 675 consecutive patients with a first-ever stroke , of whom over 90 % had computed tomography ( ct ) and/or necropsy examinations , 129 deaths occurred within 30 days of the onset of symptoms , a case fatality rate ( cfr ) of 19 % . the 30 day cfr for patients with cerebral infarction was 10 % ( 57 of 545 , for primary intracerebral haemorrhage 52 % ( 34 of 66 ) , for subarachnoid haemorrhage 45 % ( 15 of 33 ) and for those of uncertain pathological type 74 % ( 23 of 31 ) . the cfr for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 33 % compared with 17 % for those who had been independent pre-stroke . the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was not significantly greater ( 1.8 , 95 % confidence interval 0 to 4.3 ) . there was a significant trend for cfr to increase with age ( chi square for trend = 4.0 , p less than 0.05 ) . this relationship was found in those patients who had been functionally independent prestroke ( chi square for trend = 7.9 , p less than 0.005 ) but not in those who had been dependent pre-stroke ( chi square for trend = 0.5 , ns ) . the pattern of increasing cfr with increasing age amongst those who had been independent prestroke was seen particularly in patients with cerebral infarction ( chi square for trend = 8.6 , p less than 0.005 ) . the age-adjusted relative risk of death for patients with cerebral infarction who had been functionally dependent pre-stroke was 2.2 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.2 to 4.1 ) . fifty three percent of all deaths within 30 days of stroke were due to the direct neurological sequelae of the stroke . 
the natural history of non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy . seventy one patients with non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy were studied retrospectively . sixty three ( 89 % ) were followed to the end of the study or death , mean follow up time was 5.3 years . whilst twenty ( 28 % ) had diabetes or hypertension , in thirty nine ( 55 % ) no predisposing condition was identified . in those who had monocular disease at presentation ( 68 ) , subsequent involvement of the second eye occurred in seventeen ( 25 % ) , seven within the first year . nineteen patients died within the study period . of these , nine died from myocardial infarction and four from cerebrovascular disease . this is a significant increase above figures calculated from the office of population census and surveys ( p less than 0.001 for all causes , p less than 0.002 for myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular disease ) . such an increase in mortality has not been previously reported , and implies that this condition carries a more sinister systemic prognosis than is frequently supposed . 
syndromes of transient amnesia : towards a classification . a study of 153 cases . of 153 patients presenting with acute transient amnesia , 114 fulfilled the proposed strict diagnostic criteria for transient global amnesia ( tga ) . the prognosis of this group was excellent with the exception of a small subgroup ( 7 % ) , largely identifiable because of atypically brief or recurrent attacks , who developed epilepsy of temporal lobe type on follow up . computerised tomography ( ct ) scans performed on 95 patients were normal , evidence for covert alcoholism was lacking and there was a familial incidence of approximately 2 % . by contrast , the group of 39 patients who did not meet the criteria for tga had a significantly worse prognosis with a high incidence of major vascular events . the groups could not be distinguished on the basis of behavioural characteristics during the attack . the following classification was proposed : 1 ) pure tga -- attacks fulfilling the strict criteria , and of more than one hour in duration which do not require detailed investigation , 2 ) probable epileptic amnesia -- attacks of less than an hour or rapidly recurrent , 3 ) probable transient ischaemic amnesia , a minority of cases with additional focal neurological deficits during the attack . 
effect of nicardipine on somatosensory evoked potentials in patients with acute cerebral infarction . we evaluated the effect of nicardipine , a calcium channel blocker , on somatosensory evoked potentials ( sep ) in 26 patients with acute cerebral infarction . post treatment , 58 % ( 15/26 ) of the n20 and p25 latencies were prolonged in the affected hemispheres ; 8 % ( 2/26 ) were shortened ; and 35 % ( 9/26 ) did not change . the mean n20 and p25 latencies were significantly prolonged two hours post treatment in the affected hemisphere ( n20 , p less than 0.01 , p25 p less than 0.01 ) . nicardipine ( ni ) had no effect on sep components in the intact hemispheres . seventy five per cent of the 12 patients with hypertension had a decrease in blood pressure ( bp ) after taking nicardipine , but there were no undesirable side effects or worsening of neurological signs . our study demonstrates that nicardipine prolongs the latencies of short-latency components of sep in the affected hemisphere after acute ischaemic stroke and also decreases bp . these observations suggest that nicardipine therapy might impair neuronal function in the ischaemic zone . 
platelet monoamine oxidase b activity in parkinsonian patients . monoamine oxidase b ( mao b ) plays a pivotal role in n-methyl-4-phenyl-1 ,2,3,6 - tetrahydropyridine ( mptp ) induced parkinsonism . an increased mao b activity in platelets of patients with idiopathic parkinson 's disease ( pd ) is reported in this study . the possibility that high mao b activity may represent a trait of vulnerability for pd by enhancing the neurotoxic effects of environmental compounds is discussed . 
changes in the basal dendrites of cortical pyramidal cells from alcoholic patients -- a quantitative golgi study . although a variety of pathological changes have been described in the brains of chronic alcoholic patients , there have been no studies which have addressed the question of alterations in cortical neuronal dendritic arborisation . loss of neurons from the superior frontal gyrus and shrinkage of neurons from both the superior frontal gyrus and motor cortex has been documented in chronic alcoholic patients ; these areas were chosen for this study . using a modified rapid golgi technique the basal dendritic arborisation of layer iii pyramidal neurons was compared in 15 male alcoholic patients and 15 age-matched male controls . all parameters measuring basal dendritic arborisation were significantly less in the alcoholic cases for both the superior frontal and motor cortices . changes in the arbor are in the terminal branches , which is consistent with other models of dendritic plasticity . such changes may explain both permanent and reversible functional deficits in chronic alcoholic patients . 
temporal movement control in patients with parkinson 's disease . patients with parkinson 's disease ( pd ) have been reported to be unable to modify their movement velocity to adapt to changing environmental demands . for example , when movement amplitude is varied , pd patients usually exhibit a nearly constant peak velocity , whereas elderly subjects show an increase of their peak velocity with increased amplitude . the experiment examined the ability of pd patients to vary the duration of their movement ( four different percentages of their maximum ) under conditions where temporal , but not spatial , control was emphasised . pd patients had longer movement times than control subjects , but were able to vary the duration of their movement with comparable temporal accuracy to that of elderly subjects . for both groups , the agonist emg activity increased with decreased movement duration . for the pd patients , the number of agonist bursts increased with increased movement duration . 
specificity of affective and autonomic symptoms of depression in parkinson 's disease . previous investigators have suggested that numerous symptoms used to diagnose depression , such as sleep or appetite disturbance , are non-specific in medically ill patients , and alternative diagnostic criteria should be developed . in the study this hypothesis was tested in parkinson 's disease ( pd ) by comparing patients with pd who reported a depressive mood with patients having pd but without a depressive mood . depressed patients showed a significantly higher frequency of both autonomic and affective symptoms of depression . depressed patients with pd reported a significantly higher frequency of worrying , brooding , loss of interest , hopelessness , suicidal tendencies , social withdrawal , self-depreciation , ideas of reference , anxiety symptoms , loss of appetite , initial and middle insomnia , and loss of libido when compared with non-depressed patients . no significant between-group differences , however , were observed in the frequency of anergia , motor retardation , and early morning awakening . 
neurophysiological observations on corticospinal projections to the upper limb in subjects with rett syndrome . the aim of the present study was to investigate the excitability of corticospinal neurons and the integrity of their projections to the alpha motor neurons through the corticospinal tract in subjects of different ages with rett syndrome . electromagnetic stimulation of the motor cortex and cervical motor roots was used to evoke motor action potentials in the biceps brachii and hypothenar muscles . the phasic stretch reflex in the biceps brachii was also recorded to study the excitability of spinal alpha motor neurons . motor cortex stimulation evoked motor action potentials at low threshold and with abnormally short latencies and prolonged durations . in contrast cervical motor root stimulation resulted in responses of normal latency and duration . the phasic stretch reflex had a low threshold , short latency and prolonged duration . it is concluded that in rett syndrome the corticospinal pathway is intact . the results suggest disordered synaptic control of the betz cell of the motor cortex and/or the spinal alpha motor neuron , although the involvement of the latter might be a consequence of dysfunction in supraspinal descending motor pathways . 
motor units in incomplete spinal cord injury : electrical activity , contractile properties and the effects of biofeedback . the electrical and contractile properties of hand muscles in a selected population of quadriplegic subjects were studied intensively before and after emg biofeedback . spontaneously active motor units and units that could only be slowly and weakly activated were observed in these subjects , in addition to units that were voluntarily activated normally . this suggests a considerable overlap of surviving motor neurons to a single muscle that are below , near or above the level of a lesion . despite the common occurrence of polyphasic potentials and other signs of neuromuscular reinnervation , the average twitch tension of single motor units in hand muscles of quadriplegic subjects was not significantly different from that in control subjects . nor did it increase after biofeedback training that typically increased the peak surface emg by a factor of 2-5 times . the percentage of spontaneously active units was also constant . the surface emg may be increased during biofeedback by using higher firing rates in motor units that can already be activated , rather than by recruiting previously unavailable motor units . 
visual evoked potential monitoring of optic nerve function during surgery . a study was made with intra-operative flash -- visual evoked potentials ( vep ) monitored using a fibre-optic/contact lens photo stimulator in 57 patients undergoing intra-orbital surgical procedures with potential risk to the optic nerve . the veps recorded under enflurane and nitrous oxide anaesthesia did not differ significantly in latency or amplitude from the pre-operative recordings . transient abolition of the vep was seen under many circumstances and did not correlate with the outcome of surgery , but absence of a previously normal vep for more than four minutes during surgical manipulation within the orbit did show a correlation with post operative impairment of vision . the technique provides early warning to the surgeon of threats to the integrity of the optic nerve . 
determination of ventricular fluid outflow resistance in patients with ventriculomegaly . resorption of the ventricular fluid was studied by measuring ventricular fluid outflow resistance during steady state 1.5 and 5.0 ml/min infusions in 26 patients with substantial enlargement of the supratentorial ventricular system . this test may avoid unnecessary use of shunts , but a shunt could be introduced during the same procedure . 
neuropsychological profile linked to low dopamine : in alzheimer 's disease , major depression , and parkinson 's disease . a distinct pattern of neuropsychological deficits was associated with low homovanillic acid ( hva ) in the cerebrospinal fluid of 21 patients with : alzheimer 's disease ( 9 ) , parkinson 's disease ( 8 ) and major depressive disorders ( 4 ) . regardless of clinical diagnosis , patients with low hva were slower on a test of efficiency of processing timed information , and showed greater benefit from semantic structure on a verbal fluency task than patients with high hva . however , low hva subjects were not significantly impaired on confrontation naming ( boston naming test ) . across three diagnostic groups , patients with lower hva also tended to have more extrapyramidal motor signs and were significantly more depressed . these results demonstrate a significant relationship between specific neuro-behavioural deficits and dopaminergic activity which cuts across traditional diagnostic categories . 
a case of amnesia after excision of the septum pellucidum . tumours of the septum pellucidum ( sp ) are rare and seldom associated with memory impairment either before or after operation . a patient is described who developed amnesia after transcallosal excision of a tumour of the sp . radiology did not show any major lesion of the brain areas traditionally associated with amnesia . because septal nuclei could have been damaged during surgery their possible role in memory functions is discussed . 
stroke rehabilitation : australian patient profile and functional outcome . a prospective , multi-institutional , population based study identified 1274 non-surgical stroke admissions to all hospitals in a major australian city during 1984 . the demographic and diagnostic profile and the nature of functional recovery of all 258 first stroke survivors who were referred for inpatient rehabilitation are presented . the median duration of rehabilitation stay was 49 days . the mean functional independence score , as measured on a modified barthel index at admission was 44 , compared with 78 on discharge , a mean improvement of 34 . stair climbing had the lowest mean value on admission ( 12 ) , while bowel control had the lowest residual deficit on discharge ( 95 ) . the stroke study group was representative of the unimpaired aged population in all respects except ethnicity , where differences are attributed to age . the variables identified as significant are ; side and severity of paralysis , age and sex , marital status and ethnicity . stroke rehabilitation outcome was not influenced by etiology , site of lesion , arterial distribution , occupation or education . 
status of cochlear implantation in children . american academy of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery subcommittee on cochlear implants . the cochlear implant is a medical device , part of which is placed surgically , that uses electrical stimulation to provide hearing . for almost a decade , investigational studies have been ongoing to define its safety and efficacy in profoundly deaf children . during this period , more than 500 children aged 2 through 17 years have been implanted with either a single-electrode or multielectrode device . extensive auditory , speech , educational , and psychologic testing has been performed before and after implantation . results show that the cochlear implant provides auditory detection over much of the speech signal . compared with the preimplant period , there is significant improvement in auditory discrimination and speech production skills . limited open-set word and sentence recognition is possible for at least some children . complications with the device have been minimal . the cochlear implant can provide sound to deaf children unable to benefit from hearing aids . the complex assessment , rehabilitation , and parent counseling should be performed by centers with the multidisciplinary staffs necessary to provide effective care for patients with this specialized auditory prosthesis . 
asymmetric growth of the lateral cerebral ventricle in infants with posthemorrhagic ventricular dilation . lateral cerebral ventricular volume in 36 preterm infants with or without an intraventricular hemorrhage , and with or without posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus , was measured longitudinally and compared with the ventricular index measurements of the same ventricles . a poor correlation was found ( r2 = 0.67 ) . to determine a reason for this poor relationship , we analyzed the volumes of the regions of the ventricles by a segmental volume analysis . the occipital region of the lateral cerebral ventricle enlarged at a much faster rate ( 1.904 + / - 0.477 ml/day ) than either the anterior region ( 0.546 + / - 0.253 ml/day ; p less than 0.01 ) or the middle region ( -0.209 + / - 0.334 ml/day ; p less than 0.01 ) in infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus . the rate of growth of the middle region of the lateral cerebral ventricles was the same for all infants . linear indexes , such as the ventricular index and the lateral ventricular ratio , do not allow for accurate serial estimates of ventricular size in posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus because of asymmetric growth of the lateral cerebral ventricle . we conclude that sequential volume measurements are more useful than ventricular index measurements to follow ventricular size sequentially in infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus . 
phenotypic variability in glutaric aciduria type i : report of fourteen cases in five canadian indian kindreds . we describe 14 patients with glutaric aciduria type 1 in five canadian indian kindreds living in manitoba and northwest ontario . the patients had marked clinical variability of the disease , even within families . eight followed the typical clinical course of normal early growth and development until the onset of neurologic abnormalities , often precipitated by infection , between 6 weeks and 7 1/2 months of age . five patients had early developmental delay ; one was thought to be normal until 8 years of age . three patients died , seven are severely mentally and physically handicapped , and four have only mild mental retardation or incoordination . six patients had macrocephaly in the neonatal period . computed tomography was done for 12 patients , and findings were abnormal in 11 . glutaric acid and 3-hydroxyglutaric acid were detected in increased amounts in the urine of all patients , but the concentrations were much lower than those in most other reported patients . glutaryl coenzyme a dehydrogenase activity in skin fibroblasts , interleukin-2-dependent lymphocytes , or both , ranged from 0 % to 13 % of control values . there was no correlation between clinical severity and urine glutaric acid concentration or level of residual enzyme activity . we recommend that organic acid analysis of the urine be done in patients with unexplained cerebral palsy-like disorders , especially if the computed tomographic scan is abnormal . if there is suspicion of glutaric aciduria , glutaryl-coenzyme a dehydrogenase should be measured in fibroblasts or lymphocytes even if glutaric acid is not increased in the urine . 
the management of mid-face fractures with intracranial injury . recent advances have radically changed the management of facial fractures . ct scanning , extensive exposure , and rigid plate fixation in the setting of the trauma center have permitted early operation with improved results . a subset of patients with facial fractures will also have intracranial injuries ( ici ) . we sought to identify parameters associated with an increased risk for ici . we also sought to examine the safety and limits of early craniofacial repair in patients with intracranial injuries . of 114 mid-face fractures treated over a 1-year period , 43 ( 38 % ) had a concomitant ici . the majority , 36 ( 84 % ) , were from motor vehicle accidents ( mva ) . frontal sinus and orbitoethmoid fractures were at the highest risk for ici , although orbitozygomatic fractures caused by mvas also had a surprisingly high incidence of ici . our results show that early craniofacial repair can be performed safely with appropriate general surgical and neurosurgical support . 
multipiece tire rim injuries . multipiece tire rims can explode during tire change , causing severe injury . although more than 450 such accidents , with at least 80 deaths , have been recorded by the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) , we found no reports in the surgical literature on such injuries in the united states . this report describes experience with seven patients who sustained injuries in explosions of multipiece tire rims . all victims suffered massive maxillofacial trauma with associated ocular , cranial , intracranial , and extremity injuries . two patients died , both because of intracerebral hemorrhage . one patient suffered serious long-term disability . all survivors required extensive reconstructive surgery . the design of the multipiece tire rim is inherently hazardous . since many accidents of this type are not reported to the nhtsa , the incidence of such injuries may be significantly higher . an alternative , nonhazardous tire rim is available . design modifications or a law restricting use of multipiece tire rims would prevent many accidents . 
multicenter trial of l-carnitine in maintenance hemodialysis patients . ii . clinical and biochemical effects . since carnitine deficiency has been reported in some patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis , we studied the effects of intravenous infusion of l-carnitine or placebo at the end of each dialysis treatment . the trial , which lasted seven months ( one month baseline , 6 months treatment ) was multicenter , double blind , placebo controlled , and randomized . eighty-two long-term hemodialysis patients , who were given either carnitine ( n = 38 ) or placebo ( n = 44 ) , completed this study . in each group , clinical and biochemical parameters during treatment were compared with baseline values . intra-dialytic hypotension and muscle cramps were reduced only in the carnitine treated group , while improvement in post-dialysis asthenia was noticed in both carnitine and placebo groups . maximal oxygen consumption , measured during a progressive work exercise test , improved significantly in the carnitine group ( 111 + / - 50 ml/min . p less than 0.03 ) and was unchanged in the placebo group . l-carnitine treatment was associated with a significant drop in pre-dialysis concentrations of serum urea nitrogen , creatinine and phosphorus ( means + / - sem , 101 + / - 4.5 to 84 + / - 3.9 , 16.7 + / - 0.67 to 14.7 + / - 0.64 , and 6.4 + / - 0.3 to 5.5 + / - 0.4 mg/dl , respectively , p less than 0.004 ) . no significant changes in any of these variables were noticed in the placebo group . mid-arm circumference and triceps skinfold thickness were measured in 11 carnitine and 13 placebo treated patients . calculated mid-arm muscle area increased in the carnitine patients ( 41.37 + / - 2.68 to 45.6 + / - 2.82 cm2 , p = 0.05 ) and remained unchanged in the placebo patients . 
leukocyte alkaline phosphatase score in patients with cerebrovascular disease and in patients with primary and metastatic brain tumors . leukocyte alkaline phosphatase ( lap ) activity in peripheral blood was determined in 54 patients with cerebrovascular disease ( cvd ) , 11 patients with primary brain tumor , and 23 patients with metastatic brain tumor . the lap score of the primary brain tumor patients ( 155 + / - 40 ) was significantly higher ( p less than 0.03 ) than the lap score for cerebrovascular disease patients ( 96 + / - 87 ) . the lap score levels of the metastatic brain tumor patients ( 251 + / - 55 ) was significantly higher as compared with both the cerebrovascular disease ( p less than 0.001 ) and primary brain tumor groups ( p less than 0.001 ) . the lap score could serve as an additional , although non-specific , marker to assist in the differentiation between cerebrovascular disease and brain tumors . 
coronary bypass surgery : is the operation different today ? patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting have undergone an evolution in recent years . to document this change , we analyzed two groups of patients in 1981 ( n = 1586 ) and 1987 ( n = 1513 ) to document preoperative and postoperative variables important in determining immediate morbidity and mortality after isolated coronary bypass . between 1981 and 1987 , patients were found to be older ( greater than or equal to 70 years , 8.7 % versus 21.8 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , more often diabetic ( 15 % versus 24 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , have a greater prevalence of triple vessel disease ( 14.5 % versus 46.1 % , p less than 0.0001 ) , and have more left ventricular dysfunction ( ejection fraction 0.60 + / - 14 versus 0.54 + / - 13 , p less than 0.0001 ) . to facilitate analysis and because of overlap between subgroups , we subdivided patients into three subgroups for statistical comparison of the years 1981 and 1987 : subgroup i , no prior procedure ( n = 1546 in 1981 and 1396 in 1987 ) ; subgroup ii , optimal group ( n = 503 in 1981 and 292 in 1987 , and defined as no prior procedure , ejection fraction greater than or equal to 0.50 and age less than 65 years ) ; subgroup iii , patients having reoperations ( n = 40 in 1981 and 117 in 1987 ) . internal mammary artery grafting was infrequently used in 1981 but was used in 72.1 % in 1987 . major postoperative morbidity between the 2 years for the total population increased significantly : need for intraaortic balloon pumping , 1.4 % versus 4.7 % , p less than 0.0001 ; myocardial infarction 3.5 % versus 5.5 % , p less than 0.008 ; stroke , 1.4 % versus 2.8 % , p less than 0.008 ; and wound infection , 1.0 % versus 3.0 % , p less than 0.001 . wound infection ( all types ) in 1987 was increased sevenfold in patients having a perioperative myocardial infarction ( 0.7 % versus 5 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . for young patients with good left ventricular function ( subgroup ii ) , there was no increase in these morbid events between 1981 and 1987 . hospital mortality in the total population increased significantly between 1981 and 1987 from 1.2 % to 3.1 % ( p less than 0.0002 ) , respectively . it was lowest for the patients in optimal condition ( subgroup ii ) in both years , 0.8 % versus 1.1 % , and highest for reoperative patients , 5.3 % versus 4.3 % . in 1981 , 58 % of patients ( 503/870 ) were in the optimal group compared with 35 % ( 292/828 ) in 1987 ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the last six years have seen a progressive trend in surgically treating older , sicker patients who have more complex disease , with a significant reduction in the best candidate group . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
feasibility of reversing benzodiazepine tolerance with flumazenil to examine whether the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil can reverse tolerance to benzodiazepines but without precipitating withdrawal seizures , the antiepileptic effect of flumazenil itself and its ability to reverse tolerance at a dose that would leave sufficient receptors free for the binding of benzodiazepines were investigated . electroencephalographic studies in 6 patients with partial and 6 with generalised seizures showed that flumazenil had a short ( 20 min ) non-dose-dependent suppressant effect on epileptic discharges in those with partial seizures . receptor occupancy studies in 12 patients showed that 1.5 mg flumazenil given intravenously occupied 55 % receptors , whereas 15 mg occupied nearly all receptors . when 3 patients with partial seizures who had become tolerant to clonazepam were given 1.5 mg flumazenil , they were seizure-free for 6-21 days after the injection . the value of intermittent therapy with a benzodiazepine antagonist for preventing or reversing tolerance to benzodiazepine agonists ought to be investigated further . 
haemorrhagic shock encephalopathy and sudden infant death in 2 pairs of non-identical twins , haemorrhagic-shock encephalopathy syndrome developed in 1 co-twin while the other died of sudden infant death syndrome . the twin pairs were aged 3 and 4 months , respectively , and no cause was identified . we suggest that stress protein deficiency may underlie both syndromes . 
the electrodiagnostic findings in polyneuropathies associated with igm monoclonal gammopathies . electrodiagnostic studies were analyzed in patients with neuropathy associated with igm monoclonal proteins , 7 with anti-myelin associated glycoprotein reactivity ( mag ) and 7 nonreactive to mag . the findings were distinctly different in the two groups . the electrodiagnostic studies of all the mag-reactive patients had demyelinating features with slowing of conduction and prolonged distal latencies while only one of the mag-nonreactive patients had a demyelinating pattern . in fact , the mag-nonreactive patients were a heterogeneous group , both electrodiagnostically and clinically . this study supports the concept that mag-reactive polyneuropathy is demyelinating in type , and is caused by the activity of the igm m-protein directed at an antigen in the myelin sheath . 
carpal tunnel syndrome : correlations between pressure measurement and intraoperative electrophysiological nerve study . in 19 carpal tunnel syndrome ( cts ) patients and 4 control subjects a catheter was introduced into the carpal tunnel and slowly retracted in 5 mm steps . pressure was measured with the continuous infusion technique . in the same group of patients and controls , median nerve antidromic sensory action potential ( asap ) was detected intraoperatively stimulating proximally ( s1 ) , in the center ( s2 ) , and distally ( s3 ) to the carpal tunnel and recording from the third finger ( r ) . sensory conduction velocity ( scv ) and asap amplitude were considered in s1-s2 , s2-s3 and s3-r segments . the intracarpal tunnel pressure was significantly higher in cts patients than in controls , with the highest values located between 25 and 35 mm distal to the proximal border of the flexor retinaculum . scv and asap amplitude were also decreased most often in the distal part ( s2-s3 ) of the carpal tunnel . 
vector short-latency somatosensory-evoked potentials after median nerve stimulation . a new method has been developed for recording short-latency somatosensory-evoked potentials after median nerve stimulation . negative electrical forces recorded with three orthodiagonal bipolar electrodes in the neck had a direction opposite to that of impulse conduction in the proximal peripheral and cervical somatosensory pathway . sequential tracings of vectors opposite the electrical forces were made in three-dimensional display , thus reproducing the actual time sequence of electrical events in those structures . fixed generators such as the subcortical nuclei were also analyzed with this technique , and multiple generators of n13 potential ( n13a and n13b ) were visualized . this technique may be useful in the functional evaluation of the somatosensory pathway in the cervical cord . 
sick building syndrome . " sick building syndrome " ( sbs ) is one of the more colorful terms describing an increasingly common pattern of symptoms found among workers in modern office buildings . core symptoms include lethargy , mucous membrane irritation , headache , eye irritation , and dry skin . to prompt a diagnosis of sbs , these otherwise common symptoms must be " excessively " reported and primarily " work-related . " the world health organization now estimates that 30 % of new or remodeled office buildings show signs of sbs , and that between 10 % and 30 % of the occupants of these buildings are affected by sbs . despite such figures , sbs remains poorly researched and even more poorly understood . the following review provides the clinician an overview of sbs that will allow a more accurate differential diagnosis and will help to prevent the widespread suffering that can accrue when sbs is not quickly recognized . 
complications of lateral c1-2 puncture myelography . this study reviewed the technical complication of 112 cases of lateral c1-2 puncture myelography for cervical spinal cord disorders . spinal cord puncture and contrast injection , puncture between the occiput and c1 , and blood vessel puncture were the main complications . these principally depended on the positioning of the patient 's neck ( hyperextension ) and misdirection of the x-ray beam . for preventing major arterial puncture , the authors also reviewed 164 vertebral angiograms and determined the pathway of the vertebral arteries and the incidence of anomaly . 
clinical value of magnetic resonance imaging for cervical myelopathy . the magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) findings in 115 cases of cervical myelopathy , 121 cases of cervical radiculopathy , and 64 cases of neck pain with no neurologic deficit were prospectively studied to investigate the clinical value of mri for cervical myelopathy . the mri findings in the t1-weighted sagittal projection were classified into four groups according to the degree of the compressed deformities of the cervical cord . the degree of compression of the cervical cord on mri findings showed a significant correlation with the severity of myelopathy , the anteroposterior diameter of the spinal column , and the degree of compression of the dural tube in the myelograms ( p less than 0.01 ) . fifty-one patients of cervical myelopathy had undergone both preoperative and postoperative mri . of these , the spinal canal of 47 patients that was well decompressed was recognized according to plain computed tomography ( ct ) . however , 24 ( 51 % ) of these 47 patients showed on mri a deformity in the spinal cord amounting to cord atrophy . the correlation between the clinical function of the spinal cord and the recovery of the cord deformity on mri at the operative levels was accurately investigated in 34 patients who had no cord deformities in the adjacent intervertebral levels . twenty patients with cord atrophy had slightly poor clinical results , although no significant difference was found between these 20 and 14 patients with recovery in the cord deformities . from these results , it was evident that t1-weighted mri is useful in the accurate diagnosis of compression myelopathy , in accurately deciding the level of the disease focus , and in the accurate assessment of the surgical results . 
motion analysis of the cervical spine in athetoid cerebral palsy . extension-flexion motion . frequently instability and premature onset of spondylosis of the cervical spine are found in athetoid cerebral palsy ( cp ) patients . these structural abnormalities appear to be related to athetoid motion of the neck in cp . through motion analysis , the authors aimed to clarify the abnormalities of cervical motion that could precipitate structural abnormalities . the gross characteristic feature of cervical motion in athetoid cp is " whip movement . " both velocity and acceleration during extension-flexion motion were greater than in normal subjects , especially at the upper cervical levels . also , a sudden increase in velocity and acceleration occurred during rapid motions at certain levels , followed by a larger range of motion of the cervical spine . such kinematic abnormalities were thought to generate a greater shearing force and bending moment exerted on the corresponding cervical articulations-discs and facets . olisthetic instability often accompanied disc degeneration at the upper cervical levels . a large range of extension -- flexion motion of the cervical spine , analogous to a cantilever , caused a repeated bending moment of extraordinary magnitude and was regarded as a precipitative factor for disc degeneration and osteophytosis common at the middle and lower levels of the disc . 
pathomechanism , pathogenesis , and results of treatment in cervical spondylotic myelopathy caused by dynamic canal stenosis . in this study , the pathomechanism and pathogenesis of dynamic canal stenosis caused by cervical instability in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy and the validity of the concept of instability are clarified by analyzing the results of treatment in 53 cases . in cases of cervical spondylotic myelopathy caused by dynamic canal stenosis , the authors found that the posterior slide of the vertebral body occurs as a result of degeneration in the cervical spine due to aging changes , and that the dynamic sagittal diameter of the spinal canal decreases with an increase of the degree of posterior slide . this is followed by gradual aggravation of the clinical symptoms . continuous cervical traction was found to be the first choice of treatment . surgical treatment is indicated in cases in which the traction was ineffective , or even when it was effective , in cases in which the japanese orthopaedic association ( joa ) score remained low or when there was a tendency toward rapid aggravation of symptoms . it was demonstrated that the shorter the duration of the myelopathy , the better the results of treatment obtained . a limit of the dynamic sagittal diameter of the spinal canal of 12 mm was considered as valid . 
problems and solutions of pedicle screw plate fixation of lumbar spine . fifty-seven patients with low back pain and sciatica of various causes were reviewed with reference to problems associated with pedicle plate fixation of the lumbar spine . eleven percent of patients had neurologic problems postoperatively and 3.5 % ( two patients ) had severe sensory impairments . all patients had this complication in the early phases of the study . of 297 screws , 17 broke , ie , 5.7 % . these breakages occurred in 12 of 57 patients ( 21 % ) . in patients with spondylolisthesis , the degree of slip correction averaged 53 % postoperatively , which decreased to 35 % at the 1-year follow-up . slip angle was maintained after correction . pedicle screw plate fixation is an effective form of immobilization of the lumbar spine used in achieving arthrodesis . the surgeon must be fully trained in methodology . it is recommended that screw and plate materials be improved to prevent screw breakage . 
postoperative lumbar spinal instability occurring or progressing secondary to laminectomy . the manifestations and pathomechanism of postoperative lumbar spinal instability , occurring or progressing secondary to laminectomy , was clarified by means of functional radiographic analysis in a series of 46 patients over 40 years of age . the relation between instability and the clinical symptoms also is discussed . in patients under 60 years of age , instability at the operated level tended to appear in cases of wide laminectomy more often than in cases of partial laminectomy . occurrence or progress of instability seems to be promoted by resection of the posterior spinal elements rather than the disc . it is further considered that the postoperative aggravation of clinical symptoms may be influenced not only by instability , but also by the other factors . 
germ cell tumor of testis in a patient with von hippel-lindau disease . germ cell testicular tumor is a previously undescribed entity in association with von hippel-lindau disease . this case exemplifies the variety of pathologic entities encountered in von hippel-lindau disease and stresses the importance of thorough evaluation of the patient , as well as careful follow-up , to ensure early detection of potentially malignant lesions . 
the painful shoulder : part i. extrinsic disorders . shoulder disorders are most commonly manifested by pain and limited function . careful history and examination help the physician localize the problem to the shoulder joint , the surrounding tissues or adjacent sites that can cause referred pain to the shoulder . common extrinsic causes of shoulder pain include postural problems and cervical spine disorders . 
utility of upright tilt-table testing in the evaluation and management of syncope of unknown origin purpose : vasovagally mediated hypotension and bradycardia are believed to be common , but difficult to diagnose , causes of syncope . upright tilt-table testing has been proposed as a possible way to test for vasovagal episodes . this study investigated the clinical utility of this technique in the evaluation and management of patients with syncope of unknown origin . patients and methods : twenty-five patients with recurrent unexplained syncope and six control subjects were evaluated by use of an upright tilt-table test for 30 minutes , with or without an infusion of isoproterenol ( 1 to 3 micrograms/minute given intravenously ) , in an attempt to provoke bradycardia , hypotension , or both . of the 25 patients , there were 14 males and 11 females , with a mean age of 50 + / - 16 years . six control patients with no history of syncope were also studied . all tilt-positive patients received therapy with either beta-blockers , disopyramide , transdermal scopolamine , or hydroflurocortisone , the efficacy of which was evaluated by another tilt-table test . results : syncope occurred in six patients ( 24 % ) during the baseline tilt and in nine patients ( 36 % ) during isoproterenol infusion ( total positives , 60 % ) . none of the controls had syncope during the test . all patients who had positive test results eventually became tilt-table-negative by therapy , and over a mean follow-up period of 16 + / - 2 months no further episodes have occurred . conclusion : from this study we conclude that upright tilt-table testing combined with isoproterenol infusion is clinically useful in the diagnosis of vasovagal syncope and the evaluation of pharmacologic therapy . 
diagnostic evaluation of syncope syncope is a common medical problem and is caused by a wide variety of diseases ranging from physiologic derangements with few consequences to conditions that may be immediately life-threatening . because of the large differential diagnosis , many diagnostic tests are available for its evaluation . however , a cause of syncope is not established in 38 % to 47 % of patients despite these tests . in those patients in whom a diagnosis can be assigned , the history and physical examination identify a potential cause in 49 % to 85 % . furthermore , in 8 % of additional patients , history and physical examination are suggestive of causes that need confirmation by specific tests . routine blood tests rarely yield diagnostically helpful information . in those patients in whom a potential cause for syncope is identified , arrhythmias are diagnosed by electrocardiogram in 2 % to 11 % of patients , cardiac monitoring in 3 % to 27 % ( telemetry or holter ) , stress test in less than 1 % , carotid massage in less than 1 % , and electrophysiologic studies in less than 3 % . diagnosis of arrhythmias as a cause of syncope is problematic because symptomatic correlation during electrocardiographic monitoring is rarely found ( approximately 4 % ) , and as a result , there is no uniform agreement on diagnostic criteria for abnormalities . similar problems exist in the use of electrophysiologic studies . upright tilt testing and psychiatric examination may be useful in evaluation of recurrent syncope of unknown cause in patients without organic heart disease . based on the results of recent studies , strategies for evaluation of patients with syncope are possible that utilize selective and goal-directed diagnostic testing . 
antiepileptic medication in pregnancy : late effects on the children 's central nervous system development . in a follow-up study long-term effects of antenatal exposure to two anticonvulsant drugs , phenobarbital and carbamazepine on central nervous system development were evaluated . children aged 6 to 13 years of epileptic mothers who used phenobarbital ( n = 13 ) , carbamazepine ( n = 12 ) , phenobarbital plus carbamazepine ( n = 12 ) , or no medication ( n = 24 ) during pregnancy were studied . none of the mothers had seizures during pregnancy . a control group carefully matched for confounding variables was selected of children of nonepileptic mothers ( n = 61 ) . minor and major congenital anomalies appeared to be more related to mother 's epilepsy than to maternal medication . there were no neurologic differences between the groups . exposure to phenobarbital was associated with smaller head circumference . an accompanying negative effect of phenobarbital on cognitive development was suggested . further research on this intriguing phenomenon seems warranted . 
tables for estimation of individual risks of fetal neural tube and ventral wall defects , incorporating prior probability , maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels , and ultrasonographic examination results . tables are provided for estimation of the risk of open spina bifida in patients who have elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels but normal results on detailed anatomy ultrasonographic scan . risks are provided for various prior population risks , for various levels of elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein , and for various assumptions about the sensitivity of ultrasonographic examination . the formula used is based on sequential multiplication of odds with the use of bayes ' theorem , but an arbitrary reduction ( to the power of 0.5 ) in the degree to which ultrasonographic information modifies the odds has been made to allow for the nonindependence of ultrasonography and maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein tests . the wide range of resulting risks shows that the decision to offer amniocentesis after a negative scan should be individualized . 
relationship of laparoscopic findings to self-report of pelvic pain . an assessment battery including standardized measures of behavioral and psychosocial factors associated with other chronic pain conditions was administered to 102 women scheduled for laparoscopic surgery . surgeons who were blinded to the patient 's self-reported pain data completed the american fertility society classification for endometriosis and adhesions on the basis of observed physical disease . although american fertility society classification scores were significantly related to self-assignment into pain or no-pain groups , the extent of physical disease evaluated by this procedure was not significantly correlated with ratings of pain levels or a number of indexes of impairment . the group of patients with laparoscopically diagnosed pathologic conditions reported higher pain levels and greater interference than the group who reported pain and had negative laparoscopic results ; however , some women with observable pathologic conditions reported no pain symptoms . 
acute tolerance in morphine analgesia : continuous infusion and single injection in rats . this study aimed to determine whether the decline of the analgesic effect of morphine with a continuous infusion or that after a single injection correlates with the changes in brain concentration of morphine . the analgesic effect of morphine and its brain and serum concentrations were determined with a continuous 8-h infusion at a constant rate and after a single subcutaneous injection of the agent . the analgesic effect was determined by measuring the threshold of motor response to noxious stimulation . brain and serum concentrations of morphine were detected by radioimmunoassay with the use of 125i-labeled morphine . with the constant-rate ( 4 mg.kg-1 . h-1 , intravenous ) morphine infusion , the peak of analgesia could not be maintained : the increase in the pain threshold at 2 h was 1,003 g and at 8h was 286 g ( a decrease in analgesia by 72 % , p less than 0.0002 ) . at the same time , the brain morphine concentration tended to increase , to 278 ng/g at 2 h and 329 ng/g at 8 h. after the single morphine injection ( 6 mg/kg , subcutaneous ) , recovery from analgesia occurred at a much faster rate than did the decrease in morphine brain concentration ; the decrease in pain threshold was 79 % at 90 vs. 30 min after the injection ( p less than 0.0001 ) , and the corresponding decrease in brain concentration was 28 % ( ns ) . the absence of correlation between analgesia and morphine brain concentration both with the constant-rate morphine infusion and after the single injection suggests the development of acute tolerance , which is pharmacodynamic in nature . 
effect of systemic medetomidine , an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist , on experimental pain in humans . the effect of systemic ( intravenous ) medetomidine , an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist , on pain thresholds was studied in healthy human subjects ( n = 6 ) . medetomidine produced a dose-dependent ( cumulative doses : 25 and 50 micrograms ) sedative effect evaluated by visual analog scale . also , a dose-dependent decrease of blood pressure but not of heart rate was seen after administration of medetomidine . pain threshold to electric stimulation of the tooth pulp and cutaneous heat pain threshold were uninfluenced by medetomidine . an index of cutaneous thermal sensitivity to innocuous stimuli , the width of the thermoneutral zone , also was uninfluenced by medetomidine . medetomidine produced a significant attenuation of the affective-motivational component ( unpleasantness ) of tourniquet-induced ischemic pain , whereas the sensory-discriminative component ( pain magnitude estimate ) of the ischemic pain was not attenuated . the results suggest that systemic medetomidine alone at subanesthetic but sedative and hypotensive doses does not significantly influence the intensity and thresholds of experimental pain , whereas the affective-motivational component of pain can be attenuated . 
snoring and sleep architecture . the purpose of this study was to examine whether snoring adversely affects sleep architecture and sleep efficiency , and thus may account for the frequent complaints of daytime tiredness and fatigue expressed by heavy snorers . we recruited eight self-confessed heavy snorers and six self-confessed nonsnorers . all subjects had full nocturnal polysomnography , including continuous monitoring of snoring , which was quantified by counting the number of snores per hour of sleep ( snoring index ) , the number of snores per minute of snoring time ( snoring frequency ) , maximal and mean nocturnal sound intensity ( dbmax and dbmean , respectively ) . we found that even the self-confessed nonsnorers snored lightly , with significantly smaller frequency and index than the heavy snorers . sleep architecture was similar in both groups . distribution of snoring among the sleep stages differed for light and heavy snorers : light snorers snored uniformly throughout all sleep stages , whereas heavy snorers tended to snore more during slow-wave and rem sleep . snoring frequency and snoring index were similar during all sleep stages in light snorers , but they were higher during slow-wave sleep in heavy snorers . wakefulness time after sleep onset and sleep efficiency correlated significantly with the snoring index . we conclude that although snoring does not affect sleep architecture in general , it influences sleep efficiency and wakefulness time after sleep onset ; this may have an adverse effect on daytime function of heavy snorers . 
anton 's syndrome in a patient with posttraumatic optic neuropathy and bifrontal contusions . we describe a patient who manifested anton 's syndrome after sustaining head trauma that resulted in optic nerve damage and bifrontal contusions . denial of monocular blindness , generalized anosognosia , and confabulation were prominent neurobehavioral features . anton 's syndrome is most commonly encountered in patients with bilateral occipital cortex lesions . patients previously described who demonstrated anton 's syndrome secondary to a peripheral lesion have had an associated delirium or profound dementia . our case demonstrates that anton 's syndrome may occur in association with blindness from a peripheral lesion , even in the absence of a delirium or significant dementia . we suggest that the bifrontal dysfunction may have been a critical factor in the production of anton 's syndrome . implications for the role of frontal lobe dysfunction in the genesis of anosognosia and confabulation are discussed . 
pupil-sparing oculomotor nerve palsy due to midbrain infarction . vasculopathic oculomotor nerve palsies with pupillary sparing are thought to be due to ischemic damage to the nerve in the subarachnoid space or the cavernous sinus . we present two cases of patients with isolated pupil-sparing oculomotor nerve palsies due to midbrain infarcts . focal ischemic midbrain lesions should be considered in cases of pupil-sparing oculomotor nerve palsies . 
initial therapy of patients with wilson 's disease with tetrathiomolybdate . patients with wilson 's disease who present with acute neurological symptoms often become clinically worse when initially treated with penicillamine . other available anticopper drug therapies do not appear to offer a solution to this treatment problem . we are developing and evaluating a new drug , ammonium tetrathiomolybdate for this purpose . theoretically , tetrathiomolybdate has optimal properties , including an immediate blockade of copper absorption and the property of forming complexes with copper in the blood , rendering the copper nontoxic . in this article , we present results from six patients treated with tetrathiomolybdate for up to 8 weeks as initial therapy . none of the five patients who had presented with acute neurological symptoms worsened . also presented are methods of assay , preliminary stability studies , and methods of evaluating therapeutic end points with respect to copper metabolism . 
the influence of dialysate sodium and variable ultrafiltration on fluid balance during hemodialysis . an important factor in the development of hypotension during hemodialysis ( hd ) is a decrease in blood volume , due to ultrafiltration ( uf ) and an insufficient refill of the intravascular compartment . this insufficient refill might be caused by a transcellular fluid shift from the extracellular to the intracellular compartment . we studied the influence of dialysate sodium concentration and uf rate on the refill rate , blood volume , intracellular ( icv ) and extracellular fluid volume ( ecv ) . three different hd strategies were studied in 15 patients : ( a ) conventional hd ( dialysate sodium 140 mmol/l ) ; ( b ) hd with a sodium profile ( 140-148 mmol/l ) ; and ( c ) hd with a sodium profile and a variable uf rate ( high-low uf rate ) . icv and ecv were measured by non-invasive conductivity measurements , blood volume was calculated from erythrocyte counts before and after treatment . blood volume decrease was most pronounced during conventional hd , due to insufficient refilling without a detectable transcellular fluid shift . the sum of the decrease in icv and evc was less than during ( b ) and ( c ) . the insufficient refill led to a higher prevalence of hypotension and cramps . the strategies ( b ) and ( c ) led to an significant and comparable transcellular fluid shift to the extracellular compartment . thus , the use of a sodium profile led to a better intravascular refill and clinical tolerance of hd . addition of a uf profile did not improve this any further . 
cognitive and behavioural impairment among elderly people in institutions providing different levels of care . objective : to compare the prevalence and degree of cognitive and behavioural impairment in elderly patients in institutions providing different levels of care . design : prevalence study . setting : a nursing home , a home for the aged and psychogeriatric wards in a provincial psychiatric hospital . patients : only subjects 65 years of age or older were eligible for inclusion . a random sample was selected comprising 25 % of the residents in the nursing home and the home for the aged ; of the 119 asked to participate 95 agreed ( 44 in the nursing home and 51 in the home for the aged ) . all 50 on the psychogeriatric wards agreed to participate . main outcome measures : the mini-mental state examination ( mmse ) and the kingston dementia rating scale ( kdrs ) . results : an mmse score of less than 24 ( cognitive impairment ) was given to 37 ( 84 % ) of the residents in the nursing home , 43 ( 84 % ) of those in the home for the aged and 48 ( 96 % ) of the patients in the psychiatric hospital ; the corresponding numbers for a kdrs score of more than 0 ( cognitive impairment ) were 41 ( 93 % ) , 48 ( 94 % ) and 50 ( 100 % ) . the seven patients receiving the highest level of care at the home for the aged ( special care ) had more behavioural problems than those in the psychiatric hospital did ( p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions : cognitive and behavioural impairment was widespread in the three institutions regardless of the level of care . when planning services and allocating resources government funding agencies should consider the degree and prevalence of such impairment among elderly people in institutions . 
physiologic and psychobehavioral research in oncology . a major thrust in research in psychosocial oncology is the study of the interaction of psychologic and physiologic variables . this discussion reviews the current status and future directions of such research . areas addressed include pain , nausea and vomiting with chemotherapy , sexuality , effects of cancer on psychologic and neuropsychologic function , impact of psychologic factors on cancer and its treatment , and psychoneuroimmunology . in addition , specific recommendations for strategies to facilitate research in these areas of psychosocial oncology are proposed . 
evolution of energy expenditure and nitrogen excretion in severe head-injured patients . objective : the aim of the study was to estimate the influence of therapeutic changes on the level of energy expenditure ( ee ) and n excretion in a homogeneous group of patients usually considered hypermetabolic . design : ee and n excretion of head-injured patients were measured simultaneously at phases 1 and 2 ( patients treated 4 + / - 3 and 18 + / - 8 days after injury , respectively ) . setting : acute care hospital . patients : eight severe head-injured patients , mean weight 63.1 + / - 6.1 ( sd ) kg , mean age 21 + / - 3.8 ( sd ) yr . interventions : at phase 1 , all patients were sedated with fentanyl ( 6.7 + / - 1.9 micrograms/kg . hr ) plus flunitrazepam ( 9.1 + / - 4.8 micrograms/kg . hr ) and were mechanically ventilated . all patients received continuous total parenteral nutrition . the nonprotein caloric intake averaged 1092 + / - 200 kcal/day , including 77 % glucose and 23 % fat ( intralipid 20 % ) . the total n intake averaged 7 + / - 5 g/day , consisting of crystalline amino acids . at phase 2 , no patient received any sedative and all were breathing spontaneously via tracheostomy . all patients received parenteral and/or enteral nutrition . the nonprotein caloric intake averaged 1929 + / - 200 kcal/day consisting of 65 % carbohydrates and 35 % fat . the total n intake averaged 13 + / - 2 g/day . measurements and main results : the ee was significantly higher at phase 2 than at phase 1 ( 2121 vs. 1737 kcal ) , but the interindividual variability was low at both phases . n excretion was high at the two periods of the study and not correlated to the level of ee . the rq was 0.75 at both periods , indicating predominant fat oxidation . conclusions : we could not demonstrate any parallelism in the evolution of ee and protein catabolism in head-injured patients . the therapeutics ( mechanical ventilation , sedation , and nutrition ) have a major effect on ee but little on n excretion . 
noninvasive cerebral optical spectroscopy for monitoring cerebral oxygen delivery and hemodynamics . objective : to present an algorithm for noninvasive measurement of cerebral oxygen saturation ( cerebral oximetry ) and cerebral hemodynamics with near infrared spectroscopy . design : in vitro correlation of oximetry measurements with reference measurements ; illustrative cases of hemodynamic and oximetric recordings . setting : tertiary care neuroscience icu . patients : brain-injured patients with a prolonged , decreased level of consciousness chosen as illustrative examples . interventions : two-channel multiple wavelength diffuse infrared transmission spectroscopy was interfaced with the scalp using adhesive . transmission data were collected with gross superficial-to-deep spatial resolution . saturation calculation based on the deep signal was observed longitudinally in the patient . with the same technology , arterial input and cerebral response functions , generated by iv tracer bolus , were deconvoluted to measure mean cerebral transit time . measurements and main results : a positive linear regression fit between diffuse transmission oximetry and measured blood oxygen saturation over the range 23 % to 99 % ( r2 = .98 , p less than .001 ) was noted . conclusions : the approach used overcomes previously identified difficulties with cerebral oximetry , and demonstrates excellent in vitro correlation . the technique can be performed clinically without difficulty . a simultaneous measure of mean cortical transit time is possible . 
methodology of head-up tilt testing in patients with unexplained syncope prolonged 60 degree head-up tilt has been shown to be valuable in the investigation of unexplained syncope , diagnosing neurally mediated bradycardia/hypotension or malignant vasovagal syndrome . to evaluate the methodology of tilt testing , the following were examined : reproducibility of results , tilt duration , angle of tilt , method of tilt support and effect of age in patients and control subjects . seventy-one patients with recurrent unexplained syncope underwent 60 min of 60 degree tilt ; 53 ( 75 % ) had an abnormal test with vasovagal syncope at 24 + / - 10 min ( mean + / - sd ) . tilting to 60 degrees resulted in an abnormal test in only 2 ( 7 % ) of 27 control subjects without cardiovascular symptoms ( p less than 0.001 ) ; and 5 ( 15 % ) of 34 patients with syncope and documented conduction tissue disease ( p less than 0.001 ) . of 15 youthful fainters , 3 ( 20 % ) had vasovagal reactions as did 1 ( 8 % ) of 12 asymptomatic youthful control subjects . these 12 control subjects also underwent tilting with a saddle support and 7 ( 67 % ) had vasovagal reactions . it is concluded that the duration of tilting at 60 degrees should be 45 min ( mean time to syncope +2 x sd in the 53 patients with abnormal results ) . twenty percent of patients with an abnormal tilt test may not demonstrate syncope with repeat tilting . saddle tilt testing in unexplained syncope may result in a loss of specificity . tilting at less than 60 degrees results in a loss of sensitivity . head-up tilt may be less useful in youthful subjects with vasovagal syncope than in other subjects . 
lack of prognostic value of syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome syncope in patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome may be considered a premonitory event heralding the future development of sudden death . therefore , the clinical and electrophysiologic data of 101 patients with wolff-parkinson-white syndrome referred for invasive evaluation of known arrhythmias were reviewed to assess the incidence and clinical relevance of syncope . thirty-six patients reported the occurrence of one or more syncopal episodes ( group 1 ) and 65 patients had no syncope ( group 2 ) . these two groups did not differ significantly with regard to age , gender , incidence and characteristics of arrhythmia , clinical history , frequency of arrhythmic events and presence of associated cardiac disease . there were 10 patients in group 1 and 12 in group 2 who had ventricular fibrillation . there were no statistical differences between the two groups with respect to the effective refractory period of the right atrium , atrioventricular node , accessory pathway and right ventricle . furthermore , no differences between the two groups were noted with respect to cycle length of circus movement tachycardia , mean heart rate during atrial fibrillation , and minimum rr interval during atrial fibrillation . in addition , the accessory pathway location was not significantly different between group 1 and group 2 . the occurrence of syncope could not be predicted from any electrophysiologic finding and this symptom had a low sensitivity and specificity for recognition of dangerous rapid heart rates . furthermore , the prognostic value of syncope was less accurate and predictive than the shortest rr interval during atrial fibrillation and the anterograde effective refractory period of the accessory pathway for aborted sudden death occurrence . 
superiority of transesophageal echocardiography in detecting cardiac source of embolism in patients with cerebral ischemia of uncertain etiology . the diagnostic yield of transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography for identifying a cardiac source of embolism was compared in 79 patients presenting with unexplained stroke or transient ischemic attack . there were 35 men and 44 women with a mean age of 59 years ( range 17 to 84 ) ; 52 % had clinical cardiac disease . both transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiograms were performed using doppler color flow and contrast imaging . transesophageal echocardiography identified a potential cardiac source of embolism in 57 % of the overall study group compared with only 15 % by transthoracic echocardiography ( p less than 0.0005 ) . compared with transthoracic echocardiography , transesophageal echocardiography more frequently identified atrial septal aneurysm associated with a patent foramen ovale ( 9 versus 1 of 79 patients , p less than 0.005 ) , left atrial thrombus or tumor ( 6 versus 0 of 79 patients , p less than 0.05 ) and left atrial spontaneous contrast ( 13 versus 0 of 79 patients , p less than 0.0005 ) . all cases of left atrial thrombus or spontaneous contrast were identified in patients with clinically identified cardiac disease . in the 38 patients with no cardiac disease , transesophageal echocardiography identified isolated atrial septal aneurysm and atrial septal aneurysm with a patent foramen ovale more frequently than transthoracic echocardiography ( 8 versus 2 of 38 patients , p less than 0.05 ) . the two techniques had a similar rate of identifying apical thrombus and mitral valve prolapse . overall , transesophageal echocardiography identified abnormalities in 39 % of patients with no cardiac disease versus 19 % for transthoracic echocardiography ( p less than 0.005 ) . thus , transesophageal echocardiography identifies potential cardiac sources of embolism in the majority of patients presenting with unexplained stroke . 
clonotypic analysis of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies from experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis-sensitive lewis rats and experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis-resistant wistar furth rats . a single immunization of lewis rats with purified acetylcholine receptor ( achr ) emulsified in adjuvant typically stimulates the production of oligoclonal achr-reactive antibodies ( as demonstrated by ief ) dominated by the igg2a subclass , of moderate but clonotypically heterogeneous relative ag-binding avidity , and capable of inducing symptoms of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis . although similar immunization of wistar furth rats produces achr-reactive antibodies with similar characteristics of clonotypic heterogeneity , avidity , and isotype expression , no detectable signs of achr-dependent muscle impairment is observed . this contrasts the ability to induce impaired achr function upon the passive transfer of pre-formed lewis anti-achr antibodies into naive wistar furth rats , suggesting that disease resistance in this model is not conferred at the level of the achr itself . moreover , if more aggressive immunization protocols are used ( i.e. , multiple injections of achr ) , a transient breakthrough of achr-dependent muscle dysfunction can be induced directly in the wistar furth strain indicating that the potential for the production of disease-causing antibodies does exist in the wistar furth repertoire . ief analysis of wistar furth anti-achr antibodies has revealed that hyperimmunization results in modified antibody clonotype expression that might explain changing expression of disease symptoms ; however , explanations for the apparent " resistance " of wistar furth rats to disease induction are likely to be complex . 
elevated expression of the genes for transforming growth factor-beta 1 and type vi collagen in diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . full-thickness skin biopsies obtained from four patients with rapidly progressive diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) were examined for the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 ( tgf-beta 1 ) , type vi collagen , and fibronectin genes employing immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridizations . the immunohistochemical studies demonstrated increased deposition of tgf-beta , type vi collagen , and fibronectin epitopes in the extracellular matrix of the fascia in comparison to the adjacent dermis in the same specimens . increased levels of type vi collagen mrna , as evidenced by positive in situ hybridization signals with an alpha 2 ( vi ) collagen cdna , were also found in the fascia in comparison with the dermis . in situ hybridizations of affected fascia with a human sequence-specific tgf-beta 1 cdna demonstrated numerous fibroblasts displaying positive hybridization signals indicative of high levels of transcripts for this cytokine . in contrast , no hybridization signal for tgf-beta 1 was detected in fibroblasts in the adjacent dermis . these findings suggest that tgf-beta 1 may play an important role in the development of the connective tissue alterations present in ems-associated diffuse fasciitis . 
carbamazepine overdose : a prospective study of serum levels and toxicity . a cooperative prospective study of consecutive cases of carbamazepine overdose was conducted to determine if serum levels were predictive of toxicity and if risk factors such as age , chronic exposure , or previous disorder or cardiovascular disease could be used as prognostic indicators . seventy-three consecutive cases were collected from two regional certified poison control centers from january 1989 to august 1989 . there were 25 exposures in children less than 6 yrs. , 11 exposures in adolescents , and 37 exposures in adults . ten adult cases and one adolescent case were excluded from the study due to the presence of coingestants or inadequate information . peak measured serum levels ranged from 0.3 to 56 mcg/ml . using the presence of coma , seizure activity or respiratory depression requiring mechanical ventilation as measures of toxicity , we found poor correlation between rising serum levels of carbamazepine and toxicity . increased serum levels of carbamazepine did appear to correlate with increased hospital stay , but not with icu stay . history of a seizure disorder appears to pose increased risk of a seizure in carbamazepine overdose . in this series chronic exposure to carbamazepine did not appear to increase the risk of coma or respiratory depression for a given toxic serum level and may add some protective effect . serum levels below 40 mcg/ml do not appear to accurately predict the severity of toxicity . cardiac conduction defects were rare ( one child ) . anticholinergic findings , as evidence by decreased bowel motility and sinus tachycardia were common . previous cardiovascular disease and age did not appear to be important prognostic indicators . 
long-term follow-up of patients operated on for recurrent carotid stenosis . we reviewed our experience with 29 operations for recurrent carotid stenosis in 27 patients who underwent both their primary carotid endarterectomy and their reoperations at our institution . these 27 patients represent 4 % of the 667 patients who underwent primary carotid endarterectomies at our institution and who are included in our carotid follow-up registry . reoperation was prompted by recurrent symptoms in 19/29 ( 65.5 % ) cases . comparison of long-term stroke prevention in those patients who did ( 84 % at 5 years , 78.6 % at 10 years ) and did not ( 90.3 % at 5 years , 83.6 % at 10 years ) develop recurrent stenosis requiring reoperation revealed no statistically significant difference ( p = 0.48 ) when measured from the time of primary operation . the perioperative stroke and death rates for reoperation ( 3.4 % and 0 % ) were acceptable . we conclude that with our acceptably low perioperative stroke morbidity ( 3.4 % ) , surgery for recurrent carotid stenosis in symptomatic patients or in asymptomatic patients with high-grade ( greater than or equal to 75 % ) stenosis maintains the durable stroke prevention offered by primary carotid endarterectomy . 
angiographic localization of spinal cord blood supply and its relationship to postoperative paraplegia . forty-seven patients underwent selective catheterization of middle and lower thoracic intercostal and upper lumbar arteries to define the origin of the artery of adamkiewicz . one patient had significant atheroembolism , and a second had transient lower extremity paresthesias . no other complications occurred . the origin was found in 26 ( 55 % ) , and 21 patients underwent thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair with this knowledge . when the critical lumbar or intercostal artery could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis , all 12 patients could be included as part of a long proximal or distal anastomosis , all 12 patients survived , and one was paralyzed . however , if the aneurysm repair mandated a midgraft anastomosis to intercostal arteries critical to spinal cord perfusion , seven of nine patients either died or were paralyzed ( p less than 0.05 ) . in the group of 19 patients operated on in whom spinal cord blood supply was not identified three patients had a technically unsuccessful operation ; two died , and one was paralyzed . twelve of 16 patients who had an adequate , but unsuccessful attempt at localization were treated by intercostal " neglect " and survived . late paresis developed in two patients , but they are walking now . one of the patients who died had multiple systems failure and awakened paraplegic . she had a patent , enlarged , thoracic radicular artery at t-5 which probably supplied to spinal cord and which was missed angiographically . paralysis was associated with aneurysm extent ( group 2 and iii b , dissections vs group 1 & 3 , p less than 0.05 ) . selective intercostal angiography requires further refinement , but it is safe and offers the promise of understanding the mechanisms and risks of spinal cord complications after repair of extensive thoracoabdominal aneurysms . 
a prospective randomized study of cerebrospinal fluid drainage to prevent paraplegia after high-risk surgery on the thoracoabdominal aorta . this article is concerned with the study of the effect of several variables , principally that of cerebrospinal fluid drainage , on the incidence of neurologic deficit in a prospective randomized series of patients with extensive aneurysms of the descending thoracic and abdominal aorta ( thoracoabdominal type i and ii ) . forty-six patients had cerebrospinal fluid drainage , and 52 were controls , with a total of 98 available for study . cerebrospinal fluid pressure was continuously monitored in the former group and pressure maintained less than or equal to 10 mm hg in 20 , less than or equal to 15 mm hg in 20 , and greater than 15 mm hg in 6 patients during period of aortic clamping . the method of treatment including reattachment of intercostal and lumbar arteries ( p = 0.2 ) , temporary atriofemoral bypass during aortic occlusion ( p = 0.3 ) , and spinal fluid drainage ( p = 0.8 ) were not statistically significant in reducing the incidence of neurologic deficits . thus cerebrospinal fluid drainage as we used it , was not beneficial in preventing paraplegia . on appropriate statistical analysis we found that the only significant predictor of delayed deficits was postoperative hypotension ( p = 0.006 ) . 
mesenteric blood flow in patients with diabetic neuropathy . we examined flow velocities in the superior mesenteric artery and celiac artery in normal controls ( group c , n = 11 ) , diabetic patients ( group d , n = 8 ) , and diabetic patients with clinically evident autonomic neuropathy ( group dn , n = 6 ) to further define the usefulness of duplex examination in the evaluation of the mesenteric circulation in normal and disease states . by use of a 3 mhz duplex scanner , peak systolic velocity , peak diastolic forward velocity , end-diastolic forward velocity , and peak diastolic reverse velocity were measured in centimeters per second before and after a standardized meal . the vessels ' diameters in centimeters were also measured . after the meal peak diastolic reverse velocity disappeared in all patients . the average vessel diameter in the superior mesenteric artery ( 0.7 cm ) and celiac artery ( 0.8 cm ) did not change . flow velocities in the celiac artery were not significantly altered by the meal . in the control group , peak systolic velocity in the superior mesenteric artery increased 38 % , peak diastolic forward velocity rose 66 % , and end-diastolic forward velocity increased by 70 % . in the diabetic nonneuropathic group the changes were 15 % , 98 % , and 100 % , respectively . these changes were statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . on the other hand , the patients with diabetic autonomic neuropathy presenting a picture of gastroparesis did not exhibit the expected increases in postprandial velocities . moreover , this alteration in blood flow velocity , although similar to that encountered in patients with intestinal angina , did not appear to be due to occlusive arterial disease on the basis of clinical examination and b-mode scanning . 
driving and epilepsy . a review and reappraisal driving and epilepsy is a problem that involves physicians as both care providers to patients and consultants to regulatory authorities . driving restrictions for people with seizure disorders are intended to ensure the public 's safety , but such restrictions may unduly harm the welfare of many people with seizures . in the united states , all states now permit some people with epilepsy to drive . in general , only people whose seizures are adequately controlled are licensed to drive . adequate control has been judged principally by the seizure-free interval , but individual state standards widely vary . there is a trend toward greater liberalization of driving standards for people with seizure disorders , but the appropriateness and application of these standards continue to raise questions , as does the role physicians should have in the licensing process . our responsibilities to persons with disabilities and advances in our understanding of seizures and the nature of driving risks warrant a reappraisal of the current medical , legal , and social implications of driving and epilepsy . 
elderly men with histories of heavy drinking : correlates and consequences . recognition that the physical , psychological and social consequences of substance abuse may persist throughout the life span has led to increased study of the impact of lifetime drinking habits on the elderly . we examined the characteristics of elderly men with self-reported histories of having ever been heavy drinker ( h + ) in a population-based ( n = 1,155 , mean age = 73.7 years ) longitudinal survey of community-dwelling elders ; 10.4 % of the men reported that they had been heavy drinkers at some time during their lives . h + men were younger and less educated than non-heavy drinkers ( h - ) or never drinkers ( n ) . mortality was higher among h + men who were current drinkers than among h - or n men . h + men reported more major illnesses , poorer self-perceived health status , more physician visits , more depressive symptoms , lower levels of life satisfaction and smaller social networks than did h - or n men . self-reported ability to perform activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living was poorest among h + men , who also scored the lowest on a mental status examination . thus , a history of having ever been a heavy drinker is predictive of widespread impairments in physical , psychological and social health and functioning among elderly men . 
diagnostic utility of lower extremity radiographs of young children with gait disturbance . the diagnostic utility of lower extremity radiographs was evaluated using 84 outpatients 1 to 5 years of age with gait disturbance whose lower extremities appeared physically normal . chief complaints included limp ( 65 children [ 77 % ] ) , refusal to walk or stand ( 37 children [ 44 % ] ) , and frequent falling ( 6 children [ 7 % ] ) . a total of 43 children ( 51 % ) had more than one complaint . the mean age of patients was 26 months and the median duration of symptoms was 1 day . trauma was reported in 43 ( 51 % ) cases and fever in 14 ( 17 % ) . results of radiographical studies appeared normal in 81 children ( 96 % ) , demonstrated soft tissue swelling in 2 children , and revealed a bony island in 1 child . in 1 patient admitted to the hospital for failure to thrive and irritability , and whose radiographic results appeared normal , findings consistent with osteomyelitis later developed . of the remaining children , 68 ( 81 % ) were available for follow-up observation 4 to 28 months after the initial visit and all reported spontaneous resolution of the initial complaint . it was concluded that in a well-appearing child with an otherwise normal physical examination results , an acute gait disturbance is likely to be a self-limiting condition and radiographs are unlikely to contribute to the diagnosis . 
individual differences in children 's response to pain : role of temperament and parental characteristics . sixty-five families were enlisted in a study exploring factors associated with distress behavior in 5-year-old children receiving diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis immunizations . at a home visit 1 month before the immunization , the following measures were obtained : ( 1 ) the behavioral style questionnaire , a measure of temperament : ( 2 ) parental self-reports of medically related attributes ( eg . " good patient " ) ; ( 3 ) parental attitudes toward pain in children and responsiveness to their child 's pain ; and ( 4 ) parental prediction of distress at upcoming immunization . the child 's distress behavior during the immunization was evaluated using a modification of the procedure rating scale-revised and , after the procedure , the child 's assessment of his or her pain was elicited using the oucher . children 's mean procedure rating scale-revised score was 2.57 of a possible 11 . thirty-one ( 48 % ) had low ( less than or equal to 1 ) and 7 ( 11 % ) had high distress scores ( greater than or equal to 2 sd above the mean ) . factors positively correlated with distressed behavior included more " difficult child " cluster characteristics , the individual temperamental dimension of adaptability , but few parental attitudes and attributes . parent 's predictions of distress were the strongest correlates . these findings document the variation that children demonstrate in response to pain and offer some insight into associated innate and environmental factors . these results imply that treatment strategies derived from parental knowledge and tailored to individual characteristics of the child may be most effective in alleviating pain-related distress in medical settings . 
methsuximide for intractable childhood seizures . methsuximide was added to the therapeutic regimens of 25 children with intractable epilepsy . in 15 patients the drug was well tolerated and resulted in a 50 % or greater reduction in seizure frequency . no serious or irreversible adverse effects were seen . methsuximide is frequently overlooked and may be an effective adjunctive antiepileptic for children with intractable seizures . 
ehrlichiosis in children . tick-borne rickettsiae of the genus ehrlichia have recently been recognized as a cause of human illness in the united states . in the years 1986-1988 , 10 cases of ehrlichiosis were diagnosed in children in oklahoma . fever and headache were universal : myalgias , nausea , vomiting , and anorexia were also common . rash was observed in six patients but was a prominent finding in only one . leukopenia , lymphopenia , and thrombocytopenia were common laboratory abnormalities . six patients were treated with tetracycline , three with chloramphenicol , and one was not treated with antibiotics : all recovered . the onset of illness in spring and early summer for most cases paralleled the time when amblyomma americanum and dermacentor variabilis are most active , suggesting that one or both ticks may be vectors of human ehrlichiosis in oklahoma . 
sucrose as an analgesic for newborn infants . the effectiveness of sucrose as an analgesic agent for newborn infants was assessed during two standard painful hospital procedures : blood collection via heel lance and circumcision . infants who drank 2 ml of a 12 % sucrose solution prior to blood collection cried 50 % less during the blood collection procedure than did control infants who had received 2 ml of sterile water . crying of infants who ingested sucrose returned to baseline levels within 30 to 60 seconds after blood collection whereas control infants required 2.5 to 3.0 minutes to return to baseline . like findings were obtained for infants who received sucrose on a pacifier prior to and during circumcision . specifically , control infants who underwent a standard circumcision procedure without intervention cried 67 % of the time . a water-moistened pacifier reduced crying to 49 % ( p less than .01 ) . crying was reduced further to 31 % ( p less than .05 ) by providing infants with a sucrose-flavored pacifier to suck . these findings , which parallel results obtained in studies of pain in infant rats , provide a potent yet simple , benign intervention to help alleviate stress and pain routinely experienced by human infants . 
infantile systemic hyalinosis : newly recognized disorder of collagen ? four infants with stiff skin and painful joint contractures in the first few months of life are described . other features included small papules , particularly on the face and trunk , perianal nodules , hyperpigmentation over the metacarpophalangeal joints and over the malleoli , gingival hyperplasia , persistent diarrhea , and failure to thrive . two of these infants died before the age of 18 months . in each case hyaline material was found in the papillary dermis . ultrastructurally , there was a distinctive fibrillogranular appearance in which a banding pattern could be observed . this material was also found within membrane-bound vacuoles in macrophages and fibroblasts . it had an appearance and localization identical with that of collagen type vi . these features are similar to those reported in juvenile hyaline fibromatosis . it is believed that these infants have a closely related , but nonetheless distinctive , inherited disorder of collagen . 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome : life-threatening complication of neuroleptic treatment in adolescents with affective disorder . neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( nms ) is an uncommon , potentially fatal side effect of neuroleptic treatment characterized by hyperthermia , rigidity , rhabdomyolysis , and delirium . in recent clinical studies of adults it was suggested that affective disorder is a risk factor for the development of neuroleptic malignant syndrome . the cases of two adolescents with neuroleptic malignant syndrome who were treated with neuroleptic therapy because of psychotic symptoms in association with primary affective disorders are reported . the occurrence of these cases , as well as the observations in adults , suggests that attention to the primary psychiatric diagnosis is important in neuroleptic usage and that physicians should be vigilant to the occurrence of neuroleptic malignant syndrome in the pediatric population . 
cerebral infarction : early detection by means of contrast-enhanced cerebral arteries at mr imaging . the authors describe a new magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging sign of acute cerebral ischemia/infarction . abnormally contrast material-enhanced curvilinear structures were demonstrated in eight patients in the evolving area of cerebral ischemia/infarction within 26 hours after the ictus on contrast-enhanced , high-field-strength ( 1.5-t ) , t1-weighted spin-echo images . the abnormal enhancement is considered to represent cortical arterial vessels of markedly slowed circulation in areas of underlying brain injury , which will eventually progress to frank brain infarction . this was demonstrated at computed tomographic ( ct ) and follow-up mr examinations . characteristically , the degree of the contrast enhancement of vessels appeared most intense in the proximal portions , and the intensity of enhancement gradually diminished in the more distal portions of these vessels as they pass over the convexities and finally disappear . 
cerebral venography with mr. the authors describe a two-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance ( mr ) angiography technique to create projection venograms of the head . the technique was applied to 27 healthy volunteers and 39 patients . the superior sagittal and straight sinuses , the internal cerebral veins , and the galen vein were visualized in all the volunteers . other veins were seen in a high percentage of subjects . systematic comparison of digital subtraction angiography ( dsa ) after intraarterial contrast medium injection and mr venography in patients showed good correlation between the two techniques . mr venography proved helpful in identifying thrombosis or patency of cerebral veins and sinuses and showed collateral venous drainage and venous drainage from arteriovenous malformations . there was good correlation between conventional contrast angiography and mr venography . in conclusion , mr venography is considered reliable for showing the cerebral venous system and provides information additional to that of conventional spin-echo imaging . 
marked cerebrospinal fluid void : indicator of successful shunt in patients with suspected normal-pressure hydrocephalus . the authors blindly reviewed the charts of 20 patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus ( a disease of unknown cause characterized radiologically as chronic communicating hydrocephalus and clinically by gait apraxia , dementia , and incontinence ) who had undergone creation of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt . the initial clinical response to surgery was graded excellent , good , fair , or poor ; 5-year follow-up was available in 55 % of cases . the magnetic resonance ( mr ) images obtained in these patients were also blindly reviewed for the magnitude of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) flow void ( graded on the basis of extent rather than degree of signal loss ) in the cerebral aqueduct . a significant ( p less than .003 ) correlation existed between good or excellent response to surgery and an increased csf flow void . the presence of associated deep white matter infarction on mr images did not correlate with a poor response to surgery . on the basis of these findings , it is suggested that patients who fulfill the clinical criteria of nph and have an increased csf flow void undergo creation of a shunt . 
characterization of " peak e , " a novel amino acid associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . epidemiologic studies strongly associate eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) with ingestion of tryptophan containing a contaminant ( " peak e " ) . prior reports have suggested that peak e is the di-tryptophan n alpha-animal of acetaldehyde . spectral and chemical studies now demonstrate that peak e is 1,1 ' - ethylidenebis [ tryptophan ] . this novel amino acid may be the etiological agent responsible for ems , or it may be a marker of a still unidentified causal agent . 
functional outcome measures in stroke rehabilitation . i examine statistical considerations in the analysis of functional outcome following stroke and discuss the mathematical relation between improvement in function and discharge functional score . i demonstrate mathematically that the predictor variables of improvement and discharge functional score are the same and that the regression coefficients for improvement and discharge functional score will be equal , except for the admission functional score , for which a mathematically defined relation exists . i argue that the relation between admission functional score and discharge functional score must be positive and strong and that the relation between admission functional score and improvement must be negative for the stroke population . i believe that an ignorance of statistical concepts , especially confounding , and of the differences between raw correlations , partial correlations , and predictors have led to much confusion in functional outcome research . 
activation of coagulation in acute cardioembolic stroke . the hematologic disorders in patients with acute cardioembolic stroke are not fully understood , and no reliable measures are available to identify patients at high risk for recurrent embolism . we analyzed coagulation and fibrinolytic functions in 22 patients with cardiogenic cerebral embolism less than or equal to 24 hours after onset and in 25 age-matched controls . the levels of antithrombin iii , protein c , and alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor were significantly lower in the patients than in the controls ( p less than 0.001 , 0.02 , and 0.05 , respectively ) . in contrast , the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer were markedly higher in the patients than in the controls ( p less than 0.01 and 0.001 , respectively ) . at the time of admission , the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization ( one with prodromal embolism , three with intracardiac thrombi , and four with recurrent embolization ) were 2.8 and 3.5 times , respectively , higher than those in the 14 patients without recurrence or thrombus formation . the lowest concentration of crosslinked d-dimer in the eight patients at high risk for recurrent embolization was 600 ng/ml on admission . our results suggest that patients with acute cardioembolic stroke have various degrees of consumption coagulopathy and that the plasma concentrations of thrombin-antithrombin iii complex and crosslinked d-dimer can be useful indicators of those who are prone to recurrent embolization during this stage . 
platelet volume , aggregation , and adenosine triphosphate release in cerebral thrombosis . we compared whole blood platelet aggregation , adenosine triphosphate release , platelet count , platelet crit ( percentage volume of platelets ) , and mean platelet volume during the acute , subacute , and chronic periods of cerebral thrombosis in 22 patients with value in 29 controls . during the acute and subacute periods , platelet aggregation , platelet count , platelet crit , and mean platelet volume were significantly less in the patients than in the controls ( p less than 0.05-0 .01 ) while the adenosine triphosphate release rate per volume of platelets was significantly greater ( p less than 0.05 ) . during the acute period , infarct size showed a significant positive correlation with platelet aggregation ( r = 0.59 , p less than 0.01 ) and adenosine triphosphate release rate ( r = 0.70 , p less than 0.001 ) but a negative correlation with platelet count ( r = -0.44 , p less than 0.05 ) . our results suggest that platelet aggregation is reduced during the acute period due to the consumption of platelets during thrombogenesis but that the remaining individual platelets are hyperactive . platelet consumption during the acute period increases with infarct size . during the chronic period , platelet crit and mean platelet volume were significantly less in the patients than in the controls ( p less than 0.01 ) while the adenosine triphosphate release rate was significantly greater ( p less than 0.01 ) , suggesting sustained platelet consumption and chronically enhanced secretion of individual platelets . 
the role of neutrophils and platelets in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke . cerebral ischemia is accompanied by many of the cardinal features of acute inflammation such as neutrophil and platelet activation and accumulation . we sought to determine whether circulating neutrophils or platelets contribute to brain injury in a rabbit model of thromboembolic stroke that includes a fixed duration of superimposed systemic hypotension . we randomized 18 rabbits to receive either antineutrophil antiserum ( n = 6 ) , antiplatelet antiserum ( n = 5 ) , or nonimmune serum ( n = 7 ) . we assessed brain ischemia by measuring cerebral blood flow , intracranial pressure , and infarct size . following the intracarotid administration of an autologous clot , cerebral blood flow in all groups fell to less than 5 ml/100 g/min during induced hypotension . after restoration of baseline blood pressure , mean cerebral blood flow in neutropenic animals recovered to 20-30 ml/100 g/min while that in control and thrombocytopenic rabbits remained at less than 10 ml/100 g/min . intracranial pressure in control animals rose steadily to a final value of 241 % of baseline , while a much smaller increase ( 148 % of baseline ) was noted in the thrombocytopenic group ; no change from baseline was evident in the neutropenic group . infarct size was significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) reduced in the neutropenic group but not in the thrombocytopenic group . these results suggest that neutrophils may be important contributors to ischemia-induced brain injury whereas the role of platelets is more subtle . 
attenuated neuropathology by nilvadipine after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats . we investigated the effects of nilvadipine , a calcium antagonist , on cerebral ischemia in rats . under halothane anesthesia , 30 rats had a 3-0 nylon suture introduced through the extracranial internal carotid artery to occlude the left middle cerebral artery . nilvadipine was dissolved in polyethylene glycol 400 . immediately following occlusion , group 1 rats ( n = 10 ) were treated subcutaneously with vehicle and group 2 and 3 rats were treated with 1.0 ( n = 10 ) and 3.2 ( n = 10 ) mg/kg nilvadipine , respectively . perfusion fixation was performed 24 hours later , and the histopathologic outcomes were quantified . in group 1 infarct volume was 28.2 + / - 11.4 % of the total cerebral volume ; in groups 2 and 3 infarct volumes were 25.5 + / - 11.6 % ( ns ) and 13.9 + / - 9.2 % ( p less than 0.05 different from group 1 ) , respectively . nilvadipine decreased ischemic neuronal injury in a dose-dependent manner and may be of use in the treatment of cerebral ischemia . 
hypertension , cigarette smoking , and the decline in stroke incidence in eastern finland . finland has high rates of both cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular disease risk factors . we studied random samples of the population 30-59 years of age for risk factors in two provinces of eastern finland in 1972 and 1977 . we then followed both cohorts until 1985 through linkage with national hospital discharge and death certificate registers . the prevalence of hypertension and smoking in both provinces declined between 1972 and 1977 , as did the stroke incidence in the 8-year period of follow-up of each cohort . we observed no differences in stroke incidence between the two provinces . the relative risk of stroke in the later period ( 1977-1985 ) was 0.71 and 0.58 for men and women , respectively , when compared with the earlier period ( 1972-1980 ) . overall , 28 % of all stroke events could be attributed to hypertension , 17 % to smoking , and 43 % to these two factors jointly . the decrease in the prevalence of hypertension and smoking accounted for about 29 % of the decline . 
a novel treatment for ischemic intracranial hypertension in cats . there is no accepted efficacious treatment for ischemic cerebral edema . we show in a cat model of focal cerebral ischemia that infarct volume can be reduced ( p less than 0.05 ) by ventriculocisternal perfusion with an oxygenated fluorochemical emulsion ( bis-perfluorobutylethylene ) . an accompanying effect of such ventriculocisternal perfusion is a reduction in intracranial pressure . at 18 hours following the start of the perfusion , there was a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) difference in intracranial pressure between nonperfused controls ( mean 11.4 [ range 2.3-23 .0 ] torr , n = 6 ) and cats perfused with an oxygenated nutrient solution not containing fluorochemical ( mean 11.3 [ range 3.0-29 .0 ] torr , n = 8 ) or animals perfused with the oxygenated fluorochemical emulsion ( mean 2.21 [ range 0-3 .5 ] torr , n = 7 ) . perfusion with this oxygenated fluorochemical emulsion warrants further study as a treatment for elevated intracranial pressure . 
cerebral infarction in patients with nephrotic syndrome . we describe two adult patients who presented with acute cerebral infarction and were found to have a hypercoagulable state due to nephrotic syndrome . one patient had a deficiency of free protein-s . the other patient had a pulmonary embolus 4 months after the stroke . our cases demonstrate that the hypercoagulable state associated with nephrotic syndrome can be associated with cerebral arterial thrombosis and infarction in adults . examination of the urine remains an important part of the evaluation of patients with recent stroke . the presence of severe proteinuria and a low serum albumin content should prompt consideration of a hypercoagulable state . our experience suggests that anticoagulant drugs may be required to reduce the risk of new thrombotic events . 
recurrent transient ischemic attacks and stroke in association with an internal carotid artery web fibromuscular dysplasia is a nonatherosclerotic vascular disease that most commonly affects cervical carotid arteries at the c1-c2 level when cephalic arteries are involved . several histopathologic and angiographic subtypes of fibromuscular dysplasia exist ; most have a benign natural history . we describe the third reported case of a pathologically proven , symptomatic proximal internal carotid artery web and suggest that patients with this lesion are at a higher risk for stroke . 
neuroendocrine carcinoma of the ampulla of vater . a case of absence of somatostatin in a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide - , bombesin - , and cholecystokinin-producing tumor . a 31-year-old patient with a clinical picture of obstructive jaundice had surgical treatment , and a primary carcinoid of the ampulla of vater ( va ) was found . the tumor was studied with light microscopy , immunohistochemistry , and electron microscopy . the neoplasm had histopathologic and cytopathologic features similar to those encountered in typical neuroendocrine neoplasms . it is interesting that immunohistochemical techniques disclosed the presence of vasointestinal polypeptide , cholecystokinin , and bombesin ; however , unlike most neuroendocrine neoplasms arising in va , no somatostatin-immunoreactive cells were found . 
the bone marrow in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - related disease . morphology and clinical correlation . to determine the true incidence of abnormalities in bone marrow specimens from patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) and the clinical significance of these abnormalities regarding their cause and their role in the production of hematologic complications , 216 bone marrow biopsies , aspirates , and/or imprint preparations from 178 patients who either were seropositive for hiv infection or met the centers for disease control ( cdc ) criteria for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) were studied . detailed morphologic review was performed in a blind fashion as to clinical status . extensive clinical , therapeutic , and laboratory data were collected for each patient . statistical analysis was performed to detect significant correlations between morphologic findings and clinical/therapeutic/laboratory features . among the most common bone marrow findings were hypercellularity ( 53 % of specimens ) , myelodysplasia ( 69 % ) , evidence of reticuloendothelial ( re ) iron blockade ( 65 % ) , megaloblastic hematopoiesis ( 38 % ) , fibrosis ( 20 % ) , plasmacytosis ( 25 % ) , lymphocytic aggregates ( 36 % ) , and granulomas ( 13 % ) . a number of statistically significant correlations between morphologic findings and clinical features were noted . no significant association was detected between any morphologic finding and therapy with a variety of drugs . in 7 of 14 ( 50 % ) patients found to have marrow involvement by malignant neoplasm , the bone marrow represented the initial site of diagnosis of the neoplasm . most of the bone marrow abnormalities associated with hiv infection appear to be related directly to the infection or its complications and not to therapeutic intervention . in certain clinical situations , bone marrow examination continues to be useful in the management of patients infected with hiv . 
persistence and remission of depressive symptoms in late life . objective : the relation of poor health to the onset of depression symptoms in late life is well recognized , but little attention has been given to characteristics that might predict persistence or remission of depressive symptoms . in previous analyses the authors found that increasing disability and declining health preceded the emergence of depressive symptoms in older community residents and accounted for 70 % of the variance explained by discriminant analyses . the aim of the present analysis was to examine the relevance of changes in health and disability to the persistence of depressive symptoms . method : a representative sample of 1,855 adults aged 65 or older were assessed with the center for epidemiologic studies depression scale at baseline . twenty-four months later , 1,577 individuals were available for a second assessment of depressive symptoms . the characteristics of the 97 community residents whose depressive symptoms persisted over 24 months were compared to those of the 114 whose symptoms remitted . results : changes in health , differences in age , sleep disturbance , and added formal support services accounted for more than 30 % of the variance between the persistently depressed and remission groups . advanced age and worsening health were associated with persistent symptoms , improved health with remission . conclusions : previous studies have indicated that untoward changes in health and disability play a major role in the onset of depressive symptoms . these findings show a substantial contribution to chronicity as well . 
olfactory identification deficits in hiv infection . objective : impaired odor identification is described in a number of cns disorders , and human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infects the cns in a large percentage of patients . to evaluate whether impaired olfaction may indicate cns disease , the authors measured odor identification in patient groups defined along a continuum of progressive immunodeficiency and in a comparison group . method : most of the 42 hiv-infected patients in the study were outpatients in a clinic specializing in treatment of hiv-infected individuals . the comparison subjects were 37 healthy age - and sex-matched individuals who were recruited from hospital and medical school personnel . ten of the patients were hiv-seropositive but had no symptoms , 24 had clinical evidence of immunocompromise , and eight had hiv dementia . all subjects were given the university of pennsylvania smell identification test , which presents common odorants and requires the subject to identify the odor from a four-item word list . the data were analyzed by using analysis of variance after arc-sine transformation and scheffe post hoc analysis . results : all patients scored significantly lower on the smell identification test than did the comparison subjects . the patients with hiv dementia had significantly lower scores than did the other two groups of patients . conclusions : clinically , impaired olfaction might serve as a marker of early cns hiv involvement . future studies should attempt to match comparison and experimental populations for socioeconomic status and hiv risk behavior . 
cerebral palsy : why we must plan for survival . the survival of children in the south east thames region , born between 1970 and 1979 and diagnosed as having some form of cerebral palsy was investigated . of the 732 children studied , 651 ( 90 % ) are still alive , and hence cerebral palsy must be regarded as a condition with which people live rather than a condition of which they die . survival varies considerably among the different diagnostic groups : those suffering from spasic quadriplegia , dyskinetic and ' mixed ' cerebral palsy are most severely affected . our evidence suggests that , though immobility and severe mental subnormality are the strongest predictors of mortality in children with cerebral palsy , the majority of even the most severely affected patients survive to adulthood . it is therefore appropriate to plan for their survival by funding and evaluating programmes to maximise health , independence , and quality of life . 
low-level lead exposure in the prenatal and early preschool periods : language development . inconsistent results continue to be reported from studies linking low-level lead exposure and child development . this inconsistency is seen for both prenatal exposure and exposure in the preschool years . the primary outcome measures in most reports are indices of cognitive development , including iq . verbal skills may be particularly vulnerable to toxic insult . the fact that 2 y of age is both a time of peak exposure and also a time of rapid language development suggests that this may be a critical period for such an effect . the later prenatal and early infancy period , at which time the nervous system is developing rapidly , may also be critical exposure period . we examined the relationship of maternal and cord blood lead ( pbb ) at birth and venous pbb at 6 mo , 2 y , and 3 y with language measures at 1 , 2 , and 3 y of age . the sample consisted of disadvantaged urban children . multivariate analyses revealed no statistically significant relationship of either prenatal pbb or early preschool pbb with language measures after control of cofactors . supplementary partial correlations revealed a marginal relationship of cord pbb and mean length of utterance ( mlu ) , which describes a child 's ability to form meaningful word combinations . because this analysis was one of a large number of analyses with both positive and negative regression coefficients , the possibility that this was a chance effect was considered . if there is an effect of low-level lead exposure on language development , that effect is not robust . 
amebic meningoencephalitis in a patient with aids caused by a newly recognized opportunistic pathogen . leptomyxid ameba . a fatal case of meningoencephalitis due to a leptomyxid ameba in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is presented . this opportunistic organism has not been previously recognized as a human pathogen . a 36-year-old male intravenous drug abuser died after an 18-day hospital course heralded by fever and headache and followed by nuchal rigidity and hemiparesis . computed tomography of the head showed multiple hypodense lesions . neuropathologic examination showed that in addition to human immunodeficiency virus encephalomyelitis , there was multifocal meningoencephalitis with trophozoites and cysts morphologically indistinguishable from those of acanthamoeba . these organisms were also found in the kidneys and adrenal glands . by immunofluorescence , the parasites showed antigenic identity with a free-living leptomyxid ameba and failed to react with any of a spectrum of antiacanthamoeba antisera . this emphasizes the importance of immunofluorescence identification of morphologically indistinguishable ameba species . 
glossopharyngeal neuralgia associated with cardiac syncope : long term treatment with permanent pacing and carbamazepine . glossopharyngeal neuralgia associated with cardiac syncope developed in a 53 year old man . symptoms were controlled with temporary and permanent transvenous pacing and carbamazepine . 
salmeterol in nocturnal asthma : a double blind , placebo controlled trial of a long acting inhaled beta 2 agonist objective -- to determine whether inhaled salmeterol , a new long acting inhaled beta adrenergic agonist , reduces nocturnal bronchoconstriction and improves sleep quality in patients with nocturnal asthma . design -- randomised , double blind , placebo controlled crossover study . setting -- hospital outpatient clinics in edinburgh . subjects -- twenty clinically stable patients ( 13 women , seven men ) with nocturnal asthma , median age 39 ( range 18-60 ) years . interventions -- salmeterol 50 micrograms and 100 micrograms and placebo taken each morning and evening by metered dose inhaler . rescue salbutamol inhalers were provided throughout the run in and study periods . main outcome measures -- improvement in nocturnal asthma as measured by peak expiratory flow rates and change in sleep quality as measured by electroencephalography . results -- salmeterol improved the lowest overnight peak flow rate at both 50 micrograms ( difference in median values ( 95 % confidence interval for difference in medians ) 69 ( 18 to 88 ) l/min ) and 100 micrograms ( 72 ( 23 to 61 ) l/min ) doses twice daily . while taking salmeterol 50 micrograms twice daily patients had an objective improvement in sleep quality , spending less time awake or in light sleep ( -9 ( -4 to -44 ) min ) and more time in stage 4 sleep ( 26 ( 6-34 ) min ) . conclusions -- salmeterol is an effective long acting inhaled bronchodilator for patients with nocturnal asthma and at a dose of 50 micrograms twice daily improves objective sleep quality . 
health care screening for people with mental handicap living in the community objective -- to determine what contact people with mental handicap had had with their general practitioner in the previous year ; what prescribed drugs they were taking and whether these had been reviewed ; when hearing and vision had last been screened ; and what medical problems were found on examination . design -- case series . setting-day centre for adults with mental handicap . subjects -- a balanced sample of 75 of the 150 people attending the day centre . 10 were excluded because consent was not given . results -- the subjects did not consult their general practitioners more frequently than the general population but were more likely to be taking prescribed drugs , and 57 % of these prescriptions had not been reviewed by a doctor . thirty three people failed vision screening , including 13 who wore glasses . twenty seven of the 62 who were testable had a hearing impairment . conclusions -- as only eight out of 65 people examined in the study did not have an appreciable problem brought to light , screening seems to be worth while . whether such screening needs to be done by a medically qualified person needs further research . 
levels of the human hepatocyte growth factor in serum of patients with various liver diseases determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . we have found a hepatotrophic factor in plasma or sera of patients with fulminant hepatic failure and have purified human hepatocyte growth factor from plasma of these patients . in this study we developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with high specificity and sensitivity for human hepatocyte growth factor in human serum . this assay for serum human hepatocyte growth factor is a sandwich method consisting of three steps . the standard curve for human hepatocyte growth factor appeared to be linear in the range of 0.20 to 12.50 ng purified human hepatocyte growth factor/ml ( 2.35 to 147 pmol/l ) . the assay took about 4 hr . serum human hepatocyte growth factor values in patients with fulminant hepatic failure measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay showed a strong positive correlation with that by bioassay using rat hepatocytes in primary culture . the mean value of serum human hepatocyte growth factor for 30 normal subjects was 0.24 + / - 0.12 ( s.d. ) ng/ml ; that for 23 patients with fulminant hepatic failure was 8.06 + / - 1.76 ( s.e.m. ) ng/ml - greater than 30 times greater than the mean value for normal subjects . serum human hepatocyte growth factor levels in patients with acute hepatitis , chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis were found to be slightly higher than those in normal subjects , but only the increase in serum human hepatocyte growth factor of acute hepatitis patients was statistically significant . the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serum human hepatocyte growth factor should prove useful for serum human hepatocyte growth factor level measurement in patients with various liver diseases . 
drug induced refractory headache -- clinical features and management . two hundred patients who were taking daily symptomatic or immediate relief medications , often in excessive quantities , yet suffering from daily or near daily severe headaches were studied . one hundred and sixteen ( 58 % ) of them were also taking concomitant prophylactic medications and they were ineffective . low tyramine , low caffeine dietary instructions and biofeedback training were given to all patients . the effect of continuing symptomatic medications , discontinuing symptomatic medications , and adding or changing prophylactic medications were studied in the various treatment groups . it is concluded that ; 1 . ) daily use of symptomatic or immediate relief medications result in chronic daily headache . 2 . ) discontinuing daily symptomatic medications itself result in improvement of headache . 3 . ) concomitant use of symptomatic medications nullifies the effect of prophylactic medications . 4 . ) discontinuing daily symptomatic medications enhances the beneficial effect of prophylactic medications . 
acetylsalicylic acid vs. metoprolol in migraine prophylaxis -- a double-blind cross-over study . in a double blind cross-over study , 28 patients , 5 male and 23 female , aged 31 + / - 14 years , after a run-in period of 8 weeks , were treated for 3 months with acetylsalicylic acid and for another 3 months with metoprolol , both in a prophylactic mode . attack frequency was reduced significantly with both therapeutic regimens ( asa p less than 0.001 , metoprolol p less than 0.00005 ) . reduction of attacks below 50 % was seen with metoprolol in 14 cases , and with asa in three cases . even though asa was of statistically significant efficacy in migraine prophylaxis , it clearly is not the drug of first choice in migraine prophylaxis . 
the ver as a diagnostic marker for childhood abdominal migraine . abdominal migraine is a common childhood migraine equivalent , for which diagnostic criteria have not been defined . as in other children with migraine equivalents this leads to difficulties in diagnosis and determination of prevalence . by recording the fast wave activity ( beta rhythmn ) in the visual evoked response ( ver ) to red and white flash , the pattern stimulation , 27 out of 28 children with clinically diagnosed abdominal migraine revealed significant differences compared with normal controls , outside the attack phase . comparisons with children diagnosed as migraine with or without aura revealed , from the ver findings of higher amplitude fast wave activity and the presence of paroxysmal sharp wave activity , that abdominal migraine appears to be a specific form of childhood migraine . we found that both clinically and electrophysiologically , abdominal migraine changes with age ; older children exhibiting a shorter duration of abdominal pain during attacks , and less evidence of sharp wave activity in the ver . 
99mtc hm-pao spect in pediatric migraine . 99mtc hm-pao spect brain imaging was performed during the headache-free period in 19 young migraineurs , affected by common migraine ( cm , 10 cases ) , classic migraine ( clm , 6 cases ) and hemiplegic migraine ( hm , 3 cases ) . spect findings were negative in all 10 patients with cm , in 3 cases of clm and in 2 cases of hm . positive findings in the remaining 4 patients ( 3 cases of clm and 1 of hm ) showed a decreased tracer distribution in the temporo-occipital regions ( 2 cases ) and parietal regions ( 2 cases ) : the two with decreased temporo-occipital perfusion reported prodromal symptoms exclusively contralateral to the areas of hypoperfusion . an impaired regional cerebral vascular autoregulation may exist even during headache-free intervals in patients suffering from classic and hemiplegic migraine . 
cerebral vein thrombosis shown by mri . a 46 year old man with a short history of left facial pain and numbness , and subsequently headaches , had a normal physical examination and a normal ct scan of head . lumbar puncture yielded normal csf under increased pressure . mri showed thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus , subsequently confirmed by angiography . mri is a sensitive test for detecting intracranial venous thrombosis , and may be the investigation of choice when this disorder is suspected . 
the cluster diathesis . we present further evidence for a sympathetic defect of vasomotor control of the anterior cerebral artery ( aca ) on the side of the headache during cluster periods . in 119 cluster headache patients , utilizing transcranial doppler , we measured co2 reactivity of the major intracranial vessels , in and out of cluster . reactivity was significantly lower during the cluster period , but only in the aca on the side of the headache . nineteen patients followed sequentially for a full cycle ( ie/both in and out of a cluster period ) showed the same changes . in 3 out of 6 patients in an active cluster period , we describe a lesion on gallium single-photon emission computerized tomography ( spect ) in the region of the cavernous sinus which fades as the patient moves out of cluster . it is felt that this lesion may represent the cavernous sinus plexus lesion postulated as the central lesion in cluster . changes in the sympathetic outflow at this point could explain the changes we have described in aca co2 reactivity during cluster . 
cluster headache : the effect of low oxygen saturation the present study concerns the possible relationship between hypoxia and the generation of cluster headache attacks . fifteen controls and 25 cluster headache patients were studied . the patients were allocated into two groups according to cluster headache stage , i.e. cluster or remission period . during the tests , all the subjects were asked to inhale 12 % oxygen ( 88 % n2 ) for 30 min , and the decreasing oxygen saturation ( sao2 % ) was monitored . patients in the remission period showed nearly the same decrement of sao2 % as controls . at the end of the test , patients in the bout showed significantly less reduction of sao2 % than the controls . in 5 patients , the test was carried out both in and outside the cluster periods . the tendency to less decrement in oxygen saturation in the cluster phase was as marked with this comparison , but the difference between the groups was not significant , probably partly due to the low number of tests carried out . only one patient got a typical attack . it seems that hypoxia of this magnitude per se is not the cause of attacks . the different pattern with respect to sao2 % following 12 % o2 inhalation in cluster headache may be due to an abnormality in central regulation and/or chemoreceptor sensitivity . 
relaxation training in school classes does not reduce headache complaints . the effect of teacher-presented progressive relaxation training ( prt ) on headaches , fear of failure and school problems was studied in school students . during ten physical education lessons , students received either prt ( n = 110 ) or placebo training ( n = 92 ) . the effect of the training was investigated in students who indicated the presence of headaches in a pre-training diary . no significant differences were found between both training groups regarding headache frequency , duration and intensity and the psychological variables . on the basis of these and previous findings , it is recommended to present prt to fairly small groups of self-selected subjects instead of complete classes . 
recurrent tension headache in adolescents treated with self-help relaxation training and a muscle relaxant drug . forty-eight adolescents suffering from recurrent tension headache participated in a controlled trial conducted in a high school setting . during the first treatment phase self-help relaxation training was compared with a waiting-list group . following this phase a pharmacological regimen consisting of a muscle relaxant ( chlormezanone ) and placebo was superimposed on relaxation therapy in a double-blind crossover design . each treatment phase encompassed a 5-week period . in addition to the evaluation of headache complaints , psychological distress among students was measured with respect to their experience of somatic complaints , depressive , anxiety and stress symptoms . although self-help relaxation training significantly decreased the severity and annoyance of adolescents ' headache besides their somatic complaints , the clinical improvement of headache was modest . the addition of chlormezanone did not help those who were nonresponders to self-help relaxation training . finally , a set of pretreatment variables consisting of baseline headache severity and annoyance , experience of anxiety and daily life stress among adolescents could predict outcome of self-help relaxation therapy . 
pharmacokinetics of tiaprofenic acid after oral administration in fasting patients during and between migraine attacks . this study examined the pharmacokinetics of 300 mg of tiaprofenic acid , a nsaid belonging to the 2-arylpropionic class , as a single oral dose , in 10 migraine patients during and out of migraine attacks . plasma concentration of tiaprofenic acid was determined by hplc analysis . drug absorption appeared to be the same during and out of migraine attacks ( absorption half life : during attack , 0.249 + / - 0.122 hr ; out of attack , 0.249 + / - 0.105 hr ; maximum plasma concentration : during attack , 37.8 + / - 9.8 ug/ml ; out of attack , 40.1 + / - 13.2 ug/ml ) . the other pharmacokinetic parameters evaluated were not affected by headache attacks as well . we conclude that tiaprofenic acid absorption and metabolism are not affected by migraine attacks . also , our data suggest that tiaprofenic acid might be useful in the treatment of migraine . 
treatment of status migrainosus : the american experience . dependence upon a variety of drugs -- ergotamine , analgesics , benzodiazepines , corticosteroids -- is a major reason for patients to enter an intractable phase of their migrainous disorders . repeated dosing of dihydroergotamine has proven to be remarkably effective in stabilizing the mechanism of migraine , allowing these patients to make the transition to a more reasonable as well as more specific form of therapy . 
sumatriptan in acute migraine : pharmacology and review of world experience . the introduction of sumatriptan , a novel abortive antimigraine agent , has generated a significant amount of preclinical and clinical interest during the past few years . at the scientific level , sumatriptan is unique in terms of its selective pharmacological properties . the effects of sumatriptan in various experimental paradigms have led to new insights into the pathophysiology of migraine . at the clinical level , sumatriptan appears to be an effective abortive anti-migraine agent with minimal side effects . its ability to decrease , rather than exacerbate , the nausea and vomiting of migraine appears to be an important advance in the treatment of migraine . 
atelectasis affects the rate of arterial desaturation during obstructive apnea . chronic hemodynamic disturbances are more profound in patients with obstructive sleep apnea when underlying lung disease with abnormal gas exchange ( low arterial po2 ) is present . previous studies suggest that pulmonary gas exchange could influence the rate of fall of arterial oxygen saturation ( dsao2/dt ) in obstructive sleep apnea . we postulated that abnormal gas exchange in the form of atelectasis would steepen dsao2/dt and thereby lower nadir arterial oxyhemoglobin saturation ( sao2 ) for the same duration of apnea . apneas were created by clamping an indwelling cuffed endotracheal tube at end expiration in eight spontaneously breathing adult baboons . apneas of the same duration were then repeated during temporary endobronchial occlusion of one lobe of the lung . sao2 and mixed venous o2 saturation were continuously monitored , and cardiac output was calculated . worsening of pulmonary gas exchange during atelectasis was documented by an increase in calculated venous admixture from 10.5 + / - 0.8 to 25.0 + / - 0.7 % ( p less than 0.001 ) . the dsao2/dt was independent of apnea duration at 30 , 45 , and 60 s. during endobronchial occlusion , apnea dsao2/dt increased 20 % , and nadir sao2 was significantly lower . possible mechanisms for steepening of dsao2/dt during atelectasis are discussed . 
paratope - and framework-related cross-reactive idiotopes on anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies . cross-reactive idiotopes are a possible target for therapeutical interventions in autoimmune diseases . to investigate their role in the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis ( eamg ) we analyzed the id of rat anti-achr mab 6 , 35 , 61 , 65 and a control myeloma protein ir27 . anti-id 6 , 35 , 61 , 65 bound in a direct binding assay with various affinity to all rat anti-achr mab that were tested . anti-id ir27 recognized none of the anti-achr mab . the specificity of these crossreactions was confirmed by inhibition studies with anti-achr mab and two control rat myeloma proteins ( ir27 and ir241 ) . in addition , the id expression on mab d6 , a mouse anti-human achr mab was recognized by anti-id 6 , 35 , and 65 . anti-id , except anti-id ir27 , bound to affinity purified igg from the sera of rats with eamg , but not to preimmune lewis igg . these results suggest extensive sharing of idiotopes among anti-achr mab , which are also present in eamg serum . anti-achr mab against the main immunogenic region ( 6 , 35 , 65 ) from different rat strains , shared at least one paratope-related cross-reactive idiotopes . in the view of the fact that anti-main immunogenic region antibodies might form a predominant fraction of the polyclonal response against achr , it is conceivable that an anti-id recognizing these antibodies could have therapeutical applications as for example a selective immune absorbent or in immunotoxin therapy . 
randomized comparison of ceftriaxone and cefotaxime in lyme neuroborreliosis . in this prospective , randomized , open trial , 33 patients with lyme neuroborreliosis were assigned to a 10-day treatment with either ceftriaxone , 2 g intravenously ( iv ) every 24 h ( n = 17 ) , or cefotaxime , 2 g iv every 8 h ( n = 16 ) . of the 33 patients , 30 were eligible for analysis of therapeutic efficacy . neurologic symptoms improved or even subsided in 14 patients of the cefotaxime group and in 12 patients of the ceftriaxone group during the treatment period . at follow-up examinations after a mean of 8.1 months , 17 of 27 patients examined were clinically asymptomatic . in one patient borrelia burgdorferi was isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) 7.5 months after ceftriaxone therapy . csf antibiotic concentrations were above the mic 90 level for b. burgdorferi in nearly all patients examined . patients with lyme neuroborreliosis may benefit from a 10-day treatment with ceftriaxone or cefotaxime . however , as 10 patients were symptomatic at follow-up and borreliae persisted in the csf of one patient , a prolongation of therapy may be necessary . 
ataxia in myxoedema : a neurophysiological reassessment . in a long-standing case of myxoedema with ataxia and dysarthria , neurophysiological investigations were carried out to assess how much of the ataxic dysbasic syndrome depended on the slowness of mechanical contraction and how much resulted from primary cerebellar involvement . it was observed that the achilles reflexogram showed a marked prolongation of contraction and relaxation time and that in both quadriceps and triceps surae mechanical percussion induced a marked myxoedema and prolonged relaxation time . the emg of these muscles during voluntary contraction and stopping reaction detected an excessive recruitment of the antagonistic muscles , starting without any abnormal delay , a finding at variance with a typical cerebellar pattern . post-urographic analysis gave a pattern of oscillations still within the normal range . these findings suggest that the gait alterations of our patient depended on the increase in muscle contraction time and the consequent excessive recruitment of the antagonists . 
skin and epidural recording of spinal somatosensory evoked potentials following median nerve stimulation : correlation between the absence of spinal n13 and impaired pain sense . a clinical lesion study and intraoperative epidural recordings were made to test the origin and clinical significance of the spinal n13 and p13 of somatosensory evoked potentials ( sep ) that follow median nerve stimulation . intraoperatively , the respective peak latencies of spinal p13 and n13 coincided with those of the n1 component of the dorsal cord potential and its phase reversed positivity . on both the ventral and dorsal sides of the cervical epidural space , maximal amplitude was at the c5 vertebral level to which nerve input from the c6 dermatome is the main contributor . the modality of sensory impairment in the hand dermatome was examined in selected patients with cervical lesions , who showed such normal conventional sep components as erb n9 , far-field p9 , p11 , p14 , n18 and cortical n20 , with or without loss of spinal n13 . statistically , the loss of spinal n13 was associated with decrease of pain sensation in the c6 dermatome . this was interpreted as being due to damage to the central grey matter of the cord , including the dorsal horn . our results suggest the spinal n13 and p13 originate from the same source in the c6 spinal cord segment and that they are good indicators for the detection of centromedullary cervical cord damage . 
the development of infratentorial atrophy in patients with idiopathic cerebellar ataxia of late onset : a ct study . the development of infratentorial atrophy in six patients suffering from idiopathic cerebellar ataxia of late onset was studied by a retrospective evaluation of consecutive computed tomography ( ct ) scans . four patients had evidence of olivopontocerebellar atrophy ( opca ) both on clinical testing and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . in these four patients , atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem became visible at the same time and progressed in a roughly parallel manner , whereas in the remaining two the brain stem was left intact . in all patients with opca , definite brain-stem atrophy was visible earlier than the appearance of non-cerebellar clinical symptoms . the present data suggest that ct investigations at regular intervals may be of prognostic value in cerebellar ataxias . 
impairment of vertical motion detection and downgaze palsy due to rostral midbrain infarction . we present two cases with acute onset of vertical gaze palsy , mainly consisting of impaired downgaze and apraxia of downward head movements , together with neuropsychological deficits ( hypersomnia , impaired attention and disorders of memory and affective control ) . ct and mri revealed bilateral post-ischaemic lesions in the dorsomedial thalamus and the mesodiencephalic junction , dorsomedial to the red nucleus , thus being restricted to the territory of the posterior thalamosubthalamic paramedian artery , which includes the region of the rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fascicle as the main premotor nucleus for the generation of vertical saccades . in our patients , oculographic examination with electro-oculography and magnetic search coil recording showed severe impairment of downward more than upward saccades and only minor deficits of vertical pursuit and the vestibulo-ocular reflex . visual functions were normal , with one exception : a psychophysical test of motion perception revealed a significant deficit in the detection of vertical movements . this could be due to a central adaptive mechanism which , in order to minimize oscillopsia , might elevate thresholds for vertical motion perception in cases of vertical gaze palsy . as an alternative explanation , lesions within the midbrain tegmentum could have damaged subcortical visual pathways involved in motion perception . 
fasciculations due to verapamil in a patient with neuropathy . a patient with pre-existing peripheral neuropathy developed generalized fasciculations under verapamil which ceased after discontinuation of the drug . it is suggested that the increase in acetylcholine ( ach ) release at the neuromuscular junction by verapamil may trigger fasciculation in the state of regeneration at ach-sensitive sites of axon terminals and immature axon sprouts . 
epirubicin at two dose levels with prednisolone as treatment for advanced breast cancer : the results of a randomized trial . two hundred eleven patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to receive either epirubicin ( e ) 50 mg/m2 and prednisolone ( lep ) or e 100 mg/m2 and prednisolone ( hep ) . the intended treatment consisted of 16 courses of lep or eight courses of hep given at 3-weekly intervals . reasons for stopping treatment early included progressive disease , stable disease without symptomatic improvement , or severe toxicity deemed intolerable by either the patient or physician . toxicity was recorded at 3-weekly and response at 9-weekly intervals using the world health organization ( who ) criteria of response and toxicity . two hundred nine patients were eligible for analysis , 98 % of whom have been followed for more than a year . one hundred four patients received lep and 105 hep . significantly worse myelosuppression , alopecia , nausea and vomiting , and mucositis were seen in the high-dose arm ( p less than or equal to .001 ) . more patients in the lep arm stopped treatment before the fourth course than in the hep arm , and the commonest reason for stopping was progressive disease . a similar median number of courses was given in each arm . there was a significantly higher response in the hep arm ( hep - complete response [ cr ] + partial response [ pr ] = 41 % , lep - cr + pr = 23 % ) . despite this , no statistically significant differences was seen in overall survival or progression-free interval . the median survival for hep and lep was 44 and 46 weeks , respectively . 
cerebral palsy and rhizotomy . a 3-year follow-up evaluation with gait analysis . a recent increase in the popularity of selective rhizotomy for reduction of spasticity in cerebral palsy has led to a demand for more objective studies of outcome and long-term follow-up results . the authors present the results of gait analysis on 14 children with spastic cerebral palsy , who underwent selective posterior rhizotomy in 1985 . sagittal plane gait patterns were studied before surgery and at 1 and 3 years after surgery using a digital camera system . the parameters measured included the range of motion at the knee and thigh , stride length , speed of walking , and cadence . the range of motion at the knee was significantly increased at 1 year after surgery and further improved to a nearly normal range at 3 years after surgery . in contrast , postoperative measurements of thigh range exceeded normal values at 1 year , but decreased toward normal range at 3 years . while improvements in range of motion continued between years 1 and 3 , the children developed a more extended thigh and knee position , which indicated a more upright walking posture . stride length and speed of walking also improved , while cadence remained essentially unchanged . this 3-year follow-up study , the first to examine rhizotomy using an objective approach , has provided some encouraging results regarding early functional outcome . 
acute subdural hematoma : morbidity , mortality , and operative timing . traumatic acute subdural hematoma remains one of the most lethal of all head injuries . since 1981 , it has been strongly held that the critical factor in overall outcome from acute subdural hematoma is timing of operative intervention for clot removal ; those operated on within 4 hours of injury may have mortality rates as low as 30 % with functional survival rates as high as 65 % . data were reviewed for 1150 severely head-injured patients ( glasgow coma scale ( gcs ) scores 3 to 7 ) treated at a level 1 trauma center between 1982 and 1987 ; 101 of these patients had acute subdural hematoma . standard treatment protocol included aggressive prehospital resuscitation measures , rapid operative intervention , and aggressive postoperative control of intracranial pressure ( icp ) . the overall mortality rate was 66 % , and 19 % had functional recovery . the following variables statistically correlated ( p less than 0.05 ) with outcome ; motorcycle accident as a mechanism of injury , age over 65 years , admission gcs score of 3 or 4 , and postoperative icp greater than 45 mm hg . the time from injury to operative evacuation of the acute subdural hematoma in regard to outcome morbidity and mortality was not statistically significant even when examined at hourly intervals although there were trends indicating that earlier surgery improved outcome . the findings of this study support the pathophysiological evidence that , in acute subdural hematoma , the extent of primary underlying brain injury is more important than the subdural clot itself in dictating outcome ; therefore , the ability to control icp is more critical to outcome than the absolute timing of subdural blood removal . 
endoscopic ventricular fenestration using a " saline torch " . the fiberoptic endoscope has never gained popularity among neurosurgeons although it is ideally suited for navigating within the cerebral ventricles . recent advances in optics and miniaturization make the application of endoscopy in neurosurgery more practical . the authors report eight children who underwent ventriculoscopic fenestration of symptomatic loculated cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) collections . these csf collections were either isolated ventricular cysts or trapped lateral ventricles secondary to obstruction at the foramen of monro . cyst wall dissection was carried out with a " saline torch " dissector which was introduced through a working channel in the ventriculoscope . the torch was used to coagulate vessels and to sculpt large windows in cyst walls or in the septum pellucidum . ventriculoscope-guided cyst fenestration can be performed safely and easily under direct vision . the technique may permit simplification of shunt systems in some patients and elimination of shunts in others . 
intracranial arachnoid cysts in children . a comparison of the effects of fenestration and shunting . the best operative intervention for children with arachnoid cysts remains the subject of controversy . recent reports stress that craniotomy for cyst fenestration is associated with a low incidence of morbidity and mortality and may leave the child shunt-independent . the cases of 40 pediatric patients with arachnoid cysts treated between 1978 and 1989 are reported . five children with mild symptoms and small cysts that remained stable on follow-up studies have not required surgical intervention . of 15 patients with cysts initially treated by fenestration , 10 ( 67 % ) showed no clinical or radiographic improvement postoperatively and have undergone cyst-peritoneal ( eight patients ) or ventriculoperitoneal ( vp ) shunting ( one patient ) , or revision of a vp shunt placed for hydrocephalus before cyst fenestration ( one patient ) . two other patients with existing vp shunts required no further procedures . thus , only three ( 20 % ) of 15 patients initially treated by fenestration remain shunt-independent after a median follow-up period of 8 years . the 20 other patients were initially treated by cysts shunting and all improved postoperatively ; shunt revision has been necessary in six ( 30 % ) of these 20 patients because of cysts recurrence . cyst location influenced the success of shunt treatment ; none of the seven middle cranial fossa cysts treated by shunting have required revision , but results with cysts in other locations were less favorable . in all locations , though , shunting was more successful than fenestration . it is concluded that cyst-peritoneal or cyst-vp shunting is the procedure of choice for arachnoid cysts in most locations , including those in the middle cranial fossa . 
an epithelial cyst in the cerebellopontine angle . case report . a case of a benign epithelial cyst in the posterior cranial fossa is described . it had the unique histological feature of a double-layered cuboidal epithelial lining . detailed immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies supported an endodermal origin . the differential diagnosis and the histogenesis of epithelial cysts in the central nervous system are discussed . 
spontaneous decompression of syringomyelia : magnetic resonance imaging findings . case report . the case of a 30-year-old woman with chiari i malformation and a cervicothoracic syrinx is presented . the patient was followed clinically over a 2 1/2 - year period . spontaneous and complete resolution of the syrinx , as documented by serial magnetic resonance studies , was accompanied by only a minimal change in objective symptomatology . 
familial hemifacial spasm associated with arterial compression of the facial nerve . case report . this report of an 88-year-old woman with familial hemifacial spasm includes the first published postmortem description of hemifacial spasm with cross-compression of the seventh cranial nerve root exit zone by a redundant loop of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery and associated vascular plexus . histological examination of the seventh and eighth cranial nerve complex suggested nerve degeneration because increased numbers of corpora amylacea were present just distal to the compression concavity . there was no evidence of demyelination or gliosis of the nerve . this case suggests that vascular compression of the nerve root exit zone is an important condition in the etiology of most of these cases . this is the third reported case of familial hemifacial spasm ; to date , all such patients have had left facial involvement . the family pedigree in this case suggests a pattern of autosomal-dominant inheritance with partial penetrance . the genetic basis for familial hemifacial spasm may involve anatomical variants or anomalies of the posterior circulation , since both posterior inferior cerebellar arteries were congenitally absent in this case . 
accessory arm -- dysraphism or disparity ? case report . the case of a 3-month-old infant with an accessory third arm is reported . the extra appendage was attached at the midcervical region and was associated with posterior cervical dysraphism and a cervical cord lipoma . possible theories of origin are examined . 
treatment of intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy with thrombin . report of three patients . of 165 consecutive patients undergoing computerized tomography - or magnetic resonance imaging-guided stereotactic brain biopsies at the cleveland clinic between june , 1987 , and november , 1989 , four patients ( 2.4 % ) developed arterial hemorrhage refractory to conventional efforts to secure hemostasis . craniotomy was performed in one of these patients to control the hemorrhage ; in the other three , 0.5 to 2 cc of thrombin ( 5000 u/cc ) was slowly injected via the biopsy cannula , resulting in immediate control of bleeding in all three cases . postoperatively , the first two patients treated with 1 to 2 cc of thrombin were slow to awaken ; one had evidence of vasospasm by transcranial doppler ultrasound studies and multiple infarcts on cranial computerized tomography , while the other had a moderate-sized frontal hematoma with intracranial hypertension . after prolonged recovery periods , only mild neurological deficits persisted in both patients . the third patient , treated with 0.5 cc of thrombin , had an uneventful postoperative course . thrombin is highly effective for stopping intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy ; however , it is a vasospastic agent and may have been responsible for the cerebral infarctions in one patient . therefore , thrombin should be used only as a last resort , short of craniotomy , to control intractable arterial hemorrhage during stereotactic brain biopsy . 
carbon monoxide-induced delayed amnesia , delayed neuronal death and change in acetylcholine concentration in mice . we investigated the interrelationship of delayed amnesia , delayed neuronal death and changes in acetylcholine concentration induced by carbon monoxide ( co ) - exposure in mice . in the test for retention of the passive avoidance task , amnesia was observed 5 and 7 days after co-exposure when the mice were exposed to co 1 day after training ; in the case when the mice were exposed to co 5 and 7 days before training , amnesia was also observed in a retention test given 1 day after training . the number of pyramidal cells in the hippocampal ca1 subfield was lower than that of the control 3 , 5 and 7 days after co-exposure . but the neurodegeneration in the parietal cortex , area 1 , was not observed until 7 days after co-exposure . the findings indicated that the amnesia and the neuronal death were produced after a delay when the mice were exposed to co . in addition , the delayed amnesia was closely related to the delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal ca1 subfield . moreover , [ 3h ] glutamate and [ 3h ] glycine binding sites did not change after co-exposure but , 7 days after co-exposure , the concentration of acetylcholine and the binding of [ 3h ] quinuclidinyl benzilate in the frontal cortex and the striatum were found to have significantly changed , but those in the hippocampus did not show significant change . therefore , we suggest that delayed amnesia induced by co-exposure may result from delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal ca1 subfield and dysfunction in the acetylcholinergic neurons , in the frontal cortex , the striatum and/or the hippocampus . 
meta-analysis of sulfasalazine in ankylosing spondylitis . at present there is no widely accepted therapy for ankylosing spondylitis ( as ) , a progressive debilitating disease . the effectiveness of sulfasalazine in as still lacks strong evidence , as well , the magnitude of its benefit is unknown . a meta-analysis was carried out to assess the effectiveness of sulfasalazine in as . a search of the literature was done using medline , index medicus , the reference lists of articles located and contacting content experts to reveal unpublished studies . five randomized controlled trials ( rct ) comparing sulfasalazine to placebo were located and assessed methodologically . the methodologic quality of all 5 rct was considered satisfactory and consequently these studies were included in the meta-analysis . the pooled estimate of clinical benefit ( and its 95 % confidence interval ) favoring sulfasalazine , over and above that observed in the placebo group was as follows : duration of morning stiffness -28.2 % ( -54.6 to -1.8 % ) ; severity of morning stiffness -30.6 % ( -52.5 to -8.7 % ) ; severity of pain -26.7 % ( -44.3 to -9.1 % ) ; general well being -7.1 % ( -24.3 to 10.0 % ) ; erythrocyte sedimentation rate -9.2 % ( -24.8 to 6.4 % ) ; and iga -11.7 % ( -18.8 to -4.7 % ) . adverse effects , mostly mild , were more frequently observed in the sulfasalazine group ( odds ratio [ or ] = 1.5746 , p = 0.1082 ) . the occurrence of dropouts ( or = 1.1554 , p = 0.6119 ) was similar in both groups . sulfasalazine is a safe and effective drug in the short term treatment of as . 
a self-administered hand symptom diagram for the diagnosis and epidemiologic study of carpal tunnel syndrome . noninvasive tests for carpal tunnel syndrome ( cts ) are of limited diagnostic value . a self-administered hand symptom diagram has been developed for use in the diagnosis and epidemiologic study of cts . diagrams are rated classic cts , probable , possible or unlikely . diagram ratings were compared with nerve conduction diagnoses in 110 patients with upper extremity complaints . a hand diagram rating of classic or probable cts had sensitivity of 0.64 , specificity of 0.73 and positive predictive value of 0.58 . the negative predictive value of an unlikely diagram was 0.91 . we conclude that the diagram is a useful diagnostic tool and may be valuable for occupational and population screening . 
l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . we describe the spectrum of clinical and histologic abnormalities of 11 women with l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the illness is characterized by musculoskeletal symptoms including myalgias , arthralgias and paresthesias . the physical findings consist of muscle tenderness , neuropathies , rash , peripheral and periorbital edema . electroneurography performed in 10 patients demonstrated a neuropathy in 5 and myopathic changes in 3 . skin and muscle biopsies showed fascial edema , inflammation and perivascular infiltrates in the skin , whereas perineural infiltrates and venulitis were identified in muscle . seven patients were treated with prednisone ; eosinophilia disappeared promptly although myalgias and neuropathy persisted . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with l-tryptophan use . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the use of oral preparations of the amino acid l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989 . we describe the clinical and laboratory manifestations , pathological findings and early clinical course of 20 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . prominent clinical findings included severe myalgias limiting function , fatigue , rashes , edema and weight gain , weight loss , muscle weakness and shortness of breath . laboratory findings included eosinophilia ( often marked ) , normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and elevated aldolase with normal or low creatine kinase values . on biopsy fascial inflammation was always seen consisting of lymphocytes , histiocytes and eosinophils in a perivascular distribution . invasion of the vascular wall by lymphocytes was seen in 20 % . capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening was found in most cases on electron microscopy and endothelial cell necrosis or mural invasion by lymphocytes was seen in 25 % of cases . two patients improved with no therapy . ten patients responded to therapy with prednisone alone . three patients have had progressive disease and one of these died . the relationship of this syndrome to previously described disease entities associated with eosinophilia is discussed . 
microangiopathy in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989 . we describe our pathologic study of skin , fascial , and muscle biopsies from 21 patients evaluated by light microscopy , histochemistry , and electron microscopy . a perivascular , lymphocytic infiltrate with eosinophils was present in the dermis , fascia , and skeletal muscle . lymphocytic infiltration of arteries and arterioles was seen . ultrastructurally , capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening and necrosis was present . this microangiopathy suggests that ischemia may be a contributing factor to the findings in this syndrome . 
an eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with an l-tryptophan containing product . a syndrome of eosinophilia and myalgias associated with the usage of l-tryptophan containing products has been recently described by the centers for disease control . we report a case of this new clinical entity , highlighted by severe myositis , and compare this illness with similar reported syndromes . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome in association with l-tryptophan ingestion . the association between the recently described eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and l-tryptophan is now well established . we describe a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who developed incapacitating myalgias and peripheral eosinophilia responsive only to high dose corticosteroids . when massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage developed while receiving corticosteroid therapy , surgery was complicated by striking abdominal wall rigidness . a discussion of this case and of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is presented . 
l-tryptophan associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . environmental chemicals are increasingly incriminated in the pathogenesis of several disease states . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a recently described entity attributed to the ingestion of the normal dietary amino acid l-tryptophan . we describe a patient who fulfills criteria for the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and who was ingesting supplemental l-tryptophan . exhaustive investigations failed to reveal other causes for her eosinophilia or her myalgic/neuropathic complaints , and she improved dramatically when she discontinued the l-tryptophan supplements . the mechanisms whereby this chemical may induce this syndrome are discussed . 
acute urinary retention secondary to herpes simplex meningitis . we report a case of acute urinary retention in a 24-year-old man with herpes simplex meningitis without genital lesions . since the differential diagnosis in young patients who present with acute urinary retention also includes multiple sclerosis , lumbosacral disk herniation , rheumatological disorders and drug intoxication , a thorough history and careful neurological examination are of paramount importance in distinguishing these syndromes . as part of a directed neurological evaluation prompt performance of lumbar puncture is indicated ; a lymphocytic pleocytosis is suggestive of herpetic meningitis . culture of herpes simplex virus from the cerebrospinal fluid should be attempted . we recommend conservative management only , typically with intermittent catheterization , since bladder function usually normalizes within 10 to 14 days . 
motor neuron disease ( amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ) . amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is an insidiously developing , adult-onset , progressive anterior horn cell degeneration with associated degeneration of descending motor pathways . it has been recognized as an important clinical syndrome since the middle of the 19th century . despite increasing clinical and research interest in this condition , its cause remains obscure , even in the broadest terms . epidemiologic characteristics of the disease have been interpreted as evidence of both genetic and environmental causes . a major change in the view of this disease is the widely developing perception that it is a disease of elderly persons more than of middle-aged adults as was previously taught . etiologic hypotheses encompass a broad range of postulated pathophysiologic mechanisms , and we review these in detail . the clinical limits of the disease can now be better defined by using modern diagnostic techniques . although interest in supportive symptomatic therapy is growing , no intervention has yet been shown to modify the biologically determined motor system degeneration . 
tourette syndrome and other tic disorders . diagnosis , pathophysiology , and treatment . in this report , we discuss the definition , characteristics , pathophysiology , and treatment of tic disorders with a major emphasis on tourette syndrome . although the diagnosis of a tic disorder depends on the presence of motor and/or phonic tic ( s ) , patients with these problems also have a variety of co-morbid features including obsessive-compulsive symptoms , attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder , behavioral difficulties , and learning disabilities . conservative estimates for tourette syndrome suggest a prevalence rate of 0.1-1 .0 per 1000 . this syndrome is inherited in a sex-influenced autosomal dominant pattern with either chronic multiple tic disorder or obsessive-compulsive disorder as alternative phenotypes of the putative gene . current evidence continues to support a pathophysiologic mechanism involving synaptic neurotransmission , with the dopaminergic system as a primary candidate . therapeutically , it is essential to clarify whether a patient 's problems are related to tics or associated behavioral difficulties . pharmacotherapy for motor and phonic tics is strictly symptomatic and should be reserved for those with functionally disabling symptoms . a comprehensive individualized treatment program is often required in the care of individuals with tic disorders . 
predictors of morbidity and mortality in neonates with herpes simplex virus infections . the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases collaborative antiviral study group . background . in a controlled trial comparing acyclovir with vidarabine in the treatment of neonatal herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) infection , we found no significant difference between the treatments in adjusted mortality and morbidity . hence , we sought to define for the entire cohort ( n = 202 ) the clinical characteristics that best predicted the eventual outcome in these neonates . methods . data were gathered prospectively at 27 centers between 1981 and 1988 in infants less than one month of age who had virologically confirmed hsv infection . we examined the outcomes by multivariate analyses of 24 variables . disease was classified in one of three categories based on the extent of the involvement at entry into the trial : infection confined to skin , eyes , or mouth ; encephalitis ; or disseminated infection . results and conclusions . there were no deaths among the 85 infants with localized hsv infection . the mortality rate was significantly higher in the 46 neonates with disseminated infection ( 57 percent ) than in the 71 with encephalitis ( 15 percent ) . in addition , the risk of death was increased in neonates who were in or near coma at entry ( relative risk , 5.2 ) , had disseminated intravascular coagulopathy ( relative risk , 3.8 ) , or were premature ( relative risk , 3.7 ) . in babies with disseminated disease , hsv pneumonitis was also associated with greater mortality ( relative risk , 3.6 ) . in the survivors , morbidity was most frequent in infants with encephalitis ( relative risk , 4.4 ) , disseminated infection ( relative risk , 2.1 ) , seizures ( relative risk , 3.0 ) , or infection with hsv type 2 ( relative risk , 4.9 ) . with hsv infection limited to the skin , eyes , or mouth , the presence of three or more recurrences of vesicles was associated with an increased risk of neurologic impairment as compared with two or fewer recurrences . 
pretreatment neuropsychological status and associated factors in children with primary brain tumors . we report on the neuropsychological status of 31 children with primary brain tumors who underwent assessment before receiving therapy . overall , the children performed within normal limits in all test areas . the exception was the group with anterior hemispheric tumors who demonstrated deficits in executive cognitive functions . also , when compared according to tumor type , children with midline tumors and hydrocephalus performed more poorly than others on measures of intelligence , executive abilities , visual-motor skills , and fine-motor functions . although one-half to two-thirds of the children with supratentorial midline and infratentorial tumors had cranial nerve , oculomotor , or cerebellar deficits , only the latter were associated with specific neuropsychological deficits ( poorer performance on fine-motor and visual-motor tests ) . age did not appear to be a factor in these children 's neuropsychological test performances . 
brain retractor edema during induced hypotension : the effect of the rate of return of blood pressure . this study evaluated the hypothesis that the postoperative formation of cerebral edema may be influenced by the rate of blood pressure return after induced hypotension in a graded brain retractor injury . nineteen cats underwent unilateral craniotomy , isoflurane-induced hypotension to a mean of 50 mm hg , and application of a brain retractor at 20 mm hg of pressure for 1 hour . blood pressure was returned to normal either within 3 minutes or over 20 minutes . the degree of cerebral edema formation was determined by evans blue dye and coronal magnetic resonance imaging . all animals showed extravasation of evans blue dye in the retracted hemisphere that was most marked at the periphery of the retractor . t1 relaxation times were significantly prolonged in the retracted hemispheres of both the fast return and slow return groups ( 18.8 % and 17.8 % , respectively ) and more so at the evans blue sites ( 42.8 % and 40.8 % ) , although not so strikingly beneath the retractor itself ( 6.3 % and 7.8 % ) . t2 relaxation times were similarly prolonged but to approximately half the degree of the t1 times . in the nonretracted hemisphere , drug-induced hypotension alone did not result in significant acute cerebral edema or blood-brain barrier alteration . there was no significant difference between the fast and slow groups in evans blue extravasation or magnetic resonance changes . thus , in a retractor-induced brain injury , restoration of arterial pressure to normal either gradually or rapidly did not influence the degree or extent of edema formation . 
effects of repeated temporary clipping of the middle cerebral artery on pial arterial diameter , regional cerebral blood flow , and brain structure in cats . temporary clipping of the major arterial trunk is an important maneuver to control excessive unexpected bleeding in neurosurgical operations ; however , repeated temporary clipping can give rise to severe neurological deficits after surgery . the present study was performed to confirm and explain these clinical findings . initially , a single 20-minute or 1-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery was performed in each of 5 cats . pial arterial diameter was determined by video imaging , regional cerebral blood flow was measured by autoradiography , and cerebral edema and infarction were observed . in the 20-minute occlusion group , no abnormal changes were found 5 hours after recirculation . in the 1-hour occlusion group , pial arteries were dilated by 45 % , and regional cerebral blood flow increased to more than twice the resting cortical values . the extent of cerebral edema was 41.2 + / - 7.5 % ( se ) and infarction was 34.5 + / - 9.5 % ( se ) of the hemisphere . in the second experiment , three 20-minute occlusions of the middle cerebral artery in a 1-hour interval were performed in 20 cats . in 10 of them , thiopental ( 40 mg/kg ) was used to protect the brain . in the group without barbiturate treatment , pial arteries were dilated by 40 % at the end of experiment , regional cerebral blood flow decreased to about 70 % compared with single 20-minute occlusion , cerebral edema was 19.5 + / - 8.1 % ( se ) , and infarction was 8.1 + / - 3.7 % ( se ) of the hemisphere . in the treated group , these were only trivial changes . the effect of repeated clipping may cumulatively cause brain damage , and barbiturates should be used whenever repeated clipping is necessary . 
cerebral infarction and release of platelet thromboxane after subarachnoid hemorrhage . platelet aggregation induced by adenosine diphosphate and the release of thromboxane b2 were studied in 68 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage during the second week after the hemorrhage , when delayed ischemic deterioration most often occurs . follow-up computed tomographic scans were performed later than 1 month after subarachnoid hemorrhage to reveal permanent hypodense areas consistent with cerebral infarction . occurrence of hypodense lesions on the follow-up computed tomographic scan was significantly associated with the presence of delayed ischemic deterioration ( did ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . patients with subcortical or cortical cerebral infarctions due to did released more platelet thromboxane b2 than those with no evidence of a hypodense lesion on the computed tomographic scan ( p less than 0.05 ) . hypodense areas caused by an intracerebral hematoma or small , deep-seated infarcts due to did were not associated with significantly elevated release of thromboxane b2 , but the lacunar type infarcts were associated with increased aggregation of platelets . the results suggest that augmented platelet function may be involved in the pathogenesis of cerebral infarction due to did . 
effect of hydrocephalus on prostaglandins and thromboxane b2 in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid . the concentrations of prostaglandin f2 alpha , prostaglandin e2 , 6-ketoprostaglandin f1 alpha ( prostacyclin metabolite ) , and thromboxane b2 were assayed in ventricular cerebrospinal fluid obtained from 28 patients with hydrocephalus ( 17 obstructive , 11 communicating ) . seven patients received dexamethasone or hydrocortisone on the day of sampling . no patient received nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory compounds for 48 hours before sampling . the median values did not differ significantly between the two types of hydrocephalus or from the concentrations in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid obtained from patients without intracranial pathology during lumbar myelography for possible lumbar disc disease . hence , there is no evidence that eicosanoids accumulate in the ventricles in hydrocephalus , and it is unlikely that they have a significant role in its symptomatology . 
observations on the pathophysiology of nelson 's syndrome : a report of three cases . nelson 's syndrome is generally regarded as an unusual sequela of primary bilateral adrenalectomy when performed for cushing 's disease . it is classically defined by cutaneous hyperpigmentation , considerably elevated adrenocorticotropic hormone ( acth ) levels , and an enlarged sella turcica . in this report , we present three cases initially treated by transsphenoidal sellar exploration for cushing 's disease . in two of these cases , remission of hypercortisolism did not occur after the initial pituitary exploration . a microadenomectomy was performed in one case and , in the other , no microadenoma was found . in both , nelson 's syndrome occurred after adrenalectomy . a second transsphenoidal operation and radiotherapy were required to control tumor growth . in another case , transsphenoidal adenomectomy of an acth-secreting tumor initially led to a remission of hypercortisolism for 4 years , but recurrent cushing 's disease necessitated adrenalectomy , and again nelson 's syndrome occurred . the documentation of a pre-existing acth-secreting basophilic pituitary microadenoma before adrenalectomy , as seen in two of our cases , has not been previously reported , and these observations of " non-classical " courses have major implications for the pathophysiology of nelson 's syndrome . 
occult , bilateral anterior sacral and intrasacral meningeal and perineurial cysts : case report and review of the literature . none of the more than 180 cases of anterior sacral meningocele reported in the past 150 years has been bilateral , and only two have been associated with occult intrasacral meningocele . we report a unique case of bilateral anterior sacral cysts , communicating with the subarachnoid space , associated with occult intrasacral meningeal and perineurial ( tarlov 's ) cysts , in an asymptomatic woman . the pertinent clinical and diagnostic imaging literature is reviewed . 
neurinoma in the cavernous sinus : report of two cases . two cases of trigeminal neurinoma located solely in the cavernous sinus are reported . preoperatively , magnetic resonance imaging provided the accurate localization of the lesions , allowing precise planning of the surgical approach , that is , a subtemporal lateral approach and a pterional superior approach , respectively . the neurinomas inside the cavernous sinus were removed successfully , and the patients developed no new neurological deficits except for anesthesia in the 1st division of the trigeminal nerve . the characteristic magnetic resonance imaging findings of trigeminal neurinoma in the cavernous sinus are presented , and the different surgical approaches are discussed . 
" moustache " appearance in craniopharyngiomas : unique magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic findings of perifocal edema . this report describes two cases of craniopharyngioma with perifocal edema . in both patients , computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) revealed that the tumors occupied the suprasellar cistern , invaginated the floor of the 3rd ventricle and were tightly adherent to the ventricular walls . the intraventricular portions of the tumors were cystic , containing protein-rich fluid as suggested by mri and confirmed by operative findings . there was perifocal edema in the hypothalamus adjacent to the intraventricular tumor , the optic tracts , and the posterior limbs of the internal capsules , resembling the shape of a moustache on axial computed tomographic and mri scans . the perifocal edema subsided after treatment of the intraventricular tumor by surgical resection or radiation therapy . the " moustache " appearance seems a unique , characteristic feature of perifocal edema , which is observed infrequently with certain craniopharyngiomas . 
delayed hearing loss after neurovascular decompression . we report two unusual cases of delayed hearing loss after neurovascular decompression of structures within the cerebellopontine angle . in the first case , the patient noted a unilateral hearing loss 3 weeks after undergoing vascular decompression of the trigeminal nerve for tic douloureux . this gradually improved over an 18-month period . in the second case , the patient awoke on the 4th day after vascular decompression of the facial nerve for hemifacial spasm with a bilateral hearing loss that has remained unchanged after the onset . these are examples of delayed acoustic dysfunction occurring with a shift in surgically freed vessels and may have been induced by newly directed neurovascular compression or distortion . 
immunoglobulins from animal models of motor neuron disease and from human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients passively transfer physiological abnormalities to the neuromuscular junction . amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( als ) is a devastating human disease of upper and lower motoneurons of unknown etiology . in support of the potential role of autoimmunity in als , two immune-mediated animal models of motoneuron disease have been developed that resemble als with respect to the loss of motoneurons , the presence of igg within motoneurons and at the neuromuscular junction , and with respect to altered physiology of the motor nerve terminal . to provide direct evidence for the primary role of humoral immunity , passive transfer with immunoglobulins from the two animal models and human als was carried out . mice injected with serum or immunoglobulins from the animal disease models and human als but not controls demonstrated igg in motoneurons and at the neuromuscular junction . the mice also demonstrated an increase in miniature end-plate potential ( mepp ) frequency , with normal amplitude and time course and normal resting membrane potential , indicating an increased resting quantal release of acetylcholine from the nerve terminal . the ability to transfer motoneuron dysfunction with serum immunoglobulins provides evidence for autoimmune mechanisms in the pathogenesis of both the animal models and human als . 
vascularized full-thickness parietal bone grafts in maxillofacial reconstruction : the role of the galea and superficial temporal vessels . reconstruction of bony structures of the face is always a problem as big as the defect and the function that must be replaced . everything from simple grafts to sophisticated distant bone flaps has been used . based on the studies of cutting et al. , psillakis et al. , and casanova et al. , we have developed the full-thickness galeoparietal bone flap , initially for mandibular reconstruction , but of great use for all maxillofacial reconstructions . from july of 1987 to december of 1988 , 14 patients have been operated on . the experience with this flap is shown in four patients as follows : primary reconstruction of a mandible as a result of ameloblastoma , secondary reconstruction of a mandible with associated old fractures and malalignment of segments , bilateral malar reconstruction in a patient with treacher collins syndrome , and severe sequelae of an already treated romberg case . small variations could be made to best accommodate the technique used to the defect we were treating . some technical details , the experience , the results , and possible sequelae or complications are also discussed . 
botulinum a toxin for the treatment of adult-onset spasmodic torticollis . thirty-five patients with adult-onset idiopathic torticollis were treated by local injections of botulinum a toxin into dystonic cervical muscles . substantial improvement with respect to reduction and elimination of pain was found in 81 percent , improvement in posture deformity and involuntary spasms in 70 percent , increased range of motion of the neck in 78 percent , reduction in visible sternocleidomastoid hypertrophy in 86 percent , and improvement in tremor in 65 percent . the syndrome was divided into four subtypes based on pattern of dystonic muscle groups involved in the dystonia , head and shoulder posture , and sternocleidomastoid muscle hypertrophy . injection strategy based on this subdivision is described . 
reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome : consensus report of an ad hoc committee of the american association for hand surgery on the definition of reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome . this report proposes that reflex sympathetic dystrophy be defined as a pain syndrome in which the pain is accompanied by loss of function and evidence of autonomic dysfunction . in the clinical setting , this diagnosis is usually associated with other anatomic and psychological diagnoses and may be associated with a variety of systemic illnesses and medicolegal factors . all components should be assessed before a treatment plan is established . priorities should go to emergency care , acute injuries , and systemic illness , psychiatric problems , and chronic anatomic problems , in that order . early , accurate diagnosis improves prognosis . 
clinical features and natural history of von hippel-lindau disease the clinical features , age at onset and survival of 152 patients with von hippel-lindau disease were studied . mean age at onset was 26.3 years and 97 per cent of patients had presented by aged 60 years . retinal angioma was the first manifestation in 65 patients ( 43 per cent ) , followed by cerebellar haemangioblastoma ( n = 60 , 39 per cent ) and renal cell carcinoma ( n = 15 , 10 per cent ) . overall , 89 patients ( 59 per cent ) developed a cerebellar haemangioblastoma , 89 ( 59 per cent ) a retinal angioma , 43 ( 28 per cent ) renal cell carcinoma , 20 ( 13 per cent ) spinal haemangioblastoma and 11 ( 7 per cent ) a phaeochromocytoma . renal , pancreatic and epididymal cysts were frequent findings but their exact incidence was not accurately assessed . mean age at diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma ( 44.0 + / - 10.9 years ) was significantly older than that for cerebellar haemangioblastoma ( 29.0 + / - 10.0 years ) and retinal angioma ( 25.4 + / - 12.7 years ) . the probability of a patient with von hippel-lindan disease developing a cerebellar haemangioblastoma , retinal angioma or renal cell carcinoma by age 60 years was 0.84 , 0.7 and 0.69 , respectively . a comprehensive screening protocol for affected patients and at-risk relatives is presented , based on detailed analysis of age at onset data for each of the major complications . median actuarial survival was 49 years , with renal cell carcinoma the leading cause of death . 
spontaneous neurodegeneration in transgenic mice with mutant prion protein transgenic mice were created to assess genetic linkage between gerstmann-straussler-scheinker syndrome and a leucine substitution at codon 102 of the human prion protein gene . spontaneous neurologic disease with spongiform degeneration and gliosis similar to that in mouse scrapie developed at a mean age of 166 days in 35 mice expressing mouse prion protein with the leucine substitution . thus , many of the clinical and pathological features of gerstmann-straussler-scheinker syndrome are reproduced in transgenic mice containing a prion protein with a single amino acid substitution , illustrating that a neurodegenerative process similar to a human disease can be genetically modeled in animals . 
t cell receptor peptide therapy triggers autoregulation of experimental encephalomyelitis . encephalitogenic t cells specific for myelin basic protein share common v beta 8 peptide sequences in their t cell receptor ( tcr ) that can induce autoregulatory t cells and antibodies that prevent clinical signs of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ( eae ) . it is not known , however , if tcr peptides can treat established disease . to test its therapeutic value , tcr-v beta 8-39-59 peptide was injected into rats with clinical signs of eae . this treatment reduced disease severity and speeded recovery , apparently by boosting anti-v beta 8 t cells and antibodies raised naturally in response to encephalitogenic v beta 8 + t cells . these results demonstrate that synthetic tcr peptides can be used therapeutically , and implicate the tcr-v beta 8-39-59 sequence as a natural idiotope involved in eae recovery . similarly , human tcr peptides may be effective in enhancing natural regulation of autoreactive t cells that share common v genes . 
lyme disease : neurologic and ophthalmic manifestations . lyme disease is tick-borne infection which produces early and late manifestations in many organ systems . prominent symptoms and signs occur in skin , heart , joints and nervous system . many ocular and neuro-ophthalmic abnormalities recently have been attributed to lyme disease , but some cases have not been well established as direct sequelae . this review of the contemporary state of knowledge about lyme disease was undertaken so that more rigorous criteria can be applied in future diagnosis . 
automatic rifle injuries : suicide by eight bullets . report of an unusual case and a literature review . a 25-year-old man committed suicide by shooting himself with eight bullets fired from a military rifle set on automatic . this rifle has two firing modes : an automatic mode and a self-loading , single-shot mode . using this case as an example , some important aspects of firearm injuries are discussed with special emphasis on those points that are relevant to automatic military rifles and most applicable to forensic pathology practice . some of the pathologic features of firearm wounds are reviewed and the role of the pathologist is discussed . lastly , the most important points that help the pathologist to determine the type or nature of a firearm death -- that is , whether it is an accident , homicide , or a suicide -- are discussed . classically , the number of the firearm wounds is used to differentiate suicide from homicide . as in the case reported here , however , when an automatic rifle or a military rifle set on automatic is used , the number of wounds is not a reliable indicator of the type of death . 
multidisciplinary baseline assessment of homosexual men with and without human immunodeficiency virus infection . iii . neurologic and neuropsychological findings . we explored the possibility that neurologic and neuropsychological changes constitute the earliest detectable manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection . without knowledge of hiv status , we assessed neurologic signs and symptoms and administered a battery of neuropsychological tests to 208 homosexual men , of whom 84 were hiv negative , 49 were hiv positive and asymptomatic , 29 were mildly symptomatic , and 46 had significant medical symptoms but not the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . there was no difference between the hiv-negative and hiv-positive men in the frequency of neurologic signs or of defective or borderline performance on any neuropsychological test . however , hiv-positive men performed slightly but significantly worse than hiv-negative men on tests of verbal memory , executive function , and language . similar results were obtained when comparisons were limited to hiv-positive medically asymptomatic and hiv-negative men . there was no degradation of neurologic status or neuropsychological performance across stages of hiv severity , but neurologic and neuropsychological summary scores correlated with cd4/cd8 ratios in the hiv-positive group . ratings of neurologic signs and symptoms correlated with neuropsychological summary scores in the hiv-positive group only . cognitive complaints were more frequent in the hiv-positive men ; they correlated with actual test performance in the hiv-positive but not hiv-negative men . the constellation of subjective and objective neuropsychological and neurologic findings suggests the possibility of a definable syndrome associated with hiv infection in asymptomatic individuals . 
effect of vaginal delivery on the pelvic floor : a 5-year follow-up . we have studied the pelvic floor musculature and its innervation in 14 of 24 ( 58 per cent ) multiparous women who had been recruited into a study of the effect of childbirth on the pelvic floor as part of a prospective investigation that began in 1983 . these 24 women had all delivered by the vaginal route without forceps assistance . five of the 14 had developed clinical symptoms of stress incontinence 5 years later ; two of them had had a further uncomplicated vaginal delivery during this time . there was manometric and neurophysiological evidence of weakness because of partial denervation of the pelvic floor striated sphincter musculature , with pudendal neuropathy , which was more marked in those women with incontinence . these findings provide direct evidence for the hypothesis that pudendal neuropathy due to vaginal delivery persists and may worsen with time . 
extradural haematoma in the irish republic : an analysis of 82 cases with emphasis on ' delay ' . eighty-two cases of extradural haematoma were analysed to elucidate the factors contributing to delay in treatment and poor outcome . the majority of cases occurred in the first three decades of life with falls being the commonest aetiological factor . five distinct modes of presentation are described . excessive delay occurred in recognizing the condition and in subsequent transfer of patients . this resulted in many patients being operated on while in coma . associated intracranial and extracranial injury occurred in a significant number of cases . recommendations for the management of these patients are outlined . 
congenital demyelinating motor and sensory neuropathy with focally folded myelin sheaths . six patients ( 5 index cases and 1 sib ) with a congenital motor and sensory neuropathy are described . the clinical , genetic and electrophysiological features resembled dejerine-sottas disease or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy ( hmsn ) type iii . sural nerve biopsy of 5 patients revealed segmental demyelination and remyelination with hypertrophic changes , although onion bulbs were not as ubiquitous as in classical hmsn type iii . a striking discriminating feature from hmsn type iii was an abundance of focal myelin thickenings ( tomacula ) present in nearly all teased fibres . possible pathogenic implications are discussed . these cases corroborate the heterogeneity of congenital motor and sensory neuropathies . 
symptomatic and essential rhythmic palatal myoclonus . rhythmic palatal myoclonus ( rpm ) is a rare movement disorder consisting of continuous synchronous jerks of the soft palate , muscles innervated by other cranial nerves and , rarely , trunk and limb muscles . it usually develops secondary to brainstem or cerebellar disease ( symptomatic rpm ) . some patients , however , fail to show evidence of a structural lesion ( essential rpm ) . a total of 287 cases with rpm from the literature including 210 cases with symptomatic and 77 cases with essential rpm have been reviewed and analysed statistically to look for criteria separating the two conditions . patients with essential rpm usually have objective earclicks as their typical complaint which is rare in the symptomatic form . eye and extremity muscles are never involved . the jerk frequency is lower in essential than in symptomatic rpm . patients with essential rpm are younger and have a balanced sex distribution as compared with a male preponderance in the symptomatic form . the rhythmicity of rpm seems to be more profoundly influenced by sleep , coma and general anaesthesia in essential than in symptomatic rpm . we conclude from these results that essential rpm should be separated as a distinct clinical entity . symptomatic rpm is a rhythmic movement disorder whose pathogenesis is quite well established . the cells of the hypertrophied inferior olives are believed to represent the oscillator . among other possibilities , essential rpm may represent its functional analogue , based on transmitter changes only . such a relationship could be of theoretical interest for the understanding of rhythmic hyperkinesias in general . 
experiential phenomena of temporal lobe epilepsy . facts and hypotheses . experiential phenomena that occur in temporal lobe seizures and can be reproduced by electrical stimulation of temporal lobe structures typically encompass perceptual , mnemonic and affective features , either in combination or in isolation , which commonly relate to the patient 's individual past experience . these phenomena raise interesting questions concerning brain mechanisms involved in human psychophysiology . the anatomical substrates for the evocation of these phenomena are widely distributed within the temporal lobe and include temporal isocortex and limbic structures ( amygdala , hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus ) . arguments are presented which indicate that experiential phenomena are positive expressions of temporal lobe and limbic function and do not result from its ictal paralysis . recent concepts of parallel distributed processing ( rumelhart and mcclelland , 1986 ) and the importance of parallel distributed cortical networks for higher cognitive functions ( goldman-rakic , 1988a , b ) provide a theoretical framework on which a hypothesis explaining experiential phenomena can be based . in conformity with these concepts the hypothesis assumes that temporal lobe epileptic discharge or electrical stimulation of temporal lobe structures can induce the elaboration of patterns of excitation and inhibition in widely distributed neuronal networks , some of which are capable of forming a specific matrix representing the substrate of a given experience . neuronal networks engaged in parallel distributed processing ( 1 ) have the capacity to recreate the totality of a given experience when only a fragment of the network is activated , and ( 2 ) they tolerate a great deal of degradation by random inactivation of its components or by interference through random noise without serious loss of information content . these features are compatible with the assumption that localized epileptic neuronal discharge or electrical stimulation involving some temporal lobe structures could create a matrix representing features of individual experience of the kind activated in the course of temporal lobe seizures . such an experience could , up to a certain limit , resist the degrading influence of mounting noise which inevitably must attend seizure discharge . 
the role of diencephalic pathology in human memory disorder . evidence from a penetrating paranasal brain injury . a patient ( b.j. ) is reported who developed severe memory impairment following a penetrating brain injury caused by a snooker cue which entered through his left nostril into the basal regions of the brain . initially , his memory disorder had the clinical features of a dense amnesic syndrome , with both anterograde and retrograde amnesia , but b.j. subsequently showed significant recovery of memory function . formal memory testing was carried out 21 months after injury . this demonstrated marked verbal memory impairment , as severe as that seen in patients with the amnesic syndrome . on nonverbal memory tests , his impairment was relatively mild and patchy . his retrograde amnesia had regressed mainly to affect a 6 month period before the injury . on other cognitive tasks , he performed at an average or above average level , and there was no neuropsychological evidence of frontal lobe dysfunction . neuroradiological investigations at various stages after his injury failed to demonstrate a lesion in any of the thalamic nuclei . magnetic resonance imaging showed a lesion in the hypothalamus in the region of the mamillary bodies . our study demonstrates that marked , relatively focal , memory disorder after diencephalic injury can occur without direct pathology to the body of the thalamus . it also indicates that structures in or adjacent to the hypothalamus , such as the mamillary bodies , may play a more important role in human memory functioning than has hitherto been considered . 
single unit analysis of the human ventral thalamic nuclear group . activity correlated with movement . during neurosurgical operations for the relief of movement disorders , single thalamic neurons ( n = 107 ) were identified with activity which was related to verbally cued active movements ( movement-related cells ) . the activity of each neuron was examined during different contralateral movements in order to determine the movement which was associated with the most consistent and pronounced change in firing rate ( the optimal response ) . the optimal response was determined by analysis of histograms of neuronal activity which were constructed by using the onset of emg activity to synchronize successive repetitions of the active movement . movement-related cells exhibited optimal responses associated with such movements as making a fist , extension or flexion of the wrist , flexing or extending the elbow , pointing with the entire upper extremity , extending the tongue and lifting the leg . most movement-related cells recorded in a single parasagittal plane in an individual patient had optimal responses related to movements involving the same part of the body . movement-related cells were classified into those that were activated in response to somatosensory stimulation ( combined cells , n = 20 ) and those which were not ( voluntary cells , n = 87 ) . combined cells were activated in advance of emg activity during active movement and so could be distinguished from cells responding only to sensory stimulation ( sensory cells ) . movement-related cells ( combined and voluntary cell types ) were located anterior to sensory cells and tended to show a mediolateral somatotopic organization parallel to that of sensory cells with cutaneous receptive fields . combined cells responded to somatosensory stimulation of the same part of the body as that involved in the active movement related to the optimal response of the cell . combined cells responding to passive movements of a joint always had their optimal response during active movement about the same joint . the activity of combined cells during parkinsonian tremor may clarify the role of sensory feedback in tremor . 
striatonigral degeneration . a clinicopathological study . the clinical and pathological features of 10 cases of striatonigral degeneration are described : 5 were misdiagnosed in life as parkinson 's disease . retrospectively , helpful early pointers to the diagnosis in these cases included unexplained falls , autonomic dysfunction , absence of rest tremor and failure to respond to l-dopa , but these were not always present . the pathological diagnosis could not be excluded on macroscopic examination of the striatum . relative preservation of the putamen occurred in the 4 patients who benefited from l-dopa . the caudate nucleus was involved in all cases and there was no sparing of the large striatal neurons . in mild cases , involvement of the putamen was confined to its posterior two-thirds , dorsolaterally . with increasing severity this extended in a dorsal to ventral and posterior to anterior direction . seven of the cases had evidence of olivopontocerebellar damage , but only 2 of these had clinical evidence of cerebellar disease . correlation was found between the neuronal counts in caudate : putamen , striatum : nigra compacta , globus pallidus : nigra compacta , nigra compacta : locus coeruleus . the most severely involved part of the substantia nigra pars compacta was the ventrolateral zone , which projects to the dorsal putamen , the earliest site of striatal disease . 
spongiform encephalopathy transmitted experimentally from creutzfeldt-jakob and familial gerstmann-straussler-scheinker diseases . a comparison was made of the effects of experimental intracerebral inoculation into marmosets of brain homogenates from a case of creutzfeldt-jakob disease ( cjd ) and from a member of the wo . family with cerebral amyloid and spongiform encephalopathy -- the gerstmann-straussler-scheinker ( gss ) syndrome . all the inoculated marmosets developed spongiform encephalopathy ( se ) after incubation times of 20-23 months in the cjd group and 25-32 months in the gss group . subsequent passage from 1 affected animal in each group resulted in se developing after 17 months incubation . in every animal inoculated with cjd or gss material and in the 2 passage experiments the most severely affected region of the brain was the thalamus which in all cases was almost totally occupied by vacuoles . other grey matter masses were less severely and less consistently affected . vacuolation was observed in the cerebellar granule cell layer as well as in the molecular layer and the brain stem was finely vacuolated in all cases . there were only minor and inconsistent differences between the disease transmitted from cjd compared with gss and some differences between the original transmissions and the se caused by passaged inocula . severe astrocytic gliosis accompanied the spongiform changes but no amyloid was identified in any of the marmosets with experimentally transmitted disease . the pathogenesis of the spongiform change in the thalamus was studied in a series of marmosets by light and electron microscopy 3-22 months after the intracerebral inoculation of cjd or gss homogenates and was compared with controls . dilated irregularly-shaped cisternae and the large complex vacuoles typical of se , present in abundance after 18 and 22 months incubation , were considered most probably to be derived from cisternae of neuronal smooth endoplasmic reticulum . 
percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in sickle cell anemia : a case report . percutaneous balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty was performed on a 19-year-old female who had moderate pulmonary valve stenosis with sickle cell anemia . the patient developed sickle cell crisis resulting in occipital infarction , but she made a good recovery . we describe this case and the methods of reducing the risk of sickle cell crisis . 
the turp syndrome . this article discusses the presentation , aetiology , treatment and prevention of central nervous system disturbances after transurethral resection of the prostate . nausea and vomiting , visual symptoms , and altered states of consciousness have been reported as complications due to intravascular absorption of irrigating fluid . hypotonicity after absorption of the irrigating fluid causes cerebral oedema . hyperglycinaemia may cause visual disturbances and hyperammonaemia may cause delayed coma . 
high incidence of cardiopulmonary complications associated with implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus in patients with advanced neurologic disease . objective : the purpose of our study was to examine the cardiopulmonary complications of a group of patients who had undergone implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus for treatment of neurologic disease . design : prospective study with partially matched historical controls . setting : tertiary care community medical center . patients and methods : seven patients with advanced parkinson 's disease and three patients with progressive supranuclear palsy underwent implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus . these patients were compared with respect to their cardiopulmonary complications with a control group who had undergone craniotomy and then compared with a control group who had undergone only abdominal surgery . results : in the study group , six patients developed major postoperative complications including development of large pleural effusions , lobar atelectasis , pneumonia , upper airway obstruction , and cardiac arrest . three patients had minor complications including development of small pleural effusions , subsegmental atelectasis , purulent bronchitis , mild congestive heart failure , and atrial flutter/fibrillation . one patient had an unremarkable postoperative course . the first control group , whose only surgery was a craniotomy , had only one major complication . the second control group , the abdominal surgery control group , had one major and five minor complications . conclusion : the particular neurologic disease , its severity , and the type of surgery performed appear to be causative factors in the high incidence of complications in the study group . 
hemodynamic effects of nasal cpap examined by doppler echocardiography . the effects of incremental application of nasal continuous positive airway pressure ( 0 to 15 cm h2o ) on heart rate , pulmonary artery pressure , and cardiac index were studied noninvasively by doppler echocardiography . by two-way analysis of variance within two groups ( 19 normal volunteers and six sleep apnea patients ) , no significant effects on heart rate , pulmonary artery pressure , ventricular size , or cardiac index could be found with increasing positive intrathoracic pressures and consequent lung hyperinflation . in subjects with normal cardiac function , nasal cpap is safe from a hemodynamic viewpoint . this simple , repeatable and noninvasive technique may be used to assess the clinical safety and efficacy of prescribed nasal cpap on cardiac hemodynamics in individual patients . 
respiratory muscle strength and control of ventilation in patients with neuromuscular disease . to assess the relationship between respiratory mechanics and muscle strength and control of ventilation in patients with neuromuscular disease ( nmd ) , we compared pimax and pemax at rv , frc and tlc , total respiratory elastance ( ers ) with vt , ti , tt , ve , vt/ti , ti/tt , p. 01 , and p. 01 / ( vt/ti ) effective impedance in 21 patients with nmd and 21 healthy control ( c ) subjects , in seated position breathing room air . ers in nmd patients was 79 percent higher than in the c subjects . while ti , tt , and vt in nmd were approximately half the corresponding c values , p. 01 was 66 percent greater than in the c subjects ( both p less than 0.001 ) . nmd pimax and pemax ranged from 37 to 52 percent of corresponding c values , respectively . despite significant respiratory muscle weakness , only 7 of 16 patients demonstrated a paco2 greater than 45 mm hg . ventilatory output in nmd was modulated by respiratory mechanics as indicated by the increased p. 01 . in spite of muscle weakness , central drive in patients with nmd is not decreased , and in fact , is often increased . ve is not an accurate measure of central drive because of abnormal intrinsic respiratory mechanics and the effects of conscious responses or reflexes . 
effect of ethanol on the efficacy of nasal continuous positive airway pressure as a treatment for obstructive sleep apnea . the effect of ethanol ingestion on the efficacy of nasal continuous positive airway pressure ( nasal cpap ) as a treatment for the obstructive sleep apnea ( osa ) syndrome was studied in ten obese male subjects undergoing this therapy . on the first night of polysomnography , the lowest level of cpap that maintained airway patency was determined ( critical level ) . on the second ( control ) night ( c ) , subjects slept the entire night on this level of cpap . on the third night ( e ) , subjects ingested either 1.5 ml/kg ( part a , n = 6 ) or 2.0 ml/kg ( part b , n = 4 ) of 50 percent ethanol ( 100 proof vodka ) over one half-hour starting 1 h before bedtime . a serum ethanol level was obtained at bedtime ( part a : 63.7 + / - 17.3 mg/dl ; part b : 108.6 + / - 20.6 mg/dl ) , and subjects were monitored on the critical level of cpap . comparison of nights c and e for parts a + b showed no difference in total sleep time ( tst ) or the amount of different sleep stages as an absolute time or a percentage of tst except that there was more stage 2 ( as a percent of tst ) on e nights . the apnea + hypopnea index and c and e nights did not differ and was quite low ( 3.6 + / - 3.7 / h vs 1.9 + / - 2.7 / h ) . similarly , ethanol ingestion did not increase the number of desaturations to at or below 90 and 85 percent , or lower the mean arterial oxygen saturation in nrem or rem sleep . analysis of parts a and b separately also showed no differences with respect to the apnea + hypopnea index or the number of desaturations on control and ethanol nights . we conclude that acute moderate ethanol ingestion does not decrease the efficacy of an optimum level of nasal cpap . 
acute pulmonary embolism triggered by the act of defecation . pulmonary embolism associated with the act of defecation has not been previously well described . recently , we reported our experience with four patients who presented to us over a 12-month period with syncope , near syncope , or sudden death following the act of defecation . in all four cases , acute pulmonary embolism was shown to be the etiology of the defecation-associated events . a retrospective chart review of all patients with the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism at our institution over a three-year period yielded five additional patients with the diagnosis of defecation-associated pulmonary embolism . these nine patients accounted for 6.8 percent of all patients with a discharge diagnosis of pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the three-year study period . six of the nine patients died from their defecation-associated pulmonary embolism . these six deaths accounted for 25 percent of all deaths from pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the study period . based on our experience , we suggest that the act of defecation may trigger the development of acute pulmonary embolism in some patients with deep vein thrombosis . 
effect of cardiac output reduction on rate of desaturation in obstructive apnea . the nadir of sao2 during an obstructive apnea is dependent upon the apnea 's duration and the rate of fall of saturation ( dsao2/dt ) . we postulated that a low q , such as in patients with congestive heart failure with sleep apnea , or a reduction in q , as seen in some humans during obstructive sleep apnea , might steepen dsao2/dt . the mechanism postulated was lowering of svo2 with increased pulmonary capillary blood oxygen uptake and faster depletion of alveolar oxygen . this study examines dsao2/dt following the onset of apnea in eight spontaneously breathing adult baboons . nonrepetitive obstructive apneas ( 30 , 45 , and 60 seconds ) were created by clamping an indwelling cuffed endotracheal tube at the end of expiration . following baseline measurements , the animals were given a bolus of a rapid-acting beta-adrenergic blocker followed by continuous infusion to reduce cardiac output and to limit the cardiovascular response to obstructive asphyxia . fiberoptic catheters were used for continuous monitoring of sao2 , svo2 , and cardiac output . esophageal pressure and relative thoracic gas volume ( respitrace ) were monitored to insure equivalence of lung volume at the onset of apnea . beta-adrenergic blockade reduced resting q by a mean of 25 percent . the blocked vs unblocked dsao2/dt was 0.73 vs 0.72 percent/s , 0.76 vs 0.73 percent/s , and 0.70 vs 0.71 percent/s for 30-second , 45-second , and 60-second apneas , respectively . thus , mean dsao2/dt for all durations of apneas was unaffected by beta-adrenergic blockade . we concluded that dsao2/dt is not influenced by limited q preceding or induced by obstructive asphyxia . 
hyperprolactinemia increases and hypoprolactinemia decreases tyrosine hydroxylase messenger ribonucleic acid levels in the arcuate nuclei , but not the substantia nigra or zona incerta . the effects of experimentally produced hypoprolactinemia and hyperprolactinemia on tyrosine hydroxylase ( th ) mrna signal levels were examined in dopaminergic neurons ovariectomized rats . th mrna signal levels and relative th quantity in the arcuate nuclei , zona incerta , and substantia nigra were evaluated by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry , respectively . the catalytic activity of th in the stalk-median eminence ( sme ) was determined from the in vitro rate of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine ( dopa ) accumulation after inhibiting dopa decarboxylase with brocresine . chronic administration of bromocriptine ( bromo ) , a dopamine ( da ) agonist , for 3 days reduced circulating rat prl ( rprl ) levels compared to those in the vehicle-treated controls . bromo treatment decreased th mrna signal levels in the arcuate nuclei , the intensity of th immunostaining in the arcuate-median eminence area , and the rate of dopa accumulation in the sme . concomitant administration of ovine prl ( oprl ) reversed the effects of bromo on th , resulting in markedly increased th mrna signal levels , intensity of th immunostaining , and rate of dopa accumulation . treatment with oprl by itself for 3 days increased th mrna signal levels in the arcuate nuclei and th activity in the sme , compared to vehicle . chronic treatment with haloperidol , a da antagonist , increased circulating levels of endogenous rprl and increased th activity in the sme to values similar to those after oprl treatment . however , in contrast to oprl , mrna levels in the arcuate nuclei of haloperidol-treated rats were similar to levels in vehicle-treated animals . to evaluate whether the effect of prl on th was species specific , oprl or rprl was continuously infused into the jugular vein using an osmotic minipump . th mrna levels in the arcuate nuclei were elevated above control levels by either oprl or rprl administration . th mrna levels in the da perikarya located in the zona incerta and substantia nigra were not altered by treatment with a da agonist , a da antagonist , or prl . these results indicate that hypoprolactinemia or hyperprolactinemia can selectively reduce or augment , respectively , th mrna levels in the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons . the alterations in th mrna content probably contribute to the decrease or increase in th activity associated with hypoprolactinemia or hyperprolactinemia , respectively . 
humor , aggression , and aging . humor response to aggressive cartoons was investigated by using ratings of pain and funniness of cartoons by 154 young and elderly men and women . no significant age differences were found ; however , sex differences were found . for both young and elderly females , an inverted-u described the relationship between pain and funniness ratings . for young and elderly males , there was no relationship between pain and funniness . this is a preliminary step in exploring age differences in humor but may be relevant for those working with elderly persons . 
pathogenesis and pathophysiology of meningitis . advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of meningitis have occurred primarily through the use of experimental animal models . these models have proven to be particularly valuable in experimental bacterial meningitis , focusing on the bacterial virulence factors responsible for the initiation of infections , cns invasion , and induction of sas inflammation . recent studies have examined the formation of host inflammatory cytokines in response to these virulence factors . these cytokines may be responsible for many of the pathophysiologic consequences of bacterial meningitis ( eg . increased bbb permeability , cerebral edema , and increased intracranial pressure ) . meningitis due to c. neoformans occurs most commonly in patients with defects in cell-mediated immunity ( eg , aids ) , and the depletion of t helper cells in aids patients may allow unrestricted cryptococcal growth . viral meningitis is an illness of low prevalence when compared with the overall occurrence of viral infections at other sites . cns infection usually occurs by means of traversal across barriers that normally exclude viral invasion of the cns , primarily through hematogenous dissemination from initial sites of infection . these advances in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of bacterial , fungal , and viral meningitis may lead to the development of innovative treatment strategies for these disorders . 
approach to diagnosis of meningitis . cerebrospinal fluid evaluation . csf evaluation is the single most important aspect of the laboratory diagnosis of meningitis . analysis of the csf abnormalities produced by bacterial , mycobacterial , and fungal infections may greatly facilitate diagnosis and direct initial therapy . basic studies of csf that should be performed in all patients with meningitis include measurement of pressure , cell count and white cell differential ; determination of glucose and protein levels ; gram 's stain ; and culture . in bacterial meningitis , limulus lysate assay and tests to identify bacterial antigens may allow rapid diagnosis . where there is strong suspicion of tuberculous or fungal meningitis , csf should also be submitted for acid-fast stain , india ink preparation , and cryptococcal antigen ; unless contraindicated by increased intracranial pressure , large volumes ( up to 40-50 ml ) should be obtained for culture . if a history of residence in the southwest is elicited , complement-fixing antibodies to coccidioides immitis should also be ordered . newer tests based on immunologic methods or gene amplification techniques hold great promise for diagnosis of infections caused by organisms that are difficult to culture or present in small numbers . despite the great value of lumbar puncture in the diagnosis of meningitis , injudicious use of the procedure may result in death from brain herniation . lumbar puncture should be avoided if focal neurologic findings suggest concomitant mass lesion , as in brain abscess , and lumbar puncture should be approached with great caution if meningitis is accompanied by evidence of significant intracranial hypertension . institution of antibiotic therapy for suspected meningitis should not be delayed while neuroradiologic studies are obtained to exclude abscess or while measures are instituted to reduce intracranial pressure . 
the acute aseptic meningitis syndrome . the acute aseptic meningitis syndrome is an entity that presents a diagnostic challenge to the clinician . although many infectious and noninfectious etiologies exist for this syndrome , viruses , especially nonpolio enteroviruses , are the classic and most important agents encountered . the incidence of polio and mumps meningitis has declined dramatically in the vaccine era , but recently described pathogens , such as human immunodeficiency virus and borrelia burgdorferi ( lyme disease agent ) are now important considerations in the differential diagnosis . specifically treatable entities ( eg , mycobacterial or fungal meningitis , herpes simplex encephalitis , parameningeal infection ) that may mimic aseptic meningitis in their initial presentations must not be overlooked . a careful approach to the patient and a rational use of laboratory studies are the basis for establishing a specific diagnosis and assuring a favorable outcome . 
bacterial meningitis in neonates and children . a high index of suspicion of meningitis is needed when evaluating neonates and young infants because clinical findings can be minimal and are often subtle and nonspecific . analysis of the csf constitutes the most effective method to document meningeal bacterial infection , although overlap with normal csf values can occur , especially in newborns and very young infants . the introduction of highly active third-generation cephalosporins ( ceftriaxone , cefotaxime ) and their safety and efficacy in treating a broad array of bacterial pathogens that cause meningitis in all age groups has simplified selection of initial antibiotic therapy . in neonates , however , conventional antibiotic therapy with ampicillin and an aminoglycoside is appropriate because of its proven record of safety and efficacy , and because routine use of cephalosporins in the hospital nursery could lead to selection of resistant strains among gram-negative enteric bacilli . despite the availability of modern intensive care management of infants and children with bacterial meningitis and the advent of potent antibiotics , case fatality rates and morbidity remain high . because of this , recent research has focused on the complex interaction between bacteria and the host and on means to attenuate the meningeal inflammatory response . the clinical benefits demonstrated recently with the use of dexamethasone therapy in infants and children with bacterial meningitis underscore the importance of anti-inflammatory therapy to reduce audiologic and neurologic sequelae . future studies of new methods to modulate meningeal inflammation such as the use of monoclonal antibodies directed against cytokines or of agents that interfere with leukocyte-endothelial interactions are indicated . the implication of routine h. influenzae type b immunization in young infants with the conjugated vaccines and optimal intrapartum prophylaxis against group b streptococcal disease in newborns will have an important impact on the incidence of meningitis in infants and children . 
bacterial meningitis in adults . bacterial meningitis continues to be an important cause of morbidity and mortality despite the availability of effective bactericidal antibiotics . penicillin or ampicillin remains the drug of choice for meningitis caused by streptococcus pneumoniae and neisseria meningitidis . the third generation cephalosporins have revolutionized the treatment of gram-negative meningitis . future therapy for bacterial meningitis will use recent developments in the understanding of pathogenic and pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying this disease . 
general principles of therapy of pyogenic meningitis . in bacterial meningitis , several pharmacodynamic factors determine therapeutic success-when defined as sterilization of the csf : ( 1 ) local host defense deficits in the cns require the use of bactericidal antibiotics to sterilize the csf . ( 2 ) csf antibiotic concentrations that are at least 10-fold above the mbc are necessary for maximal bactericidal activity . protein binding , low ph , and slow bacterial growth rates are among the factors that may explain the high antibiotic concentrations necessary in vivo . ( 3 ) high csf peak concentrations that lead to rapid bacterial killing appear more important than prolonged suprainhibitory concentrations , probably because very low residual levels in the csf prevent bacterial regrowth , even during relatively long dosing intervals . ( 4 ) penetration of antibiotics into the csf is significantly impaired by the blood-brain barrier and thus , very high serum levels are necessary to achieve the csf concentrations required for optimal bactericidal activity . beyond these principles , recent data suggests that rapid lytic killing of bacteria in the csf may have harmful effects on the brain because of the release of biologically active products from the lysed bacteria . since rapid csf sterilization remains a key therapeutic goal , the harmful consequences of bacterial lysis present a major challenge in the therapy of bacterial meningitis . currently , dexamethasone represents that only clinically beneficial approach to reduce the harmful effects of bacterial lysis , and novel approaches are required to improve the outcome of this serious infection . 
meningitis in the neurosurgical patient . in the patient with a basilar skull fracture and csf leak , the risk of meningitis is greatly increased . the diagnosis of both leak and infection can be obscured by the patient 's other injuries , and requires aggressive investigation of symptoms that suggest infection . although the diagnosis is made with csf cultures , when clinically suspected , treatment should begin after appropriate cultures have been obtained . treatment should be directed against the most likely organisms , streptococcus pneumoniae , haemophilus influenzae , and the other organisms common to the upper respiratory tract . there are no good indications for prophylactic antibiotic usage in patients with known csf leaks . the patient with a shunt or other cns prosthetic device may have various manifestations of infection , depending on the type of device and its termination . frank meningitis or ventriculitis is not always present . diagnosis requires direct culturing of the shunt milieu , with the most frequent isolates being staphylococcal species and gram-negative enteric bacilli . the most effective therapy , for both eradication of the infection and minimization of the duration and morbidity of therapy , involves removal of the infected shunt , external drainage during parenteral antibiotic therapy , and complete replacement of hardware at the time of internalization . the postsurgical patient will not develop meningitis very frequently , but like the posttrauma patient , concurrent factors can make the diagnosis difficult . differentiating infectious from chemical meningitis must often be initially based on csf cell counts and chemistries alone . treatment to cover the most likely organism , staphylococcal species and respiratory flora , should be started before the culture results are finalized . 
spirochetal infection of the central nervous system . four spirochetal diseases frequently involve the central nervous system : syphilis , leptospirosis , relapsing fever , and lyme borreliosis . in particular , syphilis and lyme borreliosis are increasing problems . during the spirochetemic phase there is seeding of the nervous system . after a quiescent latent period , there may be late disease flareups producing a variety of neurologic syndromes . cerebrospinal fluid examination is very helpful in these infections . 
persistent neutrophilic meningitis . persistent neutrophilic meningitis is an unusual but distinct clinical variant of chronic meningitis characterized by csf neutrophilia with hypoglycorrhachia which persists for more than 1 week on serial csf studies . documented etiologies include selected bacteria and higher bacteria such as brucella , nocardia and actinomyces as well as " opportunistic " fungi such as candida , aspergillus , the zygomycetes , and pseudallescheria . recognition of the syndrome is important , as empiric therapy ( e.g. , cotrimoxazole and amphotericin b ) may differ significantly from that used for classic chronic meningitis . 
tuberculous meningitis . tuberculous meningitis is an uncommon but potentially devastating form of tuberculosis . current antituberculous drugs are highly effective when treatment is initiated early , before the onset of altered mentation or focal neurologic deficits . because the clinical outcome depends greatly on the stage at which therapy is initiated , early recognition is of paramount importance . patients with the meningoencephalitis syndrome and csf findings of low glucose levels , elevated protein levels , and pleocytosis should be treated immediately if there is evidence of tb elsewhere in the body , or if prompt evaluation fails to establish an alternative diagnosis . examination of csf is the best diagnostic approach ; with sufficient diligence , serial afb smears and cultures will usually yield positive results , even days after therapy has been started . the ct scan is an important and highly effective tool for the diagnosis and management of patients with tbm . in a patient with compatible clinical features , the combination of basilar meningeal enhancement and any degree of hydrocephalus is strongly suggestive of the diagnosis of tbm . serial evaluation by ct scanning is useful for following the course of hydrocephalus and tuberculoma , particularly in reference to the need for , or response to , adjunctive therapy with corticosteroids and surgery . the decision to administer corticosteroids should be based on careful correlation of the clinical and radiographic features of the case . surgical shunting should be considered early in the patient with hydrocephalus and symptoms of raised intracranial pressure . tuberculomas are best treated medically , often in conjunction with corticosteroids where cerebral edema is believed to contribute to neurologic decline . the recommended chemotherapy regimen is isoniazid and rifampin in all patients , together with pyrazinamide for the first 2 months . 
fungal meningitis . fungal meningitis tends to be a subacute or chronic process ; however , it may be just as lethal as bacterial meningitis if untreated . there are many similarities between the pathogenic fungi . most of the fungi are aerosolized and inhaled , and initiate a primary pulmonary infection which is usually self-limited . hematogenous dissemination may follow the initial infection , with subsequent involvement of the cns . rarely , trauma or local extension provides the route to cns infection . the host is frequently , although not always , immunosuppressed . the hyphae of molds generally cause focal disease with hemorrhagic necrosis secondary to vascular thrombosis . the yeasts tend to cause a more diffuse process with the base of the brain being primarily affected , such that hydrocephalus is seen as a frequent complication of chronic disease . diagnosis may be difficult , as the csf may be normal , with negative smears and sterile cultures , although more often there is at least one abnormality indicating disease . serologies ( if available , depending on the fungus ) may point towards the proper diagnosis , as may a careful travel history . currently , amphotericin b is still the drug of choice in most situations ; however , the newer azole antifungal agents offer great promise , especially in the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis . the precise role of such agents will remain unclear until appropriate large-scale studies of their effectiveness have been completed . the treatment of the unusual cns mycoses will continue to be based on clinical experience , and reports of the use of new azoles in these diseases need to be critically evaluated . 
meningitis due to protozoa and helminths . this article reviews the microbiology , pathogenesis , epidemiology , clinical manifestations , diagnostic tests , and recent advances in the therapy of protozoan and helminthic infections of the central nervous system , with more emphasis given to protozoan than to helminthic infections . 
chronic pain in primary care . identification and management of psychosocial factors . chronic pain is a problem of great public health importance that is frequently seen in the primary care setting . pain chronicity shows a strong association with psychosocial factors . assessment of these factors should be composed of two parts : ( 1 ) psychological factors and ( 2 ) psychiatric illness . psychological factors include all those pain-associated alterations in the patient 's environment that reinforce illness behavior . psychiatric illness includes those syndromes that retard recovery from illness or injury , such as depression , anxiety , substance abuse , and dementia . psychiatric and psychological interventions can be successfully introduced in the context of a comprehensive rehabilitation effort . usually these interventions can be accomplished by the family physician in concert with a consultant psychiatrist or psychologist . in severely disabled or resistant patients , referral to a multidisciplinary pain clinic will be necessary . 
a multicentre follow-up study of 1152 patients with myasthenia gravis in italy . a multicentre retrospective study was carried out on the characteristics and course of myasthenia gravis ( mg ) in italy . data from 1152 patients , fairly representative of the myasthenic population seeking medical advice , were analysed for diagnostic criteria , clinical aspects and therapeutic approaches . mean follow-up was 4.9 years . the disease was correctly diagnosed within 2 years of the onset in 80 % of cases . onset of symptoms peaked in the second and third decade in females and fell between 20 and 59 years in males . at first observation 87 % of the patients had generalized mg . maximal worsening was observed within 3 years in 77 % of patients . at the last follow-up , 35 % of cases were symptom-free ( pharmacological remission 24 % , remission without treatment 11 % ) . the more severe the disease at the first observation and at the maximal worsening of symptoms , the lower was the proportion of remissions . steroids were given in 54 % and immunosuppressants in 18 % . thymectomy was performed in 72 % , mostly in women , younger than age 40 , and with generalized mg . thymectomy seemed to improve the course of the disease , mostly in patients operated on shortly after diagnosis and those with generalized mild-to-moderate disease and with a normally involuted thymus . mg was lethal in 4 % of patients , principally men , older than 40 , in grade 3 or worse at first observation , with a short history of disease , and with thymona . 
motor dysfunction in hiv-infected patients without clinically detectable central-nervous deficit . motor tests were performed in 50 hiv-infected patients in all stages according to the current cdc classification , but without any clinically evident central nervous system deficit , and the results compared with an age-matched control group . patients were excluded from the study if there was alcohol or drug abuse , fever and/or opportunistic cerebral infection . the parameters tested were postural tremor of the outstretched hands , most rapid voluntary alternating index finger movements ( mram ) and rise time of most rapid index finger extensions ( mrc ) . whereas tremor peak frequencies did not differ significantly in the patients and controls , mram and rise times of mrcs showed significant slowing in the patient group . morphologically , the motor test performance of the hiv-infected patients was similar to that of patients with manifest basal ganglia disease ( parkinson 's , huntington 's and wilson 's diseases ) . mri scans of all patients were normal . it is concluded that in hiv-infected patients there is a very early subclinical central nervous system affection , especially of the basal ganglia , which is detectable with appropriate , quantitative motor function tests . these functional abnormalities precede the structural alterations in the mri scans . 
oculo-bulbar myasthenic symptoms as the sole sign of tumour involving or compressing the brain stem . four patients with tumours involving or compressing the brain stem are described whose initial clinical symptoms of fluctuating paresis of the external ocular muscles and/or the pharyngeal muscles without other neurological deficits led to the primary diagnosis of focal myasthenia . the combination of an unusual clinical pattern , involvement of muscles of only one ocular nerve or severe dysphagia/dysarthria without extension of the myasthenic symptoms , should lead to further investigation to exclude other reasons of a focal myasthenic syndrome such as a brain-stem tumour . 
fluctuations of interictal brain imaging in repeated 123i-imp spect scans in an epileptic patient . single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) brain scans with n-isopropyl - ( iodine 123 ) p-iodoamphetamine ( 123i-imp ) were performed three times in interictal periods in a 35-year-old man with intractable frontal lobe epilepsy and normal x-ray ct findings . the first scan showed decreased 123i-imp uptake in the right frontal lobe . this abnormal image was regarded as the primary focus of his epilepsy on the basis of its regional agreement with focal epileptic discharges on eegs . in the second scan , he showed normal imaging , while the third scan showed the same abnormal image as before , in the right frontal lobe . the frequency of his clinical seizures was almost unchanged during the intervals between scans and further eegs recorded soon after each scan showed almost no changes in the basic activities and frequency of the epileptic discharges . such fluctuations in spect brain imaging suggest that the severity of functional inactivation underlying the focal hypoperfusion image as an epileptic focus may fluctuate considerably in the interictal state with no relation to the clinical features of epilepsy . 
primary intracerebral sarcoma in childhood : case report with electron-microscope study . a case of a primary intracerebral sarcoma is described in a 5-year-old girl . histology and immunohistochemistry excluded the diagnosis of a leiomyosarcoma , a malignant haemangiopericytoma or a fibrosarcoma ; electron-microscopical findings indicated that the origin of the sarcoma was in the pia mater . 
aberrant regeneration in a case of syringobulbia : selective co-activation of abducens and facial nerves during saccades . a patient suffering from syringobulbia and syringomyelia exhibited a phasic contraction of the ipsilateral facial muscles , mainly the levator labii , whenever he looked to the left or right . facial muscle twitches occurred exclusively with saccades . the selective co-activation of abducens and facial nerves is interpreted as the result of bilateral misrouting of regenerating neurons from the parapontine reticular formation to the facial nerve in the tegmentum pontis . 
familial eating epilepsy . eating-related seizures affecting 20 individuals among 59 siblings belonging to nine families are presented . the type of epilepsy was partial in all the affected individuals , and the seizures complex in 15 and simple in 5 , secondarily generalized in the majority . the onset of epilepsy , in most cases , was in the second decade of life . a remarkable degree of intra-family consistency was observed with regard to age at onset , symptomatology of seizures and timing of eating seizures . the study demonstrates sibling clustering in a partial epilepsy , implicating for the first time genetic susceptibility in the aetiology of eating epilepsy . 
transient ischaemic attacks and small-vessel disease . dutch tia study group histories and computed tomograms of 606 patients with transient cerebral ischaemia were studied . all symptoms and signs had completely resolved within 24 hours , and any episodes suggestive of posterior fossa ischaemia were excluded . computed tomography , done after the clinical features had resolved , showed 79 relevant infarcts : 46 were small , deep , lacunar infarcts ( 58 % , 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 47-69 % ) , and 33 were larger cortical infarcts . the histories and the type of infarct in these 79 patients were compared to see whether lacunar infarcts were preceded by a history of unilateral motor or sensory symptoms without features usually attributed to the cerebral cortex . the positive predictive value of such lacunar symptoms was 0.74 , with a negative predictive value of 0.61 . 11 patients had a cortical infarct despite a history of lacunar tias , but only one occurred in the left hemisphere and speech was not affected . of 527 patients with transient ischaemic attacks without a relevant infarct visible on computed tomography , 335 ( 64 % ) had a history suggestive of lacunar ischaemia , whereas in several other studies 20-25 % of patients with ischaemic stroke have evidence of lacunar infarcts . lacunar tias may therefore have a better prognosis than cortical tias or may often precede cortical infarcts ; alternatively , many cortical infarcts may occur without warning . 
the role of conditioning and verbal expectancy in the placebo response . both conditioning and expectancy models have been offered in recent years as explanations for the placebo response . following our earlier work on conditioning placebo responses in human subjects the current study examined the relative contribution made by conditioning and verbal expectancy . group 1 received a combined expectancy and conditioning manipulation ; group 2 received expectancy alone ; group 3 , conditioning alone ; and group 4 was the control group . subjects ' responses were compared with and without a placebo cream , using iontophoretic pain stimulation . the results suggest that conditioning was more powerful than verbal expectancy in creating a placebo response . 
the robustness of an empirically derived taxonomy of chronic pain patients . there is currently no classification system for chronic pain patients that has achieved consensus . the lack of a classification that is used consistently across settings has impaired advance of knowledge and treatment of chronic pain patients . recently , an empirically derived multivariate classification system , the multiaxial assessment of pain ( map ) patients , has been developed . in this paper , the generalizability of the map system was evaluated by contrasting the map classification of 3 common but diverse chronic pain syndromes , namely , low back pain , headache , and temporomandibular disorders . the results indicate that although the proportion of patients classified into the 3 subgroups of the map taxonomy differ , the profiles based on the pattern of interrelationship among the assessment scales were remarkably similar . these data suggest that the psychosocial and behavioral responses associated with chronic pain are common to diverse samples of pain patients despite differences in demographic characteristics and medical diagnosis . the implications of these results for research and clinical practice are discussed . the potential utility of a polydiagnostic approach using more traditional medically based classifications such as proposed by the iasp ( merskey , h. , pain , suppl . 3 ( 1986 ) s1-s225 ) complemented by classification based on the map psychosocial-behaviorally based taxonomy are examined . 
litigation and employment status : effects on patients with chronic pain . in order to study the effects of compensation and litigation , 201 chronic pain patients were selected from a sample of 444 : 99 were working , 15 were working and litigating , 53 were receiving worker 's compensation , and 34 were receiving worker 's compensation and litigating . employment ( working vs. worker 's compensation ) and litigation status ( litigating vs. not litigating ) were analyzed in a 2 x 2 factorial design with measures of pain , disability , psychological distress , and selected demographics as dependent variables . compared to worker 's compensation patients , working patients reported significantly less disability ( down-time , days spent in bed , interference of pain in daily activities ) and pain of a longer duration . compared to litigating patients , non-litigating patients reported less pain ( on the mcgill pain questionnaire ) and less disability ( stopping activity , interference of pain in daily activities ) . on two measures of psychological distress ( depression , anxiety ) , there were significant interactions : worker 's compensation patients who were litigating reported less distress than non-litigants , while working patients who were litigating reported more distress than non-litigants . the results indicate clear differences in self-reports of disability associated with both employment and litigation status . they also suggest that litigation may function as a coping response for patients who are distressed by the adversarial nature of the worker 's compensation system . limitations of the study as well as suggestions for further research also are discussed . 
profiles of opioid analgesia in humans after intravenous bolus administration : alfentanil , fentanyl and morphine compared on experimental pain . this report examines the relationship of plasma drug concentration to analgesic effect following bolus doses of alfentanil , fentanyl and morphine and assesses individual differences in analgesic response among volunteers . we predicted that the 3 opioids would yield disparate analgesic profiles because their physicochemical and pharmacokinetic characteristics differ . ten healthy volunteers received intravenous bolus doses of either alfentanil , fentanyl , morphine or normal saline on different days . we stimulated their teeth electrically and measured brain evoked potential ( ep ) and pain report ( pr ) repeatedly over 2 h to assess analgesic effect . concurrently , we drew 18 blood samples to assess opioid plasma concentrations during the test period . the relationship between opioid plasma concentration and analgesic effect was well defined for alfentanil but ambiguous for morphine . fentanyl exhibited a marked hysteresis . we observed noteworthy individual differences in analgesic response with all 3 drugs but these differences were greatest for morphine and least for alfentanil . inter - and intrasubject variability in analgesic response across drugs is related to the physicochemical properties of the drugs tested . 
neglected factors in chronic pain treatment outcome studies -- referral patterns , failure to enter treatment , and attrition . an increasing number of chronic pain treatment outcome studies have appeared in the literature . in general , these studies support the efficacy of multidisciplinary pain programs , as well as specific treatment modalities such as biofeedback and relaxation . reviews of this literature have tended to be cautiously optimistic . some concerns , however , have been raised about the methodological adequacy of these studies , particularly in terms of the lack of control groups , the brief duration of follow-up periods , and the vague criteria used for establishing the success of the therapeutic interventions . other factors that mitigate conclusions regarding the generalizability of the favorable results reported need to be considered . in this paper 3 rarely discussed topics that are implicit within most treatment outcome studies and that need to be given greater attention are examined . these topics include : ( 1 ) referral patterns to pain clinics ( who are referred to pain clinics , when , and how representative is the referred sample ? ) ; ( 2 ) failure to enter treatment ( e.g. , exclusion criteria , lack of available financial support to cover the cost of treatment , patient 's refusal to accept recommendations ) , and consequently , the representativeness of the treated sample ; and ( 3 ) patient 's attrition . in this paper we discuss each of these factors as they underscore important qualifications that have to be made in evaluating treatment outcome studies . 
heart rate changes as an autonomic component of the pain response . autonomic variables have been recommended as measures of the affective-motivational component of the pain response in objective algesimetry . in the present study components of heart rate responses to painful heat stimuli and their relation to stimulus and sensation variables were analyzed . twelve healthy subjects served . sixty phasic stimuli of varying temperatures above and below pain threshold were delivered through a marstock thermode in 1 session . heart rate , respiration , and subjective stimulus ratings were recorded simultaneously . phasic heat stimulation above and below pain threshold induced a tonic increase of the heart rate lasting up to more than 20 sec . high intensity stimulation generated steeper rises and greater mean increase than low intensity stimulation . in general , heart rate responses were more closely related to subjective sensation than to stimulus intensity . however , differential temporal analysis demonstrates that , until about 3 sec after stimulation , the autonomic response is determined solely by stimulus temperature , whereas , after approximately 6 sec , it is related only to subjective judgement . accordingly , the heart rate responses reflect both a brief nocifensive reflex induced by the sensory component and , subsequently , a longer-lasting response which seems to be related to affective and/or cognitive evaluation . this separation of different stages of pain-processing by an autonomic indicator may be useful in clinical algesimetry . 
opiates suppress carrageenan-induced edema and hyperthermia at doses that inhibit hyperalgesia . this study determined whether opiates alter vascular components of inflammation ( hyperthermia , edema and plasma extravasation ) in addition to the suppression of hyperalgesia . rats were administered carrageenan into one hind paw and saline into the other hind paw , followed by i.p. injection of morphine ( 0.2-5 .0 mg/kg ) or saline at 60 min , and testing at 90 min after hind paw injections . morphine produced a dose-dependent reduction in carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia ( 17-53 % ) , hyperthermia ( 39-53 % ) and edema ( 24-36 % ) . morphine treatment did not alter the temperatures of the contralateral saline-injected paws , indicating that opiate suppression of hyperthermia was not confounded by alterations in systemic body temperature or blood flow . the opiate effects on inflammation were stereospecific since levorphanol ( 1 mg/kg ) , but not dextrorphan ( 1 mg/kg ) , suppressed carrageenan-evoked hyperalgesia , hyperthermia and edema . pre-treatment with naltrexone ( 1.5 mg/kg ) blocked the effects of a 5 mg/kg dose of morphine sulfate on hyperalgesia , hyperthermia and edema . in a separate study , i.v. injection of morphine sulfate ( 2 mg/kg ) reduced plasma extravasation by 41 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . morphine administration resulted in significantly greater increases in paw withdrawal latencies in the inflamed ( 38-139 % ) than the contralateral , saline-treated paws ( 4-19 % ) . the results indicate that opiates exert a moderate , though significant , reduction in the vascular signs of inflammation in addition to their reduction of hyperalgesia . the mechanisms for this vascular effect involve inhibition of both vasodilation ( as indicated by a decrease in hyperthermia ) and inhibition of vascular permeability . in addition , opiates exhibit enhanced antinociceptive effects in inflamed paws , even when compared to uninjured paws in the same animal . 
effects of the calcium antagonist nilvadipine on focal cerebral ischemia in spontaneously hypertensive rats . we studied the efficacy of preischemic and postischemic systemic treatment with a new calcium antagonist nilvadipine in a permanent focal cerebral ischemia model of spontaneously hypertensive rats . rats that underwent microsurgical middle cerebral artery occlusion were blindly assigned to a single intraperitoneal injection of nilvadipine ( 0.32 mg/kg ) or the same amount of polyethylene glycol either 15 minutes before , immediately after , 1 hour after , or 3 hours after occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery . neurologic conditions of rats were closely examined , and rats were killed 24 hours later . removed brains were sliced coronally , stained with triphenyltetrazolium chloride , and the size of infarct was determined . although no neurologic improvements were observed in the treated rats , the area of infarcts was significantly reduced in the groups treated before , immediately after , and 1 hour after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery . treatment started 3 hours after occlusion was ineffective . 
glossopharyngeal schwannoma : review of five cases and the literature . glossopharyngeal schwannomas are rare tumors in spite of the fact that acoustic schwannomas account for 8 % -10 % of intracranial tumors . there have been 23 reported cases in the literature . this report of five cases is the largest series of these tumors . the presentation , radiological workup , operation , and long-term postoperative results will be presented , along with a review of the literature . 
a single case of huntington 's disease simultaneously occurring with obstructive hydrocephalus . a case of simultaneously occurring huntington 's disease and obstructive hydrocephalus is presented . huntington 's and other neurodegenerative diseases have been described with normal-pressure hydrocephalus ; however , no such description with obstructive hydrocephalus has been reported . the obstructive hydrocephalus displays a familial tendency in its presentation . 
embolism of cerebral tissue : a cause of coagulopathy and cerebral infarction ? report of a case . we report a case of potentially survivable closed head injury , which was complicated by disseminated intravascular coagulation and bilateral cerebral infarction . autopsy disclosed pulmonary emboli composed of cerebral tissue . we suggest that the entry of brain tissue into the systemic blood circulation caused severe disseminated intravascular coagulation , with consequent thrombosis of cerebral veins and spreading infarction . 
the painful shoulder : part ii . intrinsic disorders and impingement syndrome . intrinsic disorders that can cause shoulder pain include arthritis , gout , pseudogout and osteonecrosis . in its mildest form , impingement syndrome may cause only minimal discomfort . at its worst , impingement syndrome may lead to rotator cuff tear . bicipital tendinitis and rupture of the biceps tendon may also be associated with impingement . early rehabilitative intervention is important . physical therapy is directed toward restoring range of motion and muscle strength . 
the effect of quinidine and mexiletine on the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to an increase in rate . the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of quinidine and mexiletine on the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to a change in heart rate . the ventricular effective refractory period was measured at a basic drive cycle length of 500 msec with basic drive train durations of two beats , eight beats , 20 beats and 3 minutes . the ventricular refractory periods were measured in the baseline state and after oral treatment with quinidine or mexiletine in 20 subjects each . in the baseline state , there was progressive shortening of the ventricular refractory period as the drive train duration increased from two beats to 3 minutes . quinidine prolonged refractoriness by 5 % ( p less than 0.001 ) at each drive train duration . mexiletine did not affect the ventricular effective refractory period at any of the drive train durations . in a control group of 20 subjects , there were no significant differences between two determinations of refractoriness at each basic drive train duration . in conclusion , neither quinidine nor mexiletine affect the adaptation of ventricular refractoriness to an increase in rate . although the ventricular effective refractory period measured with a conventional basic drive train duration of eight beats is often more than 20 msec longer than the actual ventricular effective refractory period measured with a drive train duration of 3 minutes , the effects of quinidine and mexiletine on the conventionally measured ventricular effective refractory period accurately reflect the effects of these drugs on the actual ventricular effective refractory period . 
why are autism and the fragile-x syndrome associated ? conceptual and methodological issues . investigations of the association between autism and the fragile-x syndrome have yielded conflicting results with some studies indicating a strong correlation and others indicating no relation between the disorders . in this paper , we review the relevant research on this controversy and discuss the conceptual and methodological problems involved in such an inquiry . we conclude that autism and fragile x are associated and that this relation will prove fruitful in understanding the role of the x chromosome in a variety of behavior disorders and in unraveling various theoretical accounts on the etiology of autism . 
progress in the search for genetic linkage with tourette syndrome : an exclusion map covering more than 50 % of the autosomal genome . gilles de la tourette syndrome is a neuropsychiatric disorder with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance and reduced penetrance at a single genetic locus . several research groups have genetic linkage studies underway to detect the chromosomal location of the gene that predisposes for this disorder . strong and clear evidence of linkage has not yet been produced for tourette syndrome . this paper presents an overview of the methods and progress of the groups centered at yale university and erasmus university in excluding linkage from a large portion of the genome . our labs have screened 228 genetic marker loci for linkage with a gene for this disorder in a series of affected families in the united states , canada , the netherlands , and norway . more than 50 % ( and perhaps as much as 66 % ) of the autosomal genome has now been excluded on the assumption that genetic heterogeneity is not an important factor in the tourette syndrome pedigrees pooled for this summary . 
x-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia : linkage to phosphoglycerate kinase at xq13 . molecular linkage analysis was performed on a kindred with x-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia . two-point analysis with a dna probe for phosphoglycerate kinase ( pgk1 ) , which maps to xq13 , suggested linkage to the disorder by a lod score of at least 2.60 at a recombination fraction of zero . the disease in this kindred appears to be clinically and genetically distinct from that in previously reported families with x-linked hereditary ataxia or spastic paraparesis . no mapping data are available for inherited x-linked sideroblastic anemia without neurologic abnormalities . however , structural alterations of band xq13 may be involved in the development of idiopathic acquired sideroblastic anemia . no alterations in the restriction patterns of two x-linked genes involved in erythrocyte formation-i.e. , a dna-binding protein ( gf-1 ) and 5-aminolevulinate synthase ( alas ) - were detected in dna from affected males , arguing against a large deletion in either of these candidate genes . 
molecular genetic basis of maple syrup urine disease in a family with two defective alleles for branched chain acyltransferase and localization of the gene to human chromosome 1 . maple syrup urine disease in humans results from inherited defects in branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase , a mitochondrial multienzyme complex . a variety of genetic changes may produce this phenotype by affecting the function of any of the three complex-specific subunits . the varied clinical expression observed in patients may be partially explained by the defects in the involved subunit . here we report localization of the gene for the branched chain acyltransferase component of the complex to human chromosome 1 and describe a proband who is a compound heterozygote at this locus . one allele , inherited from the father , produces transcripts with 124 nucleotides deleted from the coding region . the deletion is not found in the branched chain acyltransferase gene , implying that the deleted transcripts arise by an error in transcript processing . cells from the patient 's mother contain 50 % of the normal amount of mrna for the subunit , and the proband has inherited this nonexpressing allele from her . as a result , the proband produces no acyltransferase protein and therefore has greatly impaired complex activity . a phenotypically normal sibling is shown to be genetically similar to the mother having inherited the mother 's nonexpressing allele and the father 's normal allele . 
tay-sachs disease in moroccan jews : deletion of a phenylalanine in the alpha-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase . tay-sachs disease is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder caused by defects in the beta-hexosaminidase alpha-subunit gene . the carrier frequency for tay-sachs disease is significantly elevated in both the ashkenazi jewish and moroccan jewish populations but not in other jewish groups . we have found that the mutations underlying tay-sachs disease in ashkenazi and moroccan jews are different . analysis of a moroccan jewish tay-sachs patient had revealed an in-frame deletion ( delta f ) of one of the two adjacent phenylalanine codons that are present at positions 304 and 305 in the alpha-subunit sequence . the mutation impairs the subunit assembly of beta-hexosaminidase a , resulting in an absence of enzyme activity . the moroccan patient was found also to carry , in the other alpha-subunit allele , a different , and as yet unidentified , mutation which causes a deficit of mrna . analysis of obligate carriers from six unrelated moroccan jewish families showed that three harbor the delta f mutation , raising the possibility that this defect may be a prevalent mutation in this ethnic group . 
validation of a surveillance case definition of carpal tunnel syndrome the national institute for occupational safety and health ( niosh ) has proposed a surveillance case definition for work-related carpal tunnel syndrome ( cts ) . the case definition requires the presence of median nerve symptoms ; one or more occupational risk factors ; and objective evidence of cts including one of three physical examination findings or nerve conduction tests diagnostic of cts . we evaluated the performance of the niosh case definition , restricting our analysis to cases in which physical examination findings served as the objective criterion . nerve conduction studies were used as the gold standard . seventy-eight workers were studied ; 38 percent had cts . the niosh case definition had sensitivity of 0.67 ( 95 % ci = 0.57 , 0.77 ) , specificity of 0.58 ( 95 % ci = 0.47 , 0.69 ) , and positive and negative predictive values of 0.50 ( 95 % ci = 0.39 , 0.61 ) and 0.74 ( 95 % ci = 0.64 , 0.84 ) , respectively . overall 38 percent of subjects were classified incorrectly . in a sample with a prevalence of 15 percent , as might be encountered in high risk workplaces , the positive predictive value would be 0.22 . in conclusion , when physical examination findings serve as the objective criterion the performance of the case definition is modest reflecting the limited diagnostic value of its component tests and indicating that effective screening for cts awaits improved diagnostic techniques . 
propofol infusion for control of status epilepticus . two patients with status epilepticus who were resistant to conventional treatment but responded to propofol infusions are reported . an electroencephalogram confirmed the seizures and their successful treatment . 
32-gauge spinal catheters through 26-gauge needles small diameter intrathecal catheters potentially combine the certainty of intrathecal injection and the advantage of repeatability , without the risk of a high incidence of headache after dural puncture . we report problems placing such catheters . 
paraesthesia with lumbar epidural catheters . a comparison of air and saline in a loss-of-resistance technique . the epidural space was located in 32 obstetric patients using loss of resistance to air , while in a further 35 saline was used . the incidence of paraesthesia was 56 % in the air group and 57 % in the saline group . there was no significant difference between the groups in terms of other complications or in the quality of analgesia provided . 
eosinophilic fasciitis associated with tryptophan ingestion . a manifestation of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . recently , the ingestion of tryptophan has been associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome , which is characterized by eosinophilia , myalgias , and several less consistently reported findings . we treated 13 patients who exhibited clinical features of eosinophilic fasciitis who were taking high-dose tryptophan before the onset of clinical symptoms . twelve patients exhibited eosinophilia , with eosinophil counts ranging from 0.13 to 0.88 . the remaining patient was taking oral corticosteroids when her eosinophil count was determined . eight patients complained of myalgias . other symptoms included arthralgias , pruritus , cutaneous burning , weakness , fever , rashes , malaise , edema , muscle spasms , and alopecia . 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels were elevated in four of the eight urine specimens that were tested . our findings suggest that previously diagnosed cases of eosinophilic fasciitis may represent variants of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . derangements in the metabolism of tryptophan may play a role in sclerotic diseases . 
supported employment : an alternative model for vocational rehabilitation of persons with severe neurologic , psychiatric , or physical disability . participation in paid work in competitive industry through placement in supported employment is compared and analyzed for 278 severely disabled persons . differential outcomes are described for persons with chronic mental illness , cerebral palsy , traumatic brain injury , and dual diagnosis of chronic mental illness and mental retardation . results indicated that supported employment appears to be an effective means of assisting these historically unemployable individuals to acquire and retain work . cross-disability group differences were found in areas such as hourly wages , type of employment , services provided by employment specialists , and job retention . the results represent a baseline from which to evaluate future efforts at competitive work placement for persons with severe disabilities , using the supported-employment model . 
telephone use to elicit voice or speech in brain injured subjects . the initiation of speech is often delayed in the early stages of recovery from a serious brain injury . we have found a high percentage of patients with both speech and swallowing problems . this makes bedside assessment of swallowing safety difficult because one can not listen for the sound of aspirated material on the vocal cords when a patient is at high risk for silent aspiration and is often unable to cooperate with a videofluoroscopic study . the use of the telephone has been described several times for aphasia treatment , but not to elicit speech or assess swallowing safety early after brain injury . this study , therefore , recruited subjects who had brain injuries and ( 1 ) were referred early for swallowing and other evaluations , ( 2 ) were out of coma and able to follow some commands , and ( 3 ) did not initiate voice or speak when asked to . subjects were asked three questions under two different conditions : face to face and after ringing the telephone from another room . the results were recorded on videotape and analyzed by another investigator for quantifiable differences . six of the seven subjects responded better with the telephone stimulus than without . this technique may elicit voice or speech early after brain injury in some patients and may be useful in bedside assessment of swallowing safety . it may also serve as an example of appropriate stimulation of brain injured subjects coming out of coma . 
the disabled driver : an unmet challenge . a survey was undertaken to determine if driving impairment secondary to a disabling injury is addressed in state licensing laws and training programs . in 35 states drivers submit voluntarily to reevaluation after disabling injuries , but no provision is made for reporting such individuals . only 15 states authorize physicians to report impaired drivers , and only seven require such reporting . based on a survey of licensing bureaus in the capital or a major city of every state , clerks ( who are likely to be the source of information to injured persons ) are generally not aware of reporting requirements and supervisors are only slightly better informed . of the 100 rehabilitation centers surveyed , only 36 provided on-site training for disabled drivers . voluntary submission for reevaluation after head injury does not often occur . despite being asked to do so , none of the 35 head injured patients , followed up to two years post-onset , sought reevaluation , although 21 had resumed regular driving . two of the 21 were involved in subsequent traffic accidents . common guidelines need to be established across states to ensure reevaluation of individuals with disabling conditions , delivery of accurate information concerning licensing , and availability of training programs . 
psychosocial , functional , and quality of life assessment of patients with posttraumatic fracture nonunion , chronic refractory osteomyelitis , and lower extremity amputation . one hundred nine patients with long-bone fracture nonunion , chronic refractory osteomyelitis , or posttraumatic amputation were evaluated for the impact of chronic disability on quality of life , as measured by the arthritis impact measurement scale ( aims ) and the psychosocial adjustment to illness scale ( pais ) . a self-administered pais for spouses assessed psychosocial adjustment of spouses or significant others . a final questionnaire ranked the reasons for either continuing medical therapy or accepting amputation . the pais scores differed significantly between osteomyelitis patients and both nonunion and amputation patients ( p less than .05 ) . the presence or absence of pain produced significant differences in aims and pais scores of nonunion and osteomyelitis patients ( p less than .05 ) . subscale analysis of aims scores revealed significant differences among the three groups in health perception and scale of orthopedic problem : osteomyelitis patients were more severely affected than nonunion or amputation patients . the pais detected no statistically significant difference in psychosocial adjustment of spouses of patients in the three population groups . the most common reason for continuing medical and surgical management of nonunion and osteomyelitis was expectation for cure . the amputee group chose ablation to avoid further treatment . differences in psychosocial and functional ability were related to disease diagnosis , pain , status of fracture healing , and timing of amputation . 
costs of operating a supported work program for traumatically brain-injured individuals . this paper presents a preliminary analysis of costs associated with a return-to-work program emphasizing a supported employment approach for persons who had sustained severe traumatic brain injuries . this analysis spans almost three years . results indicated that a mean of 237.8 hours of staff intervention time was required to achieve job stabilization , at a cost of +6896 . ongoing follow-along and support services averaged 1.64 hours per week at a cost of +47.56 . over 68 % of total staff time and costs were expended in job-site training and advocacy efforts . application of these findings to state-level and agency-level policies should be weighed against individual characteristics and needs of clients , program design , and outcomes which clients achieve as a result of services . 
reversible nerve conduction block in patients with polyneuropathy after ultrasound thermotherapy at therapeutic dosage . this study investigated the effect of ultrasound on nerve conduction in patients with polyneuropathy . eight able-bodied controls ( group c ) and 16 patients with clinical and physiologic evidence of polyneuropathy were tested . eight patients ( group np ) had no aching pain symptoms ; eight patients ( group p ) had severe aching pain , burning sensation , unpleasant tingling , and/or hyperesthesia in the lower extremities . for two minutes , therapeutic ultrasound in doses of 0.5 , 1.0 , and 1.5 w/cm2 were applied over the anterior surface of the leg along the pathway of the deep peroneal nerve . peroneal nerve conduction studies were performed before , during , and after ultrasound treatment . the compound muscle action potential ( cmap ) was recorded from the extensor digitorum brevis muscle . nerve conduction studies on all eight patients in group p revealed a significant decrease ( 41.4 % and 44 % reduced for doses of 1.0 w/cm2 and 1.5 w/cm2 , respectively ; p less than .05 ) in amplitude of cmap ( from baseline to the first negative peak ) , and an increase ( 6.4 % and 6.7 % increased for doses of 1.0 w/cm2 and 1.5 w/cm2 , respectively ; p less than .05 ) in proximal latency one minute after ultrasound application with a dose of 1.0 or 1.5 w/cm2 , but not with a dose of 0.5 w/cm2 ( p greater than 0.1 ) . changes returned to pretreatment values within five minutes of cessation of ultrasound therapy . in groups c and np , there were no significant changes in amplitudes of cmap or proximal latency before , during , or after ultrasound therapy at a dose of 0.5 , 1.0 , or 1.5 w/cm2 . it was concluded that ultrasonic therapy with therapeutic dosage may cause a reversible conduction block on patients with painful polyneuropathy . 
goal attainment scaling and outcome measurement in postacute brain injury rehabilitation . relationships among two-month and final goal attainment scaling ( gas ) scores , preadmission and final portland adaptability inventory ( pai ) scores , and work outcome for 16 graduates of a comprehensive , postacute brain injury rehabilitation program were examined . final gas scores were higher for program graduates who obtained the most desirable work outcomes , and preadmission and final pai scores were lower for the successful program graduates . final gas scores were significantly correlated with other outcome measures . preadmission pai scores predicted work outcome , and two-month gas scores predicted final gas scores . initial pai scores distinguished between program successes and failures , but not between program successes and dropouts . a brief look at one case illustrates the modified application of gas in postacute brain injury rehabilitation . results of this study and case analyses support gas as a quantifiable , individualized measure that is useful for ( 1 ) monitoring patient progress , ( 2 ) structuring team conferences , ( 3 ) ongoing rehabilitation planning and decision-making , ( 4 ) concise , relevant communication to family , referral sources , and funding sources , and ( 5 ) overall program evaluation when used in the context of other objective outcome measures . although our results support the clinical utility of gas , further study is recommended to assess the psychometric characteristics of gas in this application . 
factors predicting satisfactory home care after stroke . this study prospectively investigated factors predicting optimal poststroke home care . one hundred and thirty-five first occurrence stroke patients and their primary support persons were evaluated during the initial hospitalization after stroke and again one year poststroke . discriminant function analysis was used to identify two groups from the baseline data : home care situations which were rated optimal and those which were not . group membership was predicted and validated with 72.6 % accuracy . patients at risk for less than optimal home care had caregivers who were ( 1 ) more likely to be depressed , ( 2 ) less likely to be married to the patient , ( 3 ) below average in knowledge about stroke care , and ( 4 ) reporting more family dysfunction . our findings suggest that caregiver-related problems can have a collective effect on rehabilitation outcome and that treatment should reduce caregiver depression , minimize family dysfunction , and increase the family 's knowledge about stroke care . 
visual illusions in a patient with lateral medullary syndrome . the disturbance of visual perception associated with nystagmus is a rare phenomenon . this is a case of a 61-year-old woman who developed progressive right hemisensory deficit , left facial sensory deficit , vertigo , staggering to the left , left ptosis , vertical diplopia , and ataxia of the left upper extremity . she had rotatory nystagmus in primary position , which increased in amplitude with left gaze . the above signs and symptoms were consistent with lateral medullary syndrome . during her rehabilitation , the patient complained of visual disturbances typical of oscillopsia . these disturbances , or illusions , are compensatory mechanisms for nystagmus and its resultant retinal error . the purpose of this case presentation was to study the pathophysiology underlying oscillopsia in patients with nystagmus and to stimulate awareness of such visual disturbances in stroke patients . 
a videofluoroscopy chair for the evaluation of dysphagia in patients with severe neuromotor disease . due to the difficulties encountered in positioning severely neurologically impaired individuals for videofluoroscopic studies , the rehab tech video fluorochair was developed . the purpose of the chair is to provide the severely disabled patient with safe , stable postural support in an upright position for videofluoroscopic studies , with anterior-posterior , lateral , and rotational views easily performed . the chair features a removable headrest , a full back support , armrests , lateral truncal supports , and a patented base which is clamped to the footboard of the radiology table and allows for 200 degrees rotation of the patient . two case studies illustrate the practical use and versatility of the rehab tech video fluorochair . 
cotton-wool spots and retinal light sensitivity in diabetic retinopathy . in 14 eyes of 14 patients with diabetic retinopathy the light sensitivity of retinal cotton-wool spots was studied by computerised perimetry , and the visual field data were accurately correlated with the corresponding morphology as seen on fundus photographs and fluorescein angiograms . in 12 of the eyes the examinations were repeated within one year in order to follow changes in retinal light sensitivity during the evolution of the lesions . retinal cotton-wool spots were in all eyes associated with localised non-arcuate scotomata in the visual field . in four eyes the cotton-wool spots disappeared within three months of the first examination , and in two of these cases the corresponding scotomata disappeared together with the morphological lesions . in eight eyes the cotton-wool spots ( and the corresponding scotomata ) had not resolved one year after the first examination . the mean blood pressure showed no significant difference between the patients in whom the lesions resolved within three months and the patients in whom the lesions persisted longer . 
traumatic retinal detachment . seventy-seven patients developed retinal breaks following an episode of ocular contusion , and 65 ( 84.4 % ) of these developed rhegmatogenous retinal detachment . surgical treatment successfully restored or maintained retinal apposition in 74 ( 96.1 % ) of the eyes . thirty-six ( 46.8 % ) eyes recovered visual acuity of 6/9 or better . of the retinal breaks recognised dialysis at the ora serrata was observed in 49 eyes , of which 28 were situated at the lower temporal quadrant . seventeen eyes had irregular breaks arising within necrotic retina at the site of scleral impact . twenty-four ( 31.2 % ) patients had retinal break or retinal detachment diagnosed within 24 hours of injury and 49 ( 63.6 % ) within six weeks . immediate retinal detachment was a feature of necrotic retinal breaks , while inferior oral dialyses led to a slow accumulation of subretinal fluid . delayed diagnosis of retinal detachment was due either to opaque media or to failure to examine the retina after injury . visual prognosis was good when retinal break or detachment were diagnosed within six weeks of injury . however , those patients who escaped initial retinal examination and were lost to follow-up had a less favourable visual outcome . 
anisocoria in unilateral ophthalmic disease . pupillary diameters in the affected and unaffected eyes of 327 patients with uniocular red eye were assessed during fixation of a distant target . the mean pupillary diameters were similar in the unaffected eyes in each of eight diagnostic groups , but were significantly different ( f = 3.84 , p less than 0.001 ) in the diseased eyes . with corneal abrasions ( p less than 0.001 ) , marginal keratitis ( p less than 0.05 ) , and acute anterior uveitis ( p less than 0.001 ) the mean pupillary diameter for the affected eye was significantly smaller than that of the unaffected eye . the observed differences of pupillary diameter probably reflect the role of neuronal and autocoid mechanisms in the unilateral control of pupillary size . 
long-term efficacy of primary laser trabeculoplasty . sixty glaucomatous eyes of 60 patients treated with laser trabeculoplasty as primary therapy were reviewed retrospectively . there were 42 eyes with capsular glaucoma and 18 with simple glaucoma . the mean prelaser intraocular pressure ( iop ) was 35.2 ( sd = 6.5 ) mmhg . success was defined as iop less than or equal to 22 mmhg without medication . the probability of success was 0.73 at 1 year , 0.66 at 2 years , 0.57 at 3 years , and 0.50 at 4 years . three eyes experienced progressive visual field loss or disc damage in spite of an intraocular pressure below 22 mmhg without medication . high prelaser pressure and the severity of the visual field defects were significant predictors of treatment failure . 
electrophysiology and colour perimetry in dominant infantile optic atrophy . a typical finding in dominant infantile optic atrophy ( dioa ) is the variation of the phenotypic expression of the dioa gene even within one family . it is of special interest for genetic consultation to evaluate an examination method for detecting subclinically involved patients . seven patients of two families were examined . three of them had the typical symptoms of dioa : reduced visual acuity , tritan defect , temporal pallor of both optic discs , and a relative central scotoma for white test spots . in visual evoked cortical potentials ( vecp ) the amplitudes were reduced , and in one patient the latencies were slightly delayed and two patients considerably so . the amplitude of the negative component of the perg was markedly reduced , while the positive component was normal . in the remaining four family members normal retinal and cortical responses were recorded under standard conditions and visual fields and colour vision ( fm 100 hue ) were also normal . however , static perimetry with blue test spots showed in two family members enlarged central scotomas , thus proving that they had subclinical dioa . 
local injection treatment of tennis elbow -- hydrocortisone , triamcinolone and lignocaine compared . corticosteroid injections are the mainstay of treating tennis elbow even though their effectiveness has not been well established by controlled studies . a survey of consultant rheumatologists confirmed a widespread preference for this treatment but they varied in their choice of steroid dose and preparation . we examined the value of some practices by comparing local injections of 2 ml 1 % lignocaine with either 10 mg triamcinolone or 25 mg hydrocortisone made up to 2 ml with 1 % lignocaine ( study 1 ) . the investigation was conducted double blind . within the first 8 weeks , pain relief was greater for triamcinolone than hydrocortisone although the differences were not statistically significant . the response to both steroid preparations was significantly better than for lignocaine up to this point but at 24 weeks , the degrees of improvement were similar for all three groups and many patients still had pain . relapse was common . in a separate but similarly designed study , triamcinolone 10 mg was compared with 20 mg of the same agent . improvements of pain were similar and followed the same time scale . post-injection worsening of pain occurred in approximately half of all steroid treated patients in both studies and this was sometimes severe and persistent . it was less frequent amongst those given lignocaine alone . skin atrophy was reported in all groups but was more frequent amongst those given triamcinolone in study 1 . in conclusion , more rapid relief of symptoms was achieved with 10 mg triamcinolone than with 25 mg hydrocortisone or lignocaine alone and there was less needed to repeat injections . results obtained with 20 mg triamcinolone were similar to those of the smaller dose . 
higher incidence of carpal tunnel syndrome in oophorectomized women . to determine whether the hormonal changes of the menopause are related to the onset of carpal tunnel syndrome ( cts ) , 53 healthy women , younger than 44 years , and subjected to bilateral oophorectomy between 1 and 4 years before the study , were evaluated . seventy healthy menstruating women matched for age were used as controls . in those complaining of symptoms and presenting signs suggestive of cts , sensory and motor nerve conduction studies were done . in the oophorectomized group , 17 of 53 ( 32 % ) had clinical cts , while only seven of 70 of the control group ( 10 % ) did so ( relative risk for the oophorectomized group = 4.25 ; 95 % confidence intervals 1.47 and 12.61 ) . the nerve conduction studies were abnormal in 14 of 16 oophorectomized women ( 87.5 % ) , and in only one of seven of the control group ( 14.2 % ; p less than 0.002 ) . symptoms tended to be milder in the controls . symptoms developed in the first year after oophorectomy in 14 of the 17 women with cts . this suggests that women develop cts after oophorectomy more frequently than controls . 
malignant glandular triton tumor . a case of left brachial plexus-related malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor showing neoplastic , glandular , and rhabdomyoblastic elements in a 39-year-old chinese man is reported . the authors suggested that this tumor be termed a malignant glandular triton tumor in view of the presence of the adenocarcinomatous component . the patient had extensive local recurrence comprising mainly the schwann spindle cells within a year after complete piecemeal removal and died 15 months later after the initial presentation . the natural behavior of this tumor , as in other reported cases of malignant triton tumor , is extremely aggressive , unlike malignant schwannoma or glandular malignant schwannoma . the histogenesis of this tumor is likely to be from primitive neural crest cells , schwann 's cell precursors , or metaplastic malignant schwann 's cells . 
differentiation in embryonal neuroepithelial tumors of the central nervous system . ninety-six embryonal neuroectodermal tumors were studied histologically and immunohistologically with a panel of antibodies including glial , neuronal , epithelial , mesodermal , and myelin markers . in 71 tumors there was glial and neuronal differentiation and expression both of an s ( photoreceptor ) antigen and vimentin . in five tumors there was only glial differentiation and in 20 tumors only neuronal differentiation . no reactivity for myelin and epithelial markers was found . histologic and immunohistologic findings identified various degrees of differentiation in different tumors , which was bipolar ( glial and neuronal ) in most tumors and unipolar in the remainder . the authors suggest that their findings may be the result of normal or aberrant oncogenic differentiation , agreeing with the nomenclature of the world health organization classification for these tumors with and the inclusion of a category for ependymoblastoma . 
effects of local reduction in pressure on distensibility and composition of cerebral arterioles . this study examined effects of local reductions in mean and pulse pressures on cerebral arterioles in normotensive wistar-kyoto rats ( wky ) and stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrsp ) . wky and shrsp underwent clipping of one carotid artery at 1 month of age . at 10-12 months of age , mechanics of pial arterioles were examined in vivo in anesthetized rats . bilateral craniotomies were performed to expose pial arterioles in the sham and clipped cerebral hemispheres . stress-strain relations were calculated from measurements of pial arteriolar pressure ( servo null ) , diameter , and cross-sectional area of the arteriolar wall . point counting stereology was used to quantitate individual components in the arteriolar wall . before deactivation of smooth muscle with edta , mean ( pm ) and pulse ( pp ) pressures were significantly less ( p less than 0.05 ) in clipped than in sham arterioles in wky ( pm , 63 + / - 2 versus 73 + / - 2 mm hg ; pp , 23 + / - 3 versus 30 + / - 3 mm hg ) and shrsp ( pm , 94 + / - 4 versus 110 + / - 4 mm hg ; pp , 27 + / - 2 versus 38 + / - 3 mm hg ) . cross-sectional area of the arteriolar wall was less ( p less than 0.05 ) in clipped than in sham arterioles in both groups of rats ( 1,403 + / - 125 versus 1,683 + / - 125 microns2 in wky ; 1,436 + / - 72 versus 1,926 + / - 134 microns2 in shrsp ) . there was a correlation between cross-sectional area of the vessel wall and pulse pressure ( r2 = 0.66 ) , but not mean pressure ( r2 = 0.09 ) . during maximal dilatation with edta , the stress-strain curve was shifted to the left in clipped arterioles of shrsp , but not of wky , which indicates that carotid clipping in shrsp reduces passive distensibility of cerebral arterioles . the proportion of distensible components in the vessel wall ( smooth muscle , elastin , and endothelium ) was reduced in clipped arterioles in shrsp , but not in wky . these findings suggest that 1 ) vascular hypertrophy of cerebral arterioles is related more closely to pulse pressure than to mean pressure , and 2 ) reduction of pial arteriolar pressure completely prevents cerebral vascular hypertrophy and attenuates increases in passive distensibility of cerebral arterioles in shrsp . 
optimum results of the surgical treatment of carotid territory ischemia . continuing controversy over the role of carotid endarterectomy in stroke prevention is based largely on reports in which high perioperative morbidity and mortality rates obviate possible long-term benefit from the procedure . the purpose of this review is to examine optimal results of carotid surgery in order to describe the potential for the procedure in stroke prevention . optimal surgical results are compared with optimal medical results in the therapy of symptomatic patients and with optimal nonsurgical results in the therapy of asymptomatic patients . factors common to series with excellent results , such as patient selection and operative technique , are examined , and problems such as recurrent carotid stenosis and coexisting coronary disease , which continue to plague even the best surgical series , are discussed . 
advances in the treatment of complex cerebrovascular disorders by interventional neurovascular techniques . treatment of complex cerebrovascular disorders , including intracranial aneurysms , carotid cavernous sinus fistulas , vertebral fistulas , arteriovenous malformations , atherosclerosis of brachiocephalic vessels , and arterial vasospasm , is being performed in selected cases by interventional neurovascular techniques . recent advances in microballoon technology , permanent solidifying polymers , newer embolic agents , high-resolution digital subtraction angiography with road-mapping technique , and steerable micro-guide wires and catheters have greatly improved access in the distal intracranial circulation and markedly reduced the morbidity associated with these procedures . interventional neuroradiology is emerging as an important adjunct to neurosurgery for selected cerebrovascular disorders . 
limits of brain tolerance to daily increments in serum sodium in chronically hyponatraemic rats treated with hypertonic saline or urea : advantages of urea . 1 . at present there is no consensus about the optimal management of hyponatraemia to prevent demyelinating brain lesions . we have evaluated in a large series of rats ( n = 136 ) the protective role of urea for the brain in the treatment of severe chronic hyponatraemia . urea ( group i , n = 51 ) was compared with hypertonic saline in boluses ( group ii , n = 46 ) and with hypertonic saline in divided doses ( group iii , n = 39 ) . treatment was administered intraperitoneally over 48 h. the severity of brain lesions was assessed by histological scoring . 2 . for 95 % of the injured animals treated with hypertonic saline , brain lesions appeared for an absolute increment in serum na + concentration ( delta sna + ) of 20 mmol day-1 l-1 . above this limit neurological injuries gradually worsened , and beyond a transition zone ( delta sna + greater than or equal to 20 less than or equal to 23 mmol day-1 l-1 ) 89 % ( group iii ) to 100 % ( group ii ) of the animals were injured . this limit can be reached rapidly , as attested by the comparable severity of brain lesions observed in group ii ( mean delta sna + 1 h after a bolus injection , 19 mmol/l ) and in group iii ( mean delta sna + 1 h after an injection , 2 mmol/l ) , both groups achieving similar daily delta sna + . 3 . a correction above the threshold of 20 mmol day-1 l-1 is as toxic during the first 24 h as during the second day of the treatment . 
role of diabetologist in evaluating diabetic retinopathy . objective : to evaluate the ability of diabetologists to screen diabetic patients for diabetic retinopathy . research design and methods : comparison of eye examination performed by diabetologists with direct ophthalmoscopy through an undilated pupil and by ophthalmologists through a dilated pupil with seven-field stereoscopic fundus photography ( gold standard ) . the study consisted of 67 insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetic outpatients attending a diabetes clinic . results : on the basis of fundus photography , patients were classified as having no or insignificant ( 30 % ) , minimal ( 31 % ) , moderate ( 24 % ) , or severe ( 15 % ) retinopathy . the diabetologists and ophthalmologists performed similarly in their ability to classify severity of diabetic retinopathy accurately . when no or insignificant retinopathy ( isolated microaneurysms only ) was detected by examination , clinically significant retinopathy detected by fundus photography was highly unlikely ( less than 5 % ) . on the other hand , if more than isolated microaneurysms were seen on examination , all examiners missed more severe lesions detected by fundus photography . patients with corrected visual acuity worse than 20/30 had a high likelihood ( 100 % ) of moderate or severe retinopathy . conclusions : motivated well-trained diabetologists can screen for diabetic retinopathy . the absence of detectable lesions by direct ophthalmoscopy indicates that automatic referral to an ophthalmologist is not necessary . however , if any level of retinopathy is detected or corrected acuity is worse than 20/30 , referral to an ophthalmologist is required . in this setting , fundus photography is advised because it is the most sensitive means of detecting clinically significant retinopathy . if other nonophthalmologists can be trained to achieve similar results , current recommendations for ophthalmologic referral that require annual ophthalmologic examinations for most diabetic patients may need to be reconsidered . 
learning disabilities in epilepsy : neurophysiological aspects . subclinical generalized spike-wave discharges are often accompanied by transitory cognitive impairment , demonstrable by psychological testing during eeg recording . transitory cognitive impairment is demonstrated most readily by difficult tasks and during generalized regular spike-wave bursts lasting for more than 3 s , but can also be found during briefer and even focal discharges . that this is not simply a consequence of global inattention is shown by the fact that focal discharges exhibit some specificity : left-sided focal spiking is more likely to produce errors on verbal tasks , for instance , whereas right-sided discharges are more often accompanied by impairment in handling nonverbal material . both learning difficulties in general and specific abnormal patterns of cognitive functioning are well documented in children with epilepsy and are most pronounced in those with frequent interictal discharges . however , there is now evidence that intermittent cognitive impairment due to the discharges themselves contributes significantly to such neurophysiological abnormalities . the significance of transitory cognitive impairment accompanying subclinical eeg discharges for everyday functioning is uncertain , but there is experimental evidence that subclinical discharges may be accompanied by disruption of educational skills in children or by impairment of driving performance in motorists . in some individuals , suppression of discharges by antiepileptic drugs has demonstrably improved psychological function , but further work is required to determine the indications for such treatment . 
education and epilepsy : assessment and remediation . learning difficulties in children with epilepsy may be caused by brain damage and should be investigated . in many cases , however , seizures and/or electroencephalographic ( eeg ) findings are the only signs of pathology . frequency and type of seizures may be determining factors that should , if necessary , be evaluated by long-term eeg monitoring , preferably during school performance or in conjunction with neuropsychological assessment . this may prove that subclinical epileptiform discharges in the eeg can adversely affect the child 's performance . secondary psychological problems in epilepsy patients , combined with side effects of antiepileptic drugs , may cause or heighten learning problems . prophylactic control of seizures with one appropriate drug may alleviate learning problems . computerized neuropsychological testing with simultaneous eeg recording may reveal the influence of epileptiform discharges on cognitive function and also help to evaluate the effects of antiepileptic drugs . objective assessment of subclinical epileptiform activity makes it easier to treat the pathology identified by the eeg with optimal dosage of the most appropriate drug . a balance is required because epileptiform discharges and even occasional seizures may be less disabling than side effects from large doses of several drugs . information to the school and the parents concerning the patient 's abilities and limitations may be as important as seizure control . specialized teaching should be started early , when necessary , with the patient integrated into a normal school if possible . however , good functioning in a special school is preferable to marginal functioning in a normal school . 
antiepileptic drugs , cognitive function , and behavior in children : evidence from recent studies . the effects of antiepileptic drugs ( aeds ) on cognitive function and behavior in children are reviewed on the basis of published studies . individual aeds have been shown to differ -- the deleterious effects of phenytoin generally contrasting with the relatively minimal effects of valproate and carbamazepine . some of the differences between results may be attributed to the psychological tests used and to age differences . however , there appears to be a dissociation between aeds that affect higher cognitive function , e.g. , phenytoin , and those mainly affecting motor function , e.g. , carbamazepine , which appears to increase speed of performance , aeds should be prescribed with care in children with epilepsy , taking account of their differing effects on cognitive function and behavior . 
computerized neuropsychological assessment of cognitive functioning in children with epilepsy . the value of a range of computer-aided tests in the neuropsychological assessment was investigated in 94-177 children with epilepsy , aged 8-18 years , compared with 68-161 controls in the same age group . children from the age of 8 years could cope with rather complex tests in a wide range of functions : reaction time measurements , motor speed , information processing , and memory . the speed of performance tended to increase with age in both groups , with differences in information processing becoming apparent from the age of 12 years . the precise control of stimulus and response required to define the mainly minor differences between the epilepsy and control groups can only be fulfilled by computerized testing , which should undergo further refinement including voice and language recognition , followed by artificial intelligence . 
neuropsychological assessment of cognitive functioning in children with epilepsy . the variety of cognitive dysfunctions related to learning disabilities in children with epilepsy have been studied by linking electroencephalogram ( eeg ) and computerized neuropsychological testing . this showed that " subclinical " discharges impaired performance in 61 % of the patients on a simple and a choice reaction time test , although some discharges lasted 1 s only . neuropsychological investigation of subclinical eeg discharges may help to determine their adverse effect on learning . 
electroencephalographic parameters in assessing the cognitive function of children with epilepsy . many biological and psychological possibilities have to be considered when attempting to explain cognitive dysfunction in the individual child with epilepsy . electroencephalographic ( eeg ) information , which may be particularly relevant in some children , has mainly been studied in relation to the possible direct effects of seizure discharges on learning and behavior . such discharges can be divided into transient , brief or prolonged . prolonged seizure discharges includes nonconvulsive status epilepticus during wakefulness and status epilepticus during slow-wave sleep . in addition to the influence of seizure discharges , preliminary findings suggest that some children with epilepsy might have a subtle disorder of arousal mechanisms in sleep , possibly associated with impaired daytime performance . 
discontinuation of antiepileptic drugs in children who have outgrown epilepsy : effects on cognitive function . cognitive function is frequently impaired in children with epilepsy , compared with age-matched controls . it can be hard to evaluate the significance of various contributory factors . the effects of antiepileptic drugs may be studied in children who have outgrown their epilepsy but are still being treated . a multicenter study to assess various aspects of cognitive function in children with different forms of epilepsy , both during and after treatment with antiepileptic drugs , is currently under way . definitive results are not yet available ; interim analysis of the findings suggests that short-term memory is decreased in all subgroups of children being treated for epilepsy , compared to controls . 
cognitive deficits in children : adaptive behavior and treatment techniques . impaired cognitive functioning impedes the development of age-appropriate adaptive behavior , thus adding to the burdens of many children with epilepsy . detailed neuropsychological assessment can identify the underlying ability-related impairments that contribute to the adaptive behavior deficiencies evidenced , particularly in the home and school settings . this information can serve as the basis for a multidisciplinary treatment plan tailored to individual needs . ideally , the need for such a treatment plan should be perceived early in childhood , so that it can be developed and applied preventively . the same remedial principles also apply in older children and are here set out in detail . 
educational policies . it is vital that teachers , parents , and health professionals recognize the major educational problems that affect students with epilepsy . children with epilepsy should be placed in the least restrictive schooling environment so that social , emotional , and educational requirements can be met in a setting best suited to the individual 's present needs and future development . personal assessment and monitoring of progress form an equally important part of a child 's educational program in integrated schools , but there is a need to develop suitable instruments to assist teachers in their assessments and decision making . in australia , the national epilepsy association has developed an " alert kit " based on the epilepsy foundation of americas " school alert kit " to provide basic medical information on epilepsy to teachers and pupils . 
neuropsychological aspects of learning disabilities in epilepsy . cognitive impairment is regarded as the link between epileptic conditions and the inability to learn in school . the neuropsychological approach to learning disabilities in epilepsy , therefore , first concentrates on analyzing the differential effects of epileptic factors on cognitive function . the impact of seizure activity , localization of epileptogenic foci , and antiepileptic treatment on cognitive functioning can be evaluated based upon the results of continuous assessment with a computerized neuropsychological test system . second , learning disabilities may be evaluated on observations made during classroom performance . three issues seem to predominate in learning studies among disabled children with epilepsy : test-retest variability , deterioration , and the supposed specificity of the learning disabilities . 
mri , ct , spect , pet : their use in diagnosing dementia . the differential diagnosis of the dementia syndrome may pose a difficult clinical problem , since the most common dementia , alzheimer 's disease ( ad ) , is marked by normal laboratory tests . neuroimaging has played an important role in evaluating the demented patient , and its uses are growing . computed tomography ( ct ) is useful for excluding reversible and treatable causes of dementia , such as subdural hematoma and tumor . more recently , magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) has improved our ability to diagnose vascular disease and may show the presence of cerebral infarcts and white matter disease not visible on ct . single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) and positron emission tomography ( pet ) , techniques that visualize such cerebral functions as glucose metabolism and blood flow , may provide positive evidence supportive of the diagnosis of ad . 
spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer . fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to hope hospital , none being judged to be in a terminal condition . one patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations ; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief . there were three failures . twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation . of these , 20 had major recovery of neurological function . patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had ' prophylactic ' decompression at the time of stabilisation ; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression . the results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation ; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation . postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible , and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy , as indicated . 
surgical treatment of double major scoliosis . improvement of the lumbar curve after fusion of the thoracic curve . we have evaluated two methods of surgical treatment of adolescent idiopathic double major scoliosis in 59 patients . in group 1 , 31 patients were treated by fusion of the upper curve only . in group 2 , 28 patients had lumbar fusions also including most of the lower curve . the magnitude of the lower curve and the correction obtained in traction were good indicators of the correction achieved postoperatively . forty-four patients were reviewed at a minimum of 10 years after operation . those in group 1 showed sustained improvement of the lower curve with minimal stiffness and pain . group 2 patients had lumbar curves of similar severity at review , but had significantly more low back pain and stiffness . the number of lumbar segments which remained mobile appeared to be a critical factor in determining the outcome . selective fusion of the upper curve in double major scoliosis produces satisfactory results if the lumbar curve is less than 50 degrees . it may also be appropriate for flexible lumbar curves of larger angle . 
tarsal tunnel syndrome . causes and results of operative treatment . from 1975 to 1988 , operative treatment was performed on 50 feet in 45 patients with tarsal tunnel syndrome . the causes of this syndrome were correlated with operative findings and included ganglia in 18 , and a bony prominence from talocalcaneal coalition in 15 . five feet had sustained an injury , tumours were found in three and there was no obvious cause in nine . in most cases in need of operative treatment , there was a space-occupying lesion . classifying the results according to causes , those with coalition or a tumour fared better , and idiopathic and traumatic cases had a worse outcome . in cases with a definite lesion , an excellent result can be expected from surgical treatment carried out soon after onset of the condition . 
scaphoid malunion . we reviewed 10 patients with symptomatic malunion of a carpal scaphoid fracture . all had displacement with dorsiflexed intercalated segment instability , and suffered from pain , restricted range of movement at the wrist and decreased grip strength . the restriction of flexion-extension and the decreased grip strength correlated with the severity of the disi deformity . seven patients had a corrective osteotomy , using an anterior wedge-shape bone graft with internal fixation by herbert screw , and all had satisfactory results . we believe that symptoms associated with scaphoid malunion are related to consequent carpal deformity . 
internal fixation of femoral neck fractures . two methods compared . in a prospective randomised study , the hansson pin technique for internal fixation of fractures of the femoral neck was compared with the uppsala screw technique . the series consisted of 115 consecutive patients , 97 women and 18 men , with a mean age of 80 years . there were 56 patients treated with hansson pins and 59 with uppsala screws . after one year 22 patients had died , eight in the hansson pin group and 14 in the uppsala screw group ( p = 0.28 ) . twenty-four complications had occurred , 18 in the hansson pin group and six in the uppsala screw group ( p = 0.008 ) . after exclusion of those with complications , the patients in the hansson pin group had significantly more pain , less mobility , and a smaller proportion were living in their own homes . 
intravenous administration of phosphorylated acid alpha-glucosidase leads to uptake of enzyme in heart and skeletal muscle of mice . the lysosomal storage disorder glycogenosis type ii is caused by acid alpha-glucosidase deficiency . in this study we have investigated the possible applicability of mannose 6-phosphate receptor-mediated enzyme replacement therapy to correct the enzyme deficiency in the most affected tissues . bovine testes acid alpha-glucosidase containing phosphorylated mannose residues was intravenously administered to mice and found to be taken up by heart ( 70 % increase of activity ) and skeletal muscle ( 43 % increase ) ; the major target organs . the uptake of nonphosphorylated human placenta acid alpha-glucosidase by heart and skeletal muscle appeared to be significantly less efficient , whereas uptake of dephosphorylated bovine testes enzyme was not detectable . the phosphorylated bovine testes acid alpha-glucosidase remained present in mouse skeletal muscle up to 9-15 d after administration , with a half-life of 2-4 d. besides being measured in skeletal muscle and heart , uptake of phosphorylated bovine testes and nonphosphorylated human placenta acid alpha-glucosidase was measured in several other organs , but not in brain . the increase of acid alpha-glucosidase activity was highest in liver and spleen . we concluded that application of mannose 6-phosphate receptor-mediated enzyme replacement therapy may offer new perspectives for treatment of glycogenesis type ii . 
the timed " up & go " : a test of basic functional mobility for frail elderly persons . this study evaluated a modified , timed version of the " get-up and go " test ( mathias et al , 1986 ) in 60 patients referred to a geriatric day hospital ( mean age 79.5 years ) . the patient is observed and timed while he rises from an arm chair , walks 3 meters , turns , walks back , and sits down again . the results indicate that the time score is ( 1 ) reliable ( inter-rater and intra-rater ) ; ( 2 ) correlates well with log-transformed scores on the berg balance scale ( r = -0.81 ) , gait speed ( r = -0.61 ) and barthel index of adl ( r = -0.78 ) ; and ( 3 ) appears to predict the patient 's ability to go outside alone safely . these data suggest that the timed " up & go " test is a reliable and valid test for quantifying functional mobility that may also be useful in following clinical change over time . the test is quick , requires no special equipment or training , and is easily included as part of the routine medical examination . 
mini-mental state exam scores vary with education in blacks and whites . previous studies have suggested that education and race may affect performance on standardized mental status tests . in order to more clearly define these relationships , a prospective longitudinal study was devised to answer two questions : ( 1 ) whether race or level of education affects scores on the mini-mental state ( mms ) exam in non-demented people and ( 2 ) what numerical cutpoints maximize the sensitivity and specificity of utilizing the mms to help diagnose dementia in blacks of varying educational attainment . a total of 100 white and 258 black individuals , recruited from two city hospital primary care geriatric clinics , were evaluated and subsequently followed longitudinally over a 2 1/2 year period in order to assess accurately the presence or absence of dementia . in the non-demented , total mms scores and performance on each item of the mms were analyzed , revealing that people with an 8th grade or less education consistently had significantly ( p less than .01 ) worse results than the better educated ( 9th grade or better ) on borough , attention items , recall of table and dog , copying , sentence writing , phrase repeating , and total score . furthermore , a total of 25 % of the lower education group had an mms score in the 18-23 range , traditionally thought to suggest dementia . there were no consistently significant differences between blacks and whites of equal education . in the better educated groups , using a score of 23 or less to define dementia maximizes the sensitivity and specificity of using the mms in this diagnosis at 93 % and 100 % , respectively . in the lower education group , using 17 or less to define dementia maximizes sensitivity and specificity at 81 % and 100 % , respectively . 
physician practices in the diagnosis of dementing disorders . because there are both treatable and untreatable causes of dementia , the physician 's ability to conduct ( or refer a patient for ) a differential diagnosis could have a profound effect on health outcomes for patients and on health care costs . this study was undertaken to assess physician practices with regard to the diagnosis of dementing disorders . data from 53 physicians ( a response rate of 48 % ) in several specialties were obtained from a self-administered mail questionnaire . results indicate that the majority of physicians provided history taking , physical examination , and neurological examination . physicians were more likely to refer patients for psychiatric and neuropsychological examinations than to provide these services themselves . the results also point to deficiencies in two key areas : the use of formal , published diagnostic criteria , and the use of mental status and cognitive function tests . over 75 % of physicians surveyed did not use either dsm-iii or nincds-adrda diagnostic criteria , and 42 % of physicians did not provide any mental status tests themselves . the need for continuing education to close knowledge gaps is emphasized . 
postauricular cerebellar encephalocoele secondary to chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery . cerebellar herniation into the mastoid through the posterior aspect of the temporal bone as a result of chronic suppurative otitis media and mastoid surgery is a rare event . a case is reported in which such a hernia presented subcutaneously behind the pinna ; its repair is discussed . 
temporal bone findings in two cases of head injury . temporal bone findings in two cases of head injury are reported . in one patient , longitudinal fractures occurred in both temporal bones , and extended to the middle ear bilaterally . bleeding was seen in the tympanic cavity , mastoid air cells , internal auditory meatus and facial nerve canal . bleeding was observed in the scala tympani , cochlear aqueduct and endolymphatic sac , but there were no fractures . in the other patient , bleeding was seen in the internal auditory meatus and facial nerve canal . in the right ear , endolymphatic hydrops was observed in all turns of the cochlea . 
very high blood pressure in acute stroke . in a study sample consisting of 388 unselected , consecutive acute stroke patients , 27 with systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 200 mmhg and diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 115 mmhg were compared with the other 361 patients . the patients with high blood pressure were younger ( 65 vs. 73 years ) and much more often had a history of hypertension ( 78 vs. 42 % ) . cardiac and vascular hypertensive manifestations were more frequent , particularly when only those patients with a history of hypertension were compared in the two groups . alcohol abuse was mentioned in a higher proportion of hypertensives in the summaries of their medical records . no definite conclusions could be drawn with regard to the size and location of the brain lesions . clinical symptoms did not differ between the groups , neither did the proportion of patients who could be discharged from hospital immediately . mortality was higher in the high blood pressure group ( 30 vs. 14 % , p less than 0.05 ) . thus the characteristics of patients with very high blood pressure were : younger age , much more frequent and severe previous hypertension . alcohol abuse might be an important factor . the type , size and location of the brain lesion itself could not be statistically related to the high blood pressure , but very large lesions , particularly haemorrhages , might be associated with a reactive blood pressure response . 
increased arterial adrenaline is related to pain in uncomplicated myocardial infarction . plasma levels of catecholamines , beta-thromboglobulin ( btg ) and arginine vasopressin ( avp ) , and degree of pain were examined in 22 patients with suspected uncomplicated myocardial infarction within 24 h following onset of chest pain . sixteen patients developed infarction with peak creatine phosphokinase at 1280 ul-1 ( range 293-3770 ul-1 ) . fifteen healthy men served as controls ( c ) . arterial adrenaline levels were significantly higher in patients with pain ( 1.15 + / - 0.23 nmol l-1 , n = 8 , mean value + / - sem ) than in those without pain ( 0.60 + / - 0.10 nmol l-1 , n = 14 , p less than 0.05 ) . plasma catecholamines were moderately but significantly elevated in myocardial infarction ; the concentration of arterial adrenaline was 0.83 + / - 0.14 nmol l-1 and that of arterial noradrenaline was 2.70 + / - 0.28 nmol l-1 compared with 0.44 + / - 0.04 nmol l-1 ( p less than 0.025 ) and 1.47 + / - 0.05 nmol l-1 ( p less than 0.0005 ) , respectively , in c. one week later , plasma catecholamines had returned to baseline levels . plasma btg showed borderline elevation ( 1.0 + / - 0.1 pmol l-1 ) compared with c ( 0.6 + / - 0.1 pmol l-1 , p = 0.04 ) , and remained unchanged 1 week later . plasma avp was at baseline level . uncomplicated myocardial infarction , regardless of size , was associated with only moderately increased sympathetic tone . plasma adrenaline was related more to the degree of pain than to the presence of acute myocardial infarction . arterial adrenaline may be a sensitive marker of sympatho-adrenal activity related to pain . 
localization of technetium-99m-glucarate in zones of acute cerebral injury . the potential structural similarity of technetium-99m-labeled glucaric acid ( 99mtc-glucarate ) to that of fructose suggests that this agent may enter cells by a sugar transport system . studies with llc-pk1 cells demonstrated inhibition of 99mtc-glucarate uptake by fructose , confirming this potential relationship . since anaerobic metabolism can use either glucose or fructose , we hypothesized that 99mtc-glucarate may concentrate in areas of acute ischemic injury . to test this hypothesis , 63 adult rats with middle cerebral artery ( mca ) occlusion followed by reperfusion were injected with 99mtc-glucarate and in vivo and ex vivo images were acquired . seven animals were also studied with 18fdg and high resolution pet imaging . the radionuclide images were compared to the results of triphenyl tetrazolium chloride ( ttc ) staining and conventional histopathology . thirty-five rats had significant accumulation of 99mtc-glucarate and no ttc staining ( indicating infarction ) in the involved hemisphere . of the remaining 28 rats with ttc staining ( suggesting viability ) of the involved hemisphere , 16 ( 57 % ) had 99mtc-glucarate accumulation . in the seven rats that were studied with both 99mtc-glucarate and 18fdg , 99mtc-glucarate accumulated at the center of the occluded mca territory while 18fdg activity was decreased in this region . these results suggest that 99mtc-glucarate is a sensitive marker of acute severe cerebral injury , but its mechanism of localization is probably different from that of 18fdg . 
creutzfeldt-jakob disease in pituitary growth hormone recipients in the united states . to assess the magnitude of creutzfeldt-jakob disease ( cjd ) occurrence among recipients of pituitary-derived human growth hormone ( hgh ) , we conducted an epidemiologic follow-up of 6284 recipients of hgh distributed through the national hormone and pituitary program . seven neuropathologically confirmed cases of cjd have occurred in this population to date : six patients with clinical cjd presented with ataxia and imbalance , rather than with altered mentation , which is the most common initial manifestation in sporadic cjd , and one patient died in the preclinical incubation state of the disease . all seven cases occurred among the nearly 700 hgh recipients who started therapy before 1970 . since only 10 % of the cohort has been followed up for the 15-year average incubation interval from midpoint of hgh treatment to onset of symptoms , the great majority of potentially exposed patients have not yet attained the requisite incubation period for expression of cjd . the median duration of hgh therapy of 100 months in the cjd cases was significantly longer than 41 months for all patients starting treatment before 1970 ; thus , the duration of pituitary hgh therapy is a major risk factor for cjd . 
meralgia paresthetica after coronary bypass surgery . meralgia paresthetica is a neurologic disorder characterized by localized paresthesia and numbness on the anterolateral aspect of the thigh and involving the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve . it involves no motor deficits . meralgia paresthetica , which may result from a variety of causes , has been observed as a rare complication in heart operations . its cause when associated with such operations is uncertain but may be prolonged relaxed positioning on the operating table and recovery room stretcher . another possible cause of meralgia paresthetica after heart operations is the " frog-leg " position of the legs during vein harvesting . patients with this condition should be advised of its untreatable , but benign and self-limiting , nature . 
pulse oximetry during apparent tonic-clonic seizures . a pulse oximeter was used to monitor arterial oxygen saturations in 11 patients during apparent tonic-clonic seizures . 8 had a clinical diagnosis of genuine fits , 6 of whom showed striking falls in oxygen saturation during the seizures . 3 had a clinical diagnosis of pseudoseizures , none of whom had hypoxia during these episodes . pulse oximetry during apparent tonic-clonic seizures may help to identify patients with low arterial oxygen tension who need immediate intervention . 
comparison of continuous subcutaneous and intravenous hydromorphone infusions for management of cancer pain . to compare the safety and efficacy of subcutaneous and intravenous infusion of opioid analgesics , a randomised , double-blind , crossover trial was carried out in inpatients . 15 patients with severe cancer pain received two 48 h infusions of hydromorphone -- one subcutaneously and one intravenously in randomly allocated order . the study was made double-blind by the use of two infusion pumps throughout ; during the active subcutaneous infusion the intravenous pump delivered saline and vice versa . serial measurements of pain intensity , pain relief , mood , and sedation by means of visual analogue scales showed no clinically or statistically significant difference between the two infusion routes . side-effects were slight , and the mean number of morphine injections for breakthrough pain did not differ significantly between the routes ( 4.8 [ sd 4.5 ] for intravenous vs 5.3 [ 5.6 ] for subcutaneous ) . plasma hydromorphone concentrations measured at 24 h and 48 h of infusion showed stable steady-state pharmacokinetics ; the mean bioavailability from subcutaneous infusion was 78 % of that with intravenous infusion . because of the simplicity , technical advantages , and cost-effectiveness of continuous subcutaneous opioid infusion into the chest wall or trunk , intravenous opioid infusion for the management of severe cancer pain should be abandoned . 
neurofibromatosis type 2 : report of a family and review of current evaluation and treatment . significant advances during the past decade have greatly improved our understanding of neurofibromatosis type 2 , a genetic disease which results in bilateral acoustic neuromas . the emergence of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging has allowed early detection of minute intracanalicular eighth-nerve tumors , less than 1 cm in diameter . recombinant dna studies have clarified the genetics that underlie neurofibromatosis type 2 and separate it from a variety of related conditions , such as von recklinghausen 's neurofibromatosis . early diagnosis and surgical removal of these tumors may offer the only hope of preserving hearing and facial nerve function . a report of the evaluation and treatment of a family with multiple affected individuals will exemplify these conclusions . 
reversible myeloneuropathy of nitrous oxide abuse : serial electrophysiological studies . detailed electrophysiological studies were performed in 4 patients with myeloneuropathy induced by abuse of nitrous oxide for 1 to 4 years . all presented with paresthesias , weakness , and lhermitte 's phenomena , and exhibited signs of sensorimotor polyneuropathy , ataxia , and arreflexia . two had subnormal serum vitamin b12 levels . baseline electrophysiologic testing revealed reduced motor unit potentials , prolonged f wave latencies , absent h reflexes , denervation potentials , and delays in motor and sensory conduction . three had peripheral and nuchal delay after median nerve stimulation . all were reevaluated after 3 to 12 months ' abstinence and treatment with vitamin b12 , and all showed substantial clinical improvement . parallel improvement in electrophysiologic findings occurred , but residual minor conduction delays , loss of h reflexes , electromyographic evidence of denervation , or abnormalities of posterior tibial sep were noted . these findings confirm the reversibility of myeloneuropathy of nitrous oxide abuse and describe the profile of electrophysiologic recovery in subjects who abstain from further neurotoxic exposure . 
nerve-muscle involvement in a large family with mitochondrial cytopathy : electrophysiological studies . thirteen patients with mitochondrial cytopathy were investigated . they represent different generations , ages , stages , and severities of the disease . all were assumed to have the same metabolic defect . the disease is a multisystem disorder with a metabolic defect located at complex 1 in the respiratory chain . clinically , the disorder gives symptoms such as hearing loss , retinal pigmental degeneration , ataxia , cardiomyopathy , muscular fatiguability and neuropathy . the patients were investigated with nerve conduction studies , concentric needle emg , sfemg , and macro emg examinations . neurophysiologic studies revealed signs of myopathy in both the younger members and in those with slight muscular symptoms . in the more advanced stages , neuropathic changes of the axonal type were seen as well . macro emg was interpreted as indicating muscle fiber membrane abnormalities in the early stages . single fiber emg studies indicate that this metabolic defect does not disturb neuromuscular transmission . 
diagnostic and prognostic value of electrophysiologic tests in meralgia paresthetica . electrophysiologic diagnosis of unilateral meralgia paresthetica is usually assessed by side-to-side comparison of snap amplitudes , sncvs , and sep latencies following stimulation of lateral femoral cutaneous nerves . to determine the relevance for diagnosis of these tests and side-to-side comparison , the results were compared in patients with unilateral meralgia paresthetica and normal subjects . the long-term outcome was also considered , in order to determine whether electrophysiologic findings contribute to the prognosis . in our study , snap amplitude comparison was found to be more useful for diagnosis than sncv and sep latency comparisons . however the value of the snap amplitude on the affected side , just as the results of the other tests , was not found to be predictive of the outcome . also the results of the tests depend on the methods used and on the nerve 's route . 
abnormal single motor unit behavior in the upper motor neuron syndrome . we studied the discharge pattern of single motor units ( smus ) in the left and right biceps muscles from a patient with nonspastic weakness of the left arm . detailed statistical analysis of the behavior of discharge patterns of 4 of 4 single motor units on the affected side showed abnormalities with characteristic features of an upper motor neuron lesion . five out of 5 single motor units recorded from the right biceps were normal . an upper motor neuron lesion affecting the left arm , predicted by our results , was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , which showed a lesion in the right precentral gyrus . it appears that changes in single motor unit firing characteristics , caused by an upper motor neuron lesion , can be detected at a time when there is no evidence of increased " tone " and/or hyperreflexia ( spasticity ) in the affected extremity . 
effects of short spaceflights on mechanical characteristics of rat muscles . the aim of this study was to investigate the contractile protein characteristics after 5-day ( cosmos 1514 ) and 7-day ( cosmos 1667 ) spaceflights . the experiments were performed on skinned fibers from the soleus , gastrocnemius lateralis , and plantaris muscles isolated from wistar rats . a reduction in fiber diameter might explain the decrease in the maximal tension in the soleus , whereas this tension was unaltered in the gastrocnemius and the plantaris . moreover the calcium sensitivity of the myofilament appeared modified in the soleus and in the gastrocnemius : the tension/pca relationships were shifted toward higher calcium concentrations , indicating a decrease in the apparent calcium binding constant of the troponin c. the tension/pca relationship appeared unaltered in the plantaris after spaceflight . finally , the studies of the time to reach a steady tension indicated an increase in the rate of force development in the soleus and , on the contrary , a slowing down in the plantaris . no change in the gastrocnemius was found . the results were analyzed with references to the different muscle functions in disuse atrophy . 
a placebo-controlled trial of maintenance therapy with fluconazole after treatment of cryptococcal meningitis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . california collaborative treatment group . background and methods . in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , the rate of relapse after primary treatment for cryptococcal meningitis remains high . we conducted a controlled , double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy of maintenance therapy with fluconazole . at entry into the study , all participants had sterile cultures of cerebrospinal fluid , blood , and urine after following a standardized course of therapy for culture-proved cryptococcal meningitis . the patients were randomly assigned to take either fluconazole or placebo as maintenance therapy . the dose of fluconazole was 100 mg daily in the first phase of study and 200 mg daily in the second phase . results . of 84 patients initially enrolled , 16 ( 19 percent ) were found to have silent , persistent infection on the basis of cultures that became positive after entry into the study ; 7 other patients were lost to follow-up shortly after entry . of the remaining 61 patients , 10 of 27 assigned to placebo ( 37 percent ) and 1 of 34 assigned to fluconazole ( 3 percent ) had a recurrence of cryptococcal infection at any site ( difference in risk , 34 percent ; 95 percent confidence interval , 15 to 53 ) . of the 11 recurrent infections , 7 were detected in urine obtained after prostatic massage . there were four recurrent meningeal infections in the patients taking placebo , but none in those taking fluconazole ( mean duration of follow-up , 164 days ) ( p = 0.03 ) . in multivariate analyses , the best predictors of recurrence-free survival were fluconazole treatment ( p = 0.02 ; relative hazard , 13.2 ) , a lower serum cryptococcal-antigen titer ( p = 0.05 ; relative hazard , 1.2 ) , and more prolonged primary therapy with flucytosine ( p = 0.09 ; relative hazard , 1.1 ) . survival and toxicity were similar in the two maintenance-treatment groups . conclusions . in patients with aids , silent persistent infection is common after clinically successful treatment for cryptococcal meningitis . maintenance therapy with fluconazole is highly effective in preventing recurrent cryptococcal infection . 
young-onset parkinson 's disease : a clinical review . young-onset parkinson 's disease ( yopd ) is arbitrarily defined as that which produces initial symptoms between the ages of 21 and 39 , inclusive . the special problems and concerns of the patient with yopd present as much of a challenge and opportunity for the clinician as the disease itself does for the researcher . in contrast to juvenile parkinsonism , which is a heterogeneous group of clinicopathologic entities presenting ( also arbitrarily ) before age 21 , yopd appears to be the same nosologic entity as older-onset pd . it comprises approximately 5 % of referral populations in western countries and about 10 % in japan . its annual incidence relative to the population at risk is about 1/10 that of pd at age sixty . yopd tends to have more gradual progression of parkinsonian signs and symptoms , earlier appearance of levodopa-related dyskinesias and levodopa-dose-related motor fluctuations , and frequent presence of dystonia as an early or presenting sign . studies conflict with regard to the suspected greater familial frequency and lesser frequency of dementia than in older-onset pd . 
the role of htlv in hiv-1 neurologic disease . we performed a serologic survey for antibodies to htlv-i/ii in the course of a longitudinal study of the neurologic complications of hiv-1 infection . nine ( 3.7 % ) of 242 hiv-1 seropositive subjects and none of 60 hiv-1 seronegative control subjects had antibodies to htlv-i/ii by elisa . western blot and polymerase chain reaction confirmed the presence of htlv-i in 2 subjects and htlv-ii infection in 2 others . both hiv-1 / htlv-i coinfected subjects and 1 hiv-1 / htlv-ii coinfected subject had a slowly progressive myelopathy clinically identical tropical spastic paraparesis/htlv-i-associated myelopathy ( tsp/ham ) . the presence of a myelopathy resembling tsp/ham in the coinfected subjects suggests that hiv-1 may enhance the expression of neurologic disease caused by htlv . patients with a progressive myelopathy occurring in association with hiv-1 infection should be serologically tested for the presence of htlv . establishing dual infection has therapeutic and prognostic import as 1 of the hiv-1 / htlv-i subjects substantially improved with corticosteroids and the hiv-1 / htlv-ii subject with myelopathy had a marked improvement in the absence of therapeutic intervention . 
early development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias and response fluctuations in young-onset parkinson 's disease . we evaluated whether patients with young-onset parkinson 's disease ( pd ) ( onset between 21 and 40 years ) develop levodopa-induced dyskinesias and motor response fluctuations more frequently and earlier than patients with older-onset pd ( onset after 40 years ) by determining the period from levodopa introduction to development of dyskinesias or fluctuations in 25 young-onset ( mean age at onset , 33.54 years ) and in 25 matched older-onset pd patients ( mean age at onset , 55.76 years ) . young-onset pd patients had significantly higher frequency for both dyskinesias and fluctuations after both 3 and 5 years of levodopa . young-onset pd patients also developed both levodopa-induced dyskinesias and fluctuations earlier than older-onset pd patients . we suggest that the introduction of levodopa therapy in patients with young onset pd should be postponed as long as possible . 
patient perception of tics and other movement disorders . to determine the subjective perception patients have of abnormal movements , 170 patients with various hyperkinesias were interviewed with questions directed at the " voluntary " or intentional versus " involuntary " aspects of their symptoms . one hundred and two of 110 patients with non-tic disorders thought that the abnormal movements were entirely involuntary . forty-one of 60 tic disorder patients stated that all their motor and phonic tics were intentionally produced . fifteen others had both voluntary and involuntary components , usually with the former predominating . a " voluntary " response could be used to predict the correct diagnostic category ( tic versus non-tic ) in 8 of 9 patients for whom the referral category was incorrect . these results suggest that a large proportion of the motor and phonic symptoms experienced by tic patients are irresistibly but purposefully executed , more akin to compulsions than to the other " involuntary " hyperkinesias with which they are commonly discussed . 
hashimoto 's encephalopathy : a steroid-responsive disorder associated with high anti-thyroid antibody titers -- report of 5 cases . we describe 5 patients with a relapsing encephalopathy in association with hashimoto 's disease and high titers of anti-thyroid antibodies . the presentation is usually with a subacute onset of confusion , alteration in conscious level , and focal or generalized seizures . the relapsing course , association with myoclonus or tremulousness , and episodes of stroke-like deterioration are characteristic features . the long-term prognosis is favorable with steroid therapy , though additional immunosuppressive therapy may be required . neurologic investigation typically shows a diffusely abnormal eeg , high csf protein level without pleocytosis , and normal brain ct and cerebral angiogram . isotope brain scan may show patchy abnormal uptake . hashimoto 's encephalopathy should be recognized as a definite neurologic entity and added to the list of cns complications of thyroid disease . 
essential tremor : clinical correlates in 350 patients . to study the demographic and clinical correlates of essential tremor ( et ) , we analyzed a comprehensive database of 350 patients evaluated at the movement disorders clinic at baylor college of medicine from 1982 to 1989 . the age at onset of tremor showed bimodal distribution for both male and female patients , with peaks in 2nd and 6th decades . et appeared most frequently in hands , followed by head , voice , tongue , leg , and trunk . half of the patients ( 47 % ) had associated dystonia , including cervical dystonia , writer 's cramp , spasmodic dysphonia , and cranial dystonia , and 20 % of the patients had associated parkinsonism . at least one 1st-degree relative of 62.5 % of et patients reported tremor . alcohol relieved tremor in 2/3 of et patients . sixty-eight percent of patients who had adequate follow-up improved with propranolol , and 72 % with primidone . there was no significant difference in various clinical variables between the 219 patients with familial et and 131 with sporadic et . patients with early-onset et were more likely to have hand involvement and associated dystonia than patients with late-onset et . dystonia was more frequently associated with mild et than with severe et . patients with low-frequency tremor were older and had more head but less hand involvement than patients with high-frequency tremor . the lack of relevant differences between et subgroups suggests that , despite variable expression , et represents a single disease entity . 
symptoms and disease associations in idiopathic intracranial hypertension ( pseudotumor cerebri ) : a case-control study . to identify the symptoms and coexisting medical conditions associated with idiopathic intracranial hypertension ( iih ) , we administered an 83-item questionnaire at the time of diagnosis to 50 iih patients and 100 aged-matched controls . ninety percent of the iih patients were women ; the mean age was 33 . obesity and recent weight gain were much more common among patients than controls . symptoms most commonly reported by iih patients were headache ( 94 % ) , transient visual obscurations ( tvo ) ( 68 % ) , and intracranial noises ( icn ) ( 58 % ) . daily occurrence of these symptoms was much more common among patients than controls . controls also reported these and other iih symptoms , but at lower frequencies . several conditions previously associated with iih were no more common in patients than controls including iron deficiency anemia , thyroid disease , pregnancy , antibiotic intake , and use of oral contraceptives . we conclude that previous studies of iih , mostly uncontrolled and retrospective , have underestimated the frequency of symptoms in iih patients and reported chance and spurious associations with common medical conditions and medications . the profile of a young obese woman with headaches and either tvo or icn should alert the clinician to the diagnosis of iih , especially when the symptoms occur daily . 
lateral medullary infarction : prognosis in an unselected series . we describe the acute and long-term prognosis in 43 patients with lateral medullary infarction ( lmi ) collected from a population-based stroke registry from 1982 to july 1988 . mean age was 63.9 years and median time of follow-up was 33 months . in the acute phase , 5 patients ( 11.6 % ) died from respiratory and cardiovascular complications and 2 new strokes occurred , both in the posterior circulation . during follow-up , recurrent vertebrobasilar territory strokes occurred in only 2 patients ( a rate of 1.9 % per year ) . the mechanisms of stroke were vertebral artery ( va ) branch occlusion , causing a medial medullary syndrome , and basilar artery thrombosis propagating from a contralateral , distal va stenosis . in the acute phase of lmi , respiratory and cardiovascular events , presumably caused by autonomic dysfunction related to the lateral medullary lesion , are the major hazards . recurrent posterior circulation strokes were uncommon during follow-up . 
infarction in the anterior rostral cerebellum ( the territory of the lateral branch of the superior cerebellar artery ) . we report 9 patients with an isolated infarct of the anterior part of the rostral cerebellum , ie , the territory of the lateral branch of the superior cerebellar artery . clinicoanatomic correlations are based on ct , mri , or both in 8 patients and on pathologic data in the ninth . the main clinical features were ipsilateral dysmetria and axial lateropulsion , dysarthria , and unsteadiness . in 1 patient , the clinical presentation mimicked a lacunar stroke ( dysarthria and clumsy hand syndrome ) . there were no edematous cerebellar infarcts with signs of brainstem compression , and all patients spontaneously improved without significant sequellae . angiography in 2 patients and pathologic examination of arteries in 1 patient disclosed no occlusion in the vertebrobasilar system . six patients had a cardiac source of emboli . in conclusion , infarcts of the anterior part of the rostral cerebellum can be regarded as a benign condition in which there is , frequently , a cardiac source of emboli . 
myotonic heart disease : a clinical follow-up . we followed 37 patients with myotonic dystrophy for a mean of 6 years . two developed atrial flutter or fibrillation , 6 developed a new bundle branch block , 1 developed complete heart block requiring a pacemaker , and another with progressive 1st-degree heart block and a widening qrs interval had a sudden death . most patients had predictable , gradually progressive disease of their cardiac conduction system . we recommend that patients with progressive atrioventricular block or widening qrs interval due to myotonic heart disease have yearly ecgs and be questioned about syncope or presyncope to determine the need for a cardiac pacemaker . 
epidermal nevus syndrome : a neurologic variant with hemimegalencephaly , gyral malformation , mental retardation , seizures , and facial hemihypertrophy . the epidermal nevus syndrome ( ens ) is a sporadic neurocutaneous disorder that consists of epidermal nevi and congenital anomalies involving the brain and other systems . from among over 60 patients with ens presenting with neurologic manifestations , we identified 17 who had hemimegalencephaly based on pathologic or radiologic studies . associated brain and neurologic abnormalities included gyral malformations in 12 of 12 , mental retardation in 13 of 14 , seizures in 16 of 17 ( including 9 with infantile spasms ) , and contralateral hemiparesis in 7 of 12 . all had ipsilateral epidermal nevi of the head , and several had ipsilateral facial hemihypertrophy . we concluded that these abnormalities comprise a recognizable neurologic variant of ens that we believe represents the full expression of primary brain involvement . several patients also had evidence of acquired brain lesions such as infarcts , atrophy , porencephaly , and calcifications , which are best explained by prior ischemia or hemorrhage . given repeated observations of blood vessel anomalies in ens patients , we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia predisposes to these acquired lesions . the same cause may be invoked to explain the wide variety of neurologic symptoms reported in ens patients without hemimegalencephaly . while the cause of ens remains unknown , several observations suggest a somatic mutation . 
comparison of functional and structural brain disturbances in wilson 's disease . we assessed the functional and structural brain disturbances in wilson 's disease ( wd ) by evoked potentials ( eps ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . all the 25 neurologically symptomatic and 44 % of the 16 asymptomatic patients , assessed by both eps ( n = 48 ) and imaging ( n = 41 ) , had at least 1 abnormality of either prolonged ep conduction times , imaging-outlined presence of cerebral lesions , or brain atrophy . our findings indicate that eps and mri are sensitive techniques for the evaluation of brain involvement in wd . 
vascular abnormalities in epidermal nevus syndrome . we report a patient with epidermal nevus syndrome and right hemispheric infarct and review 3 others with neurologic manifestations best explained by ischemia or hemorrhage . each had a significant vascular abnormality such as occlusion or blood vessel dysplasia . none had hemimegalencephaly . we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia is the cause of the neurologic lesions in these patients . 
percutaneous aspiration of brain tumor cysts via the ommaya reservoir system . we performed percutaneous aspiration of 21 brain tumor cysts in 20 patients using the ommaya reservoir system . ages ranged from 3 to 70 years , median 48 . sixteen were primary tumors ( 12 anaplastic glioma , 2 craniopharyngioma , 1 oligodendroglioma , 1 brainstem glioma ) and 4 were metastatic . fourteen had the ct appearance of a true cyst and 7 a pseudocyst . we placed 18 catheters through twist drill holes via ct stereotactic guidance and 3 through burr holes via ct guidance and effectively aspirated 3 to 50 ml cyst fluid from 1 to 18 times in each patient . postaspiration ct showed complete or significant reduction in cyst size in all patients in whom it was performed ( 18 after initial aspiration and 9 after subsequent aspirations ) . asymptomatic intracyst hemorrhage occurred in 2 patients after cyst wall biopsy and catheter placement . there have been no other complications at follow-up of 4 to 114 weeks . in our experience , tumor cyst aspiration by the ommaya reservoir system is as effective as percutaneous needle aspiration , but after catheter placement aspiration can be performed with minimal technical skill , avoiding repeated ct guidance required for needle aspiration of recurrent deep-seated cysts . 
reciprocal inhibition between forearm muscles in spastic hemiplegia . we studied reciprocal inhibition of h-reflexes in the forearm flexor and extensor muscles in 14 patients with spastic hemiplegia secondary to a focal cerebral lesion and 14 normal volunteers . in the spastic limb , the hmax/mmax ratio was increased in both flexor and particularly extensor wrist muscles . the 3 normal inhibitory phases of reciprocal inhibition between extensor and flexor forearm muscles were markedly reduced on the spastic side of patients . the early disynaptic phase showed the greatest alteration . reduced or absent inhibition between forearm muscles associated with increased spinal motoneuron excitability may be typical to spastic hemiplegia . 
interictal spiking during wakefulness and sleep and the localization of foci in temporal lobe epilepsy . we examined variations in interictal spiking during sleep and wakefulness to assess differences in reliability for localizing epileptic foci . forty patients were studied prospectively . spikes were assessed for rates , field , and appearance of new foci . final localization was determined by surgery , electrocorticography , and seizure onset . comparison of interictal eeg foci with final localization was made . in 39 patients , slow-wave sleep activated spiking compared with wakefulness . most patients showed maximal spiking in sleep stages 3 or 4 . restriction of field in rapid eye movement ( rem ) sleep and wakefulness , and extension of field in slow-wave sleep occurred . new foci appeared in non-rapid eye movement sleep in 53 % of patients . similar but not identical spiking rates , foci , and field distributions were seen in wakefulness and rem sleep . all rem foci were unilateral . our findings suggest that localization of the primary epileptogenic area is more reliable in rem sleep than in wakefulness , and in wakefulness more than in slow-wave sleep . 
phenytoin toxicity due to interaction with clobazam . the benzodiazepine antiepileptic drug clobazam can be added to existing aed treatment , usually without clinical toxicity . we report 3 patients in whom the addition of clobazam led within several weeks to clinically obvious phenytoin ( pht ) intoxication in patients who had been taking maximum tolerable pht doses . symptoms and high pht levels resolved with lowering the pht dose . clobazam and norclobazam levels were not elevated . this interaction is probably related to interference with hepatic degradation of pht . clinicians should be aware of possible pht intoxication in patients starting clobazam . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan : muscle biopsy findings in 4 patients . muscle biopsies of 4 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan showed lymphocytic infiltrates with occasional eosinophils largely restricted to interstitial fibrous tissue and perivascular areas . there was inflammation and fibrosis of muscle spindle capsules in 3 patients . in the 2 sickest patients , there was profound muscle atrophy , affecting both muscle fiber types . 
cerebrospinal fluid eicosanoid levels : endogenous pgd2 and ltc4 synthesis by antigen-presenting cells that migrate to the central nervous system . we analyzed csf from patients with multiple sclerosis , patients with other neurologic diseases , and healthy controls for the presence of prostaglandin ( pg ) e2 , f2 alpha , d2 , i , a , and leukotriene ( lt ) c4 . control csf had little measurable pgs or lts . csf eicosanoids from patients with progressive ms were increased . we found pgd2 only in ms csf . csf monocytes from patients in active disease produced significantly increased pgd , pge , and ltc4 than paired peripheral blood monocytes and monocytes from healthy controls . we saw no significant difference in ltc4 production between ms and control peripheral blood monocytes . 
syphilitic meningomyelitis . a 28-year-old nonimmunocompromised man developed secondary syphilis confirmed by serum and csf findings . his course was complicated by chorioretinitis , extensive skin lesions , and spastic paraparesis secondary to syphilitic meningomyelitis . mri of the spinal cord was strikingly abnormal . 
the " numb cheek-limp lower lid " syndrome . a patient developed isolated numbness , 1st confined to the lateral nose and upper lip , but later involving the cheek , lower lip , upper gingiva , and the palate . this numbness was later associated with paresis of the muscles of the upper lip and angle of the mouth and with ipsilateral lower lid droop ( the " numb cheek-limp lower lid " syndrome ) . squamous cell carcinoma was discovered infiltrating the infraorbital nerve and distal branches of the facial nerve . cheek numbness associated with lower eyelid or upper lip weakness may herald a neoplasm affecting the infraorbital nerve and distal facial nerve branches . 
repetitive conservative surgery for recurrence of endometriosis . we evaluated the recovery of fertility and the relief of pain symptoms in a long-term follow-up of 42 women undergoing repetitive conservative surgery for recurrent endometriosis . the mean age of the patients was 31.1 + / - 4.3 years . at the time of their second operation the disease was stage iv in 14 women , stage iii in 25 , and stage i in three . after reoperation , the patients were followed for a mean period of 41.8 + / - 30.3 months . pain symptoms returned in eight women , dysmenorrhea and deep dyspareunia in eight , and pelvic pain in seven . eight of the 28 women ( 28.6 % ) who attempted to conceive achieved a total of 13 pregnancies . the corrected pregnancy rate was 35 % , and the cumulative rate at 27 months was 30.7 % . a third operation was necessary in six women after a mean period of 35 months . conservative surgery is an effective therapeutic option for infertile patients with recurrent endometriosis . 
pyogenic spinal sepsis in adults . twenty adult patients presented with bacteriologically and histologically proven nontuberculous spinal sepsis . thirteen patients presented with varying degrees of neurologic impairment . all patients underwent spinal decompression ; in 11 this was combined with an anterior fusion using autogenous tricortical iliac grafts . all patients have recovered and are ambulatory , and no patient 's disorder was made worse by surgery . twenty-three separate organisms were cultured , only five of which were staphylococcus . the antibiotic courses were shorter and pain relief more rapid with anterior fusion . all anterior bone grafts incorporated rapidly , and there was no progression of kyphosis or sequestration of grafts , regardless of organisms or level . the rational treatment of adult spinal sepsis necessitates the securing of tissue from the spine for histologic and bacteriologic examination . pain relief , stabilization , and neural decompression can best be achieved with anterior decompression and fusion . autogenous iliac crest grafts incorporate in the presence of sepsis . 
osteoblastoma of the spine . a review of 75 cases . clinical and radiologic features of 75 cases of osteoblastoma of the spine were reviewed . in addition to pain , which was the most frequent complaint , 18 patients demonstrated objective neurologic deficit , while scoliosis was observed in 17 patients . aspirin yielded pain relief in 13 patients . pathologic fracture was not encountered . the radiologic and histologic characteristics of osteoblastoma of the spine are indistinguishable from those arising in other sites . the typical lesion exhibited a well-defined , geographic margin with a sclerotic , frequently lobulated border . approximately one half of the cases were predominantly lucent , the remainder displaying varying degrees of matrix mineralization . distribution of the osteoblastomas through the spinal axis was as follows : cervical-29 , thoracic-16 , lumbar-17 , sacral-13 . other significant findings included posterior element involvement in 73 of 75 cases , and a striking male to female ratio of 2.5 to 1 . 
hemibody irradiation in advanced prostatic carcinoma . in summary , hemibody irradiation has developed as a safe , efficient technique for palliating multiple sites of symptomatic osseous metastases , which occur so often in advanced prostatic carcinoma . the rapidity , frequency , and duration of pain relief , as well as the convenience to the patient of a solitary treatment to multiple symptomatic areas simultaneously , make this type of treatment especially appealing . by following premedication and radiation dose guidelines , both acute and delayed side effects can be kept tolerable or at a minimal incidence . although sequential hemibody radiation has also been explored as " systemic " therapy , the results in prostatic carcinoma have not proved dramatic , and complications have been considerable . hormonal therapy would certainly seem to be less life-threatening and equally beneficial according to present data . as a palliative treatment , however , hemibody irradiation is a pragmatic option for relieving prostatic cancer pain . 
use of intravenous stilbestrol diphosphate in patients with prostatic carcinoma refractory to conventional hormonal manipulation . the patient presenting with severe bone pain after primary hormonal therapy , with vertebral collapse , or with uremia resulting from ureteric obstruction should be considered for intravenous stilbestrol diphosphate therapy . the urologist can expect early marked improvement in the patients ' mobility and pain , with a reduction in analgesic requirements , from a single 7-day course of treatment . in addition , the drug is inexpensive and free of the side effects commonly associated with cytotoxic therapy . accurate monitoring of the response is possible with serum prostate-specific antigen measurements , which also enable further therapy to be planned efficiently . 
combination of anandron with orchiectomy in treatment of metastatic prostate cancer . results of a double-blind study . a multicenter , randomized double-blind study was carried out in 203 patients with metastatic prostate cancer , in order to compare the efficacy of complete suppression of androgens achieved with surgical castration and nilutamide ( anandron ) , 100 mg t.i.d. the combined therapy was well-tolerated by patients , and they noted a better relief of bone pain after six months than those in the control group . there was a greater number of favorable responses in the combined treatment group . in addition , despite a similar median progression-free actuarial rate , the combined treatment ( nilutamide plus orchiectomy ) offered an improved survival time over orchiectomy alone . 
granulocytic sarcoma presenting as an epidural mass with acute paraparesis in an aleukemic patient . granulocytic sarcomas are rare tumors composed of granulocytic precursor cells . they are most commonly encountered in patients with acute myelogenous leukemias and myeloproliferative disorders in blast crisis . rarely , patients presenting with granulocytic sarcoma show no evidence of acute leukemia . the authors report an aleukemic patient with acute paraparesis from an epidural granulocytic sarcoma . only five such cases have been reported previously . immunoperoxidase stain for lysozyme and chloroacetate esterase stain were used to prove the myeloid origin of the tumor cells . 
prediction of free phenytoin levels based on [ total phenytoin ] / [ albumin ] ratios . potential errors with hypoalbuminemia . therapeutic monitoring of the pharmacologically active ( free drug ) fraction of protein-bound medications ( e.g. , phenytoin ) represents a major diagnostic challenge in clinical and laboratory medicine . while free drug levels may be beneficial in many clinical situations , current methods for predicting free phenytoin concentrations are unreliable and not recommended for general use . the authors have demonstrated a linear relationship ( r2 = 0.98 ) between serum levels of total and bound phenytoin in 56 patients with seizure disorders . no significant correlations were observed when total phenytoin and albumin levels were compared independently to measured concentrations of free phenytoin or percent free phenytoin . a good correlation ( r2 = 0.89 ) existed between free phenytoin levels and [ total phenytoin ] / [ albumin ] ratios in patients with normal or elevated albumin levels , but significantly weaker correlations were found in patients with hypoalbuminemia . thus , [ total phenytoin ] / [ albumin ] ratios may have clinical value in predicting free phenytoin levels in uncomplicated patients without hypoalbuminemia . 
endosalpingosis as a cause of chronic pelvic pain . endosalpingosis , a condition characterized by ectopic oviduct epithelium , is diagnosed histologically by the appearance of benign ciliated and nonciliated columnar cells in an abnormal location . endosalpingosis is typically without symptoms . our unusual case report shows symptomatic endosalpingosis first seen with chronic pelvic pain . various aspects of this disease will also be discussed . 
effects of acute hypermagnesemia on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures in the rat . the effects of acute changes in plasma magnesium concentration on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures were evaluated in mechanically ventilated rats receiving 70 % nitrous oxide and 30 % oxygen . in experiment 1 , male rats were intravenously administered either 0.9 % sodium chloride ( group i ) or 5.0 % magnesium sulfate to elevate plasma magnesium levels to 5.8 + / - 0.1 ( group ii ) or 10.5 + / - 1.0 mg/dl ( group iii ) . in experiment 2 , pregnant rats were intravenously administered either 0.9 % sodium chloride ( normomagnesemia ) or magnesium sulfate , resulting in a plasma magnesium concentration of 7.8 + / - 1.4 mg/dl . thirty minutes later , a continuous intravenous infusion of lidocaine ( 2.3 mg/kg per minute ) was begun in both experiments . biparietal electroencephalographic activity was monitored continuously . at the onset of electroencephalographic seizure activity , arterial plasma magnesium and lidocaine concentrations were measured . in groups i and iii ( experiment 1 ) , brain parenchymal magnesium was also assayed . there were no differences in plasma lidocaine concentrations ( in experiments 1 or 2 ) between saline solution and hypermagnesemic groups at onset of seizures . brain magnesium level was unaltered by magnesium sulfate infusion . we conclude that acute administration of magnesium sulfate alters neither brain magnesium level nor the plasma lidocaine concentration associated with onset of electroencephalographic seizures . 
visual recovery in patients with optic neuritis and visual loss to no light perception . we reviewed the records of 151 patients with optic neuritis examined over an eight-year period . of these patients , 12 developed visual acuity of no light perception during the first episode of optic neuritis in the affected eye . eight of the 12 patients recovered visual acuity of 20/40 or better . of these , five patients had visual acuity of 20/20 or better , one had visual acuity of 20/25 , one had visual acuity of 20/30 , and one had visual acuity of 20/40 . four of the 12 patients recovered peripheral visual fields but had dense central scotomas and visual acuity of less than 20/400 . dyschromatopsia persisted after visual recovery in 11 of 12 patients . 
systemic amyloidosis in transgenic mice carrying the human mutant transthyretin ( met30 ) gene . pathologic similarity to human familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy , type i. to analyze the pathologic processes of amyloid deposition in type i familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy ( fap ) , mice were made transgenic by introducing the human mutant transthyretin ( ttr ) gene . in these transgenic mice , amyloid deposition started in the gastrointestinal tract , cardiovascular system , and kidneys 6 months after birth and extended to various other organs and tissues with advancing age . at age 24 months , the pattern of amyloid deposition was similar to that observed in human autopsy cases of fap , except for its absence in the choroid plexus and in the peripheral and autonomic nervous systems . amyloid deposition was shown to be composed of human mutant ttr and , in addition , mouse serum amyloid p component . these results clearly indicate that human variant ttr produced in transgenic mice deposits is a major component of amyloid fibrils in various organs and tissues . thus this animal model is useful for analyzing how amyloid deposition initiates and proceeds in fap . 
keratin subsets in spindle cell sarcomas . keratins are widespread but synovial sarcoma contains a distinctive keratin polypeptide pattern and desmoplakins . the presence of individual keratin polypeptides and desmoplakins was immunohistochemically studied in 25 spindle cell sarcomas of different types using acetone-fixed frozen sections . results revealed that keratins 8 and 18 were present in a high number of tumors : 9 of 9 synovial sarcomas , 5 of 7 leiomyosarcomas , 5 of 5 malignant schwannomas , and 1 of 4 undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas . in addition to keratins 8 and 18 , the glandular component of synovial sarcoma showed prominent reactivity with antibodies to keratins 7 and 19 . also the glandular epithelial cells in synovial sarcoma showed desmoplakin immunoreactivity preferentially in a luminal distribution , but desmoplakin was absent in other spindle cell sarcomas . furthermore keratin 13 was seen focally in 4 of 9 synovial sarcomas . in contrast , keratins 7 , 13 , and 19 were practically absent in leiomyosarcomas , malignant schwannomas , and undifferentiated spindle cell sarcomas . the widespread presence of keratins 8 and 18 in various spindle cell sarcomas may reflect aberrant keratin expression in mesenchymal cells , previously described in cultured transformed fibroblasts . the presence of keratins 7 and 19 and desmoplakin is highly associated with morphologically observable epithelial differentiation restricted to synovial sarcoma among spindle cell sarcomas . 
substance abuse and cerebral blood flow . objective and method : this paper reviews acute and chronic effects of drugs of abuse on cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) and metabolism and their clinical significance . the most important source of information for the review is human research reports published in refereed journals . a few animal studies , book chapters , and abstracts that are especially relevant are also included . results : in humans , ethanol in small doses produces cerebral vasodilation ; higher doses induce cerebral vasoconstriction . chronic alcoholism is associated with reduced cbf and cerebral metabolism . sedatives and antianxiety drugs lead to global reduction in cbf and cerebral metabolism . caffeine , even in small doses , is a potent cerebral vasoconstrictor . cerebral vasodilation is seen immediately after cigarette smoking , but chronic smokers show global reduction in cbf . changes in cbf after marijuana smoking are variable ; both increases and decreases are seen . chronic marijuana smoking , however , seems to reduce cbf . most inhalants and solvents are vasodilators ; chronic abuse is accompanied by a decrease in cbf . a number of drugs of abuse , including ethanol , amphetamines , cocaine , nicotine , and caffeine-phenylpropanolamine combinations , increase the risk for stroke . reduction in cbf associated with chronic use of ethanol , nicotine , inhalants , and solvents is at least partially reversible upon abstinence . conclusions : topics for future research include regional brain function , which mediates drug-induced mood changes ( euphoria ) ; cbf concomitants of psychological and physiological characteristics that increase addiction potential ; changes in cbf that accompany withdrawal syndromes ; mechanisms responsible for drug-induced stroke ; and effects of functional and organic complications on cbf . 
self-injurious behavior : a review of the behavior and biology of self-mutilation . objective : the authors describe the clinical characteristics of self-injurious behavior , giving special emphasis to self-injurious behavior occurring among individuals with character disorders . data collection : they review data suggesting the involvement of serotonergic , dopaminergic , and opiate neurotransmitter systems in the expression of self-injurious behavior . findings : self-injurious behavior occurs among mentally retarded individuals , psychotic patients , prison populations , and individuals with severe character disorders . although theoretical psychological models of self-injurious behavior are helpful in understanding the patient 's experience of self-injury , no generally useful therapeutic approach has yet evolved from these models . data derived from animal models and treatment studies suggest the involvement of opiatergic and dopaminergic mechanisms in self-injury among the mentally retarded . serotonergic influences on self-injurious behavior may be present in varying forms of this behavior . the scientific literature on the benefits of pharmacological agents for mentally retarded individuals is beset with a number of problems . support is emerging , however , for the use of lithium and carbamazepine with self-injuring mentally retarded patients , and some behavioral interventions appear to be successful for mentally retarded individuals . self-injuring patients with borderline personality disorder may benefit from milieu treatment . conclusions : although no form of treatment has yet been demonstrated to be of general benefit , the literature suggests that therapeutic trials with dopamine antagonists , serotonin reuptake inhibitors , and opiate antagonists may be of value . 
a critical appraisal of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation in depressed patients . objective : the authors ' goal was to evaluate the utility of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation assays in clinical research in psychoimmunology . method : they examined 23 depressed patients and 23 matched comparison subjects with this assay . there were no significant differences between these groups . they then combined the results of this study with the results of their previous study of 20 depressed patients and 20 comparison subjects to examine possible determinants of lymphocyte proliferation in depression . results : depressed patients with lower proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects had lower depression subscale , anergia subscale , and total scores on the brief psychiatric rating scale than did patients with higher proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects . this finding was unexpected and unexplained . depressed patients with lower proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects also had fewer obsessions and compulsions and less psychomotor agitation according to the schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia interview than did patients with higher proliferative responses than their matched comparison subjects . stepwise discriminant analysis and cluster analysis contributed little further understanding of the determinants of in vitro lymphocyte proliferation of cells from depressed patients . conclusions : longitudinal studies using multiple serial determinations of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation are the minimal design needed to make this assay useful in further evaluating any immune system changes in depression . 
depressive symptoms following stroke . objective : the primary purpose of this study was to assess the relation of lesion location to mood and vegetative disturbance following stroke . method : fifty-two inpatients and outpatients who had had single , unilateral strokes were included . patients with past cns or psychiatric disorders were excluded . a modified visual analogue dysphoria scale was used to allow the inclusion of all but the most impaired aphasic patients . sleep and eating disturbances were measured by using both self-report and nursing assessments . location of lesions was determined by ct scan and classified according to three dimensions : right-left , dorsal-ventral , and frontal-nonfrontal . results : on measures of dysphoric mood and sleep disturbance , results indicated significant three-way interactions among the three lesion dimensions . no differences were found with regard to eating disturbance . greater dysphoria and sleep disturbance were found in subjects with left parietal/occipital , left inferior frontal , right superior frontal , and right temporal lesions than in subjects with lesions in other locations . depressive symptoms were not associated with functional impairment as measured by activities of daily living , motor strength , or severity of aphasia . conclusions : these results support the hypothesis that lesion location is a valid and significant factor in the mixture of influences which may result in a dysphoric mood state following stroke . the relation between the site of the lesion and subsequent depressive symptoms , however , may be more complex than has been reported previously . 
the nature and course of olfactory deficits in alzheimer 's disease . objective : the aim of this study was to determine the specific nature and course of olfactory deficits in alzheimer 's disease . previous studies had noted impaired odor identification , but there was no unanimity about the presence of odor detection deficits . method : odor identification was tested in 55 patients with alzheimer 's disease and 57 elderly control subjects by using the university of pennsylvania smell identification test . odor detection was assessed in 46 subjects with alzheimer 's disease and 40 control subjects by using a forced-choice threshold test with geraniol as the odorant . results : significant deficits in olfactory identification were present in subjects who were in the earliest stages of cognitive impairment , and these deficits increased as alzheimer 's disease progressed . there was some overlap in individual smell identification test scores between cognitively impaired patients and normal elderly subjects . on the other hand , odor detection deficits did not appear until alzheimer 's disease was relatively advanced . smell identification test scores were correlated with mini-mental state scores , but geraniol detection was not . conclusions : odor identification is impaired early in alzheimer 's disease and may be more influenced by cognitive status than is acuity of odor detection , which is not altered until later in the disorder . the pattern of hyposmia in alzheimer 's disease suggests that the disorder may not " begin in the nose , " as has been theorized previously . further refinement of olfactory testing may be useful in the diagnostic evaluation of early dementia . 
nonfearful panic disorder in neurology patients validated by lactate challenge . objective : nonfearful panic disorder meets the dsm-iii-r criteria for panic disorder but is not associated with subjective fear and anxiety . the authors determined its prevalence in a group of neurology patients and assessed its diagnostic validity as a panic disorder subtype by evaluating the response of the patients with nonfearful panic disorder to sodium lactate and antipanic pharmacotherapy . method : the subjects were all neurology patients referred over 1 year to a university hospital 's psychiatric consultation service because of negative medical workups for their symptoms ( n = 48 ) . patients who met the dsm-iii-r criteria for panic disorder but did not report subjective anxiety or fear during panic episodes were diagnosed as having nonfearful panic disorder . afterward , each of those patients received a sodium lactate infusion and , 5 hours later , a sodium chloride infusion . they were then treated with antipanic medication and followed for at least 6 months . results : of the 48 neurology patients referred for psychiatric evaluation , 11 ( 23 % ) met the criteria for panic disorder , and all 11 met the criteria for nonfearful panic disorder . all 11 responded positively to lactate but not to placebo , and they each experienced an at least 75 % reduction in symptoms during the 6-month follow-up period . detailed case reports of three of these patients are presented . conclusions : these findings support the construct and predictive diagnostic validity of nonfearful panic disorder as a subtype of panic disorder and suggest that a lack of attention to this group leads to both the underestimation of the prevalence of panic disorder and to the withholding of potentially successful treatments for this group . 
ultrastructural evidence of a merocrine secretion in the human endolymphatic sac . the results of a light and transmission electron microscopic analysis of an endolymphatic sac ( es ) from a patient suffering from episodic vertigo , tinnitus , and hearing loss are presented . a biopsy of the intraosseous portion of the es was obtained during a translabyrinthine approach to section the vestibular nerve in the internal acoustic meatus . the material consisted mainly of tubular epithelial structures filled with heavily stained material . pathologically dilated and degranulated rough endoplasmic reticuli and disaggregation of polyribosomes with accumulation of solitary ribosomes in the cytosol and endoplasmic reticulum suggested a disturbed epithelial cell protein synthesis . ultrastructural evidence of an increased merocrine secretion of glycoprotein conjugates into the es was noted . this made it possible to analyze the presumed intracellular secretory pathways . an increased number of intraepithelial lymphocytes and monocytes was observed . since the inner ear had been subjected to surgical intervention before the vestibular nerve section , no conclusions can be drawn as to whether the patient 's symptoms were related to the disturbed protein metabolism and hypersecretion of glycoprotein conjugates into the es . the findings support earlier experimental results that indicate that the es has not only a resorptive function but also a secretory one . 
organ procurement in patients with fatal head injuries . the fate of the potential donor . a 46-month , retrospective review of all victims of fatal head injury at a level 1 trauma center was undertaken to estimate donor organ availability , determine causes of procurement failure , and analyze the functional results of organs transplanted from this group of donors . causes of procurement failure in 126 patients who died principally from their head injuries included failure of initial resuscitation ( 14 % ) , ineligibility ( 28 % ) , failure of physiologic support ( 14 % ) , and denial of consent ( 20 % ) . of 73 eligible donors , 29 ( 41 % ) were able to donate one or more vascular organs ( heart , liver , kidney ) . in only one instance was an eligible donor not appropriately identified as such . failure of physiologic support to prevent early death ( 25 % ) , and denial of consent ( 34 % ) were found to be the two major , potentially remediable causes of procurement failure in this series . based on this data , an estimated 29 patients/million population/year will survive initially and meet all eligibility requirements for organ donation . data on 47 kidneys transplanted from the donor group demonstrated a 77 % overall graft survival rate at a follow-up period averaging 23 months . prolonged donor hypotension , but not the use of high-dose vasopressors , adversely affected allograft survival . the current limitations of organ procurement in victims of fatal head injury stem from a limited ability to maintain cardiopulmonary function long enough for the procurement process to be completed and a high overall rate ( 46 % ) of denial of consent for organ harvest by next of kin . 
lipids , vascular disease , and dementia with advancing age . epidemiologic considerations . elevated plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease in middle-aged men and women . it is still not clear , however , whether lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities continue to be risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the elderly population . it is not even clear what normal lipid values are in the elderly , and whether diet or drug therapy should be advised on the basis of lipid values established in middle-aged populations . ischemic heart disease does remain the leading cause of death in the elderly , and there is now preliminary evidence from epidemiologic studies that relative elevations of levels of lipid and lipoprotein fractions in an elderly population might be associated with an independent and increased risk of coronary heart disease , stroke , and possibly dementia . intervention studies are about to begin that will assess various lipid-and lipoprotein-modifying therapies and their ability to reduce vascular disease risk in the elderly . 
giant cell arteritis . a case with unusual neurologic manifestations and a normal sedimentation rate . giant cell ( temporal ) arteritis is a serious inflammatory condition that can lead to blindness , stroke , or other adverse sequelae if not properly treated . an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate has traditionally been emphasized as a criterion for making this diagnosis . delays in diagnosis and unnecessary testing may occur when a patient presents with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and a clinical history consistent with this condition . we describe a patient with giant cell arteritis who presented with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and who subsequently developed devastating central nervous system complications . 
p300 brain activity in seizure patients preceding temporal lobectomy . event-related potentials were recorded over occipital and parietal scalp from 20 patients suffering from intractable partial complex seizures prior to undergoing a temporal lobectomy . subjects were presented with language and nonlanguage visual stimuli using a divided-field , " odd-ball " paradigm . although behavioral performance ( button-press accuracy , reaction time , and running counts ) was comparable across all groups ( although accuracy was worse for those in the left temporal group ) , patients showed tremendous variability in both the amplitude and latency of the p300 response . particularly notable was the observation that more slow wave activity was present among the patients than among the control subjects , and those scheduled for a left temporal resection evinced more amplitude reduction than those scheduled for a right temporal resection . in addition , a number of patients appeared not to show a p300 response at all . these results are discussed in the context of the utility of using noninvasive event-related potential measures to examine both memory impairment and the integrity of the neural structures that mediate memory functioning in certain patient populations . 
age at onset of alzheimer 's disease . relation to language dysfunction . a later age at onset of alzheimer 's disease ( ad ) was found to be related to diminished language performance in 86 patients with probable ad . a hierarchical linear model was constructed to assess effects of age at onset and disease duration on the performance of patients with ad on four language tasks ( naming , reading , auditory comprehension , and writing to dictation ) after controlling for disease severity . results of univariate analysis , in which the dependent variable was the averaged language task performances , revealed a significant effect for age at onset of ad , but not for disease duration . to assess the possibility that the relationship between the age at onset of ad and language performance reflects effects of normal aging , the language tasks were given to 33 normal subjects of similar ages who scored perfectly on dementia severity measures . a convincing relationship was not found between test score and age . 
the distribution of cerebral muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in vivo in patients with dementia . a controlled study with 123iqnb and single photon emission computed tomography . a high-affinity muscarinic receptor antagonist , 123iqnb ( 3-quinuclidinyl-4-iodobenzilate labeled with iodine 123 ) , was used with single photon emission computed tomography to image muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in 14 patients with dementia and in 11 healthy controls . high-resolution single photon emission computed tomographic scanning was performed 21 hours after the intravenous administration of approximately 5 mci of iqnb . in normal subjects , the images of retained ligand showed a consistent regional pattern that correlated with postmortem studies of the relative distribution of muscarinic receptors in the normal human brain , having high radioactivity counts in the basal ganglia , occipital cortex , and insular cortex , low counts in the thalamus , and virtually no counts in the cerebellum . eight of 12 patients with a clinical diagnosis of alzheimer 's disease had obvious focal cortical defects in either frontal or posterior temporal cortex . both patients with a clinical diagnosis of pick 's disease had obvious frontal and anterior temporal defects . a region of interest statistical analysis of relative regional activity revealed a significant reduction bilaterally in the posterior temporal cortex of the patients with alzheimer 's disease compared with controls . this study demonstrates the practicability of acetylcholine receptor imaging with 123iqnb and single photon emission computed tomography . the data suggest that focal abnormalities in muscarinic binding in vivo may characterize some patients with alzheimer 's disease and pick 's disease , but further studies are needed to address questions about partial volume artifacts and receptor quantification . 
widespread functional effects of discrete thalamic infarction . in order to investigate functional effects of various thalamic structures on metabolism in remote , morphologically intact cerebral regions , we used positron emission tomography of ( 18f ) -2 - fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose to study regional cerebral metabolic rates of glucose ( rcmrglu ) in 11 patients with chronic unilateral or bilateral infarcts strictly confined to the thalamus . patients were grouped according to computed tomographic scans showing anterior ( three ) , medial ( four ) , or posterior ( four ) lesions . compared with a matched group of 11 healthy subjects ( hemispheric cmrglu 35.2 + / - 3.49 mumol/100 g per minute ) , glucose metabolism was significantly lower in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the infarction ( 31.2 + / - 2.97 mumol/100 g per minute ) . patients with bilateral infarcts had lower hemispheric cmrglu ( 29.9 + / - 2.74 mumol/100 g per minute ) than those with unilateral lesions ( 32.2 + / - 2.97 mumol/100 g per minute ) . depending on infarct location within the thalamus , there was differential depression of rcmrglu , with the largest effects on frontal and occipital areas in medial infarctions . except for ipsilateral thalamic deactivation , metabolic patterns with anterior thalamic infarcts were close to normal , while posterior infarcts mostly depressed rcmrglu in the visual and in the inferior limbic cortex . cerebellar metabolic rates were within normal limits in most cases . these patterns of regional cerebral deactivation may be related to categories of thalamic projections -- intrathalamic , to limbic system and basal ganglia , diffuse to most cortical areas , and specific to defined neocortical areas . even small brain lesions may have widespread functional sequelae , potentially demonstrable by positron emission tomography . 
spectral analysis of heart rate in diabetic autonomic neuropathy . a comparison with standard tests of autonomic function . power spectral analysis of the heart rate was compared with standard tests of autonomic function performed on 15 insulin-dependent diabetic patients with symptoms of autonomic dysfunction . the high-frequency power , low-frequency power , and total power of the heart rate power spectrum measured in the supine position -- possible measures of parasympathetic nervous system function -- were significant predictors of the expiratory-inspiratory ratio , the beat-to-beat heart rate difference on deep respiration , the standard deviation of the resting heart rate , the 30:15 ratio , and the valsalva ratio . the change in low-frequency power on moving from the supine to upright position , a possible measure of sympathetic nervous system function , was a modest predictor of the systolic and diastolic blood pressure fall in response to postural change , but a poor predictor of the blood pressure response to isometric exercise and a cold stimulus . this study supports the role of heart rate power spectral analysis as a clinical test of autonomic function in patients with known or suspected autonomic failure . 
alterations in brain phosphate metabolite concentrations in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection . human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected individuals often demonstrate neuropsychiatric impairment ; however , it is unclear how brain metabolism may be altered in such patients . we used in vivo phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy to noninvasively assess brain energy and phospholipid metabolism by measuring brain concentrations of adenosine triphosphate ( atp ) , phosphocreatine ( pcr ) , and inorganic phosphate ( pi ) , as well as phospholipid compounds and intracellular ph. in study 1 , 17 hiv-seropositive men with varying degrees of neuropsychiatric impairment and six control subjects were studied . localized spectra were obtained from a heterogeneous 5 x 5 x 5-cm volume of interest ( voi ) . patients with hiv infection had a significantly lower atp/pi ratio and a trend for a lower pcr/pi ratio than did the control group . in addition , the atp/pi and pcr/pi ratios were both significantly negatively correlated with overall severity of neuropsychiatric impairment . in study 2 , three hiv-seropositive men with neuropsychiatric impairment were compared with 11 hiv-seronegative men . localized phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectra were obtained from two relatively homogeneous vois : ( 1 ) a predominantly white matter voi , and ( 2 ) a predominantly subcortical gray matter voi . the three hiv-infected patients demonstrated significantly decreased atp and pcr concentrations in the white matter voi . these results suggest that hiv infection of the brain may impair brain cellular oxidative metabolism and that the degree of metabolic compromise may be related to the severity of neuropsychiatric impairment . 
the effect of sleep on the dyskinetic movements of parkinson 's disease , gilles de la tourette syndrome , huntington 's disease , and torsion dystonia . the effect of sleep on the involuntary movements or dyskinesias in parkinson 's disease , huntington 's disease , primary and secondary torsion dystonia , and gilles de la tourette syndrome was studied in a total of 52 patients and 10 normal subjects using video electroencephalographic telemetry . movements typical of the wake pattern were seen occasionally during unequivocal sleep in all but two completed studies , and in each condition reappeared under similar circumstances . the movements were most likely to occur after awakenings or lightenings of sleep , or in stage one sleep . the movements were very rare during the deeper phases of sleep . those movements that occurred during sleep without awakenings were usually preceded by arousal phenomena and , rarely , by sleep spindles or slow waves . the control group showed normal " semipurposeful " movements under the same conditions during sleep . the rare appearance of the different dyskinesias and normal movements under similar circumstances during sleep could be a result of common effects on the generator systems or changes in the excitability of the final common motor pathway . 
intravenous immunoglobulin treatment in patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy . clinical and laboratory characteristics associated with improvement . of 52 patients fulfilling the criteria of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy , 20 ( 38 % ) did not improve after intravenous immunoglobulin treatment , two ( 4 % ) had a short-lasting improvement and subsequent infusions had no effect , nine ( 17 % ) reached a spontaneously or therapeutically induced complete remission , and 21 patients ( 40 % ) needed intermittent infusions to maintain improvement . all patients who improved initially had symptoms that significantly interfered with life-style . after treatment , 90 % of these patients were independent in their daily activities . significantly associated with improvement were disease duration of less than 1 year , progression of weakness until treatment , absence of discrepancy in weakness between arms and legs , areflexia of the arms , and slowed nerve conduction velocity of the motor median nerve . the probability of improvement if all these features are present in 93 % . 
posttraumatic torticollis . we report six cases of torticollis precipitated by neck trauma . the dystonia began 1 to 4 days after the trauma and differed clinically from idiopathic torticollis by marked limitation of range of motion , lack of improvement after sleep ( " honeymoon period " ) , and absence of geste antagonistique . worsening with action was not present ; nor was there improvement with support as seen with idiopathic torticollis . onset of pain immediately after the trauma and marked spasms of the paracervical muscles were other predominant features . anticholinergic therapy was without benefit ; however , some improvement occurred with botulinum toxin injection . it is concluded that torticollis can be caused by peripheral trauma and that it has unique clinical characteristics . 
an early description of slowly progressive aphasia . slowly progressive aphasia without generalized dementia has become an important issue of present-day neuropsychological research . historically , credit for the first description is usually given to pick . another german-speaking author who has published a vivid description of a pertinent cases is pick 's contemporary , max rosenfeld . this author has also observed a patient with slowly progressive spatial disorientation and visual recognition deficit , and he has discussed these patients in a remarkably modern way in the context of partial atrophy of the brain . 
frontal impairment and hypoperfusion in neuroacanthocytosis . cerebral blood flow tomography , by xenon 133 inhalation or hmpao ( 99mtc-d , l-hexamethyl-propylene amine oxime ) technetium tc 99m injection , revealed a severe hypoperfusion in both frontal lobes of a 40-year-old woman with confirmed neuroacanthocytosis . this finding occurred in conjunction with neuropsychological deficits consistent with selective frontal lobe dysfunction . this observation is the first documentation of this type of dementia in neuroacanthocytosis . 
visual evoked potentials and visual prognosis following perinatal asphyxia . twenty-five children born at term with perinatal asphyxia were studied at age 2.5 to 4.5 years to evaluate visual function and to determine the prognostic value of postnatal assessments of visual outcome . postnatal assessments included several visual evoked potentials and electroretinograms in the first week of life . follow-up assessments included flash and pattern visual evoked potentials , visual evoked potential threshold measurements , and clinical eye examinations . nineteen children had normal visual function , three were visually impaired , and three remained blind . a strong association was found between normal , abnormal , or absent visual evoked potentials in the early postnatal period and long-term visual outcome ( p less than .0001 ) . other perinatal indicators of asphyxia , including neurologic status , apgar scores , and arterial ph values , were poor predictors of visual outcome . the risk of visual impairment was limited to those survivors with neurodevelopmental deficits . 
trial of brief intermittent neuroleptic prophylaxis for selected schizophrenic outpatients : clinical and social outcome at two years . objective -- to evaluate a novel approach to the prophylaxis of schizophrenic relapse characterised by administration of brief courses of neuroleptic for the earliest non-psychotic signs of relapse ( prodromal symptoms ) . design -- two year follow up of subjects randomised , double blind , to receive either active ( control group ) or placebo ( intermittent group ) depot neuroleptic medication . both groups received brief courses of oral neuroleptic when prodromal symptoms or relapse occurred . setting -- psychiatric outpatient department , charing cross hospital , london . subjects -- 54 stable patients in remission who met the american psychiatric association 's dsm-iii criteria for schizophrenia on the basis of case notes . main outcome measures -- survival without relapse , survival without hospitalisation , point prevalence of extrapyramidal side effects and tardive dyskinesia , structured assessment of social functioning ( social adjustment scale ii ) , and frequency of prodromal symptoms . results -- of 19 relapses recorded over two years , 10 ( 53 % ) were preceded by non-psychotic prodromal signs . survival rates for both relapse and hospitalisation were worse with intermittent treatment than continuous treatment over the two year follow up : 92 % of controls and only 54 % of patients given intermittent treatment survived the two year period without hospitalisation . prolonged or frequent relapses as well as episodes of prodromal symptoms were more frequent with intermittent treatment . lower scores for extrapyramidal side effects were recorded in the intermittent treatment group , but periodic assessments of social functioning failed to show any social advantages from this . conclusion -- the findings are at variance with a previous report of one year follow up in this cohort and attest to the superiority of continuous depot neuroleptic prophylaxis in preventing both psychotic and neurotic or dysphoric morbidity in schizophrenia . 
prevalence of acute mountain sickness in the swiss alps . objective -- to assess the prevalence of symptoms and signs of acute mountain sickness of the swiss alps . design -- a study using an interview and clinical examination in a representative population of mountaineers . positive symptoms and signs were assigned scores to quantify the severity of acute mountain sickness . setting -- four huts in the swiss alps at 2850 m , 3050 m , 3650 m , and 4559 m. subjects -- 466 climbers , mostly recreational : 47 at 2850 m , 128 at 3050 m , 82 at 3650 , and 209 at 4559 m. results -- in all , 117 of the subjects were entirely free of symptoms and clinical signs of acute mountain sickness ; 191 had one or two symptoms and signs ; and 158 had more than two . those with more than two symptoms and signs were defined as suffering from acute mountain sickness . at 4559 m 11 climbers presented with high altitude pulmonary oedema or cerebral oedema , or both . men and women were equally affected . the prevalence of acute mountain sickness correlated with altitude : it was 9 % at 2850 m , 13 % at 3050 m , 34 % at 3650 m , and 53 % at 4559 m. the most frequent symptoms and signs were insomnia , headache , peripheral oedema , and scanty pulmonary rales . severe headache , vomiting , dizziness , tachypnoea , and pronounced pulmonary rales were associated with other symptoms and signs and therefore characteristic of acute mountain sickness . conclusion -- acute mountain sickness is not an uncommon disease at moderately high altitude -- that is , above 2800 m. severe headache , vomiting , dizziness , tachypnoea , and pronounced pulmonary rales indicate severe acute mountain sickness , and subjects who suffer these should immediately descend to lower altitudes . 
prognosis of wilsonian chronic active hepatitis . twenty of 320 patients with wilson 's disease initially presented with chemical and laboratory features of chronic active hepatitis , confirmed histologically in 17 . when first seen , cirrhosis was present in all 20 and was complicated by ascites and/or jaundice in 11 . within 1 week to 8 years of the onset of over liver disease the diagnosis of wilson 's disease was established , and treatment with d-penicillamine was promptly initiated in 19 patients . one man refused treatment and died 4 months later . treated patients received d-penicillamine or trientine for a total of 264 patient-years ( median , 14 patient-years ) . abnormal water retention , for which salt restriction and diuretics were added to penicillamine or trientine , disappeared in all but 1 of the patients so affected . symptomatic improvement and virtually normal levels of serum albumin , bilirubin , aspartate aminotransferase , and alanine aminotransferase followed within 1 year in the majority of subjects . one woman died after 9 months of treatment . two patients , who became noncompliant with the therapeutic regimen after 9 and 17 years of successful pharmacological treatment , required liver transplants . these results indicate that the prognosis of specifically treated wilsonian chronic active hepatitis is very good in spite of the presence of cirrhosis . 
hereditary internal anal sphincter myopathy causing proctalgia fugax and constipation . a newly identified condition . a newly identified myopathy of the internal anal sphincter is described . in the affected family , at least one member from each of five generations had severe proctalgia fugax ; onset was usually in the third to fifth decades of life . three members of the family have been studied in detail . each had severe pain intermittently during the day and hourly during the night . constipation was an associated symptom , in particular difficulty with rectal evacuation . clinically the internal anal sphincter was thickened and of decreased compliance . the maximum anal canal pressure was usually increased with marked ultraslow wave activity . anal endosonography confirmed a grossly thickened internal anal sphincter . two patients were treated by internal anal sphincter strip myectomy ; one showed marked improvement and one was relieved of the constipation but had only slight improvement of the pain . the hypertrophied muscle in two of the patients showed unique myopathic changes , consisting of vacuolar changes with periodic acid-schiff-positive polyglycosan bodies in the smooth muscle fibers and increased endomysial fibrosis . in vitro organ-bath studies showed insensitivity of the muscle to noradrenaline , isoprenaline , carbachol , dimethylpiperazinium , and electrical-field stimulation . immunohistochemical studies for substance p , calcitonin gene-related peptide , galanin , neuropeptide y , and vasoactive intestinal peptide showed staining in a similar distribution to that in control tissue . a specific autosomal-dominant inherited myopathy of the internal anal sphincter that causes anal pain and constipation has been identified and characterized . 
management of pseudarthrosis after arthrodesis of the spine for idiopathic scoliosis . sixty-three first , second , or third-time repairs of one or more pseudarthroses were done in fifty-one patients who had had an arthrodesis for idiopathic scoliosis . forty-five of the patients were female and six were male . the average age was 30.2 years . the indications for the sixty-three repairs were pain ( twenty-five repairs ) , progression of the curve ( sixteen ) , both pain and progression of the curve ( twelve ) , and radiographic changes only ( ten ) . failure of the implant was identified before 27 per cent of the sixty-three procedures . the pseudarthroses were diagnosed an average of 2.8 years after the initial arthrodeses . sixty-eight per cent of the defects were visible on plain radiographs preoperatively and 32 per cent were identified at operation . during the time between the original arthrodeses and the repairs of the pseudarthroses , the scolioses increased by a mean of 7 degrees and the kyphoses , by a mean of 10 degrees . harrington distraction was the most commonly used instrumentation ( twenty-six [ 41 per cent ] of the sixty-three procedures ) , and autogenous iliac bone was the most commonly used material for the graft ( thirty-three [ 52 per cent ] of the procedures ) . 
valgus deformities of the feet and characteristics of gait in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis . to investigate the cause of valgus deformity of the hindfoot in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and to characterize the effects of the deformity on gait , two groups of patients were evaluated clinically , radiographically , and with gait analysis in the laboratory . group 1 consisted of seven patients who had seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and normal alignment of the feet and group 2 , of ten patients who had rheumatoid arthritis and valgus deformity of the hindfoot . in group 2 , the disease was of longer duration and the feet were more painful than in group 1 . there was no evidence of muscular imbalance , equinus contracture , valgus deformity of the tibiotalar joint , or isolated deficiency of the tibialis posterior ( such as weakness , tenosynovitis , or rupture of the tendon ) that could have contributed to the development of the valgus deformity . in the patients who had valgus deformity , quantitated electromyography demonstrated that the intensity and duration of activity of the tibialis posterior was significantly increased , apparently in an effort to support the collapsing longitudinal arch of the foot . gait studies revealed decreases in velocity , stride length , and single-limb-support time , as well as delayed heel-rise in both groups , but the decreases were more marked in the patients who had valgus deformity . the results of this study suggest that valgus deformity of the hindfoot in rheumatoid patients results from exaggerated pronation forces on the weakened and inflamed subtalar joint . these forces are caused by alterations in gait secondary to symmetrical muscular weakness and the effort of the patient to minimize pain in the feet . radiographs also suggested an association between the valgus deformity of the feet and valgus deformity of the knees in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis . 
reconstruction of the chronically insufficient anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament . the results of reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament as a free , autogenous , non-vascularized graft were retrospectively reviewed at our institution . eighty reconstructions in seventy-nine patients were evaluated after a minimum of two years . in forty-eight ( 60 per cent ) of the knees , the reconstruction was augmented with an extra-articular lateral sling of iliotibial band . the patients were evaluated with a physical examination , a kt-1000 arthrometer , radiographs , a subjective questionnaire , and a revision of the scale of the hospital for special surgery for rating ligaments . postoperatively , seventy-six ( 95 per cent ) of the eighty knees no longer gave way , and the pivot-shift test was negative in sixty-seven ( 84 per cent ) of the knees . the average score on the ligament-rating scale was 93 points . all of the patients who had clinical instability at the time of the most recent follow-up had associated ligamentous instability that had not been appreciated or addressed at the time of reconstruction . arthrometric evaluation revealed that the laxity differed by three millimeters or less from that of the untreated knee in sixty ( 76 per cent ) of the treated knees . in the patient who had bilateral reconstruction , the laxity was the same in both knees . seventeen patients , who had more than three millimeters of translation , also had additional related ligamentous instability , most commonly posterolateral instability and insufficiency of the medial collateral ligament . we think that major associated ligamentous instability predisposes the reconstruction to failure and should be corrected in conjunction with the reconstruction . 
the automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator : effect of patch polarity on defibrillation threshold . an automatic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator ( aicd ) was implanted in 40 patients with sudden cardiac arrest ( n = 29 ) , sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia ( n = 10 ) or recurrent syncope ( n = 1 ) who were unsuitable for direct ablative surgery or had had unsuccessful medical therapy . the effect of patch electrode polarity on the defibrillation threshold was prospectively evaluated . two large epicardial patches were used . initial polarity was selected at random . ventricular fibrillation was induced by direct current and a preestablished defibrillation protocol employed to assess the minimal energy that would reproducibly defibrillate the heart . nineteen patients had a lower defibrillation threshold with the inferior left ventricular patch as an anode and nine patients had a lower defibrillation threshold with this patch as a cathode . in general , the defibrillation threshold was lower when this patch was used as an anode than when it was used as a cathode ( 18 + / - 10 versus 22.6 + / - 12.2 j ; p less than 0.01 ) . no preoperative variable predicted optimal polarity . therefore , the effect of patch polarity on defibrillation threshold should be assessed in each patient at the time of aicd implantation so that the safety margin for satisfactory device function can be maximized . 
comparison of motor response to apomorphine and levodopa in parkinson 's disease . the magnitude and pattern of motor responses to single doses of subcutaneous apomorphine and oral levodopa were compared in 14 patients with parkinson 's disease . although apomorphine produced much shorter motor responses than levodopa , the quality of response to the two drugs was virtually indistinguishable . these clinical observations support the notion that integrity of striatal post-synaptic dopamine receptors is a key determinant of responsiveness to dopaminergic treatment in parkinson 's disease . 
evaluation of vigabatrin as an add-on drug in the management of severe epilepsy . the effects of the addition of vigabatrin , a new anti-epileptic drug , to the therapy of 128 patients with severe medically refractory epilepsy is reported . forty two ( 33 % ) of patients experienced side effects , which were predominantly neurotropic . in 28 ( 22 % ) , the drug was withdrawn because of these side effects . the commonest side effects were drowsiness and behavioural change . the remaining 100 patients were followed for a mean of 30 weeks ( range 12-75 ) . forty one of these patients showed a marked improvement in seizure frequency ( a 50 % or more reduction when compared with the pre-trial period ) , and nine ( 7 % ) were rendered seizure free . apparent tolerance to the effects of the drug were noted in five patients . an exacerbation of seizures may occur if the drug is withdrawn too quickly . vigabatrin appears to be a promising new anti-epileptic drug . 
early-onset dementia and extrapyramidal disease : clinicopathological variant of gerstmann-straussler-scheinker or alzheimer 's disease ? a case of progressive dementia and extrapyramidal signs beginning at age 29 , with a ten year course until death , is presented . necropsy examination showed an assortment of plaque types ( including striatal plaques ) , neurofibrillary tangles , granulovacuolar degeneration , and depigmentation of the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus . this case had pathological features found in both gerstmann-straussler-scheinker disease and in alzheimer 's disease . while somewhat similar to several other cases with features of both diseases , it differs in the presence of dystonia and striatal plaques . although such cases may be difficult to categorize at present , they must be considered in the differential diagnosis of early onset dementia . 
diagnostic value of anti-neuronal antibodies for paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system . the diagnostic value of the presence of anti-neuronal antibodies in serum was examined in 21 patients suspected of paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system ( ns ) ( group 1 ) and was compared to three control groups ; group 2 : 25 patients with a neurological disease , without cancer and no sign of paraneoplastic disorder ; group 3 : 27 patients with neurological disease and cancer and no signs of a paraneoplastic disorder ; group 4 : 94 patients with cancer and without neurological disease . in group 1 , anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies were detected in eight patients ( 38 % ) , in titres from 1:1000 to 1:32,000 . a small cell lung cancer was present in six patients , ovarian cancer in one patient and in one patient no tumour could be detected . the neurological symptoms preceded a diagnosis of cancer in five out of eight patients . anti-neuronal antibodies were found in the serum of two out of 94 patients ( 2 % ) from control group 3 but not in serum from any of the other control groups . these data indicate a moderate sensitivity of 38 % , but a high specificity of 98.6 % ( 95 % confidence interval 95.5-99 .8 % ) for the presence of anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies if a paraneoplastic ns disorder is suspected . 
diurnal differences in response to oral levodopa . diurnal differences in duration and quality of motor response to levodopa are frequently described by patients . the quality and duration of motor responses were objectively assessed to morning and afternoon oral levodopa doses in five patients with parkinsonian motor fluctuations who complained of diurnal variation in response to their normal levodopa medication . results suggest that under controlled conditions which eliminated the effects of diet and overlapping levodopa effects the response to levodopa remained unchanged throughout the day , and that the duration of response could be predicted by plasma levodopa levels . 
vitamin b12 and folate concentrations in serum and cerebrospinal fluid of neurological patients with special reference to multiple sclerosis and dementia . vitamin b12 and folate concentrations were measured in serum and cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) in 293 neurological patients . serum and csf vitamin b12 concentrations showed a positive correlation . in individual patients csf b12 concentrations varied considerably for a given serum concentration . the median serum vitamin b12 concentration of the alzheimer 's type dementia group was significantly lower compared with that of a control group . lower median csf vitamin b12 concentrations were found in groups of patients with multiple sclerosis and alzheimer 's type dementia . five patients with heterogeneous clinical pictures had unexplained low serum and csf b12 concentrations without macrocytosis . two patients had very high serum b12 and low-normal csf concentrations which could be explained by a blood-brain barrier transport defect . serum and csf folate concentrations did not show significant differences between the various groups . 
clinical diagnosis of binswanger 's disease . to aid in the prospective study of binswanger 's disease , a poorly understood form of vascular dementia , a standardised criteria for its antemortem diagnosis was proposed . these criteria include dementia , bilateral radiological abnormalities on computed tomography ( ct ) or magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , and at least two of the following three clinical findings : a ) a vascular risk factor or evidence of systemic vascular disease ; b ) evidence of focal cerebrovascular disease ; and c ) evidence of " subcortical " cerebral dysfunction . these criteria were validated in two ways . first , by retrospectively applying them to a series of 30 demented patients with various pathological diagnoses . second , by prospectively applying them to a series of 184 patients with clinically typical alzheimer 's disease . the sensitivity and specificity of the criteria appear adequate for use in clinical research . 
a simple method to improve the accuracy of non-invasive ultrasound in selecting tia patients for cerebral angiography . a prospective study is reported of the ability of b mode ultrasound imaging and continuous wave doppler flow studies to detect different degrees of stenosis of the extracranial internal carotid artery ( ica ) in 186 arteries in 99 patients with transient ischaemic attacks ( tia ) and minor ischaemic stroke . a simple mathematical equation has been developed which combines the image and flow data to provide a single predictor of the degree of angiographic stenosis which has advantages over either ultrasonic modality used alone . the sensitivity and specificity of the predictive model in the detection of stenosis greater than or equal to 25 % was 73 % and 98 % , of stenosis greater than or equal to 50 % was 90 % and 93 % , of stenosis greater than or equal to 75 % , 65 % and 99 % and occlusion 100 % and 94 % respectively . the principal clinical value of ultrasound screening is to spare patients with " non-significant " stenosis the risk of unnecessary angiography . thus a simple measure of the duplex screening tests ' performance is the proportion of all strokes occurring as a complication of angiography that are avoided by changing the investigation policy from " angiograms for all carotid tia and minor ischaemic stroke patients " to " angiograms for all patients with abnormal ultrasound results " . if duplex scanning were used to select patients most likely to have a significant abnormality on angiography , depending on the degree of stenosis to be detected , 52-85 % of angiographic strokes might be avoided . if the predictive equation were used 62-88 % of angiographic strokes might be avoided . 
the accuracy of predictions about progress of patients on a stroke unit . the aim of the study was to check the accuracy of predictions about the factors which affect the progress , in physical abilities and activities of daily living , of patients admitted to a stroke unit . a series of 60 patients admitted consecutively to a stroke unit were assessed on tests of motor , functional and cognitive abilities at admission . on the basis of these assessments predictions were made about the abilities of the patients at discharge . patients were assessed for level of motor abilities and activities of daily living at discharge and the accuracy of the predictions checked . predictions were found to be significantly correlated with outcome but the relationships were not so close as to be useful for the clinical management of individual patients . 
spectral analysis of tremor : understanding the results . spectral analysis of a tremor record can sometimes produce a spectrum with multiple components of significant amplitude . the problem is to determine whether the presence of several peaks represents the coexistence of separate tremor mechanisms or be a consequence of fluctuations in the frequency or amplitude of a single tremor . the spectrum of a tremor whose frequency or amplitude vary and are independent has the recognisable pattern of a central carrier frequency with sidebands of equal amplitudes distributed symmetrically around the carrier . however , if tremor amplitude and frequency fluctuate and are not independent , ( frequency proportional to amplitude or frequency inversely proportional to amplitude ) , the spectrum has a pattern of sidebands which are asymmetrical in amplitudes and may resemble the spectrum of the combined signal from different independent oscillators . the investigation of sidebands in spectra has been neglected in tremor studies and multiple irregular peaks on a tremor spectrum have sometimes been used wrongly as evidence for the coexistence of multiple tremor mechanisms or frequency components assumed to be concurrent . 
shy-drager syndrome . effect of fludrocortisone and l-threo-3 ,4 - dihydroxyphenylserine on the blood pressure and regional cerebral blood flow . in nine cases of shy-drager syndrome , the changes in blood pressure and cerebral blood flow on sitting up from a supine position were studied . the influence of fludrocortisone , a synthetic mineralocorticoid , and l-threo-3 ,4 - dihydroxyphenylserine ( dops ) , a precursor of norepinephrine , on these changes was examined . on sitting up , the regional cerebral blood flow ( rcbf ) measured by xe133 inhalation showed a tendency to decrease . fludrocortisone reduced the fall of the mean blood pressure significantly . dops reduced the fall of both the diastolic blood pressure and rcbf significantly . 
hydromyelic hydrocephalus . correlation of hydromyelia with various stages of hydrocephalus in postshunt isolated compartments . the clinical features and pathophysiology of specific forms of hydromyelia are analyzed in this report together with the chronological changes of associated hydrocephalus . nine patients were studied ; all had hydromyelia with varying degrees of associated hydrocephalus . clinically applicable classification systems were used to evaluate the progression of hydrocephalus ( stages i to iv ) and to define the compartment isolated after shunting in the previously communicating cerebral ventricles ( types i to iv ) . four patients had stage iv disease ( holoneural canal dilatation ) ; one had stage ii and four had stage i disease ( both stages i and ii with supratentorial hydrocephalus ) . all patients were initially treated by ventriculoperitoneal shunting at an average age of 9.9 years . five patients had progressive spinal symptoms before or after treatment of their hydrocephalus . two patients had type iii isolation ( an isolated rhombencephalic ventricle ) with a functioning ventricular shunt ; ventriculography confirmed a communication between the fourth ventricle and the hydromyelia , and both patients improved after placement of a shunt in the fourth ventricle . the remaining patients had type iv isolation ( isolated central canal dilatation ) with a functioning ventricular shunt . this study indicates that in some cases the pathophysiology of hydromyelia is closely related to associated hydrocephalus . a new concept of the development of an isolated compartment after shunting is proposed to explain the progression of hydromyelia in these cases . 
functional outcomes following selective posterior rhizotomy in children with cerebral palsy . the recent increase in popularity of selective posterior rhizotomy demands objective documentation of surgical outcome . for this reason , the authors have analyzed the status of 25 children with spastic cerebral palsy before and after rhizotomy to determine the effects of this therapy on muscle tone , range of movement , and motor function . postoperative tests showed a reduction in muscle tone compared with preoperative assessments . range of motion in the lower extremities was significantly increased and improvements in functional gross motor skills were noted . an increase in range of motion in the knees and thighs during gait was detected in 18 ambulatory patients studied with computerized two-dimensional motion analysis . preliminary findings indicate that selective posterior rhizotomy reduced spasticity , thereby increasing range of motion and contributing to improvements in active functional mobility . 
spontaneous neuronal hyperactivity in the medial and intralaminar thalamic nuclei of patients with deafferentation pain . electrical activity was recorded from single cells in the thalamus of 10 patients with chronic pain associated with deafferentation . under local anesthesia , these patients underwent either electrode implantation or thalamotomy for treatment of their pain . in eight of the 10 patients , single units were identified as discharging spontaneously in high-frequency , often rhythmic , bursts . the discharges were of two types : short bursts comprised of two to six spikes with a burst frequency of one to four per second ; and long trains of 30 to 80 spikes of similar frequency . reconstruction of electrode trajectories indicated that recordings were made from the region corresponding to the lateral aspect of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus , the central lateral nucleus , a small part of the central median nucleus , and the parafascicular nucleus . in the eight patients in whom spontaneous neuronal burst activity was exhibited , it was impossible to study activity evoked by natural cutaneous stimulation due to the continuous spontaneous neuronal discharges . both animal and human studies have suggested that pain related to deafferentation is accompanied by spontaneous hyperactivity in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and in the ventral posterior thalamic nuclei . the authors present evidence of spontaneous neuronal hyperactivity in the intralaminar thalamic nuclei of patients with pain related to deafferentation . the findings suggest that spontaneous neuronal discharge in patients with pain related to deafferentation is more widespread in the central nervous system than has been previously appreciated . the results have important implications for the surgical treatment of chronic pain . 
radical intracapsular removal of acoustic neurinomas . long-term follow-up review of 11 patients . historically , the neurosurgical treatment of large acoustic neurinomas has developed with two principal goals : complete tumor removal and preservation of facial nerve function . a recent goal for small tumors is the preservation of hearing . out of a personal series of 124 acoustic neurinomas treated over the past 35 years , the senior author has undertaken a radical intracapsular approach in 12 patients with large tumors ( greater than 3 cm in diameter ) . surgical indications for intracapsular removal included advanced age ( five cases ) , the patient 's wish to avoid any risk of facial paralysis ( six cases ) , contralateral facial palsy ( one case ) , and contralateral deafness ( one case ) . eleven of these 12 patients were available for follow-up review . tumor recurrence developed in two patients ( 18 % ) at 2 and 3 years postoperatively ; there were no late recurrences . four patients died of unrelated causes , 10 to 19 years after surgery . the remaining five patients have survived a mean of 12 years since surgery without recurrence ( range 3 to 22 years ) . facial function was preserved in nine patients ( 82 % ) . the results suggest that radical intracapsular removal may be the procedure of choice under certain circumstances and may offer an alternative to focused high-energy radiation . 
radiation-induced optic neuropathy : a magnetic resonance imaging study . optic neuropathy induced by radiation is an infrequent cause of delayed visual loss that may at times be difficult to differentiate from compression of the visual pathways by recurrent neoplasm . the authors describe six patients with this disorder who experienced loss of vision 6 to 36 months after neurological surgery and radiation therapy . of the six patients in the series , two had a pituitary adenoma and one each had a metastatic melanoma , multiple myeloma , craniopharyngioma , and lymphoepithelioma . visual acuity in the affected eyes ranged from 20/25 to no light perception . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging showed sellar and parasellar recurrence of both pituitary adenomas , but the intrinsic lesions of the optic nerves and optic chiasm induced by radiation were enhanced after gadolinium-diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid ( dtpa ) administration and were clearly distinguishable from the suprasellar compression of tumor . repeated mr imaging showed spontaneous resolution of gadolinium-dtpa enhancement of the optic nerve in a patient who was initially suspected of harboring recurrence of a metastatic malignant melanoma as the cause of visual loss . the authors found the presumptive diagnosis of radiation-induced optic neuropathy facilitated by mr imaging with gadolinium-dtpa . this neuro-imaging procedure may help avert exploratory surgery in some patients with recurrent neoplasm in whom the etiology of visual loss is uncertain . 
relationship between body and brain temperature in traumatically brain-injured rodents . recent work has shown that mild to moderate levels of hypothermia may profoundly reduce the histological and biochemical sequelae of cerebral ischemic injury . in the present study , the authors examined the effect of fluid-percussion injury on brain temperature in anesthetized rats and the effect of anesthesia on brain temperature in uninjured rats . the relationship between the brain , rectal , and temporalis muscle temperatures during normothermia , hypothermia , and hyperthermia was studied following a moderate magnitude of fluid-percussion brain injury ( 2.10 to 2.25 atmospheres ) in rats . the results showed that mean brain temperature in 10 anesthetized injured rats , in 21 anesthetized uninjured rats , and in 10 unanesthetized uninjured rats was a mean ( + / - standard error of the mean ) of 36.04 degrees + / - 0.20 degrees c , 36.30 degrees + / - 0.08 degrees c , and 37.95 degrees + / - 0.09 degrees c , respectively . there was no significant difference in temperature under general anesthesia between injured and uninjured rats ( p greater than 0.05 ) . in the absence of brain injury , mean brain temperature was significantly lower in anesthetized rats than in unanesthetized rats ( p less than 0.001 ) . in anesthetized brain-injured rats , temporalis muscle temperature correlated well with brain temperature over a 30 degrees to 40 degrees c range , even when brain temperature was rapidly changed during induction of hypothermia or hyperthermia ( r = 0.9986 , p less than 0.0001 ) . in contrast , rectal temperature varied inconsistently from brain temperature . these observations indicated that : 1 ) brain injury itself does not influence brain temperature in this model ; 2 ) anesthesia alone decreases brain temperature to levels producing cerebral protection in this model ; and 3 ) external monitoring of temporalis muscle temperature can provide a reliable indirect measure of brain temperature in the course of experimental brain injury . the authors believe that it is essential to monitor or control brain temperature in studies of experimental brain injury . 
tethered cord syndrome from a choristoma of mullerian origin . case report . the authors report a case of tethered cord syndrome due to a choristoma of mullerian origin located in the spinal cord at the lumbosacral junction . two similar cases were found upon review of the literature . the embryology of this lesion is discussed . 
intradural chordoma of the tentorium cerebelli . case report . a rare case of intradural chordoma is described . the literature contains seven examples of intradural extraosseous chordoma , all reported in a ventral location . this is the first reported case of a primary intradural chordoma distant from the clivus and involving both the supra - and infratentorial compartments . 
a vascular malformation mimicking an intracanalicular acoustic neurilemoma . case report . a patient with an enhancing , completely intracanalicular mass on magnetic resonance imaging was operated on for a presumed acoustic neurilemoma , but was found at surgery to have an intracanalicular vascular malformation . this rare lesion should be distinguished from angiomatous change within an acoustic neurilemoma and in the past has been termed " vascular tumor , " " hemangioma , " or " fibro-angioma . " the clinical distinctions between intracanalicular acoustic neurilemomas and intracanalicular vascular malformations and the ability of magnetic resonance imaging to distinguish between the two are discussed . 
anticonvulsant and behavioral effects of two novel competitive n-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor antagonists , cgp 37849 and cgp 39551 , in the kindling model of epilepsy . comparison with mk-801 and carbamazepine . the orally active competitive n-methyl-d-aspartate ( nmda ) receptor antagonists cgp 37849 ( dl - [ e ] -2 - amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid ) and its ethyl ester cgp 39551 were evaluated in amygdala-kindled rats , a model for complex partial and secondarily generalized seizures . anticonvulsant and behavioral effects of these novel compounds were compared with those of the noncompetitive nmda receptor antagonist mk-801 [ ( + ) -5 - methyl-10 ,11 - dihydroxy-5h-dibenzo ( a , d ) cyclohepten-5 ,10 - imin e ] and the antiepileptic drug carbamazepine , one of the major drugs for treatment of partial and generalized seizures in humans . for comparative evaluation , the compounds were injected i.p. at the following doses : 1 to 10 mg/kg ( cgp 37849 or cgp 39551 ) , 0.05 to 0.3 mg/kg ( mk-801 ) and 20 to 40 mg/kg ( carbamazepine ) , respectively . in contrast to carbamazepine , cgp 37849 , cgp 39551 and mk-801 exerted only weak anticonvulsant effects in fully kindled rats and did not increase the focal seizure threshold . the weak anticonvulsant effects of the nmda receptor antagonists in kindled rats were associated with profound untoward behavioral effects . the behavioral syndrome induced by the nmda receptor antagonists in kindled rats was characterized by marked ataxia , hyperactivity and , in case of cgp 37849 and mk-801 , stereotypies , such as head weaving . the low or absent effectiveness of the novel nmda receptor antagonists against kindled seizures suggests that these compounds will not be clinically useful antiepileptics against partial and secondarily generalized seizures . furthermore , in view of the recent clinical findings on psychotomimetic effects of mk-801 in epileptic patients , the similarities in the excitatory effects produced by cgp 39551 , cgp 37849 and mk-801 in kindled rats may indicate that competitive nmda receptor antagonists may also produce psychotomimetic effects in humans . 
combined hemorrhagic shock and head injury : effects of hypertonic saline ( 7.5 % ) resuscitation . hypertonic saline resuscitation was compared to isotonic fluid resuscitation in a large animal model combining hemorrhagic shock with head injury . sheep were subjected to a freeze injury of one cerebral hemisphere as well as 2 hours of hypotension at a mean arterial pressure ( map ) of 40 mm hg . resuscitation was then carried out ( map = 80 mm hg ) for 1 hour with either lactated ringer 's ( lr , n = 6 ) or 7.5 % hypertonic saline ( hs , n = 6 ) . hemodynamic parameters and intracranial pressure ( icp ) were followed . at the end of resuscitation brain water content was determined in injured and uninjured hemispheres . no differences were detected in cardiovascular parameters ; however , icps were lower in animals resuscitated with hs ( 4.2 + / - 1.5 mm hg ) compared to lr ( 15.2 + / - 2.2 mm hg , p less than 0.05 ) . additionally , brain water content ( ml h2o/gm dry weight ) in uninjured brain hemispheres was lower after hs resuscitation ( hs = 3.3 + / - 0.1 ; lr = 4.0 + / - 0.1 ; p less than 0.05 ) . no differences were detected in the injured hemispheres . we conclude that hypertonic saline abolishes increases in icp seen during resuscitation in a model combining hemorrhagic shock with brain injury by dehydrating areas where the blood-brain barrier is still intact . hypertonic saline may prove useful in the early management of multiple trauma patients . 
optimal escort for interhospital transport of pediatric emergencies . the charts of 130 seriously ill or injured children transported to tertiary level intensive care were examined to determine the incidence of secondary insults incurred , as a function of escort training . of all insults incurred , approximately 8 % occurred with specialized pediatric transport escorts who were accompanied by a tertiary care physician ( group iii , n = 52 ) ; 20 % with specialized pediatric transport escorts alone ( group ii , n = 44 ) ; and 72 % with escorts who had not received specialized pediatric transport training ( group i , n = 34 ) . based on our results , we recommend that all transport coordinators review the qualifications and experience of their transport team members and all potential escorts to assess their ability to provide optimal care for the children they transport , particularly during long journeys , transfer by air , and when serious illness or injury is involved . 
relative effects of brain and non-brain injuries on neuropsychological and psychosocial outcome . based on the 242 consecutive surviving head injury cases and 132 general trauma cases , this study examined the contribution of brain and non-brain injuries to cognitive and psychosocial outcome 1 month postinjury . the study also examined the relationships among various head injury severity indices . the head injury severity indices were all correlated but patients with glasgow coma scale scores in the mild range had broadly ranging scores on the other head injury severity indices ( abbreviated injury scale and time to follow commands ) . neuropsychological outcome was related to brain injury severity , but was not independently influenced by severity of other systems injuries . psychosocial outcome related to both brain and non-brain injuries independently . when evaluating trauma outcome , it is important to consider the contributions of both brain and other system injuries . 
timing of osteosynthesis of major fractures in patients with severe brain injury . a retrospective study was performed to assess the effects on outcome of early osteosynthesis of major extremity fractures in patients with severe brain injury ( gcs less than or equal to 7 ) . in a consecutive series of 58 patients , early osteosynthesis was performed on the day of injury in 15 patients . ( group a ) . in 43 patients no major fractures were present or no early osteosynthesis was performed ( group b ) . the severity of brain injury as seen on ct scan was similar in both groups . mortality was significantly lower in group a , despite a significantly higher iss . as to the functional end result of brain injury , an indication of a better outcome was present in group a. 
reflex sympathetic dystrophy after clavicle fracture : case report . reflex sympathetic dystrophy ( rsd ) of the anterior chest wall is a rare entity . a medline search in all languages of the world 's literature from 1966 to the present yielded no report of the association of clavicle fracture with this pain syndrome . two cases are presented and the anatomic variations of the supraclavicular nerves in relation to the clavicle are discussed . 
rediscovering tactile agnosia . eighty-four patients with damage to various levels of the nervous system , ranging from the peripheral nerves to the cerebral cortex , underwent somesthetic assessment in order to determine the degree to which basic and complex perceptual and motor disorders affect tactile object recognition ( tor ) and to determine whether tor can be impaired in the absence of more basic sensorimotor imperception . the results suggest that ( 1 ) basic and intermediate disorders of somesthetic function impair tor but are commensurately more severe for any given degree of tor impairment in patients with peripheral lesions than in patients with cortical lesions ; ( 2 ) neither hemiparesis nor hemianopia alone precludes normal tor ; ( 3 ) hemineglect contributes substantially to tor impairment ; ( 4 ) impairment of tor can occur in the absence of more basic somesthetic dysfunction and constitutes tactile agnosia ; ( 5 ) tactile agnosia is a subtle , nondisabling disorder that should be distinguished from the nonagnosic , severe and disabling disorder , astereognosis ; and ( 6 ) tactile agnosia results from unilateral damage to parietotemporal cortices , possibly including the second somatosensory cortex , in either hemisphere . 
snow skiing for the physically disabled . the sport of snow skiing by the physically disabled , which originated in europe in 1935 and first received attention in the united states in the 1940s , is reviewed in terms of opportunities available , instructions , adaptive equipment necessary , and benefits provided . persons with a wide variety of disabilities ( such as cerebral palsy , multiple sclerosis , spinal cord injury , hemiplegia , amputation , blindness , spina bifida , and muscular dystrophy ) can participate . accordingly , a wide range of adaptive equipment is available -- including outrigger skis , flip-skis , canting wedges , ski bras , " toe spreaders , " sit-skis , and mono-skis -- to allow safe enjoyment of the sport . programs for instruction of the disabled skier are increasing in number and popularity , and numerous opportunities are available to enter competitive events sponsored by national handicapped sports . both the participants and the instructors relate the numerous physical and psychologic benefits that can be derived from skiing ; the sport provides an almost universal enjoyment of the sense of freedom and independence . snow skiing is an enjoyable , beneficial , outdoor cold-weather activity that the disabled population can safely learn with proper instruction . 
traumatic intracranial aneurysms caused by missiles : their presentation and management . only 30 cases of traumatic intracranial aneurysm ( tica ) secondary to missile injury have been reported to date . to these we add 15 more cases . missile ticas are often seen on a secondary branch of the middle cerebral artery and are usually accompanied by a intracerebral hematoma ( 80 % ) or by an acute subdural hematoma ( 26 % ) . fourteen of our cases were secondary to shrapnel injuries and only one was secondary to a bullet . none of the injuries was through-and-through . ticas may enlarge in time and , seemingly inoffensive , may rupture and lead to death . all seven ticas studied histologically proved to be false aneurysms . ticas are best treated through trapping and excision . the outcome depends on the patient 's status and level of consciousness before surgery . indications for angiography are discussed . 
progressive coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension : report of two cases . two cases of neurological deterioration and coma after the transsphenoidal decompression of a pituitary adenoma with marked suprasellar extension and invasion of the 3rd ventricle are presented . emergency ventricular shunting led to prompt neurological improvement , which , supplemented by radiation therapy , allowed long-term amelioration of symptoms . three possible explanations for this complication are offered : 1 ) traction of the attached 3rd ventricle into the decompression site , causing increased obstructive hydrocephalus , 2 ) vasopressin release by surgical manipulation of the pituitary stalk and circumventricular organs causing cerebral edema , and 3 ) edema in the residual tumor secondary to surgical manipulation causing further hydrocephalus . subsequent patients with similar clinical and imaging criteria will have a planned perioperative ventricular shunting procedure performed . 
ectopic retinoblastoma within the 3rd ventricle : case report . ectopic intracranial retinoblastomas are rare . these tumors usually occur in the pineal , parasellar , or suprasellar regions several years after the successful treatment of ocular retinoblastomas with no evidence of direct extension or distant metastasis . we report here a case of ectopic retinoblastoma occurring within the third ventricle . the tumor was surgically excised by the transventricular approach . ectopic retinoblastomas exhibit greater differentiation than one would expect to observe in a metastatic lesion of this tumor . the distinction of ectopic retinoblastomas and metastasis from ocular retinoblastomas is important , since ectopic retinoblastomas , unlike metastasis , can be successfully managed by intensive therapy including radical excision . 
monitoring of cortical blood flow during temporary arterial occlusion in aneurysm surgery by the thermal diffusion method . during aneurysm surgery , regional cortical blood flow ( cobf ) was continuously monitored in 12 patients with a thermal diffusion flow probe in an attempt to assess the effects of temporary major arterial occlusion on blood flow and outcome . when the cobf was above 30 ml/100 g/min , the safe period for temporary clipping applied distal to the perforators was 15 minutes . the occlusion time should be shortened when the cobf is below 30 ml/100 g/min . two patients suffered basal infarction , which was not detected by cobf monitoring . attention should be paid to the blood flow in the deep structures when a temporary clip is applied at a site proximal to the perforating branches . direct measurement of cobf may be of value in estimating the time that temporary occlusion of a major vessel can be tolerated . 
the effect of continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage : a retrospective analysis of 108 patients . the effects of continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) on vasospasm and hydrocephalus were analyzed retrospectively in 108 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage ( sah ) who were operated on for ruptured aneurysms within 48 hours of their onset . ninety-two of these patients underwent a procedure for csf drainage ( cisternal drainage , ventricular drainage , lumbar drainage , or a combination of these ) . the duration , the total volume , and the average daily volume of csf drainage were 10.4 + / - 7.0 days ( mean + / - sd ) . 2034 + / - 1566 ml , and 190 + / - 65.3 ml , respectively . patients with a greater drainage volume at a lower height of drainage in the early period after sah developed more cerebral infarctions later ( p less than 0.025 ) . the relationship between the total volume of csf removed and shunt-dependent hydrocephalus was determined to be statistically significant ( p less than 0.005 ) . cerebral infarction and hydrocephalus after sah were also found to be statistically associated ( p less than 0.001 ) . thus , continuous cerebrospinal fluid drainage should not be performed too readily in patients with sah , because the removal of a large amount of csf can induce cerebral vasospasm as well as hydrocephalus . 
spinal cord stimulation : a contemporary series forty-three patients with chronic pain disorders of different causes were selected for spinal cord stimulation . all underwent implantation of a ribbon electrode through a small laminotomy , under general anesthesia . thirteen patients ( 30 % ) failed to obtain significant pain relief during a period of trial stimulation , and their electrodes were removed . the remainder underwent a definitive implant and were followed for a mean of 13 months ( range , 3-33 months ) . nineteen of them ( 63 % ) continued to experience pain relief . a detailed analysis of this series , as well as a literature review , is presented . 
chronic headache associated with a functioning shunt : usefulness of pressure monitoring . chronic headaches in a shunt-dependent patient with small ventricles has long been treated with little or no regard to intracranial pressure . in this study , pressure monitoring on 12 such patients demonstrated that they fell into three distinct categories : 3 had headaches caused by intracranial hypertension , 2 had headaches from hypotension , and 7 showed no relation of symptoms to pressure . as therapeutic procedures for treating these three categories are entirely different and sometimes opposing , it is clear that intracranial pressure monitoring is essential to successful management of this complaint . 
the transoral approach for the management of intradural lesions at the craniovertebral junction : review of 7 cases . the main difficulty in dealing with intradural lesions located ventrally in the region of the craniovertebral junction ( cvj ) is related to their relative inaccessibility . posterolateral approaches involve some manipulation of the brain stem and provide limited access because of the necessity of working between the cranial nerves . even then , the view of the ventral midline and across is limited . the transoral approach , which has been widely used for the management of extradural lesions in this area , is also useful for the treatment of intradural lesions . it provides an unimpeded although somewhat restricted , view of the ventral aspect of the cvj without the need for brain retraction . the cranial nerves and vertebral arteries are not interposed between the surgeon and the lesion . the risks of cerebrospinal fluid leakage and infection are greatly diminished by the use of fibrin adhesive and prolonged diversion of the cerebrospinal fluid . the use of this approach , together with its technical difficulties and results , in the management of seven purely intradural lesions located ventrally at the cvj , is discussed . 
improved access to lesions of the central skull base by mobilization of the zygoma : experience with 54 cases . improved access to lesions at the medial end of the sphenoid wing or in the interpeduncular cistern after mobilization of the zygoma has been a subject of growing interest in recent years . this study describes the operative technique we have adopted and records our experience with 55 operations in 54 patients who underwent the procedure in the past 3 years . seven patients had vascular lesions , 44 had tumors , and 3 had miscellaneous lesions . the majority of the tumors were medial meningiomas , and particular note is made of those arising from the cavernous sinus with respect to their resectability . sixteen of these tumors were encountered , and total excision was possible in 11 cases . access to the infratemporal fossa is facilitated , and in 2 cases we were able to excise completely trigeminal neuromas that had extended there . the extra maneuver adds little to the overall operating time , and complications relating to it are uncommon , mild in degree , and usually self-limiting . we conclude that the operation is extremely valuable in appropriate circumstances . 
diabetic amyotrophy without pain . a puzzling clinical picture . a patient with weight loss and weakness presents a diagnostic challenge . drs moeser and kent describe an unusual case of diabetic amyotrophy that required extensive workup to arrive at the diagnosis and rule out more serious disease . symptoms were dramatic , and recovery was spontaneous following conservative treatment . 
intracranial aneurysms : interventional neurovascular treatment with detachable balloons -- results in 215 cases patients with complex or surgically difficult intracranial aneurysms are being treated with interventional neurovascular techniques . with neuroleptic anesthesia and a transfemoral femoral approach , a silicone micro-balloon can be flow directed through the intracranial circulation , guided directly into the aneurysm , and detached . the aneurysm is thus eliminated from the circulation , and the parent artery is preserved . for broad-based or ectatic aneurysms , test occlusion followed by permanent occlusion of the aneurysm and parent vessel can be performed . since 1981 , 211 patients with 215 aneurysms , including 177 cases involving the anterior and 38 cases involving the posterior circulation , have been treated with this technique . in 127 cases ( 59.1 % ) , the parent vessel was occluded ; in 88 cases ( 40.9 % ) , primary occlusion of the aneurysm was achieved with preservation of the parent artery . therapy-related complications included 21 deaths ( 9.8 % ) and 16 strokes ( 7.4 % ) . follow-up examinations were performed at 1 , 3 , and 12 months after treatment , and follow-up ranged from 5 months to 9 years . in patients in whom standard surgical therapy fails or for aneurysms in surgically inaccessible anatomic locations , interventional techniques that make use of detachable balloons may be a useful therapeutic alternative . 
nerve root avulsion of birth palsy : comparison of myelography with ct myelography and somatosensory evoked potential . findings at myelography and computed tomographic ( ct ) myelography were reviewed in 21 patients ( 22 limbs ) with birth palsy ; nerve root shadows were the focus of this study . myelography demonstrated 51 completely avulsed roots ( 78 % ) and 14 incompletely avulsed roots ( 22 % ) . a traumatic meningocele was detected at 38 roots on myelograms and 51 roots on ct myelograms . thirteen avulsed roots ( eight completely and five incompletely avulsed roots ) ( 20 % ) were not associated with a meningocele . in nine patients who underwent brachial plexus exploration , myelographic findings were compared with root somatosensory evoked potential ( sep ) . sep was not induced at 22 of 25 completely avulsed roots and was induced at all seven incompletely avulsed roots . myelography and sep were consistent in 29 of 32 roots ( 91 % ) . it is concluded that myelography is indispensable for preoperative evaluation of cervical nerve root avulsion of birth palsy , because ct myelography is not sensitive to nerve root avulsion without a traumatic meningocele , and sep can not enable one to discriminate incomplete avulsion from intact roots . 
mapping the distribution of amobarbital sodium in the intracarotid wada test by use of tc-99m hmpao with spect . the intracarotid amobarbital sodium , or wada , test has been used to localize speech and memory function prior to surgical treatment of temporal lobe seizures . the authors mixed technetium-99m hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime ( hmpao ) with amobarbital sodium and injected the mixture in 25 patients with epilepsy . single photon emission computed tomography ( spect ) of the brain was then performed to determine intracerebral distribution of the amobarbital sodium . results of spect were compared with those of conventional and digital subtraction angiography ( dsa ) . the distribution of tc-99m hmpao and , presumably , amobarbital sodium varied from patient to patient . spect revealed a statistically different distribution from that predicted with conventional angiography . the distribution also often differed from that of dsa , although the difference was not significant . spect revealed infrequent delivery to mesial temporal lobe structures . this emphasizes the need for caution in the use of the intracarotid amobarbital sodium test to predict the outcome of removal of these areas . 
osteonecrosis of the knee after arthroscopic surgery : diagnosis with mr imaging . spontaneous osteonecrosis about the knee typically is a disease of the elderly characterized by an acute onset of pain . the exact cause of this condition has long been debated , although a causative relationship between meniscal tears and spontaneous osteonecrosis about the knee has been postulated . seven patients with knee pain , meniscal tears , and chondromalacia without initial evidence of osteonecrosis at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging underwent arthroscopic surgery with meniscal recontouring or repair and cartilage shaving . these patients returned within 2-14 months with recurrent pain in the treated knee . mr imaging then demonstrated abnormalities consistent with osteonecrosis . osteonecrosis of the femoral condyle or tibial plateau may be a late sequela of meniscal injury in association with chondromalacia and arthroscopic surgery . this diagnosis should be suspected in patients with recurrent knee pain after arthroscopic repair of meniscal tears . the precise relationship of this pattern of osteonecrosis to that previously described as spontaneous requires further investigation . 
the prolonged burner syndrome . over the course of a single football season , six players evaluated by the medical staff had burners that displayed a prolonged neurologic recovery . these players were examined and subsequently evaluated with isokinetic testing and electrodiagnostic studies to elucidate better the short-term natural history of the prolonged burner syndrome . evidence of muscular weakness at 72 hours postinjury best correlated with positive electrodiagnostic findings . no correlation was found between the initial physical examination findings and the results of electrodiagnostic testing . isokinetic strength evaluation demonstrated many relative strength differences that were difficult to discern with manual muscle testing . the return of a player to athletic competition following this injury should largely be based on the clinical examination . 
cauda equina syndrome after continuous spinal anesthesia . four cases of cauda equina syndrome occurring after continuous spinal anesthesia are reported . in all four cases , there was evidence of a focal sensory block and , to achieve adequate analgesia , a dose of local anesthetic was given that was greater than that usually administered with a single-injection technique . we postulate that the combination of maldistribution and a relatively high dose of local anesthetic resulted in neurotoxic injury . suggestions that may reduce the potential for neurotoxicity are discussed . use of a lower concentration and a " ceiling " or maximum dose of local anesthetic to establish the block should be considered . if maldistribution of local anesthetic is suspected ( as indicated by a focal sensory block ) , the use of maneuvers to increase the spread of local anesthetic is recommended . if such maneuvers prove unsuccessful , the technique should be abandoned . 
continuous postoperative regional analgesia by nerve sheath block for amputation surgery -- a pilot study . a pilot study of continuous postoperative regional analgesia by nerve sheath block for lower limb amputation is presented . at the time of exposure of sciatic or posterior tibial nerve trunks during above - or below-knee amputations in 11 patients with asa physical status iii or iv , a catheter was introduced directly into the transected nerve sheath for continuous infusion of 0.25 % bupivacaine at a rate of 10 ml/h for 72 h. effective amputation stump analgesia was obtained , significantly reducing the need for on-demand narcotic analgesics during this time to a mean dose equivalent of 1.4 mg of morphine compared with a retrospective control group who received the equivalent of a mean dose of 18.4 mg of morphine ( p less than 0.0001 ) . no complications related to the technique were observed . a follow-up of the group receiving continuous postoperative regional analgesia for up to 12 mo showed a total absence of phantom pain despite the presence of preoperative limb pain . 
intestinal permeability in patients with chronic urticaria-angioedema with and without arthralgia . we evaluated the clinical response to oligoallergenic dietary treatment and the intestinal absorption of a protein antigen , cow milk beta-lactoglobulin ( blg ) in 24 patients with chronic urticaria/angioedema syndrome 13 of whom also suffered from joint symptoms . sixteen patients ( 77 % of those with arthralgia ) responded to diet ( rd ) with marked reduction of symptoms ; the others did not respond ( nr ) . ten ( all but one rd with arthralgia ) had increased permeability to blg after oral administration of cow milk . four with high titers of igg to blg showed the highest absorption of blg and the groups with arthralgia showed higher blg levels than those without arthralgia . in all cases , specific ige to cow milk was absent . these data suggest that the symptoms of a subgroup of patients with chronic urticaria , and especially patients with joint complaints that subside with diet , are related to excess intestinal permeability . the measurement of gut permeability to food proteins may be useful to define those who may benefit from dietary restriction . 
effect of parenterally administered gold therapy on the course of adult rheumatoid arthritis objective : to describe the course of rheumatoid arthritis over 5 years in adults and to evaluate the effect of parenterally administered gold salts on that course . design : a prospective observational study of adults with rheumatoid arthritis . data derived from annual interviews with patients from 1983 to 1988 and from physician surveys in 1983 and 1987 . setting : rheumatology practices in the community . patients : the study began in 1982 with 822 adults who had rheumatoid arthritis and were under the care of rheumatologists . interventions : those selected by rheumatologists in the management of their patients . measurements : information describing sociodemographic and clinical characteristics , course , and therapy was collected from patients and verified by physician reports . functional status , measured by the health assessment questionnaire , and the number of painful joints were used as outcome variables . outcome variables were adjusted for age , sex , disease duration , baseline values of the outcome variable , and the use of four disease-remittive agents other than gold . main results : multivariate repeated-measures analysis of variance showed no change in the course of rheumatoid arthritis over 5 years . the use of parenteral gold for at least 2 consecutive years at the start of the observation period produced , on average , no change in the course over 5 years in the two outcome variables . conclusion : in our study of a community-based population of adults with rheumatoid arthritis who were under the care of community rheumatologists , we found that there was , on average , no statistically significant change in function or number of painful joints between 1983 and 1988 . patients receiving parenteral gold therapy for at least 2 consecutive years did not show a statistically significant difference in outcome when compared with those not receiving such therapy . 
lyme disease : recommendations for diagnosis and treatment the incidence and the endemic range of lyme disease in the united states have increased steadily since the disease was originally recognized in lyme , connecticut , in 1975 . because of the varied clinical manifestations of this illness and the use of unstandardized serologic testing methods , diagnosis is often uncertain and treatment outcomes are often difficult to evaluate . the antibiotic regimens that are commonly used in clinical practice have changed rapidly . they show much regional variation with little critical comparison of treatment results . the clinical diagnosis and the literature on the treatment of the various stages of lyme disease are reviewed . the reported data are supplemented with recommendations based on 15 years of clinical experience with this illness . 
developmental dyslexia in women : neuropathological findings in three patients . brains from male cases with dyslexia show symmetry of the planum temporale and predominantly left-sided cerebrocortical microdysgenesis . we now report on three women with dyslexia . in all brains , the planum temporale was again symmetrical . also , in two of the brains , multiple foci of cerebrocortical glial scarring were present . in both women , many of the scars were myelinated , suggesting origination during late intrauterine or early postnatal life . in one , scars were mainly left perisylvian and involved portions of the vascular border zone of the temporal cortex . in the other , scars were more numerous and occurred in the border zone of the anterior , middle , and posterior cerebral arteries symmetrically . all three cases showed to a variable extent brain warts , molecular layer ectopias , and focal architectonic dysplasia identical to those seen in the male cases . two women had primary brain neoplasms , an oligodendroglioma and a low-grade astrocytoma , respectively , and two women showed small angiomas . reexamination of previously reported male cases disclosed one with myelinated glial scars . two control brains with asymmetrical plana temporale showed myelinated glial scars as well . the significance of the anatomical findings is discussed , and possible etiological factors are considered with known effects of autoimmune diseases on the nervous system . 
cerebrospinal fluid immune complexes in patients exposed to borrelia burgdorferi : detection of borrelia-specific and - nonspecific complexes . we analyzed cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) from 32 patients with neurological symptoms and evidence of borrelia burgdorferi infection ( 29 were seropositive as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay , 2 were cell-mediated immune positive , and 1 had been seropositive as shown by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 9 months previously ) . csf immune complexes were found in 22 ( 69 % ) of 32 patients ; in 18 , there was sufficient sample to isolate immune complexes . by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay , isolated immune complexes from 10 of these 18 patients contained antibody specific for b. burgdorferi antigens . the isotypes were igg ( n = 8 ) , igm ( n = 3 ) , and iga ( n = 2 ) . by immunoblot , these antibodies were directed against b. burgdorferi 41-kda antigen and occasionally against the 33 - and 17-kda antigens . anti-b . burgdorferi igm was present in patients with acute neurological symptoms , was predominantly complexed rather than free , and decreased with clinical recovery in the one serial study . three patients were nonreactive for free csf antibodies , but had complexed antibodies to the organism . the preliminary finding of specific b. burgdorferi components in immune complexes in csf suggests an active process triggered by the organism , even in the absence of other csf abnormalities . 
cerebellar and frontal hypometabolism in alcoholic cerebellar degeneration studied with positron emission tomography . local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was studied utilizing 18f-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose and positron emission tomography ( pet ) in 14 chronically alcohol-dependent patients and 8 normal control subjects of similar age and sex . nine of the 14 patients ( group a ) had clinical signs of alcoholic cerebellar degeneration , and the remaining 5 ( group b ) did not have signs of alcoholic cerebellar degeneration . pet studies of group a revealed significantly decreased local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in the superior cerebellar vermis in comparison with the normal control subjects . group b did not show decreased rates in the cerebellum . both groups a and b showed decreased local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose bilaterally in the medial frontal area of the cerebral cortex in comparison with the normal control subjects . the severity of the clinical neurological impairment was significantly correlated with the degree of hypometabolism in both the superior cerebellar vermis and the medial frontal region of the cerebral cortex . the degree of atrophy detected in computed tomography scans was significantly correlated with local cerebral metabolic rates in the medial frontal area of the cerebral cortex , but not in the cerebellum . the data indicate that hypometabolism in the superior cerebellar vermis closely follows clinical symptomatology in patients with alcoholic cerebellar degeneration , and does not occur in alcohol-dependent patients without clinical evidence of cerebellar dysfunction . hypometabolism in the medial frontal region of the cerebral cortex is a prominent finding in alcohol-dependent patients with or without alcoholic cerebellar degeneration . 
normal proprioceptive trigeminal afferents in patients with sjogren 's syndrome and sensory neuronopathy . a pure sensory neuropathy due to neuronal damage in the gasserian and spinal ganglia has been described in patients with sjogren 's syndrome . conventional electromyographic ( emg ) studies can demonstrate the selective involvement of the sensory pathways but they do not provide definite evidence for the site of the lesion . noting that the trigeminal sensory neurons carrying cutaneous and muscular afferents are differentially located in the gasserian and mesencephalic nuclei , respectively , we carried out an electrophysiological study of the trigeminofacial and trigeminotrigeminal reflexes in 5 patients with sjogren 's syndrome and pure sensory neuropathy , in 10 patients with sensory-motor neuropathies of other causes , and in 10 healthy subjects . our results show that patients with sjogren 's syndrome and pure sensory neuropathy who exhibited abnormal blink reflexes and an abnormal , cutaneous-induced masseter silent period had normal jaw jerks , whereas patients with sensory-motor neuropathies who exhibited abnormal cutaneous responses had abnormal jaw jerks . these findings suggest that the lesion in pure sensory neuropathy involves damage to the neurons of the gasserian ganglia and not to the trigeminal axons , since an axonal lesion would be expected to involve the large axons from muscle spindle receptors . 
timing and topography of cerebral blood flow , aura , and headache during migraine attacks . ten years of study has resulted in considerable but fragmented knowledge about regional cerebral blood flow in migraine with aura ( classic migraine ) . in the present study , the number of repeatedly studied patients ( n = 63 ) was large enough to determine statistically significant sequences of events and statistically significant spatial relations . the first observable event was a decrease of regional cerebral blood flow posteriorly in one cerebral hemisphere . further development of this pathological process was accompanied by the aura symptoms . thereafter headache occurred while regional cerebral blood flow remained decreased . during the headache phase , regional cerebral blood flow gradually changed from abnormally low to abnormally high without apparent change in headache . in some patients headache disappeared while regional cerebral blood flow remained increased . although regional cerebral blood flow reduction and aura symptoms in the great majority of patients were unilateral , one-third had bilateral headache . unilateral headache usually localized to the side on which regional cerebral blood flow was reduced and from which the aura symptoms originated ( i.e. , aura symptoms were perceived to occur contralaterally but presumably originated in the hypoperfused hemisphere ) . our results suggest a simple model for migraine attacks : a pathological disturbance in one cerebral hemisphere causes the aura symptoms and after a time delay , it also causes the headache by stimulating local vascular nociceptors . bilateral headache caused by a unilateral cerebral disturbance may be explained by recent neuroanatomical and neurophysiological findings . 
general assay for phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid : a candidate marker for paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration . the components of protein phosphorylation systems ( protein kinases , protein phosphatases , and their phosphoprotein substrates ) are highly enriched in neuronal cells compared with other cell types . we exploited this relative neuronal enrichment of protein phosphorylation system components to develop a general assay technique for putative protein kinase substrates ( phosphoproteins ) in human cerebrospinal fluid . using this cerebrospinal fluid phosphoprotein assay , we have detected a putative protein kinase c substrate protein of apparent mr 60 kd in 6 of 14 patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration but not in any of 55 patients with a variety of other neurological diseases . phosphoproteins in cerebrospinal fluid may provide novel and unique markers for the diagnosis or staging of neuronal diseases as well as offer potential insights into the biochemical characterization of affected neuronal populations . 
ataxia and peripheral neuropathy : a benign variant of peroxisome dysgenesis . a 5-year-old boy with panperoxisomal dysfunction is described . clinical features included hypotonia , areflexia , and ataxia . cognition , vision , hearing , and hepatic function were normal . a panel of peroxisomal markers , including very-long-chain fatty acids , phytanic acid , pipecolic acid , and catalase compartmentalization , were abnormal . this is a uniquely benign syndrome of disordered peroxisome biogenesis . 
okt3 encephalopathy . okt3 therapy for induction immunosuppression in a patient who underwent renal transplantation produced obtundation and quadriparesis associated with computed tomographic scan evidence of brain edema . these findings resolved over 3 days with supportive therapy and okt3 withdrawal . 
orocaecal transit time in duchenne muscular dystrophy . smooth muscle degeneration may occur in duchenne muscular dystrophy . we measured fasting orocaecal transit time in patients with advanced duchenne muscular dystrophy and other muscular dystrophies and in healthy controls . no significant differences were found . in contrast to reports of gastric hypomotility in duchenne muscular dystrophy , we found no evidence of impaired small intestinal motility . 
cardiac echinococcosis with fatal intracerebral embolism . a previously well 7 year old boy presented with sudden loss of consciousness and fitting . no evidence of trauma or space occupying lesion was identified . death occurred the next day due to cerebral infarction caused by embolised fragments from a ruptured left ventricular hydatid cyst that was found at necropsy . 
temporal arteritis with normal erythrocyte sedimentation rates presenting as occipital neuralgia . a retrospective review of 46 patients with biopsy-proven giant cell ( temporal ) arteritis revealed 8 ( 17 % ) whose initial presentation was occipital pain . the most likely etiology of occipital pain in these patients was occipital artery inflammation . a westergren erythrocyte sedimentation rate less than 40 mm/hour was noted at presentation in 6 of these 8 patients . giant cell arteritis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of elderly patients who present with occipital pain and demonstrate a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate . 
risk monitoring of randomized trials in emergency medicine : experience of the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii . risk monitoring for the brain resuscitation clinical trial ii , a multicenter , placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of the calcium-entry blocker lidoflazine in the amelioration of brain damage in comatose cardiac-arrest survivors , posed unexpected challenges . concern arose when monitoring of adverse reactions showed an excess of dangerous cardiac arrhythmias , including rearrest , in the lidoflazine group . to ascertain the cause of this problem and determine whether it was ethical for the trial to continue , an in-depth review of data was conducted , outside experts were consulted , and additional data were collected . these efforts suggested possible causes for the problem . existing drug administration protocols for blood pressure control were reinforced , resulting in lower subsequent arrhythmia rates . thus , through an efficient monitoring system , an important problem was uncovered and resolved , allowing the trial to be completed without major changes . 
early diagnosis and survival of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms . the hospital records of patients treated with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in a recent 5-year period were reviewed to collect data on factors which may be associated with mortality . overall mortality was 62 % . patients with intraperitoneal rupture had a higher mortality ( 97 % ) than patients with retroperitoneal rupture ( 25 % ) . patients at increased risk were older than 80 years , presented with syncope , experienced a short duration of symptoms prior to emergency department ( ed ) arrival , had initial systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm hg , and/or initial hemoglobin level less than eight on arrival at the ed and delay in beginning surgery . multivariate analysis demonstrated preoperative blood pressure , preoperative hemoglobin , presence of syncope , and the amount of blood transfused were largely reflections of the type of rupture and had only slight independent relationship to mortality . the authors concluded that treating emergency physicians and surgeons have little control over the most important risk factors for mortality after aneurysm rupture , but may improve the prognosis by expediting diagnosis in the ed and surgical therapy . 
cerebral circulation and metabolism in patients with septic encephalopathy . cerebral circulation and metabolism in septic encephalopathy have not been well documented . the authors measured cerebral blood flow ( cbf ) and metabolic rate for oxygen ( cmro2 ) in six patients with septic encephalopathy associated with multiple organ failure ( three to five organs ) . they found that cbf and cmro2 were significantly lower than awake control values of 46 + / - 2 to 28 + / - 3 ml/100g/min ( mean + / - sem ) and 3.1 + / - 0.2 to 1.2 + / - 0.2 ml/100g/min , respectively . cerebral vascular resistance ( cvr ) and cerebral circulatory index ( cci : cbf/cmro2 ) were significantly higher than the control values of 2.0 + / - 0.1 to 3.0 + / - 0.4 mm hg/ml/100g / min and 15.1 + / - 0.8 to 24.2 + / - 3.3 , respectively . at the time of cerebral circulatory and metabolic measurements , their consciousness varied between 4 and 10 as evaluated by the glasgow coma scale . the electroencephalogram showed diffuse slow wave activity and the latency of the auditory brain stem evoked response was prolonged in four of six patients . computed brain tomography showed either no abnormality or mild atrophy . it is concluded that cbf and cmro2 are disproportionally decreased during septic encephalopathy in association with dysfunction of the cns and decreased electrical activity . 
the effect of ph buffering on reducing the pain associated with subcutaneous infiltration of bupivicaine [ published erratum appears in am j emerg med 1991 jul ; 9 ( 4 ) :410 ] the authors propose that ph buffering of bupivicaine with sodium bicarbonate reduces the pain associated with its local subcutaneous infiltration . in a double-blind , prospective study , 62 healthy adult volunteers received a 0.5 ml subcutaneous infiltration of 0.5 % buffered bupivicaine into the dorsum of a randomly chosen hand . the ph was adjusted to 7.0 by adding 0.05 ml of sodium bicarbonate ( 1 meq/l [ corrected ] ) to 10 ml vials of commercially available bupivicaine ( 1:200 dilution ) . the control hand was injected with the same amount of unbuffered agent . pain was scored after each infiltration using a nonsegmented visual analogue scale . student 's t-test for paired measurements was used to analyze intergroup pain score differences . forty-three subjects ( 69 % ) reported less pain with buffered bupivicaine and only 17 ( 27 % ) noted a modest increase : two subjects ( 3 % ) reported no difference . the mean pain score for the buffered agent was 22 mm compared with 30 mm for the control . the mean difference ( control-experimental ) was 8 mm ( t = 4.64 , df = 61 , p less than .001 ) . the authors conclude that the addition of sodium bicarbonate to bupivicaine reduces the pain associated with its local infiltration . 
evaluation of minor head trauma in children younger than two years . the recent medical literature emphasizes the limitations of skull films in the evaluation of minor head trauma . however , the emergency medicine literature places little emphasis on the particular risks in children younger than 2 years old with blunt head injury . these children have immature bone and unfused sutures that may increase risk of cranial injury and delayed complications . a case is presented to illustrate this point . unlike severe head trauma , where evaluation is directed toward computed tomography , the literature continues to be controversial regarding the indications for skull radiographs and computed tomography in minor head trauma . the authors recommend a low threshold for radiographic imaging in blunt heat injuries in children younger than 2 years . 
new approaches in the rehabilitation of the traumatic high level quadriplegic . the use of noninvasive alternatives to tracheostomy for ventilatory support have been described in the patient management of various neuromuscular disorders . the use of these techniques for patients with traumatic high level quadriplegia , however , is hampered by the resort to tracheostomy in the acute hospital setting . twenty traumatic high level quadriplegic patients on intermittent positive pressure ventilation ( ippv ) via tracheostomy with little or no ability for unassisted breathing were converted to noninvasive ventilatory support methods and had their tracheostomy sites closed . four additional patients were ventilated by noninvasive methods without tracheostomy . these methods included the use of body ventilators and the noninvasive intermittent positive airway pressure alternatives of ippv via the mouth , nose , or custom acrylic strapless oral-nasal interface ( soni ) . overnight end-tidal pco2 studies and monitoring of oxyhemoglobin saturation ( sao2 ) were used to adjust ventilator volumes and to document effective ventilation during sleep . no significant complications have resulted from the use of these methods over a period of 45 patient-years . elimination of the tracheostomy permitted significant free time by glossopharyngeal breathing for four patients , two of whom had no measurable vital capacity . we conclude that noninvasive ventilatory support alternatives can be effective and deserve further study in this patient population . 
research in physical medicine and rehabilitation . xii . measurement tools with application to brain injury . there are basic principles and techniques of measurement that are relevant across biomedical disciplines . the purpose of this article is to explain some of the most important of these for medical rehabilitation , to illustrate how to use them to choose assessment instruments and to describe the nature of measurement in medical rehabilitation by examples in brain injury rehabilitation . reliability is basic to any scientific measure . validity , the ultimate criterion , is closely associated with the purpose of the measure . content validity , criterion validity and construct validity are explained . sensitivity to rehabilitative interventions and significance in patients ' real lives ( ecological validity ) are emphasized . measures of functional outcomes ( disability ) may show improvement after rehabilitation even when impairment measures do not . an extensive but selected list of measures of coma , global status , disabilities , communicative and cognitive impairments , and handicaps is presented , and their main uses are illustrated . examples illustrate how to choose measures to study comprehensive program-level outcomes , to study learning-based interventions and to develop a general purpose database . although there are many measures of activities of daily living and mobility , little published evidence of reliability and validity could be found even for some well-known scales . ecologically valid and sensitive outcome measures are especially needed . studies of the clinical utility of measures were also scarce . many of these gaps can be spanned by clinical researchers with limited resources . physical medicine and rehabilitation will benefit from formal studies of the reliabilities and validities of both its old and its new measurement instruments and by increased sophistication in choice of measures . 
recovery time of independent function post-stroke . stroke patients undergoing physical rehabilitation were monitored daily to determine the length of time needed to recover independent function . of the 93 patients admitted , there were 45 who could not attain the sitting position independently , 75 who could not walk independently and 75 who could not negotiate the stairs independently . by discharge , 25 of 45 patients ( 55.6 % ) were able to attain sitting from supine independently , 35 of 75 patients ( 46.7 % ) achieved the ability to walk independently but only 25 of 75 patients ( 33.3 % ) learned to negotiate stairs independently . the time from admission to achievement of independent function and the time from onset of stroke to achievement of independent function was modeled in relation to explanatory variables : age , sex , side of lesion , comorbidity , the presence of depression and the extent of impairment in perception , cognition , auditory comprehension and verbal expression . four variables were found to influence recovery time : age influenced the rate of recovery of walking and stair climbing ; perceptual impairment influenced the rate of achieving independent sitting and stair climbing ; and depression and comprehension influenced walking . 
a case of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis . ii : the sterol content of a cataractous lens . the cholestanol content of a cataractous lens nucleus from a patient with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis ( ctx ) was quantified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and found to be 0.27 micrograms per mg freeze-dried lens tissue . the cholestanol-cholesterol ratio of 1.7 % in the lens nucleus was similar to that in the serum of the ctx patient . the cholestanol content and cholestanol-cholesterol ratio in the ctx lens were approximately four-fold and six-fold greater respectively than the mean levels found in three senile cataractous lens nuclei analysed simultaneously for comparative purposes . 
outcome of cataract surgery in central india : a longitudinal follow-up study . an epidemiological follow-up study of patients who had intracapsular cataract extraction in a voluntary hospital and its associated eye camps in central india has for the first time evaluated the outcome one year after surgery in terms of visual acuity , use of spectacles , and improvement in income and mobility . the findings indicate that under these fairly typical conditions , 92 % of the cases have adequate vision of 6/18 or better one year after surgery . information on high usage of spectacles and on considerable improvements in income and mobility after cataract surgery is also reported . the outcome for patients operated upon in eye camps was almost as favourable as for those operated upon in hospital . although the small differences are not statistically significant , the comparative findings require cautious interpretation and give rise to the epidemiological issues which are briefly discussed in this paper . 
corneal sensitivity and correlations between decreased sensitivity and anterior segment pathology in ocular leprosy . leprosy is one of the leading causes of corneal hyposensitivity . in this article the corneal sensitivity of 143 leprosy patients was examined , and correlations between corneal hyposensitivity and anterior segment pathology were detected . twenty four healthy volunteers were examined as controls . various degrees of corneal loss of sensitivity were found in 46.2 % of leprosy patients . lagophthalmos , chronic lepromatous granulomatous uveitis , iris atrophy , and social blindness were found 4.5-16 .6 times more frequently in eyes which developed severe corneal hyposensitivity . 
flecked retina associated with ring 17 chromosome . we report the case of a mentally retarded male with a ring 17 chromosome who had subretinal drusen-like deposits in each eye . this is the second report of flecked retina in a patient with ring 17 chromosome , suggesting that there may be a causal relationship between abnormalities of chromosome 17 and retinal pigment epithelial or photoreceptor dysfunction . 
ocular defects in infants of extremely low birth weight and low gestational age . the eyes of 49 babies who weighed less than 1,000 g at birth or who were born at or before 28 weeks gestation were examined at the age of 4 years . twenty-one children were normal . the remaining 29 children ( 59 % ) had ocular abnormalities which ranged from mild amblyopia to blindness from retinopathy of prematurity . the need to examine children at risk is stressed . 
magnetic resonance imaging of the head and spine : effective for the clinician or the patient ? objectives -- to test how the results of magnetic resonance imaging influence clinicians ' diagnoses and management plans for patients with cranial and spinal problems and to assess changes in the quality of life of these patients . design -- survey of patients undergoing cranial and spinal magnetic resonance imaging with questionnaires about diagnoses and intended management plans before and after imaging and quality of life questionnaires at the time of imaging and again four months later . setting -- regional magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy unit . subjects -- 100 consecutive patients referred for cranial imaging in early 1989 ; 100 similar patients referred for spinal imaging . main outcome measures -- changes in clinicians ' leading diagnoses after magnetic resonance imaging and their confidence in these diagnoses ; changes in intended management plans ; assessment of the contribution to the future management of the patient ; changes in patients ' quality of life . results -- magnetic resonance imaging altered the clinicians ' leading diagnoses in 35 of 169 ( 21 % ) cases . the clinicians became more confident about their leading diagnoses in 90 of 167 ( 54 % ) . there was a change in management plan in 113 of 182 ( 62 % ) . the clinicians considered that magnetic resonance imaging made an important contribution to management in 119 of 162 ( 73 % ) patients . overall , the patients ' quality of life was unchanged at the four month assessment . conclusions -- magnetic resonance imaging of patients with cranial and spinal problems influences clinicians ' diagnoses and management plans , but the quality of life of these patients remains unchanged . 
ventilatory function as a predictor of fatal stroke . objective -- to investigate the relation between ventilatory function and subsequent mortality due to cerebrovascular disease . design -- prospective longitudinal study . subjects -- a total of 18,403 male civil servants aged 40-64 years at entry examination for the whitehall study . main outcome measure -- mortality from cerebrovascular disease ( icd8 430-438 ) after 18 years of follow up . results -- in all , 262 men with sinus rhythm at entry died due to stroke during the 18 years of follow up . compared with men with a forced expiratory volume in one second of greater than or equal to 3.5 litres those with a value of less than 3.0 litres were almost twice as likely to die of cerebrovascular disease ( rate ratio adjusted for age and systolic blood pressure = 1.88 , 95 % confidence interval 1.32 to 2.69 ) . this increased risk occurred within each tertile of systolic blood pressure . nested case-control analyses were used to control precisely for confounding effects of age , height , and smoking ( by matching ) and employment grade and physiological risk factors ( by modelling ) . the effect of forced expiratory volume in one second was independent of age , height , smoking habits , employment grade , blood pressure , weight , cholesterol concentration , glucose tolerance , electrocardiographic abnormalities , history of chest pain , and history of intermittent claudication . conclusions -- measurements of ventilatory function may assist clinical decisions about whether to treat mild hypertension . impaired ventilatory function and stroke may share common causes . 
availability of transplantable organs from brain stem dead donors in intensive care units . objective -- by audit from january to june 1989 to quantify , separately for hearts , kidneys , liver , lungs and corneas , the possible increases in transplantable organs from brain stem dead potential donors in intensive care units and to compare them with the increases achieved in october-november 1989 , during intense , national publicity about transplantation . design -- prospective audit of all deaths in intensive care units in england from 1 january to 30 june 1989 and subsequent case study of the impact of publicity on offers and donations during october-november 1989 . setting -- 15 regional and special health authorities in england . patients -- 5803 patients dying in intensive care units , of whom 497 were confirmed as brain stem dead and had no general medical contraindication to organ donation . main outcome measures -- organ specific suitability for transplantation ( as reported by intensive care units ) ; consent for donation of specific suitable organs ; and procurement of specific organs reported as suitable for transplantation and offered . results -- in the 497 ( 8.6 % ) brain stem dead potential donors were estimated the organ specific suitability for heart as 63 % , kidneys 95 % , liver 70 % , lungs 29 % , and corneas 91 % . refusal of relatives ( 30 % ) accounted for major losses of suitable organs of all types . for kidneys the loss was equivalent to 44 % of brain stem dead actual kidney donors . no discussion of organ donation was the second most important reason for missed kidney donors , the loss being equivalent to 10 % of brain stem dead actual donors . non-procurement or difficulties with allocating organs was the second most notable cause of missed suitable liver and lung donors ; 29 % ( 55 ) of the offered total of 189 liver donors and 27 % ( 21 ) of 78 offered suitable lung donors in six months . non-procurement of suitable , offered organs was rare for kidneys and modest , of the order of 13 % and 10 % respectively , for heart and corneas . corneal donation from brain stem dead potential donors might be improved nearly as much ( that is , a 78 % increase in brain stem dead actual corneal donors ) by specific measures to promote corneal donation when other organs are offered as by reducing the overall refusal rate . restricted offers , non-procurement , and no discussion of donation accounted for nearly equal numbers of lost donations of hearts ( each equivalent to 15 % of donated hearts ) . during october-november 1989 when there was intense , positive publicity about transplantation the rates of refusal and non-discussion fell compared with during january-june ( 22 % , 36/163 v 30 % , 138/460 ; 7 % , 33/497 v 2 % , 4/167 respectively ) . offers of suitable donors increased significantly ( p less than 0.02 ) compared with the first six months of 1989 , most notably for heart donors ( 80 v 60.1 expected ) and kidney donors ( 122 v 102.1 expected ) but only for kidneys was there a noticeable 17 % increase in actual donors ( 118 actual audited donors v 100.8 expected donors ; p = 0.09 ) . conclusions -- four strategies to increase the supply of transplantable organs from brain stem dead potential donors in intensive care units were identified : ( a ) reducing refusal of relatives ( b ) avoiding non-procurement of actually suitable organs ( by logistical initiatives ) and deterioration of initially suitable organs ( by donor care initiatives ) ; ( c ) converting restricted offers to unrestricted offers ; and ( d ) ensuring discussion with families . early referral to the transplant team or coordinator gives time for discussion about donor care and agreement on medical suitability for donation of specific organs . solving some of the logistical problems of non-procurement may be a prerequisite for increased offers to be translated into increased donations . the impact of publicity therefore needs to be measured on offers of suitable donors as well as by actual donations . 
reinforcement of incontinent stools in the treatment of encopresis . in this paper , fecal incontinence and constipation were treated in two mentally retarded individuals using a novel intervention wherein incontinent stools were first rewarded in order to increase the frequency of bowel movements . this intervention was implemented only after more traditional pediatric and behavioral treatments were unsuccessful . the reinforcement of incontinent stools procedure resulted in an increase in both the frequency and the number of continent stools for both individuals . hypotheses regarding the failure of previous treatments and the success of the current treatment are discussed as well as directions for future research . 
relative validity of self-reported snoring as a symptom of sleep apnea in a sleep clinic population the purpose of this study was to evaluate the relative validity of responses to three different questions about snoring as indicators for sleep apnea in a population referred to a sleep clinic . secondary goals were to evaluate the meaning of a " do n't know " response to these questions and to examine how the associations between snoring and sleep apnea are influenced by demographics . results from 1,409 patients in a sleep clinic indicated that nearly all levels of estimated snoring frequency were associated with a greater likelihood of sleep apnea . in addition , a " do n't know " response indicated a likelihood of sleep apnea . in the sample from this clinic , sensitivities approximating 90 percent were obtained in men , and specificities approximating 90 percent were obtained in women , but high diagnostic accuracy ( high specificity in men ; high sensitivity in women ) could not be achieved with the three snoring questions used here . generally , associations between snoring and sleep apnea were independent of age and sex . single persons , persons living alone , and persons customarily sleeping alone of both sexes all showed associations between self-reported snoring and the presence of sleep apnea . 
dacron-woven pacemaker pouch . influence on long-term pacemaker mobility . pacemaker migration can interfere with correct pacing system function and patient comfort . a dacron pouch has been developed which may prevent these problems . to assess the efficacy of the pouch , we measured various factors of pacemaker mobility in 100 patients after long-term follow-up . the patients were divided into three groups on the basis of their dictated operative reports : group 1 , no pouch or anchoring stitch ; group 2 , pouch only ; group 3 , anchoring stitch to pacemaker header or pouch . the average age of the study population was 74.3 + / - 11 years . total follow-up time was 42 + / - 28 months ( group i , 53 + / - 32 months ; group 2 , 36 + / - 23 months ; group 3 , 34 + / - 25 months ) . there were no significant differences when pacemakers were measured for movement in the inferosuperior and lateromedial directions , nor was there any difference in the distance between the incision scar and the pacemaker header in any group . there was a significant difference between group 1 and groups 2 and 3 when the degree of tilt of the pacemaker off the chest wall was compared . this was 46 degrees + / - 34 degrees for group 1 and 27 degrees + / - 26 degrees and 26 degrees + / - 27 degrees for groups 2 and 3 , respectively ( p less than 0.02 for both ) . these data suggest that the dacron pouch does not restrict pacemaker mobility parallel to the chest wall during long-term follow-up but does reduce the angle to which the pacemaker can be tilted relative to the chest wall . 
sleepwalking precipitated by treatment of sleep apnea with nasal cpap . a 33-year-old man with a long history of snoring , observed apneic episodes , and excessive daytime sleepiness , underwent all-night polysomnography , which demonstrated severe obstructive sleep apnea . during the nasal cpap trial , two episodes of sleepwalking were observed during a period of delta sleep rebound . 
potentially fatal asthma and syncope . a new variant of munchausen 's syndrome in sports medicine . we report a case of munchausen 's syndrome in a 19-year-old female college athlete who presented with potentially fatal asthma and recurrent syncopal episodes . failure to control her asthma with the appropriate medications and the lack of objective findings on both physical examination and diagnostic testing raised the possibility of factitious disease . munchausen 's syndrome , although not described with any frequency in asthmatic patients , should be considered in the differential diagnosis of those patients refractory to aggressive medical management . 
natural killer cell activity in patients with liver cirrhosis relative to severity of liver damage . to evaluate the role of severe liver damage on natural killer cell activity , 29 patients with liver cirrhosis were examined . the natural killer cell activity was measured with a 4-hr chromium release assay , and the k562 cell line was employed as target cells . the natural killer cell activity was significantly decreased in cirrhotic patients compared with normal controls and patients with chronic active hepatitis . cirrhotic patients with pugh 's c grade of severity of liver disease had lower natural killer cell activity . the depression of natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients was inversely correlated with prothrombin time ratios , and the natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients with hepatic encephalopathy was lower than in patients without hepatic encephalopathy . thus , the diminished natural killer cell activity in cirrhotic patients might be related to the severity of liver damage . 
alzheimer 's disease and related disorders in state mental hospitals : data from a nationwide survey . notwithstanding three decades of transferring of the elderly to nursing homes , geriatric patients continue to reside in state mental hospitals . many of these patients , perhaps one-third or more , are thought to suffer from alzheimer 's disease and related disorders ( adrd ) . this study reports data from a nationwide survey of state hospitals that provides an exploratory look at the adrd patients currently served in state hospitals . admission trends , reasons for admission , and sources of referral are described . civil commitment of nursing home patients with dementing illnesses and the place of the state hospital in the continuum of care for adrd patients are discussed . 
elevated intracranial pressure and computed tomography of the brain in fulminant hepatocellular failure . cerebral herniation is a leading cause of death in patients with fulminant hepatocellular failure . classical signs of elevated intracranial pressure are often absent in these patients . a reliable noninvasive method by which the presence of cerebral edema could be determined is much needed . to assess the efficacy of computed tomography of the brain in this setting , we compared the radiographic findings to the intracranial pressure measured by an epidural monitor in patients with fulminant hepatic failure . unfortunately , a considerable difference existed between the presence of cerebral edema diagnosed by computed tomography of the brain and elevation of the intracranial pressure . our observations suggest that in patients with fulminant hepatic failure and advanced hepatic encephalopathy , computed tomography of the brain is of little value in detecting cerebral edema . pressure monitoring is most important to establish the presence and guide the therapy of intracranial hypertension . 
differences in the membrane interaction of scrapie amyloid precursor proteins in normal and scrapie - or creutzfeldt-jakob disease-infected brains . the membrane interaction and hydrophobicity of the normal ( prpc ) and infectious isoform ( prpsc/cjd ) of scrapie and creutzfeldt-jakob disease amyloid precursor proteins was studied . the normal isoform of hamster and human scrapie amyloid precursor protein was found on the microsomal/synaptosomal membranes anchored solely by the c-terminal glycolipid . glycolipid cleavage resulted in dissociation from the membranes and change of behavior from a highly hydrophobic to a hydrophilic protein , susceptible to proteases . in contrast , the prpsc/cjd isoform was resistant to release by glycolipid-cleaving enzymes . a part of prpsc/cjd was released from the membranes after prolonged trypsin treatment , yielding a further protease-resistant product of 27-30 kda . the results demonstrate the proteolytic resistance of the membrane-bound prpsc/cjd isoform and also indicate the presence of a different , apparently disease-induced mechanism of membrane interaction in the scrapie - and cjd-infected microsomal and synaptosomal membranes . 
effect of indomethacin on the pathophysiology of experimental meningitis in rabbits . the effects of indomethacin on central nervous system abnormalities in rabbits with experimental pneumococcal meningitis were studied . as expected , prostaglandin e2 levels in cerebrospinal fluid were significantly lower in the indomethacin-treated group , indicating that the drug effectively reduced prostaglandin synthesis . brain edema was markedly attenuated in the indomethacin-treated group ; however , cerebrospinal fluid white blood cell counts , lactate and protein concentrations , and intracisternal pressure were not significantly different between groups . it seems that indomethacin , while effective in reducing brain edema , does not significantly affect other important pathophysiologic alterations in experimental pneumococcal meningitis . 
sudden death and sleeping history among finnish men . an autopsy was performed in 460 consecutive cases of sudden death among 35 - to 76-year-old men . the closest cohabiting individual known to each decreased subject was interviewed . snoring history was obtained in 321 of the 371 interviews . in 86 cases there was a history of ' habitual ' ( almost always or always ) snoring , and 88 men snored ' often ' . the mean age of subjects was 55.4 years . the mean body mass index ( bmi ) was 26.3 kg m-2 . among the obese snorers ( n = 82 ) , apnoeas had been observed ' occasionally ' , ' often ' , or ' habitually ' in 49 cases . death was classified as cardiovascular in 186 ( 40.4 % ) cases . cardiovascular cause of death was more common among those who snored habitually or often than among those who snored occasionally or never ( p less than 0.05 ) . ' habitual ' snorers died more often while sleeping ( p less than 0.05 ) . habitual snoring was found to be a risk factor for morning death ( p less than 0.01 ) . the possibility of obstructive sleep apnoea as a cause of sudden death should at least be considered if the decreased is known to have been a habitual snorer . 
long-term follow-up of the use of nonporous hydroxyapatite for augmentation of the alveolar ridge . particulate hydroxyapatite ( ha ) was used in the augmentation of 18 mandibular and four maxillary ridges in 21 patients whose cases were followed postoperatively for 5 to 7 years . patients were evaluated clinically , radiographically , and through questionnaires . prosthodontic assessment of retention and stability of dentures showed improvement 5 years postoperatively . patients receiving ha rated their dentures favorably using parameters of the cornell medical index . the results of this study show that particulate ha alone can be used as a satisfactory material for augmentation of the alveolar ridge . 
creutzfeldt-jakob disease from allogeneic dura : a review of risks and safety . surgeons and the lay public have recently expressed concern over the safety of allogeneic dura as it relates to the transmission of creutzfeldt-jakob disease . indeed , two cases have resulted from use of tissue procured from a commercial agency that did not adhere to criteria accepted by the american association of tissue banks or the southeast organ procurement foundation . this review discusses the risks and safety of allogeneic dura . the findings should reassure the surgeon of the safety of allogeneic dura when it is properly processed and catalogued by a bona fide , reputable tissue bank . to date , there have been no documented cases reported to the center for disease control in which creutzfeldt-jakob disease was transmitted from allogeneic dura obtained from a registered tissue bank . 
clinical diagnostic considerations on cocaine abuse . following a review of the research literature on the psychophysiological effects of cocaine , a study is described of a group of 120 cocaine addicts . of the 120 patients , 10 ( 8.33 % ) exhibited fleeting , unformed , organic delusions and hallucinations . case reports of the 10 cases are presented . the quality of the adverse subjective effects of cocaine is emphasized , and the differential diagnosis between cocaine delusional disorder and paranoid schizophrenia is discussed . guidelines for a more accurate differential diagnosis are provided . 
medicare peer review organization preprocedure review criteria . an analysis of criteria for three procedures the medicare peer review organization ( pro ) program includes preprocedure review using explicit criteria to assess the appropriateness of specific procedures . this study evaluates the variability in the pro preprocedure criteria for the three procedures most frequently reviewed by pros : carotid endarterectomy , cataract removal , and cardiac pacemaker implants . in august 1989 , the pro review criteria were received from the health care financing administration . to provide a reference point for reviewing the pro criteria , national practice guidelines for these three procedures were identified . wide variability was demonstrated in the pro procedure-specific carotid endarterectomy and cataract removal review criteria among pros , and the criteria differed significantly from the identified practice guidelines . the criteria for cardiac pacemaker implants were somewhat less variable , and were based , to varying degrees , on practice guidelines developed by the american college of cardiology ( acc ) . greater attention is needed to improve the development of review criteria , including the use of relevant practice guidelines , to ensure that review criteria are optimal . 
neurobehavioral effects of phenytoin prophylaxis of posttraumatic seizures in order to determine potential negative neurobehavioral effects of phenytoin given to prevent the development of posttraumatic seizures , 244 subjects were randomized to phenytoin or placebo . they received neurobehavioral assessments at 1 and 12 months postinjury while receiving their assigned drug and at 24 months while receiving no drugs . in the severely injured , phenytoin significantly impaired performance at 1 month . no significant differences were found as a function of phenytoin in the moderately injured patients at 1 month or in either severity group at 1 year . patients who stopped receiving phenytoin according to protocol between 1 and 2 years improved more than corresponding placebo cases on several measures . we conclude that phenytoin has negative cognitive effects . this , combined with lack of evidence for its effectiveness in preventing posttraumatic seizures beyond the first week , raises questions regarding its use for long-term prophylaxis . our findings do not negate phenytoin 's proven efficacy in controlling established seizures nor do they indicate that its cognitive effects are worse than other anticonvulsant drugs . 
physical and pharmacologic restraint of nursing home patients with dementia . impact of specialized units this case-control study of 31 specialized dementia units and 32 traditional units in five states investigated use of physical and pharmacologic restraints among 625 patients with the diagnosis of dementia . physical restraints were observed in use on 18.1 % of dementia unit patients and on 51.6 % of comparison unit patients who were out of bed during the day ( adjusted odds ratio , 0.283 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.129 to 0.619 ) . pharmacologic restraints were routinely given to 45.3 % of dementia unit patients and 43.4 % of comparison unit patients ( adjusted odds ratio , 0.950 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.611 to 1.477 ) . we used multivariate logistic regression to identify residence in a nonspecialized nursing home unit , nonambulatory status , transfer dependency , mental status impairment , hip fracture history , and a high nursing staff-to-patient ratio , which we found to be independent predictors of physical restraint use . physically abusive behavior , severe mental status impairment , and frequent family visitation were found to be significant predictors of pharmacologic restraint use , while advanced patient age , large nursing home size , and patient nonambulatory status were protective against such use . these results support the conclusion that physical and pharmacologic restraint constitute separate treatment modalities with different risk factors for use , and indicate that specialized dementia units are successful in reducing the use of physical but not pharmacologic restraints . 
retrovirus-induced spongiform myeloencephalopathy in mice : regional distribution of infected target cells and neuronal loss occurring in the absence of viral expression in neurons . the cas-br-e murine leukemia virus ( mulv ) induces a spongiform myeloencephalopathy resulting in a progressive hindlimb paralysis . we have used in situ hybridization with a cas-br-e mulv-specific probe to study viral expression in the central nervous system . infected cells were concentrated in regions where spongiform lesions and gliosis are detected ( lumbosacral spinal cord , brainstem , deep cerebellar regions ) , suggesting a causative link between the level of virus expression and the degree of pathological changes in this disease . however , viral expression was not in itself sufficient to cause disease , since significant viral expression was observed in regions that did not exhibit pathological changes ( cerebellar cortex , hippocampus , corpus callosum , peripheral nervous system ) . in both diseased and nondiseased regions , endothelial and glial cells were identified as the main target cells . neurons in diseased regions did not show viral expression . the regional distribution of the spongiform changes appears to be laid down very early following infection , since expression could be detected at 10 days postinfection in regions that become diseased . these results indicate that nonneuronal cells have distinct properties in various regions of the central nervous system and suggest an indirect mechanism of neuronal loss consequent to viral expression in nonneuronal cells . 
tumoral thrombosis of cerebral venous sinuses : preoperative diagnosis using magnetic resonance phase imaging . intracranial , dural-based neoplasms will not infrequently invade adjacent venous sinuses . therefore , the preoperative diagnosis of venous invasion is important , as it will alter the surgical approach to the lesion . magnetic resonance imaging is a noninvasive means of visualizing the cerebral venous sinuses . the preoperative diagnosis of venous thrombosis can , however , be difficult and confusing with conventional spin-echo magnetic resonance imaging because of variable appearances produced by blood clot degradation products as well as flowing blood . phase magnetic resonance imaging is a simple method that can be acquired simultaneously with conventional spin-echo sequences , and is based primarily on whether protons are stationary or moving . in the context of venous sinus occlusion , phase imaging can demonstrate the presence or absence of blood flow more easily than spin-echo imaging . three cases of dural-based neoplasms are presented that demonstrate the utility of phase imaging in diagnosing tumoral occlusion of the venous sinuses . 
hydrocephalus : overdrainage by ventricular shunts . a review and recommendations . selected literature review of the clinical course of patients with ventricular shunts for hydrocephalus shows that the effects of cerebrospinal fluid overdrainage are subdural hematoma , craniosynostosis , slit ventricle syndrome , and low intracranial pressure syndrome . these occur sequentially at different age groups , but approximate averages of incidence and time of occurrence after first shunt reveal an overall incidence of 10 % -12 % for at least one of these appearing at 6.5 years after shunting . the basic etiology , diagnosis , and variety of treatment modalities available are reviewed , including the need for shunt closing intracranial pressure control . included is a hydrocephalus program designed to minimize the need for long-term extracranial shunts and to maximize therapeutic intracranial procedures for hydrocephalus . 
unusually late onset of cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea after head trauma . two cases of acute meningitis and cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea , in which the head trauma responsible occurred 10 and 30 years before , are presented . intraoperatively , the brain parenchyma was found to be plugged into the fractured anterior fossa . by debridement and duraplasty from an intradural approach , both patients were cured . several precipitating factors could be responsible for this unusually late reopening of the fistula . the possible accidental causes could be coughing or undetected microtraumas , but in the long run , atrophy of tissues and consequent changes in brain compliance with aging may play a role . 
angiotropic intravascular large-cell lymphoma ( malignant angioendotheliomatosis ) : report of a case and review of the literature . we present a case of angiotropic large-cell lymphoma and review the literature in order to define the neurologic features of this rare disorder . this is the first report of gadolinium-dtpa imaging in angiotropic large-cell lymphoma that demonstrates infarcts of multiple ages , as well as striking meningeal enhancement . angiotropic large-cell lymphoma should be suspected in patients with clinical evidence of small and large cerebral vessel disease and diagnosis requires skin , liver , renal , meningeal , or brain biopsy . single modality treatment , using either radiation therapy or steroids , has been ineffective , and new findings of a lymphomatous origin of this neoplasm suggest that combination chemotherapy may be indicated . 
treatment of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis with continuous intraventricular infusion of recombinant interleukin-2 . a 42-year-old man developed leptomeningeal carcinomatosis 6 years after treatment of a malignant melanoma . he was treated with two courses of recombinant interleukin-2 , administered as a continuous intraventricular infusion ( 6 x 10e5 u/24 h ) during 5 days . during the first day of the first course he also received 5 x 10e9 lymphokine-activated killer cells intraventricularly . this gave rise to a severe elevation of intracranial pressure , with headaches and meningismus . during the second course no lak cells were administered . this course was tolerated much better . the neurological status did not change during the treatment . recombinant interleukin-2 levels were maintained at about 300 u/ml during both courses . 
antivenom therapy in russell 's viper bite . bleeding and renal failure are the two main manifestations responsible for the high morbidity and mortality in untreated russell 's viper bite victims . this study was an effort to find prognostic factors and a practical therapeutic approach for the care of such patients . early detection of abnormalities in the clot quality test and/or evidence of systemic bleeding followed by immediate correction of the clotting defects using specific antivenom can reduce morbidity in russell 's viper envenomation . 
midazolam-induced benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome a case history of a patient who developed severe anxiety and agitation on two occasions after discontinuation of a midazolam infusion is presented . the withdrawal symptoms interfered with effective mechanical ventilation and the patient required the reintroduction of a long-acting benzodiazepine to treat the withdrawal state and to facilitate weaning from mechanical ventilation . 
response to suxamethonium in a myasthenic patient during remission . a cumulative dose followed by an infusion was used to determine the dose response to suxamethonium in a patient with diagnosed myasthenia gravis who was in true remission ( asymptomatic while receiving no therapy ) . the ed50 and ed90 values for suxamethonium were 0.08 mg/kg and 0.20 mg/kg , and an infusion rate of 3.2 mg/kg/hour was required to maintain a 90-95 % depression of the single twitch response as monitored by integrated electromyography . these values are within the range for normal patients , and we conclude that myasthenic patients during a true remission may not demonstrate resistance to suxamethonium . 
non-drug related asystole associated with anaesthetic induction . a patient is presented where routine venepuncture associated with anaesthetic induction resulted in bradycardia and asystole . the case highlights the need for special caution with , and ecg monitoring throughout induction for , patients with a history of syncope . it also demonstrates the need for caution when attributing cardiovascular events during induction to the effect of the induction agents used . 
modification of pain on injection of propofol -- a comparison between lignocaine and procaine . pain on injection of propofol was assessed in a controlled , randomised study of 273 patients . they received either lignocaine 10 mg , procaine 10 mg or isotonic saline 0.5 ml , 15 seconds before the injection of propofol into a vein on the back of the hand . the incidence of pain on injection in the control group ( 51 % ) was comparable with other studies . lignocaine and procaine both significantly reduced the pain ( 35 % and 34 % respectively , p less than 0.05 ) but there was no statistical difference between these two groups . 
flexion-extension views in the evaluation of cervical-spine injuries . study objective : to determine the efficacy of flexion-extension ( f/e ) cervical-spine radiographs in detecting acute cervical-spine instability in emergency patients . design : we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 141 consecutive trauma patients who had f/e views performed after a routine cervical-spine series ( three views ) was obtained in the emergency department . interpretations of the routine series were compared with those of the f/e views to determine if additional useful information was provided by the latter . the charts also were reviewed to determine if any variables were associated with an increased use of f/e views , an increased likelihood of these views demonstrating instability , or any neurologic sequelae resulted from these studies . setting : an urban level i adult trauma center . measurements : the interpretations of the routine series were noted to be either normal , abnormal but without demonstrable fracture/dislocation , or demonstrating a fracture/dislocation . the f/e views were categorized as stable , unstable , or uninterpretable . results : cervical-spine instability was demonstrated by f/e views in 11 of the 141 patients ( 8 % ) , four of whom had normal routine cervical-spine films . three of these four patients required surgical stabilization . prolonged neck pain ( more than 24 hours ) , an initially abnormal spine series , and a neurosurgical consult were all associated with an increased use of f/e views . ten of 11 patients with radiographic instability had significant neck pain by history ; the remaining patient was intoxicated . no neurologic sequelae resulted from performing f/e studies . there was one false-negative f/e study , which raises concern about the reliability of this procedure in the ed . conclusion : we believe that a large prospective study is required to determine which patients warrant f/e views . 
lidocaine potentiation of cocaine toxicity . study hypothesis : the toxic effects of cocaine are enhanced in the presence of lidocaine . study population : male sprague-dawley rats weighing 200 to 300 g. methods : animals received intraperitoneal injections of cocaine ( 10 , 20 , 35 , or 50 mg/kg ) , lidocaine ( 30 or 40 mg/kg ) , or a combination of all doses of cocaine given simultaneously with 30 or 40 mg/kg lidocaine . the incidence and time to seizure and death were recorded in these groups and compared by chi 2 and analysis of variance analyses , respectively . results : at doses of 30 or 40 mg/kg , lidocaine does not induce seizures or death . the effect of simultaneous injection of both cocaine and lidocaine was to dramatically increase the incidence of both seizures and death over that of cocaine alone . the incidence of seizures in animals receiving 35 mg/kg cocaine alone was 10 % ; this increased to 50 % and 80 % with the addition of 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine , respectively ( p less than or equal to .05 ; p less than or equal to .01 ) . death did not occur in animals receiving 35 mg/kg cocaine alone ; the addition of 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine resulted in death in 30 % and 60 % of animals , respectively ( p less than or equal to .01 each group ) . similarly , in rats receiving 50 mg/kg cocaine , the incidence of death increased from 0 % to 60 % and 80 % with 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine , respectively ( p less than or equal to .01 ) . conclusion : in the rat , overall toxicity of cocaine is significantly increased with simultaneous exposure to lidocaine . 
phenytoin administration by constant intravenous infusion : selective rates of administration . study objectives : to determine the adequacy of seizure control and the adverse effects of administering an iv loading dose of phenytoin by constant infusion pump . design : a prospective study of patients presenting with acute onset of seizures . patients were divided into two groups . group 1 comprised all patients 50 years of age or younger without a history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ascvd ) . group 2 comprised all patients older than 50 years or with a history of ascvd . setting : a rural community hospital emergency department . type of participants : forty-two adult patients . interventions : both groups received an iv loading dose of phenytoin at 15 mg/kg . infusion rates were 50 mg/min and 25 mg/min for groups 1 and 2 , respectively . cardiac rhythm and vital signs were monitored throughout and after infusion . measures and main results : group 2 demonstrated significantly more cardiovascular side effects ( hypotension and bradycardia ) than did group 1 ( fisher 's exact test , p less than .05 ) . conclusion : phenytoin provided adequate seizure control in both groups . for individuals with ascvd , iv phenytoin administration rates should not exceed 25 mg/min . for individuals without ascvd , phenytoin administration at 50 mg/min appears safe and without significant cardiovascular side effects . 
poisoning with equine phenylbutazone in a racetrack worker . phenylbutazone is a potent nonsteroidal , anti-inflammatory drug often used by veterinarians to treat racetrack animals . its use in human beings is limited because of significant adverse effects and the availability of newer , safer drugs . we report the case of a 24-year-old man who ingested 17 g of equine phenylbutazone over a 24-hour period to treat the pain of a toothache . he developed grand mal seizures , coma , hypotension , respiratory and renal failure , and hepatic injury . serum phenylbutazone concentration obtained approximately eight hours after presentation was 900 micrograms/ml . the patient recovered during six weeks of intensive supportive care and repeated hemodialysis . 
multiple cranial nerve deficits after ethylene glycol poisoning . we report the cases of two patients who developed cranial nerve palsies after drinking ethylene glycol . a 33-year-old man developed multiple cranial nerve deficits nine days after the ingestion of ethylene glycol in a suicide attempt . clinical findings included profound bilateral cranial nerve vii palsies and severe dysfunction of cranial nerves ix and x. the neuropathy occurred despite treatment with hemodialysis . the dysphagia completely cleared within two weeks , but at six months a severe bilateral cranial nerve vii dysfunction persisted . a 22-year-old man undergoing hemodialysis for ethylene glycol-induced renal failure developed bilateral cranial nerve vii dysfunction 14 days after ingestion . at a three-month follow-up , the patient demonstrated only moderate functional recovery . the etiology of the cranial nerve deficits is unknown but may be related to oxalate crystal deposition of ethylene glycol-induced pyridoxine dysfunction . 
genetic cause of a juvenile form of tay-sachs disease in a lebanese child . abnormality in the beta-hexosaminidase alpha gene underlying the clinical phenotype of a lebanese patient with a juvenile form of tay-sachs disease has been studied . clinical features were progressive spasticity , ataxia , and cognitive decline . the protein coding sequence of several beta-hexosaminidase alpha-chain complementary dnas isolated by polymerase chain reaction was completely normal except for a g-to-a transition at nucleotide position 1511 within exon 13 , which resulted in substitution of the normal arginine 504 ( cgc ) with histidine ( cac ) . although the patient was from a first-cousin marriage , she was heterozygous for this mutation . the abnormality in the other allele , which is carried by the father , was not identified , except that it is neither of the two mutations responsible for the infantile jewish tay-sachs disease . biosynthetic and immunoprecipitation studies in cultured fibroblasts showed synthesis of the alpha-chain precursor , but the mature form of the alpha-subunit was not detected . 
elevated alpha-tumor necrosis factor levels in spinal fluid from hiv-1-infected patients with central nervous system involvement . to assess the role of alpha-tumor necrosis factor in the pathogenesis of central nervous system involvement during human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection , we recorded clinical data and measured alpha-tumor necrosis factor levels in serum and cerebrospinal fluid samples from 45 patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 , classified as group ii/iii ( 10 ) , group iv a ( 5 ) , group iv b ( 10 ) , and group iv c-1 ( 20 ) of the centers for disease control acquired immunodeficiency syndrome classification system and 42 controls . alpha-tumor necrosis factor was above the limit of detection in only 3 of 15 sera and 3 of 15 cerebrospinal fluid samples from patients in group ii/iii and group iv a , whereas it was detected in 17 of 30 sera ( p less than 0.05 ) and 22 of 30 cerebrospinal fluid ( p less than 0.0002 ) samples from clinically more advanced patients ( group iv b and group iv c-1 ) . alpha-tumor necrosis factor mean values were 21.5 pg/ml in sera and 50.0 pg/ml in cerebrospinal fluid from group iv b patients and 30.4 pg/ml in sera and 24 pg/ml in cerebrospinal fluid from group iv c-1 patients . 
neuroanatomy of fragile x syndrome : the posterior fossa . the occurrence and specificity of posterior fossa abnormalities as measured from magnetic resonance images of the brain were investigated in a group of 14 males with fragile x syndrome and comparison groups consisting of 17 males with other causes of developmental disability and 18 males with normal iqs . the size of the posterior cerebellar vermis was significantly decreased and the fourth ventricle significantly increased in the group of males with fragile x syndrome compared with males in both comparison groups . these neuroanatomical abnormalities appeared to be secondary to hypoplasia rather than atrophy . 
visual dysfunction in alzheimer 's disease : relation to normal aging [ published erratum appears in ann neurol 1991 mar ; 29 ( 3 ) :271 ] in patients with alzheimer 's disease ( ad ) , compared with age-matched and young healthy control subjects , visual deficits in the following functions were observed : color , stereoacuity , contrast sensitivity , and backward masking ( homogeneous and pattern ) . critical flicker fusion thresholds were normal , relative to age-matched healthy subjects . for color , the majority of the errors were tritanomalous ( blue axis ) . color and stereoacuity deficits were unrelated to severity of dementia , in accordance with models of vision that describe these functions as modular rather than diffuse for cortical localization . although contrast sensitivity was depressed throughout the frequency range in ad , more patients were impaired at low than at high spatial frequencies , contrasting with the observed normal aging pattern of high-frequency loss . healthy elderly subjects showed depressed critical flicker fusion thresholds and reduced contrast sensitivity at high frequencies , relative to the young group ; differences between these groups were not found for the other vision tests . a subset of the ad group received detailed neuro-ophthalmological examination , and no abnormalities were found . this finding , taken together with normal thresholds for critical flicker fusion , suggests that the widespread visual dysfunction reported here is more likely to be related to known pathological changes in primary visual and association cortex in ad than to changes in the retina or optic nerve . 
the functional anatomy of motor recovery after stroke in humans : a study with positron emission tomography . we have studied regional cerebral blood flow changes in 6 patients after their recovery from a first hemiplegic stroke . all had a single well-defined hemispheric lesion and at least a brachial monoparesis that subsequently recovered . each patient had 6 measurements of cerebral blood flow by positron tomography with 2 scans at rest , 2 during movement of fingers of the recovered hand , and 2 during movement of fingers of the normal hand . when the normal fingers were moved , regional cerebral blood flow increased significantly in contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex and in the ipsilateral cerebellar hemisphere . when the fingers of the recovered hand were moved , significant regional cerebral blood flow increases were observed in both contralateral and ipsilateral primary sensorimotor cortex and in both cerebellar hemispheres . other regions , namely , insula , inferior parietal , and premotor cortex , were also bilaterally activated with movement of the recovered hand . we have also demonstrated , by using a new technique of image analysis , different functional connections between the thalamic nuclei and specific cortical and cerebellar regions during these movements . our results suggest that ipsilateral motor pathways may play a role in the recovery of motor function after ischemic stroke . 
lymphoma , motor neuron diseases , and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis . we studied 9 patients with motor neuron disease and lymphoma . the following several observations have not been recognized in the past : ( 1 ) motor neuron syndromes are associated with either hodgkin 's disease or non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . ( 2 ) the syndromes are not restricted to lower motor neuron disorders ; 8 of 9 patients had definite or probable upper motor neuron signs as well , qualifying for the diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis . corticospinal tracts were affected in both postmortem examinations . ( 3 ) the combination of motor neuron disease and lymphoma is often accompanied by paraproteinemia ( 3 of 7 patients studied ) , increased cerebrospinal fluid protein content ( 6 of 9 patients ) , and cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal bands ( 3 of 9 patients ) . ( 4 ) in 2 patients , asymptomatic non-hodgkin 's lymphoma was found only because the discovery of paraproteinemia gave impetus to examine the bone marrow . ( 5 ) patients with both upper and lower motor neuron signs ( amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ) may show physiological evidence of conduction block in peripheral nerves or autopsy abnormalities in peripheral nerves . the cause of this syndrome is not known . both lymphoma and motor neuron disease could have a common cause , possibly a retroviral infection . the frequency of paraproteinemia suggests that an immunological disorder may play a role in the pathogenesis of the neurological disorder . 
nerve growth factor prevents toxic neuropathy in mice . taxol is a promising new antitumor drug with therapeutic use that is limited by a toxic sensory neuropathy . taxol is also cytotoxic to dorsal root ganglion neurons in vitro , but this effect is prevented by cotreatment with the trophic protein , nerve growth factor . we sought to develop an animal model and then to determine whether nerve growth factor can prevent taxol neuropathy in vivo . administration of taxol to mice resulted in a profound sensory neuropathy characterized by decreases in dorsal root ganglion content of the peptide neurotransmitter , substance p , elevated threshold to thermally induced pain , and diminished amplitude of the compound action potential in the caudal nerve . coadministration of nerve growth factor prevented all of these signs of neurotoxicity . these findings suggest that administration of nerve growth factor may prevent certain toxic sensory neuropathies . 
localization of 3h-dihydroergotamine-binding sites in the cat central nervous system : relevance to migraine . dihydroergotamine ( dhe ) is the treatment of choice in aborting the acute attack of migraine . although its efficacy has been known for 40 years , its mechanism of action is still disputed . data regarding the site of action of dihydroergotamine may provide an insight into its mechanism of action and thus identify a locus of potentially abnormal pathophysiology in migraine . by using in vitro and ex vivo autoradiographic techniques , the localization of specific binding sites for 3h-dihydroergotamine in the cat brain has been examined . binding was seen in the dorsal horn of the cervical spinal cord , in the medulla , associated with the nucleus of the tractus solitarius , area postrema , and descending spinal trigeminal nucleus , and in the mesencephalon and the cerebral cortex . the highest density of binding sites was found in the dorsal and medial raphe nuclei of the midbrain . furthermore , these same brain regions were also labeled after intravenous administration of 3h-dihydroergotamine . it is important that the brain areas specifically labeled are key nuclei involved in cranial pain transmission , suggesting that dihydroergotamine may act at these central sites in migraine . 
acceleration of scrapie in trisomy 16 ---- diploid aggregation chimeras . we studied the susceptibility to prion infection of the trisomy 16 ---- diploid chimeric mouse , a putative model of down syndrome . when weanling chimeras were inoculated intracerebrally with scrapie prions , the time until appearance of the first symptoms of scrapie was reduced by 17 days ( from a mean control time of 153 days ) and the time to death was reduced by 30 days ( from control time of 170 days ) . our results with trisomy 16 chimeras argue that the susceptibility to central nervous system degeneration caused by prions can be modulated by chromosome imbalance . 
muscle biopsy for diagnosis of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility in two patients with severe exercise-induced myolysis . muscle biopsy and in vitro contracture tests for diagnosis of susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( mh ) were performed in two patients who had developed fever and severe myolysis during exercise . mh susceptibility was confirmed in one patient , but in the other , exercise-induced heat stroke proved to be the correct diagnosis . clinical presentation and epidemiology of exercise-induced mh and its relation to the heat stroke syndrome are discussed . 
traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistula in a child . a case report . a seven-year-old girl sustained a gunshot wound to the chest and spine . evaluation of a persistent pleural effusion demonstrated a subarachnoid-pleural fistula . surgical closure of the dural defect resulted in resolution of the fistula . traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistulae are rare . the diagnosis is reached by an awareness of fistula formation from penetrating or blunt trauma to the chest . 
total knee arthroplasty in patients after patellectomy . twenty-six total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) were evaluated in 22 patients who had had a patellectomy . fourteen knees ( 12 patients ) had a primary tka , and 12 patients had a revision tka . two patients in the revision group , whose prostheses failed , were from the primary tka group . the mean follow-up time was 8.5 years in the primary tka group and 7.6 years in the revision tka group . a group of 14 control knees with patellae was randomly generated but matched for prosthesis , diagnosis , surgeon , age , and time of surgery . this group was similarly evaluated with an average follow-up time of 6.9 years . the primary tka group had seven knees that were rated as good or excellent , two as fair , and three as poor . the control group had a significantly higher average rating than the primary tka group . in this group , there were 12 good or excellent knees , three fair , and none poor . postoperative pain , flexion contracture , extension lag , and range of motion all contributed significant information to the final score , whereas other variables ( walking , function , strength , and instability ) did not contribute any additional information . although higher overall scores may have been expected if the patients had patellae , the results during the follow-up examination were satisfactory and justified tka in these patients . in general , however , patients without patellae may be at a higher risk for failure of the prosthesis , as seen in five patients having primary tka and another ten patients with failed tka requiring revision . 
magnetic resonance imaging for ineffectual tarsal tunnel surgical treatment . tarsal tunnel syndrome ( tts ) is an entrapment neuropathy caused by compression of the posterior tibial nerve beneath the ankle flexor retinaculum . treatment of tts consists of surgical release of the retinaculum . the failure rate is 10 % -20 % . magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging was used to evaluate a patient with an unsatisfactory response . mr imaging demonstrated incompleteness of the surgical release of the flexor retinaculum . 
neurologic status of spina bifida patients and the orthopedic surgeon . the purpose of this paper is to review recent developments in the neurologic assessment of spina bifida patients . determination of the neurosegmental level of the lesion , recognition of spasticity and progressive paralysis , the potential for deformity , and functional expectations are described . the status of the neurologic deficit remains the most important factor in determining the myelomeningocele patient 's ultimate functional abilities . accurate neurologic assessment will assist in meeting the aims of orthopedic management , which include preventing joint contracture , correcting deformity , preventing skin sores , and obtaining the best possible locomotor function . 
gait analysis in the treatment of the ambulatory child with cerebral palsy . surgical treatment of children with cerebral palsy has changed from staged , single joint procedures to comprehensive simultaneous bony and soft-tissue corrections . this regimen of treating multiple joint levels and planes of abnormality is subject to error when based solely on the clinical examination . a more scientific evaluation can be provided by the use of clinical gait analysis . both preoperative and postoperative analyses provide the clinician with information from which neurologic patterns can be determined and surgical protocols can be judged . 
impact of day care on dementia patients -- costs , well-being and relatives ' views . forty-seven patients in psychogeriatric day centre were analysed regarding use of resources , costs and well-being . the level of well-being was based on interviews with staff and relatives and related to the economic outcome -- a cost utility analysis . a 6 month period prior to day care was compared with the first 6 months in such care . the use of resources at home increased by 20 % while the use of institutional care was reduced by 22 % . fifty-three percent of the patients improved in their well-being after participation in day care . when the cost of utility analysis was applied , the cost for a well-year was 4293 pounds . 
a comparison of the efficacy and safety of pergolide and bromocriptine in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia . pergolide is a synthetic ergoline derivative with highly potent long-acting prl-lowering activity , allowing therapy of hyperprolactinemia with a once daily administration of the drug . the results of two open-label , randomized controlled multicenter clinical trials are reported . pergolide ( taken once a day ) , was compared with bromocriptine ( taken two to four times daily ) regarding efficacy and safety in the reduction of prl levels , the cessation of galactorrhea and amenorrhea , the improvement in sexual function , and tumor shrinkage in hyperprolactinemia without ( trial i ; 61 patients ) and with radiologically evident pituitary tumors ( trial ii ; 96 patients ) . both drugs were equally effective in lowering prl levels in both trials . a median optimal dose of 50 micrograms pergolide and 5 mg bromocriptine/day suppressed prl levels in the 61 patients of trial i by more than 80 % . during the 24-week investigational period galactorrhea disappeared in 96 % and 87 % of patients , whereas menstruation returned in 90 % and 96 % of patients , respectively . an equally high efficacy ( optimal median dose : 75-100 micrograms pergolide , 7.5-10 mg bromocriptine daily ) was observed in trial ii , although the resumption of menses was less frequent than in the patients of trial i ( 50 % and 58 % of patients , respectively ) . sexual dysfunction improved similarly on both drugs in about half the patients . in addition , tumor shrinkage occurred to a similar extent with both drugs . a high incidence of adverse events was noted especially at the initiation of therapy with both compounds : nausea , dizziness , vomiting , asthenia , headache , and decrease in blood pressure occurred at a similar incidence and extent during the use of pergolide and bromocriptine . patients in trial i treated with pergolide reported a slightly higher incidence of fever , vasodilatation , and flu syndrome . conclusions : in these 24-week studies comprising a total of 157 hyperprolactinemic patients , a once daily administration of pergolide was shown to be as safe and effective as the two to four times daily ingestion of bromocriptine . longer-acting dopamine agonists like pergolide that can be taken once daily , are likely to increase the ease to adherence to the therapeutic regimen . this might result in a higher compliance to medical treatment of hyperprolactinemia . 
immunoassay of p2 protein in cerebrospinal fluid in neurological disorders . cerebrospinal fluid samples were obtained at lumbar puncture from 53 patients with a wide variety of neurological disorders . cerebrospinal fluid samples were tested for the presence of p2 protein , a constituent of myelin , with an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay technique using a specific polyclonal antibody . high concentrations of p2 in the cerebrospinal fluid paralleled a raised igg index ( clearance ratio ) , the presence of oligoclonal bands , as well as raised white cell counts or depressed albumin : igg ratios . twenty one patients had been diagnosed as having definite or probable multiple sclerosis and the remaining 32 had other conditions . of the 13 patients with high positive p2 , 12 ( 92 % ) were in the multiple sclerosis category ; of the 40 patients with low ( 12 ) or undetectable ( 28 ) p2 concentrations , only nine ( 23 % ) were diagnosed as having multiple sclerosis . in this patient population the presence of high immunoreactive p2 concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid was closely associated with evidence of intrathecal immunoglobulin synthesis and with the clinical diagnosis of multiple sclerosis . on this basis it is suggested that immunoassay of p2 concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid may be of potential value in the investigation of patients with demyelinating disorders . 
the role of pain in the last year of life of older persons . a random sample of 200 decreased older community residents was studied with a focus on the role of pain in the last year of life . interviews with a surviving close person elicited retrospective reports . pain increased over the final year ; one month before death 66 % felt pain frequently or all of the time , substantially higher than a matched comparison group of living persons ( 24 % ) . for both groups across the year , pain was associated with most measures of behavioral competence , perceived quality of life , and psychological well-being . hierarchical multiple regressions indicated that background and health variables explained 28 % to 32 % of the variance of pain over the year . controlling for background variables and health , pain contributed significantly to lowered happiness and to depression , but had no independent impact on hope and interest in the world . after controlling for physical health , the older old were judged to have less pain than the younger old . 
mechanical ventilation in medical and neurological diseases : 11 years of experience . mechanical ventilation ( mv ) is imperative in many forms of acute respiratory failure ( arf ) . the aim of this work was to review all episodes of mv in a medical intensive care unit ( micu ) during the 11-year period 1976-1986 . four per cent ( n = 1008 ) of 24,899 admissions to the micu were treated with mv . the mean age of ventilator-treated patients was 53 + / - 18 years , and obviously it increased during the period of study . the average duration of mv was 4.7 d. micu mortality , hospital mortality and 2-year mortality rates for patients subjected to mv were 33 % , 38 % and 46 % , respectively . the mortality rate did not change during the study period . cerebrovascular and malignant diseases carried the highest mortality rates , 75 and 79 % , respectively , whereas mortality in patients ventilated because of drug overdose ( n = 313 ) was only 2 % . the results of this study confirm previously published findings concerning the outcome of mv , and we conclude that the effects of mv remain discouraging in medical and neurological patients . improved quality of ventilator therapy and monitoring , as well as continued research directed at the causes of arf , are equally important in reducing the mortality in arf . 
serum creatinine : an independent predictor of survival after stroke . we prospectively studied the relationship between serum creatinine and survival among 492 elderly subjects admitted for stroke and monitored for a mean period of 18 months post-stroke . in multivariate proportional hazards models , serum creatinine remained an independent predictor of mortality ( p = 0.0001 ) after accounting for other important predictors such as level of consciousness . mini-mental state score , age , leucocyte count , presence of heart disease , diabetes , heart failure , atrial fibrillation and use of cardiovascular medication . this association between elevated serum creatinine and mortality was also found in patient subgroups with ct-proven infarction and intracerebral haematoma . it is concluded that serum creatinine is an independent predictor of survival after stroke . further studies are required to confirm this relationship and to elucidate the underlying mechanism . 
familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia complicated by cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex . a 55-year-old man with cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex was found to have reduced serum concentrations of total cholesterol , betalipoprotein and apolipoprotein b. computed tomography revealed atrophy of the cerebellum and brain stem . of the six family members examined , four had hypobetalipoproteinaemia , and one had mild ataxia . similar skin lesions were noted in five male relatives . this case represents a rare combination of familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia , cerebellar ataxia and steatocystoma multiplex . 
patterns of neuropsychological impairment after severe blunt head injury . a consecutive series of 100 subjects with severe blunt head injuries was followed up 6 years after trauma . neuropsychological test performances of 82 subjects and of a noninjured control group were analyzed by two principal components analyses ( pcas ) . each pca extracted 15 factors relating to a range of cognitive impairments , as well as neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality changes . measures identified by the pcas were applied to 85 head-injured subjects in the series to examine the incidence of impairment in four neuropsychological areas : disorders of learning and memory , neuropsychological features consistent with posttraumatic personality change , slowness in rate of information processing , and a range of basic neuropsychological skills . overall , impairments occurred in 70 % of the series . disorders of learning and memory were the most common type of deficit ( 56.5 % ) , with disturbances in basic neuropsychological skills the least frequent ( 16.5 % ) . variability among subjects with respect to the types and combinations of neuropsychological impairments was a characteristic feature of this clinical group , but the largest proportion ( one-third ) demonstrated isolated impairments . the implications of the incidence and selectivity of neuropsychological impairments are discussed . 
fibromyalgia in human immunodeficiency virus infection . tenderness was assessed by point count and by scored palpation in 51 patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection as well as 51 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 50 patients with psoriatic arthritis ( psa ) . fifteen of 51 ( 29 % ) patients with hiv infection met criteria for fibromyalgia , based on the presence of 10 tender ( of 14 ) " fibrositic " points . similar results were observed among patients with psa ( 24 % ) . the prevalence of fibromyalgia was higher among patients with ra ( 57 % ) . patients with hiv and psa were less tender than patients with ra . fibromyalgia in patients with hiv was significantly associated with myalgia and arthralgia , but not with age , duration of hiv infection , stage of hiv disease , or zidovudine therapy . 
an objective score to predict upper tract deterioration in myelodysplasia . bladder dysfunction in myelodysplasia may present a significant hazard to the upper tract and a threat to kidney function . urodynamic features of high leak pressure and detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia have been associated with an increased risk . we have developed an objective score to describe urodynamic findings in myelodysplasia . the score includes consideration of bladder compliance , detrusor contractility and reflux , in addition to leak pressure and sphincter behavior . in 171 myelodysplastic patients a significant correlation was demonstrated between the score and upper tract studies at the time of urodynamics and the score and the management decision . of 73 myelodysplasia patients with normal upper tracts at the first urodynamics study hydronephrosis later developed in 14 . the score was a potent predictor of outcome ( p = 0.0006 ) . 
thigh muscle function after partial tear of the medial ligament compartment of the knee . the purpose of the study was to assess the isokinetic and isometric strength and power profile of the knees of 48 patients who had a previous second-degree sprain ( partial tear ) of the medial ligament compartment , the most common knee ligament injury in sports . the cybex ii isokinetic dynamometer was used in the measurements . on an average of 8 yr after the injury , the mean strength deficit of the injured knees was minimal : 4 + / - 5 % ( range 0-28 % ) in extension and 2 + / - 4 % ( 0-20 % ) in flexion . the average strength score ( max . 100 points ) was 90 + / - 11 ( 56-100 ) , representing an excellent classification . in hamstrings , the relative strength deficit increased significantly with a higher speed of isokinetic movement ( p less than 0.05 ) . compared with the strength parameters ( peak torques ) , the other functional parameters of the injured knees ( total work , average power , and peak torque acceleration energy ) showed some but not significantly greater deficits ( hamstrings 9-11 % , quadriceps 6-8 % ) . in conclusion , the general thigh muscle function in knees with old second-degree sprain of the medial ligament compartment appears good and acceptable , but the strength deficits are systematically greater in higher speeds of isokinetic movement . therefore , rehabilitation utilizing high speed extension and flexion exercises is recommended . 
magnetic resonance imaging in the preoperative evaluation of cervical radiculopathy . forty patients with cervical radiculopathy were examined preoperatively with magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . mri was used alone in 27 ( 68 % ) of the 40 patients ; the remainder also had computed tomography in conjunction with myelography . the primary criterion on mri for a clinically significant lesion was asymmetrical narrowing of the subarachnoid space in the region of the nerve root . surgical confirmation of the abnormality was obtained in all 40 cases . the operative findings were a herniated nucleus pulposus ( 32 of 40 patients ) , spondylosis ( 2 of 40 patients ) , or a combination of the two ( 6 of 40 patients ) . mri identified a surgical lesion ( herniated nucleus pulposus , spondylosis , or both ) in 37 of the 40 ( 92 % ) patients . we think mri is the only preoperative imaging examination necessary in most cases of cervical radiculopathy . 
intracranial hypertension in relation to memory functioning during the first year after severe head injury . the relationship between intracranial hypertension and residual memory deficit after closed head injury was evaluated using the 6-month and 1-year neurobehavioral outcome data obtained by the traumatic coma data bank . intracranial pressure was analyzed using the percentage of time that it exceeded 20 mm hg and the maximum value recorded during the first 72 hours after injury . memory measures included recall of word lists , prose recall , and visual memory for designs that were obtained 6 months ( n = 149 ) and 1 year ( n = 132 ) after injury . intracranial hypertension occurred in more than half of the traumatic coma data bank cohort who met the criteria for the neurobehavioral follow-up study . linear regression analysis disclosed an effect of elevated intracranial pressure on some , but not all , measures of memory at 6 months , whereas the results were negative for the 1-year follow-up examination . we conclude that the elevation of intracranial pressure exerts little if any effect on later memory functioning , and that any effect it does have diminishes over 1 year in survivors of severe head injury . 
localization of stereotactic targets by microrecordings of thalamic somatosensory evoked potentials . to improve the localization of stereotactic targets , somatosensory evoked potentials ( seps ) were recorded from the thalamus and subthalamic area using a specially designed semimicroelectrode in 61 patients and a conventional " macroelectrode " in 17 patients . by means of the semimicroelectrode , median nerve stimulation evoked two distinct seps , consisting of a diphasic wave with a huge positivity restricted to the nucleus ventrocaudalis ( vc ) and a triphasic wave of lower amplitude with a major negativity in the ventral part of the nucleus ventrointermedius ( vim ) and nucleus ventrooralis posterior ( vop ) as well as the subthalamic lemniscal pathway . the vim-vc junction could thus be clearly delineated by an abrupt transition of seps from one type to the other with a precision of 1 mm . the parvicellular part of the vc ( vcpc ) , situated in its basal region , was distinguishable from the vc proper by a significant reduction of the positivity elicited by stimulation of the median nerve and by a rapid growth of a diphasic seps to stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve . in the other thalamic nuclei , stimulation of the median nerve elicited triphasic seps of a very small amplitude , suggesting a volume conduction current from the lemniscal pathway . with the macroelectrode , the positivity in the vc was sensitive to electrode manipulation and the thalamic nuclei could not be distinctly outlined . sep monitoring using the semimicroelectrode significantly improved the precision of target localization , which allowed minimizing of the volume of the therapeutic lesion without losing surgical effectiveness , while avoiding complications associated with increased penetration of the coagulating electrode . it is suggested that recording serial thalamic seps with the semimicroelectrode is a practical method to refine stereotactic targets in the thalamus . 
definition of the role of contemporary surgical management in cisternal and parenchymatous cysticercosis cerebri . with increasing immigration from endemic regions , the incidence of neurocysticercosis in north america is rising . this retrospective study was undertaken to examine the role of surgery in those cases presenting with large cystic parenchymal and cisternal lesions in the current era of anthelminthic agents administered orally . a total of 237 patients presented with newly diagnosed neurocysticercosis to our institution over a recent 5-year period ( mean age , 31.2 years ) . among those who presented with cystic mass lesions predominantly affecting the brain parenchyma and cisternal spaces , 20 ( 8.4 % ; mean age , 40.2 years ) with large cystic lesions subsequently underwent surgical intervention , either because of an emergent presentation or because they were refractory to medical management . clinical presentation included increased intracranial pressure , focal neurological deficit , and seizure . radiographic imaging ( computed tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging ) demonstrated 12 cases with cisternal lesions , 7 with parenchymal lesions , and 1 involving both compartments . based on imaging guidelines , 30 operative procedures ( excluding shunt revisions ) were performed ( 14 craniotomies , 8 cerebrospinal fluid diversions , 7 stereotactic procedures , and 1 burr hole drainage ) . fifteen ( 75 % ) showed neurological or symptomatic improvement over a median follow-up period of 36.4 months . there were three surgery-related complications and no deaths . 
cerebrospinal fluid flow dynamics in children with external ventricular drains . fifty-five children had 64 external ventricular drains ( evds ) placed predominantly ( 95 % ) for cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) shunt infections . in 9 children , a computer monitoring system measured the csf output each second continuously for up to 24 hours . the monitoring was repeated daily for up to 9 days . the state of arousal of the patients was recorded simultaneously . in all children , daily evd outputs were related to age , sex , weight , method of establishing the evd , height of the drip chamber , time since insertion , and type of infecting organism . computer monitoring revealed wide fluctuations in flow rate , with peak rates frequently greater than 20 ml/h and periods of flow arrest . these changes were usually associated with increased arousal , but also occurred with sleep . the mean evd flow rate for all children was 6.3 ml/h . evd output increased with age and weight . evd output decreased with gram-negative or multiple-organism infections and with elevation of the drip chamber . resolution of the infection , sex of the patient , and method of establishing the evd had no effect on output . these results predict that csf production increases with brain growth in humans : that csf production is depressed by gram-negative and multiple-organism infections : that implanted csf shunts with standard valves flow at equivalent rates to an evd in the supine position ; and that the csf drainage requirements in this group are approximately equal to their evd outputs . 
the influence of the calcium antagonist nimodipine and induced hypertension on the behavior of the cerebral pial arteries , the blood-brain barrier , cerebral edema , and cerebral infarction in cats with one-hour occlusion of the middle cerebral artery . thirty anesthetized cats were randomly assigned to one of three groups of 10 cats each : nimodipine treatment , nimodipine treatment combined with induced hypertension , or a control group . the behavior of the cerebral pial arteries was measured by means of microscopic observation through a cranial window . the middle cerebral artery of each cat was clipped for 1 hour via the transorbital approach . five hours after circulation was reestablished in the middle cerebral artery , evans blue dye was injected intravenously : 30 minutes later , the animal was killed . administration of nimodipine or saline in the treated or control group was started 5 minutes before the middle cerebral artery was clipped and maintained until the end of the experiment . induced hypertension was produced by administration of dopamine during the occlusion . damage to the blood-brain barrier ( bbb ) was judged by extravasation of evans blue dye . cerebral edema and infarction were evaluated from histological findings . they were most prominent in the control group : the extent of hemisphere affected was as follows ( mean + / - standard error ) : extravasation , 40.5 + / - 8.8 % ; edema , 43.2 + / - 5.7 % ; infarction , 35.5 + / - 9.6 % . on the other hand , the extravasation of evans blue dye and cerebral edema were significantly more extensive in the group treated with nimodipine and induced hypertension ( extravasation , 28.2 + / - 9.6 % of the hemisphere ; edema , 30.3 + / - 7.1 % ) than in the group treated with nimodipine alone ( extravasation , 18.5 + / - 8.7 % of the hemisphere ; edema , 19.4 + / - 6.3 % ) , but the infarction size was similar in both groups ( 16.6 + / - 4.9 % of the hemisphere in the former ; 17.0 + / - 6.2 in the latter ) . 
kenneth mckenzie , harvey cushing , and the early neurosurgical treatment of spasmodic torticollis . in 1923 , dr. kenneth mckenzie trained at the peter bent brigham hospital under dr. harvey cushing . at that time , a patient with spasmodic torticollis came to cushing and was treated with an innovative operation for this disorder with good results . this case sparked an interest in dr. mckenzie , who published the case 1 year later . in reviewing the surgical histories from the peter bent brigham hospital , we have found the original records of this well-documented case . the record includes postoperative drawings of the intraoperative field by dr. cushing , a sketch by dr. mckenzie illustrating the postoperative sensory examination , and pre - and postoperative photographs of the patient . 
isolated trigeminal sensory loss secondary to a distal anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm : case report . a previously healthy 25-year-old woman suddenly developed right-sided facial numbness and a headache . the neurological examination was within normal limits with the exception of meningismus and right-sided facial sensory loss . a computed tomographic scan and a magnetic resonance imaging study demonstrated an acute hematoma in the right cerebellopontine angle . a 4-vessel cerebral angiogram revealed no abnormalities . posterior fossa exploration disclosed a large , partially thrombosed , fusiform anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm , which indented the pons at the trigeminal root entry zone . the aneurysm was excised , and the patient made an excellent recovery . she was left with a persistent trigeminal sensory deficit . anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms are rare lesions that generally present with a cerebellopontine angle syndrome ; occasionally , facial sensory loss is also a feature . isolated trigeminal sensory findings , as illustrated in this case , are extremely unusual in posterior fossa vascular lesions . 
iatrogenic saphenous neuralgia : successful therapy with neuroma resection . we report the case of a patient with saphenous neuralgia secondary to iatrogenic trauma resulting from bypass surgery in the femoral-popliteal region . early symptoms of this condition were medial calf and ankle pain , with no findings of motor and reflex abnormalities . exploration of the thigh 2 years later revealed a neuroma of the nerve in the distal dissection site , medial to the knee . resection of the neuroma alleviated this condition . it is noted that saphenous neuropathy is seen as a spontaneous entrapment syndrome as well as a complication of orthopedic and vascular procedures performed on the medial area of the knee . saphenous neuralgia is often not recognized by neurosurgeons . if the condition is intractable , it does respond to surgical therapy . 
spinal man after declaration of brain death complex spinal automatism in a patient who was declared brain dead is described . these movements tend to appear once cerebrospinal shock has abated . we postulate that these manifestations are a reflection of the physiological potential of the isolated spinal cord . these spinal movements should be included in the revised guidelines for the determination of cerebral death . 
reversible hearing loss from cerebellopontine angle tumors . we report two patients who presented with a dramatic recovery from severe sensorineural hearing loss after total surgical removal of cerebellopontine angle tumors ( meningioma and jugular foramen neurinoma ) . the factors that differentiate these " non-acoustic tumors " in relation to the prognosis for hearing are discussed . a surgical approach that maintains the labyrinthine structure and preserves the arachnoid membrane of the superior cerebellopontine angle cistern during tumor removal is stressed . 
adult peripheral neuroepithelioma in meckel 's cave . a case of peripheral neuroepithelioma arising from the trigeminal nerve in meckel 's cave is presented . the discussion emphasizes the pathological criteria for the diagnosis of a peripheral neuroepithelioma and the current controversy about the classification of this and related tumors . 
a comparison of midazolam with and without nalbuphine for intravenous sedation . the introduction of nalbuphine to intravenous sedation with midazolam added little to the quality of sedation for short operative procedures . there was a greater tendency for patients who received nalbuphine and midazolam to sleep in the afternoon after treatment compared with those who received only midazolam . significantly more patients had nausea and vomiting in the midazolam/nalbuphine group than did patients in the midazolam-only group . 
presentation and management of an acute caffeine overdose . a one-year-old white female ingested approximately two to three grams of caffeine ( 200-300 mg/kg ) . the patient survived the ingestion with a maximum caffeine concentration of 385 micrograms/ml four hours postingestion . the child developed ventricular arrhythmias , seizures , metabolic disturbances , and severe pulmonary edema . she survived without apparent long-term sequelae despite having reached a serum caffeine concentration that is the second highest reported level in a survivor . 
selective myectomy for postparetic facial synkinesis . synkinetic movements are secondary to facial palsy because they appear like a late sequela to spontaneously healing facial nerve injury . they are produced by an involuntary contraction of a muscle group simultaneous with contraction of other homologous muscle groups . the disorderly regeneration of severed axons is responsible for these movements . according to the lippschitz theory , the regenerating nerve fibers sprout into the wrong peripheral branches . between 1975 and 1986 , 71 patients with facial paralysis were evaluated . spontaneous recovery from the facial paralysis occurred in 28 of these patients ; 14 ( 50 percent ) developed synkinetic movements , and surgical treatment was sought by only 6 patients . in all patients , the lesion of the facial nerve was in the trunk , proximal to the principal ramification . the most frequent clinical finding was simultaneous activation between the orbicularis oculi and the elevators of the corner of the mouth ( 12 patients ) or the elevators of the upper lip ( 2 patients ) . in 8 patients , in whom the slight synkinesis was not noticed by the patients , surgical correction was not necessary , but in the other 6 patients with severe aesthetic disturbances , surgical treatment for " disconnection " of the wrong impulses was realized . i obtained this " disconnection " through resection of the involved perioral muscle groups instead of paralysis of the orbicularis oculi . follow-up of the 6 patients operated with the surgical treatment proposed herein for between 4 and 8 years has shown good aesthetic results without functional or aesthetic sequelae . 
intrapalatine resection ( ipr ) in the treatment of sleep apnea and snoring . a conservative surgical technique is proposed as an alternative to the classical uvulopalatopharyngoplasty ( uppp ) for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and snoring . the resection is strictly intrapalatine , and careful suturing in three planes seems to lead to complete disappearance of the often unbearable postoperative pain . the soft palate is shortened but nonetheless still resembles a normal soft palate . uvulopalatopharyngoplasty ( uppp ) was described by ikematsu in 1952 . this method has taken on a new lease of life in recent years . its efficacy is generally accepted , and its use , especially in cases of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome , is the only treatment of the palatal velum at present practiced . in addition to aesthetic problems , this method generally gives rise to complications in the shape of temporary -- but sometimes considerable -- pain , nasal regurgitation , and a nasal voice . in a small percentage of patients , some of these disorders may prove irreversible . in my series of eight patients , five were obese and presented with hypertension . three of them also were suffering from obstructive sleep apnea syndrome . the three others were ordinary snorers who caused considerable inconvenience to sleeping partners . 
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the brain . congenital brain anomalies are classified as developmental anomalies , effects of teratogens , errors of histogenesis , or sequelae of infections . the imaging options for delineation of these anomalies are many ; a basic understanding of the disorder is central to the effective choice of imaging modality . this review begins with a brief overview of embryogenesis then reviews the common congenital brain anomalies encountered in infants . 
genetic mapping of new dna probes at xq27 defines a strategy for dna studies in the fragile x syndrome . the fragile x syndrome is the most common cause of familial mental retardation and is characterized by a fragile site at the end of the long arm of the x chromosome . the unusual genetics and cytogenetics of this x-linked condition make genetic counseling difficult . dna studies were of limited value in genetic counseling , because the nearest polymorphic dna loci had recombination fractions of 12 % or more with the fragile x mutation , fraxa . five polymorphic loci have recently been described in this region of the x chromosome . the positions of these loci in relation to fraxa were defined in a genetic linkage study of 112 affected families . the five loci -- dxs369 , dxs297 , dxs296 , ids , and dxs304 -- had recombination fractions of 4 % or less with fraxa . the closest locus , dxs296 , was distal to fraxa and had a recombination fraction of 2 % . the polymorphisms at these loci can be detected in dna enzymatically digested with a limited number of restriction endonucleases . a strategy for dna studies which is based on three restriction endonucleases and on five probes will detect one or more of these polymorphisms in 94 % of women . this strategy greatly increases the utility of dna studies in providing genetic advice to families with the fragile x syndrome . 
mtdna depletion with variable tissue expression : a novel genetic abnormality in mitochondrial diseases . we studied two related infants with a fatal mitochondrial disease , affecting muscle in one and liver in the other . quantitative analysis revealed a severe depletion of mtdna in affected tissues . this genetic abnormality was also observed in muscle of an unrelated infant with myopathy and in muscle and kidney of a fourth child with myopathy and nephropathy . biochemistry , immunohistochemistry , and in situ hybridization showed that the depletion of mtdna in muscle fibers was correlated with a respiratory chain defect and with lack of mitochondrially translated proteins . although the differential tissue involvement in these infants suggests mtdna heteroplasmy , sequence analysis of mtdna replication origins did not reveal any abnormality that could account for the low copy number . 
deficiency of complex iii of the mitochondrial respiratory chain in a patient with facioscapulohumeral disease . facioscapulohumeral disease ( fshd ) , an inherited neuromuscular disorder , is characterized by progressive wasting of specific muscle groups , particularly the proximal musculature of the upper limbs ; the primary defect in this disorder is unknown . we studied a patient with fshd to determine whether the mitochondrial respiratory chain was functionally abnormal . muscle biopsy revealed fiber atrophy with patchy staining for oxidative enzymes . electron microscopy of a liver section showed many enlarged mitochondria with paracrystalline inclusions . decreased oxidation of the respiratory substrates-alanine and succinate-in skin fibroblasts suggested a deficiency of complex iii of the electron-transport chain ; cytochrome c oxidase activity ( complex iv ) was in the normal range . biochemical analysis of liver supported the fibroblast data , since succinate oxidase activity ( electron-transport activity through complexes ii-iv ) was reduced , whereas complex iv activity was normal . furthermore , analysis of the cytochrome spectrum in liver revealed typical peaks for cytochromes cc1 and aa3 , whereas cytochrome b ( a component of complex iii ) was undetectable . southern blot analysis of fibroblast mtdna revealed no major deletions or rearrangements . our study provides the first documentation of a specific enzyme-complex deficiency associated with fshd . 
intermediate hyperhomocysteinemia resulting from compound heterozygosity of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase mutations . four subjects with thermolabile methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase ( mthfr ) were discovered among 16 " obligate " heterozygotes for severe mthfr deficiency and their family members . all four subjects had less than 25 % of normal mean mthfr specific activity in lymphocyte extracts . three of them with normal serum folate and cyanocobalamin had intermediate hyperhomocysteinemia , and one with high serum folate and cyanocobalamin had no excessive accumulation of serum homocysteine . the biochemical features in these four subjects are distinguishable from subjects homozygous for the thermolabile mthfr , whose specific activity is approximately 50 % of the normal mean , and from heterozygotes for severe mthfr deficiency , in whom the enzyme is thermostable and has a specific activity of about 50 % of the normal mean . we propose that these four subjects are genetic compounds of the allele for the severe mutation and the allele for thermolabile mutation of the mthfr gene . it is postulated that subjects with this genetic compound are more susceptible to the development of intermediate hyperhomocysteinemia despite normal folate and b12 levels . nonetheless , hyperhomocysteinemia due to this compound heterozygosity is correctable by oral folic acid therapy . 
distribution of three alpha-chain beta-hexosaminidase a mutations among tay-sachs carriers . dna from 176 carriers of the tay-sachs gene was tested for the presence of the three mutations most commonly found among ashkenazi jews : the so-called insertion , splice junction , and adult mutations . among 148 ashkenazi jews tested , 108 had the insertion mutation , 26 had the splice junction mutation , five had the adult mutation , and nine had none of the three . among 28 non-jewish carriers tested , most of whom were obligate carriers , four had the insertion mutation , one had the adult mutation , and the remaining 23 had none of the three . 
nasal midline masses in infants and children . dermoids , encephaloceles , and gliomas . nasal dermoids , gliomas , and encephaloceles are uncommon congenital lesions that result from aberrant embryologic development . we have treated 46 children with these nasal lesions . in view of the potential intracranial connection , patients are at risk for intracranial infection , and early surgical correction is thus imperative . neuroimaging studies may help to predict intracranial involvement . 
postcardiotomy mechanical circulatory support in the elderly . the role of mechanical circulatory support after cardiac operations in elderly patients is not clearly established . between november 1985 and july 1989 , 18 patients 65 years of age or older ( mean age , 71 years ; range , 65 to 82 years ) were treated after cardiotomy with a centrifugal vortex or pneumatic mechanical ventricular assist device . this group comprised 1.9 % of the 926 patients 65 years of age or older undergoing cardiac surgical procedures and 69 % of the 26 patients requiring postcardiotomy support during this interval . before institution of mechanical support , all patients were receiving maximal inotropic support and 16 patients had intraaortic balloon pumps inserted . univentricular support was used in 9 patients ( 6 left , 3 right ) and biventricular support in 9 patients . the mean duration of support was 45 hours ( range , 8 to 118 hours ) . twelve patients ( 67 % ) were successfully weaned , 8 ( 44 % ) were discharged from the hospital , and 6 ( 33 % ) remain alive 11 to 31 months postoperatively . four of the 6 survivors are in new york heart association class i , 1 is in class ii , and 1 is in class iv . the combined registry for ventricular assist device support has recently reported an overall survival rate of 12 % in patients 65 to 70 years of age and 6 % in those older than 70 years . our results are comparable with those reported for younger patients and justify the use of postcardiotomy ventricular assist device support in the elderly . 
muscle rehabilitation in impaired elderly nursing home residents . based on observations of changes in muscle function associated with aging , and the exacerbation of these changes with frailty , a program of muscle strengthening has been developed to correct specific defects in muscles . this pilot study was undertaken on 18 functionally impaired nursing home residents ( age range 60 to 90 years ) with markedly deteriorated muscle function ( 50 % ) secondary to age , disuse , and multiple chronic illnesses . fourteen of the subjects completed the six-week program without adverse effects . in 75 % of the patients , there was improved muscle function , with endurance , strength , and speed increasing 35 % , 15 % , and 10 % , respectively . after the program , many subjects increased their spontaneous activity and decreased their dependency . the improvements were still evident four months after rehabilitation . these results suggest that it may be possible , through a carefully supervised , short-term program of muscle rehabilitation , for nursing home residents to achieve an enhanced level of physical functioning . 
evaluation of treatment protocols on minimal to moderate spasticity in multiple sclerosis . thirty men and women diagnosed with definite multiple sclerosis ( ms ) were treated for ten weeks in a blinded , cross-over study . patients with minimal to moderate spasticity were randomized to one of three sequences to evaluate the effects on ms-related spasticity of baclofen alone , stretching regimen with placebo , placebo alone , and stretching regimen with baclofen . the cybex ii isokinetic unit , timed gait , ashworth scale , and subject 's assessment of function were objective and subjective measures used to evaluate changes in hypertonicity . there was significant correlation between the cybex and ashworth as methods of measuring spasticity . overall , treatment with baclofen alone significantly improved moderate quadriceps spasticity as measured by cybex flexion scores . a trend , indicative of enhancing the beneficial effects of baclofen , was noted when stretching exercises were added to the treatment . 
anemia after traumatic spinal cord injury . the incidence and natural history of anemia in patients with spinal cord injuries ( sci ) were investigated in a prospective study of 68 patients consecutively admitted to a regional acute sci unit . fifty had sci and 18 had spine injuries ( si ) without neurologic deficit . thirty-six of 41 males ( 88 % ) and six of nine females ( 67 % ) with sci were anemic on at least one occasion . in the first two weeks after injury , in females and in males , there was no significant difference in mean hemoglobin level between si and sci patients . at six weeks , no male with si was anemic , and males with sci had significantly lower mean hemoglobin levels than those with si ( 121.6 g/l vs 145.4 g/l , p less than .001 ) . identified early causes of anemia were blood loss due to bony soft tissue or visceral injury , gastrointestinal bleeding , and surgery . in the postacute phase ( more than six weeks after injury ) , anemia occurred in 25 of 41 male and three of nine female sci patients , and its occurrence was associated with the presence of an identified chronic disease , especially urinary tract infection . 
sexual changes in hemiparetic patients . eighty-six patients , each with hemiparesis caused by a single stroke , were studied to assess the changes in sexual life experienced after the onset of the illness . clinical data were collected , and a questionnaire concerning both sexual behavior and feelings about sexuality was administered to the patients and their spouses . twenty-four couples were eliminated from further analysis because of a discrepancy between husband and wife in the answers concerning sexual behavior after stroke . a marked decline in sexual activity after stroke was found in both genders ; other aspects of sexual behavior underwent fewer changes . the feeling of an overall change in sexual life was reported more frequently by male patients . most patients ' spouses reported the feeling of an overall psychological change in their partners and the feeling of an overall change in sexual life after the onset of the illness . no significant associations were found between clinical features and changes in sexual life . this study confirms that cerebrovascular accidents are generally followed by some important alterations in sexual life . clinical factors do not seem to play a crucial role in determining these changes , which may be better explained in terms of maladjustment attributable to psychologic and interpersonal factors . 
recurrent thoracic outlet syndrome after first rib resection . seventy-seven patients with 84 operated limbs participated in a follow-up examination on an average of about six years after the resection of the first rib for thoracic outlet syndrome ( tos ) . forty-two limbs ( 50 % ) were totally asymptomatic one month after the operation and remained so for at least half a year postoperatively . in the follow-up examination , 31 limbs were still asymptomatic , whereas 11 limbs had the same symptoms as before the operation . of the nine patients with recurrent tos ( two with bilateral resection ) , seven were women and two were men . these nine patients were on average 38 years old ( range = 19 to 51 years ) and their jobs consisted of monotonous desk work . seven of 11 stumps of the first rib were subluxated disclosed by the cervical rotation-lateral-flexion test . the occurrence of a subluxated stump of the first rib in the group of asymptomatic patients was far lower , only 3 % ( p less than .001 ) . of the 42 patients with persistent problems , a subluxated stump was encountered in seven ( 17 % ) . results of this follow-up examination suggest that monotonous desk work is an important factor causing kinesiologic abnormalities in the thoracic aperture . this abnormal kinesiology contributes to the recurrence of tos symptoms even after the resection of the first rib . 
wrist flexion as an adjunct to the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome . the effects of five minutes of wrist flexion on median motor and sensory evoked potential latencies in 87 individuals were studied . nineteen subjects had carpal tunnel syndrome ( cts ) as diagnosed by increased median nerve latencies across the wrist , and 68 had values in the normal range and were assigned to the control group . a slight prolongation of up to 0.5 m sec of evoked potential latencies was observed in both groups after flexion , but the differences between the two groups were not significant to establish the value of adding wrist flexion to conventional screening methods . 
detecting lower motor neuron dysfunction of the pharynx and larynx with electromyography . this study assessed the utility of clinical electromyography ( emg ) for detecting lower motor neuron ( lmn ) or upper motor neuron ( umn ) dysfunction affecting the intrinsic muscles of the larynx and pharynx . twenty-nine subjects were examined ; their clinical diagnoses included perioperative nerve injury , cerebral infarction , and lateral medullary infarction . resting activity , motor unit action potential ( muap ) morphology , and muap recruitment were evaluated in every case . medical records ( excluding emg data ) were analyzed for clinical evidence of lmn or umn dysfunction in the intrinsic muscles of the larynx and pharynx . the diagnosis of lmn dysfunction rested on clinical data consistent with cranial nerve injury , poliomyelitis , wallenberg syndrome , or unilateral bulbar palsy . criteria for umn dysfunction included previous cerebral ( not brainstem ) infarction or mass lesion or the presence of hemiparesis . electromyographic abnormalities were significantly associated with lmn dysfunction ( p less than .05 ) , but they were not significantly associated with umn dysfunction . of the parameters tested , muap recruitment was the most sensitive ( 82 % ) and specific ( 92 % ) . 
neurobehavioral effects of phenytoin , carbamazepine , and valproic acid : implications for use in traumatic brain injury . due to the risk of posttraumatic epilepsy , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and valproic acid are often prescribed for patients with traumatic brain injury ( tbi ) . in this review the literature is examined for evidence of neurobehavioral impairment due to carbamazepine , phenytoin , and valproic acid . no comparative studies have been performed in the tbi population , making if difficult to determine if one of these medications is preferable . direct inference from studies on epilepsy patients to tbi patients is hazardous due to underlying differences in the two populations . reported findings for epilepsy patients are subtle and not consistent across studies . all three drugs appear to exert some effect on cognitive and motor functions in epileptic patients , and these impairments worsen at increasing serum levels . the varied length of experience with each drug makes it difficult to assign relative weight to the evidence for or against each . a comparative assessment of cognitive and behavioral effects of anticonvulsants should be done in the tbi population . 
a cellist with arm pain : thermal asymmetry in scalenus anticus syndrome . we report on a cellist with pain and coldness of the upper extremity . abnormal thermographic studies were instrumental in uncovering intermittent compression of the subclavian artery , and this prompted us to study the effects of cello playing on skin temperature asymmetry . temperature asymmetry was defined as the temperature difference ( delta-t ) from one hand to the other . in 57 controls , mean delta-t at rest was .309 + / - .254 c. exercising the upper extremities by prolonged elbow flexion or by movements mimicking cello playing in controls did not significantly affect delta-t . in our patient , delta-t was ten times control ( 3.6 c ) . angiography showed extrinsic compression of the subclavian artery occurring only after cello playing ; sympathetic ganglion block relieved the pain . our patient 's abnormal skin temperature may have reflected sympathetic vasomotor hyperactivity . intermittent neurovascular compression and sympathetic hyperactivity appear to be factors in scalenus anticus syndrome . 
candida pyelonephritis complicating traumatic c5 quadriplegia : diagnosis and management . we present the first reported case of candida pyelonephritis in a spinal cord injured patient . in addition to multiple courses of empiric antibiotics , the neurogenic bladder and alteration in cell-mediated immunity found in spinal cord injured patients may have increased this patient 's susceptibility to fungal disease . a 50-year-old patient with c5 motor functional quadriplegia developed candid albicans pyelonephritis while undergoing rehabilitation . the patient had several surgical procedures and multiple courses of antibiotic therapy during acute hospitalization . he continued to have a hectic fever curve , leukocytosis with increased band forms , lethargy , and progressive uremia during rehabilitation . successful investigation of the patient 's condition included assessment of serologic tests for candida precipitin antigen ; multiple blood and urine cultures ; exclusion of other causes of hectic fever ; abdominal computerized tomogram , which revealed a left kidney hypodensity with irregular margins ; and a retrograde pyelogram , which demonstrated multiple renal pelvic-filling defects . cystoscopically placed ureteral stents , which relieved the genitourinary obstruction , drained gross pus from which candida albicans was cultured ; the patient was treated with amphotericin b and showed clinical improvement . pathogenesis , presentation , diagnosis , and treatment of candida pyelonephritis are reviewed . 
spinal accessory nerve palsy : an unusual complication of coronary artery bypass the neurologic complications of coronary artery bypass surgery have been well documented , with a reported incidence of 61 % in one large study . most injuries to the peripheral nervous system involve the brachial plexus . we report the first case of a spinal accessory nerve lesion after coronary bypass surgery . the patient presented with progressive right shoulder weakness . electrodiagnostic studies revealed a partial lesion of the right spinal accessory nerve . physical therapy , including strengthening , range of motion , and electric stimulation to the right shoulder , was prescribed to assist recovery of strength and function . repeat electrodiagnostic studies confirmed nerve regeneration . prompt recognition of spinal accessory nerve damage after coronary bypass surgery is essential . early rehabilitation will improve the chances of a better functional outcome . 
ratio of immunochemically determined amniotic fluid acetylcholinesterase to butyrylcholinesterase in the differential diagnosis of fetal abnormalities . a total of 111 amniotic fluid samples , clear or blood stained , with elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase was analysed by immunoassays specific for acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase and the acetylcholinesterase/butyrylcholinesterase-ratios determined . samples from 40 pregnancies associated with anencephaly , 47 pregnancies associated with open spina bifida or encephalocele and six pregnancies with fetal intrauterine death or miscarriage all had ratios of greater than 0.14 . all 11 pregnancies with fetal ventral wall defects had ratios less than 0.14 as had four pregnancies with normal outcome and elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase . three fetuses with both open spina bifida and ventral wall defects were associated with ratios above 0.14 . these results suggest that immunochemical determination of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase can be used to distinguish pregnancies complicated by anencephaly , open spina bifida , encephalocele and miscarriage from those with ventral wall defects and samples with false positive elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase . the procedure is accurate and simple to carry out and well suited to routine use in a clinical chemistry laboratory . 
the neck-eye reflex in patients with reduced vestibular and optokinetic function . it is accepted that the neck-eye loop ( cervico-ocular reflex , cor ) is enhanced following loss of vestibular function and that this helps to restore gaze stability during head movements . in this paper we address the question of which structures and/or mechanisms may participate in such plastic enhancement by investigating the cor in 2 patients with absent vestibular function and reduced smooth pursuit-optokinetic eye movements ( sp-okn ) . the patients had multisystem atrophy involving the vestibular system and the cerebellum . the cor ( elicited by angular motion of the trunk relative to the fixed head and angular motion of the head relative to the fixed trunk ) was not enhanced in these 2 patients when compared with normal subjects , in contrast to previous findings in a group of patients with absent vestibular function alone . measurements of slow phase eye movement velocity during sp-okn stimuli and during combined cor-okn stimulation ( head oscillation relative to the stationary trunk in the light ) showed identical values in these two conditions , which indicates that the neck-eye loop did not contribute to gaze stability during head movements . the absence of plastic enhancement of the cor in these patients may be secondary to interruption of sp-okn pathways at various possible sites and/or to involvement of the vestibulocerebellum , which is known to mediate adaptive plasticity in the vestibulo-ocular reflex . 
neuroacanthocytosis . a clinical , haematological and pathological study of 19 cases . nineteen cases are described , including 12 cases from three different families and 7 nonfamilial cases , in which multisystem neurological disease was associated with acanthocytosis in peripheral blood and normal plasma lipoproteins . mild acanthocytosis can easily be overlooked , and scanning electron microscopy may be helpful . some neurologically asymptomatic relatives with significant acanthocytosis were identified during family screening , including some who were clinically affected . the mean age of onset was 32 ( range 8-62 ) yrs and the clinical course was usually progressive but there was marked phenotypic variation . cognitive impairment , psychiatric features and organic personality change occurred in over half the cases , and more than one-third had seizures . orofaciolingual involuntary movements and pseudobulbar disturbance commonly caused dysphagia and dysarthria that was sometimes severe , but biting of the lips or tongue was rarely seen . chorea was seen in almost all symptomatic cases but dystonia , tics , involuntary vocalizations and akinetic-rigid features also occurred . two cases had no movement disorder at all . computerized tomography often demonstrated cerebral atrophy . caudate atrophy was seen less commonly , and nonspecific focal and symmetric signal abnormalities from the caudate or lentiform nuclei were seen by magnetic resonance imaging in 3 out of 4 cases . depression or absence of tendon reflexes was noted in 13 cases and neurophysiological abnormalities often indicated an axonal neuropathy . sural nerve biopsies from 3 cases showed evidence of a chronic axonal neuropathy with prominent regenerative activity , predominantly affecting the large diameter myelinated fibres . serum creatine kinase activity was increased in 11 cases but without clinical evidence of a myopathy . postmortem neuropathological examination in 1 case revealed extensive neuronal loss and gliosis affecting the corpus striatum , pallidum , and the substantia nigra , especially the pars reticulata . the cerebral cortex appeared spared and the spinal cord showed no evidence of anterior horn cell loss . two examples of the mcleod phenotype , an x-linked abnormality of expression of kell blood group antigens , were identified in a single family and included 1 female . the genetics of neuroacanthocytosis are unclear and probably heterogeneous , but the available pedigree data and the association with the mcleod phenotype suggest that there may be a locus for this disorder on the short arm of the x chromosome . 
idiopathic intracranial hypertension . a prospective study of 50 patients . management of patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension ( iih ) should be based on the presence and progression of visual loss . to characterize the clinical course of iih more completely , we monitored the clinical status , especially visual function , in 50 consecutive newly-diagnosed patients over a period of 2 to 39 months ( average follow-up 12.4 months ) . the mean age at onset of symptoms was 31 ( range 11-58 ) yrs ; 46 ( 92 % ) were women and 47 ( 94 % ) were obese ( mean weight 90 kg ) . common symptoms were headache ( 92 % ) , transient visual obscurations ( 72 % ) and intracranial noises ( 60 % ) ; 13 of the patients ( 26 % ) initially had complaints of sustained visual loss . there was visual loss as determined by goldmann perimetry in 96 % and by automated perimetry in 92 % . contrast sensitivity testing was abnormal in 50 % and snellen acuity in 22 % . two patients ( 4 % ) became blind in both eyes . the goldmann visual field grade improved in 60 % of patients but visual function deteriorated in 5 ( 10 % ) . deterioration of visual field grade was significantly associated only with weight gain during the year before diagnosis . visual loss in patients with iih is common and is often reversible . patients should be evaluated by perimetry using an appropriate strategy and contrast sensitivity testing , along with careful examination of the optic discs . 
dual task performance and processing resources in normal subjects and patients with parkinson 's disease . in recent years , there has been a growing consensus among investigators that the presence or absence of external cues guiding behaviour and attention is an important factor in determining whether or not deficits are found in patients with parkinson 's disease ( pd ) . in an earlier study , the authors suggested that the pattern of impaired and intact performance could be explained in terms of differential resource demands of the tasks , combined with depleted levels of central processing resources in pd patients . two experiments are reported , both employing dual-task paradigms . the first assessed , in normal subjects , the relative processing demands of a cued and an uncued version of the stroop task . the results supported the proposal that the noncued task made greater demands on the subject 's limited processing resources . further , performing a resource demanding secondary task concurrently with the stroop test produced , in normal subjects , the same pattern of impaired performance as that reported previously in pd patients . in the second experiment the same dual-task paradigm was employed with a group of pd patients and normal aged-matched controls . only the patients showed an increase in reaction time on the stroop task when performing a resource demanding secondary task . the patients also showed an interfering effect with concurrent foot tapping but not with an articulatory suppression task . the results were taken to support the hypothesis that pd patients have depleted central processing resources . in considering the present data , alternative explanations for the results are considered , in particular the possibility that they represent a deficit in switching processing resources between two tasks as the combined demands outweigh available resources . 
reversed lateralization of cognitive functions in right handers . exceptions to classical aphasiology . most current and past research on the cerebral organization of cognitive functions has presupposed certain specialized hemisphere operations . at least for right handers , language and praxis are to be organized in the left hemisphere , while affective prosody , configurational spatial capacity , and global attention are lateralized in the right hemisphere . deviations from these presuppositions , as in crossed aphasics and perhaps left handers , are generally considered to be ' exceptions ' and either to disprove the rules or to be irrelevant to the rule . we report 4 very ' exceptional ' cases , right handers with almost entirely reversed lateralization of functions . analysis of the intrahemispheric relationships between functions suggests that there may be a specific neurobiology to the interrelationships between and among cognitive functions , handedness , and the intrahemisphere localization of the function . 
short-term memory and sentence comprehension . an investigation of a patient with crossed aphasia . the relationship between short-term memory impairment and sentence comprehension is explored in a right-handed patient with a focal temporoparietal lesion of the right hemisphere . the general clinical profile , as well as characteristics of the patient 's immediate memory for word lists , suggests the occurrence of a ' mirror image ' crossed aphasia . detailed analysis of the patient 's ability to repeat and to comprehend sentences , however , indicates some important differences between this case and previously reported patients with short-term memory impairment . it is suggested that these differences , which may be related to an unusual pattern of neuroanatomical organization of cognitive functions , involve symptom dissociations with implications for models of normal language/memory interactions . 
task-dependent variations in parkinsonian motor impairments . studies of visually-guided arm movements in patients with parkinson 's disease ( pd ) have suggested a relationship between slowness of movement and a reduction in the ratio of movement amplitude and peak velocity . recent studies indicate , however , that pd impairments may be different for well-learned , natural movements performed without visual guidance , or movements associated with sequential motor behaviours such as speech . to address this issue , pd subjects and age/sex-matched controls were compared on the performance of three tasks , all of which required lowering the jaw : ( 1 ) single , rapid , visually-guided movements ; ( 2 ) equivalent movements associated with a single speech syllable ( inherently without visual guidance ) , and ( 3 ) well-learned speech movements produced in a natural sequence . pd subjects manifested similar deficits for visually-guided jaw lowering as those previously reported for arm movements , namely reduced velocity/amplitude ratios and increased movement durations . by contrast , analogous jaw movements during the sequential speech tasks were unimpaired on these measures . these results suggest that pd motor impairments are influenced by a variety of factors , including the degree to which tasks are familiar and natural , and the availability of visual information . 
effects of anticonvulsant treatment and low levels of folate and thiamine on amine metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid . a total of 157 epileptic patients were studied with respect to ( 1 ) biogenic amine precursors and metabolites in the csf , ( 2 ) levels of folate and thiamine in the blood and csf , ( 3 ) length of treatment with phenytoin ( pht ) , ( 4 ) pht intoxication , ( 5 ) cns atrophy . alterations in csf amine metabolite levels were related primarily to pht intoxication , and low csf folate and thiamine levels , but not to length of treatment or cns atrophy . pht intoxication increased csf 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5hiaa ) . low folate levels were associated with decreased csf 5hiaa and homovanillic acid , while low thiamine levels were associated with decreased csf 5hiaa and 3-methyoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylene glycol . it remains to be seen to what extent these alterations in biogenic amine metabolism , mediated by low cns vitamin levels , also lead to deficits in cerebral function . 
the stroke syndrome of striatocapsular infarction . striatocapsular infarction has recently been described as a distinct stroke entity and forms an important subgroup of subcortical infarctions . in a prospective study of 50 consecutive patients over a 10 yr period with this syndrome , clinical and neuropsychological features , pathogenesis and outcome were studied to provide information concerning management and prognosis . the most common clinical presentation was that of a stroke affecting mainly the upper limb with cortical signs such as dysphasia , neglect or dyspraxia . evidence from eeg , angiographic and neuropsychological data supported a vascular/haemodynamic basis for the presence of the acute neuropsychological changes , while the chronic changes were more likely to be due to diaschisis . a study of risk factors and cerebral angiography enabled 4 pathophysiological subgroups to be identified : ( 1 ) cardiac emboli to the origin of the middle cerebral artery ; ( 2 ) severe extra-cranial cranial carotid artery occlusive disease with presumed embolism to the same site and/or involvement of haemodynamic factors ; ( 3 ) proximal middle cerebral artery abnormalities causing occlusion of multiple lateral striate arteries at their origins ; ( 4 ) normal angiography where pathogenesis was uncertain . the risk factors of cardiac disease and smoking were significantly increased as compared with age and sex-matched controls with other forms of ischaemic stroke . stroke or vascular death rate was 2.7 % per yr during a mean follow-up period of 2.25 yrs . predictors of an excellent recovery with return to normal lifestyle were younger age , only brachial or brachiofacial weakness with absence of cortical signs at presentation and minimal change on angiography . this stroke entity deserves particular recognition in the spectrum of subcortical infarctions because of its specific pathogenesis , distinct neuropsychological features and reasonable prognosis . 
human olfactory discrimination after unilateral frontal or temporal lobectomy . olfactory discrimination and detection was studied in 106 patients with unilateral cerebral excision in the right or left temporal lobe , right or left frontal lobe , left parietal lobe , or right frontal and temporal lobes , and in 20 normal control subjects . detection thresholds for n-butyl alcohol , measured separately in each nostril , did not differ across subject groups or across nostrils , thus excluding any primary sensory loss . the discrimination task involved monorhinal presentation of repairs of unfamiliar odorants , which the subjects judged as same or different in quality . the results showed a significant deficit in discrimination confined to the nostril ipsilateral to the lesion in patients with temporal lobe removals . patients with frontal lobe excisions were also impaired and , for patients with right frontal lesions including the orbital cortex , the impairment was found in both nostrils . patients with left parietal lesions did not demonstrate any significant deficits . normal subjects showed consistently better performance in the right than in the left nostril . the results are interpreted as reflecting the importance of the orbitofrontal cortex in olfactory discrimination . temporal lobe lesions may disrupt the input to the orbitofrontal cortex , thereby producing poorer performance . the nostril difference in the normal subjects , together with the birhinal impairment in patients with right orbitofrontal damage , suggest a relative advantage of the right orbital region in olfactory processing . 
sequencing in parkinson 's disease . abnormalities in programming and controlling movement . central programming deficits in parkinson 's disease ( pd ) were studied in two reaction time ( rt ) experiments . in experiment 1 , pd patients and controls performed sequences of hand postures that varied in length , the number of different postures ( repetitive vs heterogeneous ) , and the delay interval before movement . before movement , the pd group planned repetitive movements like controls whereas for heterogeneous sequences rt increased less with sequence length for the pd group , implying less preprogramming . the interresponse time ( irt ) data from repetitive sequences showed that the pd group had difficulty controlling movement such that irts were faster when sequences were longer , thus allowing more time to schedule the termination of the sequence during the course of movement . for heterogeneous sequences , the pd group made more errors and were slower than controls when changing hand postures , suggesting a deficit in switching between different responses . while rt decreased with a longer delay similarly for both groups , irt1 continued to improve only for the pd group but similarly for both types of sequences , suggesting a deficit specific to programming the first response . in experiment 2 , subjects made decisions about the number of different hand postures contained within a sequence . pd patients ' decision times improved more with a longer delay only for heterogeneous sequences , suggesting a problem in identifying the number of different hand postures . the results have implications for levels of motor dysfunction in pd which emphasize the influence of sequence length and complexity . 
clinical features and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea . objective : to review the clinical features and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea ( osa ) . data source and selection : all articles on osa published in french and english between 1970 and 1990 and indexed in index medicus were reviewed . studies addressing the epidemiologic features and clinical aspects of osa were selected , and special emphasis was given to articles reporting the effects of treatment on morbidity and mortality rates . main results : osa is characterized by episodes of upper airway obstruction during sleep that result in repetitive hypoxemia and sleep disruption . osa leads to various neuropsychologic and cardiovascular complications , including daytime hypersomnolence , cognitive impairment , systemic and pulmonary hypertension and cardiac arrhythmias . there is suggestive evidence that the death rate among affected people is increased . the true incidence of osa is unknown , but estimates have varied from 1 % upwards among men . the current treatment with the greatest overall effectiveness and acceptability is nasal continuous positive airway pressure . conclusion : this common , readily treatable disorder is associated with serious complications and therefore must be widely recognized by health professionals . 
diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea . the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea is frequently made by taking a meticulous history coupled with a high index of suspicion . snoring and hypersomnolence are clinical features common to individuals with sleep apnea . since snoring is said to be a " disease of listeners , " it is not uncommon that bed partners reported an increased incidence of depression and marital displeasure . it is for this reason that the spouse or bed partner should be interviewed , since the patient may not be aware of any sleeping problems . physicians should also be alert to complaints of excessive daytime somnolence , because studies have shown that patients with obstructive sleep apnea are at increased risk for automobile crashes . it has been estimated that approx 58,000 motor vehicle accidents involving people with sleep apnea will occur in the us each yr . by proper diagnosis and treatment , the physician is in a unique position to prevent at least some of the automobile accidents that result from falling asleep while driving . polysomnography is the only definitive way to obtain a diagnosis of sleep apnea . this allows the physician not only to diagnosis the disorder , but also helps in the evaluation of the severity of the syndrome and selection of therapy . an ent evaluation is also important in ruling out anatomic disorders that can cause upper airway obstruction . certain factors , such as alcohol and sedative ingestion , may aggravate the condition in a person predisposed to sleep apnea , and subtle changes , such as unexplained hypertension , polycythemia , and cor pulmonale , should lead one to investigate the possibility of sleep apnea as the etiology . 
pain control in the ambulatory elderly . pain control in the elderly , no matter what the etiology or setting , can be a major clinical challenge . aging causes unique physiologic changes , eg , a decreased perception of pain and an enhanced sensitivity to opioid analgesics . principles regarding evaluation of patients with pain are reviewed , including the use of an objective instrument for pain assessment from the viewpoint of both physician and patient . good pain control can be achieved with the nonopioids , such as acetaminophen and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , the opioid analgesics , and , in some cases , adjuvant agents . discussed also are the concerns for patient addiction and the who cancer pain relief program . 
the role of methanethiol in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy . mixed disulfides of methanethiol represent a relative estimate for an exposure to methanethiol . the concentrations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides , methionine , 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and ammonia were measured in patients with different stages of hepatic encephalopathy , in patients with chronic kidney failure and in healthy subjects . in patients with hepatic encephalopathy , the mean serum concentrations of all these compounds were elevated . however , the elevations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides were small and partly caused by decreased renal function . in addition , the levels of methanethiol-mixed disulfides did not differ significantly between the different grades of hepatic encephalopathy . the concentrations of methanethiol-mixed disulfides were substantially lower than those previously observed in healthy subjects after an oral methionine load or in a patient with a deficiency in methionine adenosyltransferase , the latter without causing encephalopathy . we concluded that the role of methanethiol in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy is probably minor , if not insignificant . in the patients with hepatic encephalopathy , a significant correlation was found between the concentrations of methionine and 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and between 4-methylthio-2-oxobutyrate and methanethiol-mixed disulfides , supporting the theory that methanethiol is formed by way of the methionine transamination pathway . evidence is provided that , besides the methionine transsulfuration pathway , the transamination pathway is also impaired in patients with hepatic encephalopathy . 
effects of antihypertensive therapy on mechanics of cerebral arterioles in rats . the purpose of this study was to examine effects of antihypertensive treatment on structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles and the incidence of stroke in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shrsp ) . treatment of hypertension was begun at 3 months of age with cilazapril ( 45 mg/kg/day ) , an angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitor , or with hydralazine ( 18 mg/kg/day ) . cilazapril and hydralazine reduced systolic arterial pressure ( from 195 + / - 8 to 125 + / - 5 and 148 + / - 3 mm hg , respectively [ mean + / - sem ] ; p less than 0.05 ) . to examine structure and mechanics of cerebral arterioles , we measured pressure ( servonull ) , external diameter , and cross-sectional area of the vessel wall ( histologically ) in pial arterioles of normotensive wistar-kyoto ( wky ) rats and shrsp that were untreated or that were treated for 3 months with cilazapril or with hydralazine . arterioles were maximally dilated with edta . in wky rats , cilazapril and hydralazine did not alter pial arteriolar pressure , external diameter , or cross-sectional area of the vessel wall . in shrsp , both cilazapril and hydralazine reduced cross-sectional area of the vessel wall to levels not significantly different from wky rats ( from 1,911 + / - 155 to 1,244 + / - 101 and 1,388 + / - 59 microns 2 , respectively , compared with 1,405 + / - 95 microns 2 for untreated wky rats ) . cilazapril was more effective than hydralazine in reducing pial arteriolar pressure ( from 110 + / - 6 to 62 + / - 2 mm hg with cilazapril versus 79 + / - 5 mm hg for hydralazine compared with 60 + / - 4 mm hg for untreated wky rats ) . cilazapril , but not hydralazine , attenuated reductions in external diameter of pial arterioles ( from 91 + / - 4 to 100 + / - 4 microns for cilazapril versus 91 + / - 3 microns for hydralazine compared with 107 + / - 3 microns for untreated wky rats ) . 
plasticity of integrin expression by nerve-derived connective tissue cells . human schwann cells , perineurial cells , and fibroblasts express markedly different patterns of beta 1 integrins during nerve development , neoplasia , and in vitro . strikingly selective expression patterns of beta 1 , alpha 2 , alpha 3 , and alpha 5 integrin subunits were revealed in endoneurium , perineurium , and epineurium of fetal and adult human peripheral nerve by immunostaining with specific antibodies . the alpha 2 subunit was expressed only on schwann cells both in fetal and adult nerve , whereas the alpha 3 epitopes were expressed exclusively in the adult tissue and were primarily present on perineurial cells . the alpha 5 epitopes were expressed only on the innermost cell layer of perineurium of fetal and adult nerve . the tumor cells within schwannomas and cutaneous neurofibromas expressed both alpha 2 and alpha 3 subunits , indicating that schwann cells have the potential to express also the alpha 3 subunit in vivo . cell cultures established from human fetal nerve and neurofibromas revealed expression of the alpha 2 and alpha 5 epitopes on schwann cells , perineurial cells , and fibroblasts , whereas only schwann cells contained the alpha 3 epitopes which were occasionally concentrated on the adjacent schwann cells at cell-cell contacts . our findings emphasize that nerve connective tissue cells change their profiles for expression of extracellular matrix receptors under conditions which have different regulatory control signals exerted by , for example , axons , humoral factors , or the extracellular matrix of the peripheral nerve . this plasticity may play an important role during nerve development and in neoplastic processes affecting the connective tissue compartments of peripheral nerve . 
differential diagnosis of mut and cbl methylmalonic aciduria by dna-mediated gene transfer in primary fibroblasts . methylmalonic aciduria can be caused by mutations in the gene encoding the methylmalonyl coenzyme a mutase apoenzyme ( mut ) or genes required for the provision of cofactor b12 ( cbl ) . the mut and cbl forms are classically differentiated by somatic cell complementation . we describe a novel method for differential diagnosis of mut and cbl methylmalonic aciduria using dna-mediated gene transfer of a methylmalonyl coa mutase cdna clone . gene transfer of a functional methylmalonyl coa mutase cdna clone into mut fibroblasts reconstitutes holoenzyme activity measured by metabolism of [ 14c ] - propionate in culture . identical gene transfers into cbl fibroblasts have no effect . this method is used for the differential diagnosis of mut and cbl genotypes in cells from patients with a clinical diagnosis of methylmalonic aciduria and is shown to be a facile , sensitive , and specific method for genetic diagnosis . this work establishes the principle of using dna-mediated gene transfer to identify the genotype of diseases which can result from mutations at several different genetic loci . this type of differential genotypic diagnosis will be particularly important for establishing the applicability of somatic gene therapy in individual patients . 
trichothiodystrophy with chronic neutropenia and mild mental retardation . trichothiodystrophy is a feature of several diseases that consist of characteristic hair shaft abnormalities and a wide spectrum of other developmental defects . detection of sulfur-deficient hairs identifies this disorder and separates it from other similar ectodermal dysplasias with normal sulfur content . detection of low sulfur hair syndrome is also important for genetic counseling , because the disease appears to be an autosomal recessive trait . we report a patient with chronic neutropenia , mild mental retardation , and low sulfur content in hair . our case expands the spectrum of disorders associated with trichothiodystrophy . 
modifying the translabyrinthine approach to preserve hearing during acoustic tumour surgery . removing an acoustic schwannoma using the translabyrinthine approach has previously been considered incompatible with hearing preservation . by modifying the approach and preventing the loss of endolymph , we have successfully removed an intracanalicular acoustic schwannoma , which originated from the inferior vestibular nerve , and preserved hearing in the operated ear . this report represents the preliminary findings using this particular technique in the management of an intracanalicular acoustic tumour . 
unusual presentation of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid . an unusual case of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid in which syncope was a major presenting feature is reported . no such case has been reported in the literature . a possible explanation is offered . 
radiation-induced cranial nerve palsy : hypoglossal nerve and vocal cord palsies . cranial nerve palsies are an unexpected complication of radiotherapy for head and neck tumours . we present a case of this radiation-induced cranial palsy . an 18-year-old female with nasopharyngeal carcinoma developed a right hypoglossal nerve palsy 42 months after cancericidal doses of radiotherapy . in addition , she developed a bilateral vocal cord palsy 62 months after therapy . follow-up over four years has demonstrated no evidence of tumour recurrence and no sign of neurological improvement . 
life events and difficulties preceding stroke . life events and difficulties were recorded for the year before stroke , using a standardised semi-structured interview , in 113 surviving patients seen after their first ever in a lifetime stroke . an age and sex-matched control group ( n = 109 ) was also interviewed about the preceding year . the stroke patients reported fewer non-threatening events and events with only a short-term threat , while difficulties were reported with equal frequency by the two groups . however , events which were severely threatening in the long-term were significantly more common in the stroke patients ( in the 52 weeks before stroke 26 % versus 13 % , odds ratio 2.3 , 95 % confidence interval 1.1-4 .9 ) . the increased rate was apparent throughout the year and not just in the weeks immediately before stroke onset . the number of stroke patients experiencing severe events in the follow up year fell to the level found in the control group . recognised risk factors for stroke were found equally in those patients with and without severe events before onset , except that hypertension was rather less common in the patients who had experienced a severe event . it therefore appears that severe life events may be one of the determinants of stroke onset . 
transient ischaemic attacks in young patients : a thromboembolic or migrainous manifestation ? a 10 year follow up study of 46 patients . forty six patients aged 18-39 years with transient ischaemic attacks ( tia ) were studied ; two thirds were women . twenty five patients had attacks accompanied by headache , and seven gave a history of common migraine . only four of 27 angiograms were abnormal ; no operable carotid lesion was demonstrated . over a mean follow up period of 10 years stroke or myocardial infarction ( ami ) occurred in all four patients who presented major cerebrovascular risk factors , but in only two of the remaining 42 patients . thus irrespective of age thromboembolic tia is a harbinger of stroke or ami . however , most tias under the age of 40 years are caused by a non-embolic benign vascular disorder . the clinical characteristics , long-term prognosis , and possible pathogenesis , for such attacks are often indistinguishable from those of classical migraine . in the absence of cardiovascular risk factors , arteriography does not provide much diagnostic and prognostic information . 
idiopathic and symptomatic trigeminal pain . the trigeminal reflexes ( corneal reflex , blink reflex , masseter inhibitory periods , jaw-jerk ) and far field scalp potentials ( nerve , root , brainstem , subcortical ) evoked by percutaneous infraorbital stimulation were recorded in 30 patients with " idiopathic " trigeminal neuralgia ( itn ) and 20 with " symptomatic " trigeminal pain ( stp ) : seven postherpetic neuralgia , five multiple sclerosis , four tumour , two vascular malformation , one tolosa-hunt syndrome , and one traumatic fracture . all the patients with stp and two of those with itn had trigeminal reflex abnormalities ; 80 % of patients with stp and 30 % of those with itn had evoked potential abnormalities . the results indicate that 1 ) trigeminal reflexes and evoked potentials are both useful in the examination of patients with trigeminal pain , and in cases secondary to specific pathologies provide 100 % sensitivity ; 2 ) in " symptomatic " and " idiopathic " paroxysmal pain the primary lesion affects the afferent fibres in the proximal portion of the root or the intrinsic portion in the pons ; 3 ) primary sensory neurons of the a-beta fibre group are involved in both paroxysmal and constant pain , but in the latter the damage is far more severe . 
clinical features and associations of 560 cases of motor neuron disease . in 560 cases of motor neuron disease , studied retrospectively from their case notes in three teaching centres , the age at onset ranged from 13 to 87 years ( mean 56 years ) , and the mean duration of illness until death was 2.6 years . in the subgroup of the disease presenting with progressive bulbar palsy presenting after age 59 years , there was a previously unrecognised excess of females sufficient to equalize the sex ratio of incidence of the disease in this age group . no potentially causative clinical associations emerged ; no relation was noted between occupational exposure to leather products , trauma or surgical procedures and the disease . there was a trend for patients with motor neuron disease to give a history of abstention from alcohol . 
progressive degeneration of the right temporal lobe studied with positron emission tomography . a 79 year old man with a twelve year progressive history of prosopagnosia and recent naming difficulty , in whom other intellectual skills were preserved , is described . positron emission tomography ( pet ) revealed an area of right temporal lobe hypometabolism , with an additional area of less severe hypometabolism at the left temporal pole . this may represent an example of progressive focal cortical degeneration similar to that associated with primary progressive dysphasia , but affecting the right temporal lobe . 
vigabatrin : rational treatment for chronic epilepsy . vigabatrin is a selective , irreversible suicide inhibitor of gaba transaminase and thus increases brain and csf gaba . in 33 adult patients with long standing refractory epilepsy on treatment with one or two standard anti-convulsant drugs , the addition of vigabatrin up to 3g daily for eight weeks was associated with a 48.2 % reduction in seizure frequency . twenty patients who had exhibited a 50 % or more reduction in frequency of one or more seizure types entered an eight week double-blind placebo controlled phase . patients on vigabatrin maintained a 54.7 % reduction of seizure frequency , whereas those on placebo showed an 18.6 % increase in seizure frequency , a highly significant difference between the two groups . in the open phase , seven patients were withdrawn due to unacceptable and reversible adverse events . the commonest side effects were drowsiness , depression and mood instability , and headaches . vigabatrin is a potentially valuable new treatment for chronic epilepsy , especially partial seizures with or without secondary generalisation . 
correlation between essential tremor and migraine headache . the relationship between essential tremor ( et ) and migraine was investigated in a prospective study . in a group of 74 et patients 36.5 % had migraine compared with 17.7 % of 102 control subjects without tremor . in a group of 58 patients with migraine 17.2 % had et compared with 1.2 % of 85 controls without migraine . the prevalence of et in migraine controls was greater than controls without migraine ( 22 % compared with 1 % ; p = 0.002 ) . it is concluded that there is an association between essential tremor and migraine . 
cyclosporin-associated akinetic mutism and extrapyramidal syndrome after liver transplantation . three patients developed akinetic mutism on the third day after the introduction of intravenous cyclosporin a , given for immunosuppression after liver transplantation . one patient in addition developed a florid orofacial dyskinesia , which resolved completely , as did the akinetic mutism , after withdrawal of cyclosporin . in these patients the time course of the akinetic mutism and extrapyramidal syndrome , which developed in the absence of any other identifiable cause , suggests cyclosporin a was the precipitating factor . subsequently , two of the patients showed signs of pseudobulbar palsy with abnormalities in the pons on mri scanning , suggesting central pontine myelinolysis ( cpm ) . none of the patients had experienced significant fluctuations in serum sodium or other risk factors for central pontine myelinolysis and the exact relationship to the earlier cyclosporin related mutism was not clear . 
cauda equina syndrome associated with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts in ankylosing spondylitis : improvement following surgical therapy . a case of cauda equina syndrome with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts complicating ankylosing spondylitis ( as ) is described . the value of computerised tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) as a non-invasive means of establishing the diagnosis is emphasised . in contrast to previously reported cases the patient showed neurological improvement following surgical therapy . surgery may be indicated in some patients , particularly when there is nerve root compression by the arachnoid cysts and when the patient is seen early before irreversible damage to the cauda equina has occurred . 
grading white matter lesions on ct and mri : a simple scale . we developed and tested a simple three-point scale for grading white matter lesions in anterior and posterior regions of the brain . twenty four ct scans and 24 mri scans were separately judged by 11 and five observers , respectively , on the presence and severity of white matter lesions . the observers were radiologists and neurologists . for ct scans , these periventricular changes were graded according to their extent as absent , or partly involving the white matter , or extending up to the subcortical region . the mri lesions were graded as no lesion or only a single one , multiple focal lesions , and multiple confluent lesions . the pairwise agreements of all possible combinations of observers for each scan were corrected for chance ( kappa statistics ; maximal agreement 1.0 ) . the weighted kappa value , for anterior and posterior regions combined , was 0.63 for ct scans , and 0.78 for mri scans . this three-point scale for two separate regions seems suitable as a basis for cross-sectional or longitudinal studies of large series of patients . 
hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis . a case is presented of 14 year old female with hypothalamic obesity due to hydrocephalus caused by aqueductal stenosis . evidence of hypothalamic obesity included 1 ) acute hyperphagia and weight gain , 2 ) neuroradiology showed hydrocephalus with focal enlargement of the third ventricle , 3 ) endocrinological studies revealed hyperinsulinaemia and impaired growth hormone ( gh ) response to arginine , but normal gh response to growth hormone-releasing factor ( grf ) and 4 ) torkildsen 's ventriculo-cisternal shunting resulted in improvement in hyperphagia and obesity . 
the community hospital-based stroke programs in north carolina , oregon and new york -- v. stroke diagnosis : factors influencing the diagnostic evaluation of patients following acute stroke . among the 4129 patients of the community hospital-based stroke program , 30 % had an unspecified stroke diagnosis . since specific diagnosis and , perhaps , eventual treatment , derives in part from diagnostic testing , we examined the effect of clinical condition , geographic and demographic factors on the incidence of certain diagnostic tests after acute stroke . in this multivariable analysis , race , sex , history of hypertension and history of diabetes did not influence the chance of having any test , but older age strongly reduced the chances of receiving extensive evaluation . when ct scanning was available , the utilization of a ct as well as other diagnostic studies including cerebral angiography , radionuclide brain scan , eeg and ekg was increased . the odds of receiving a ct scan increased if the patient was married , and decreased with a history of previous stroke . a history of previous tia increased the chance of having a cerebral angiogram while a history of cardiac disease decreased the chance . there were striking regional geographic differences in the use of ct , radionuclide brain scanning and cerebral angiography which may , in part , reflect differences between the availability of these technologies in urban and rural hospitals . these results indicate that evaluation of stroke patients remains heterogenous . 
bone metastases : pathophysiology and management policy . the pathophysiology and options for management of bone metastases as well as criteria for determining response to therapy are reviewed . bone metastases are frequently one of the first signs of disseminated disease in cancer patients . in the majority of patients , the primary tumor is in the breast , prostate , or lungs . although almost all patients will die of their disease , a proportion of the patients will survive for several years . treatment is primarily palliative : the intention is to relieve pain , prevent fractures , maintain activity and mobility , and , if possible , to prolong survival . therapeutic options include local treatment with radiotherapy and/or surgery , and systemic treatment using chemotherapy , endocrine therapy , radioisotopes , agents such as diphosphonates , which inhibit resorption of bone , as well as analgesic and antiinflammatory drugs . the mechanisms by which pain is relieved by several of these therapies remain unclear but actions beyond a simple tumoricidal effect appear to be important . there have been few randomized trials comparing the therapeutic options , and the criteria for assessing response to therapy have , in general , been poorly defined . there is a need for rigorous clinical investigations that assess the efficacy of the various therapeutic possibilities by using well-defined and validated criteria of response . 
high risk of recurrent stroke after discontinuance of five to twelve years of transfusion therapy in patients with sickle cell disease . although long-term transfusion therapy is at least 90 % effective in preventing recurrent strokes after an initial cerebrovascular accident in patients with sickle cell disease , it is unknown how long transfusion therapy should be continued . to address this question , we prospectively discontinued transfusions in 10 patients with sickle cell disease whose median duration of transfusion therapy after an initial stroke was 9 1/2 years ( range 5 to 12 years ) . before the transfusions were discontinued , patients were examined by cerebral angiography , magnetic resonance imaging of the head , neuropsychologic testing , electroencephalography , and a complete neurologic examination . within 12 months after transfusion therapy was stopped , 5 of 10 patients had had an ischemic event . three events caused relatively mild deficits in the same areas as those originally affected . two were associated with massive intracranial hemorrhage , including one on the contralateral side of original involvement . an additional patient died suddenly of unknown causes . of the four remaining patients , three declined to resume transfusion and are relatively well at greater than or equal to 18 months after therapy was stopped . the studies performed before transfusions were stopped were not predictive of recurrent stroke . the risk of recurrent cerebrovascular accident in this group was significantly greater than the estimated risk of 10 % in patients who are receiving long-term transfusion therapy ( p = 0.002 ) . this adverse outcome suggests that patients with sickle cell disease who have had a stroke must receive long-term transfusion indefinitely or a suitable therapeutic alternative must be devised . 
fundoplication and gastrostomy in familial dysautonomia . fundoplication with gastrostomy has become a frequent treatment for patients with familial dysautonomia , so we evaluated the use of both procedures in 65 patients . although patients differed widely in presenting signs and age , from 5 weeks to 40 years , gastroesophageal reflux was documented in 95 % of patients by cineradiography or ph monitoring . panendoscopy was a useful adjunct . preoperative symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux included vomiting , respiratory infections , and exaggerated autonomic dysfunction . severe oropharyngeal incoordination frequently coexisted and resulted in misdirected swallows with aspiration , dependence on gavage feedings , or poor weight gain and dehydration . follow-up after surgical correction ranged from 3 months to 11 years ; 55 patients ( 85 % ) were available for a 1-year postoperative assessment . we had no instances of surgical death . the long-term mortality rate was 14 % , primarily related to severe preexisting respiratory disease . beyond the first postoperative year , 30 patients had pneumonia attributed to continued aspiration , exacerbation of preexisting lung disease , or recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux . of 11 patients who vomited postoperatively , six had recurrence of reflux . recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux was documented in eight patients ( 12 % ) , and we revised the fundoplication in three patients . the number of patients with cyclic crises was reduced from 18 to 7 ; retching replaced overt vomiting in all but two of these seven patients , neither of whom had recurrence of reflux . because oropharyngeal incoordination was prominent , concomitant use of gastrostomy and an antireflux procedure was especially effective in the treatment of younger patients with familial dysautonomia , before the development of severe respiratory disease . despite the development of severe morning nausea in 15 patients , the combination procedure resulted in significantly improved nutritional status , decreased vomiting , and decreased respiratory problems . appropriate use of gastrostomy feedings also contributed to success of the operation . the generally good outcome of fundoplication with gastrostomy confirms the benefit of this procedure in familial dysautonomia . 
is it correct to correct ? developmental milestones in 555 " normal " preterm infants compared with term infants . to determine whether correction for preterm birth should be applied during developmental assessment , we conducted a prospective national survey of very premature infants ( born at less than 32 weeks of gestation ) ; neurodevelopment in the first 2 years was studied with the dutch child health care developmental assessment . in 555 preterm children who had no evidence of handicap at 2 years of age , the age at which developmental milestones were reached was established . the results were compared with the results of the same assessment in dutch children born at term . during the first year , the development of the very premature children equaled the development of normal children when full correction was applied . at 2 years of age , development was equal to or better than normal children 's development without correction . we conclude that full correction for prematurity should be applied in the first year to avoid overreferral for developmental stimulation , whereas at 2 years of age correction is not necessary . 
relationships of somatic symptoms to behavioral and emotional risk in young adolescents . junior high students ( n = 1508 ) from a midwestern community completed a health behavioral questionnaire that asked the frequency of headache and abdominal pain and of a number of behavioral and emotional risk indicators . headache ( 24 % ) and abdominal pain ( 13 % ) were frequently reported among these young adolescents , particularly among girls . those reporting frequent somatic complaints also reported significantly more behavioral and emotional symptoms indicative of risk ( p less than 0.001 ) . further , the interaction between somatic complaint and gender significantly affected risk status ( p less than 0.01 ) . this interaction was greater with behavioral risk : boys with both abdominal pain and headaches reported higher behavioral risk than all other groups ( p less than 0.0001 ) . somatic symptoms continued to account for a significant amount of variance in behavioral risk after the effects of emotional risk and age were removed . this suggests that behavioral risk and emotional risk are independently associated with somatic complaints . the evaluation of persistent somatic complaints in adolescents , particularly in boys with abdominal symptoms , should include careful examination of emotional risk factors and other health-endangering behaviors such as substance use , early sexual activity , and delinquency . 
influence of preservation or perfusion of intraoperatively identified spinal cord blood supply on spinal motor evoked potentials and paraplegia after aortic surgery . permanent ligation of arteries supplying blood to the spinal cord in operations for aortic aneurysm can lead to spinal cord ischemia , which can result in either paraparesis or paraplegia . this report describes a rapid method of intraoperative identification of those arteries that supply the spinal cord by use of an intrathecal platinum electrode to detect hydrogen in solution that has been injected into the aortic ostia . preservation or perfusion of those identified arteries supplying the spinal cord may decrease the rate of postoperative neurologic complications . of 28 porcine experiments with postoperative observation for 24 hours , there were 3 initial pilot experiments in which saline saturated with hydrogen was injected into the temporarily cross-clamped aorta . twenty animals were then randomized to ( 1 ) preservation of only the vessels sequentially identified to supply blood to the spinal cord from t-13 to l-5 ( n = 10 ) ; ( 2 ) division of the vessels supplying the spinal cord ( n = 10 ) . a further five animals underwent perfusion experiments wherein the identified cord arteries were perfused by a shunt , the other nonsupply arteries were divided , and the aorta was kept clamped for 45 minutes . spinal motor evoked potentials were elicited with an intrathecal electrode and were highly sensitive for paralysis . paralysis occurred in 0/3 pilot ( p less than 0.013 vs division ) ; 8/10 division ; 1/10 preservation ( p less than 0.0017 vs division ) ; and perfusion 1/5 ( p less than 0.025 vs division ) . results of a pilot study in eight humans shows that the technique can be used to rapidly identify segmental arteries supplying the spinal cord , to determine if distal perfusion is supplying the spinal cord with blood flow , and if reattached segmental arteries are patent . 
limitations of electroencephalographic monitoring in the detection of cerebral ischemia accompanying carotid endarterectomy . an analysis was undertaken of 458 consecutive carotid endarterectomies performed over 6 years with the patient under general anesthesia and with electroencephalographic monitoring . seventy patients ( 15 % ) had electroencephalographic changes suggestive of ischemia with carotid clamping and had shunts placed . ischemic encephalographic changes occurred in 26 % of patients with an occluded contralateral carotid artery , 21 % of patients with a prior stroke history , and 12 % of patients with no stroke history and a patent contralateral carotid artery . nineteen strokes ( 4.1 % ) , nine transient deficits ( 2.0 % ) , and one death ( 0.2 % ) occurred in the 458 endarterectomies in this experience . ten of the 19 strokes and five of nine transient deficits were immediately apparent when patients awoke from anesthesia . five of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all five patients with immediate transient deficits had no ischemic electroencephalographic changes during the procedure . two other patients with immediate strokes initially had ischemic electroencephalographic changes after carotid clamping that reversed with increased blood pressure or shunting . therefore 7 of 10 patients with immediate strokes and all 5 patients with immediate transient deficits had electroencephalographs unchanged from baseline at completion of the procedure , and thus deficits not manifest by operative electroencephalographic changes developed . our data do not support the tenet that electroencephalographic monitoring will always predict neurologic deficits accompanying carotid endarterectomy . 
intrathecal baclofen for spasticity in cerebral palsy seventeen patients with congenital spastic cerebral palsy and six patients with other forms of spasticity were injected intrathecally with doses of placebo or baclofen , 25 micrograms , 50 micrograms , or 100 micrograms , in a randomized , double-blind manner . muscle tone in the upper and lower extremities was assessed by ashworth scores both before the injections and every 2 hours afterward for 8 hours . function of the upper extremities was evaluated before the injections and 4 hours afterward . muscle tone in the lower extremities was significantly decreased within 2 hours after baclofen injection and remained lower than baseline 8 hours afterward . upper extremity tone and function were not significantly affected by these single doses . confusion and drowsiness occurred in two of the youngest children in the study after the 50-micrograms dose , but cleared within 2 hours . our findings indicate that intrathecal baclofen reduces spasticity in children with cerebral palsy , as it does in adults with spasticity of spinal origin . 
no confirmation of visual evoked potential diagnostic test for migraine . we have attempted to replicate the results of studies on a diagnostic test reported to have 90 % sensitivity and 89-96 % specificity for migraine . the technique is based on peak-to-peak measurements of fast background electroencephalographic activity during a visual evoked potential ( vep ) study . vep latencies and amplitudes did not differ significantly , and showed substantial overlap , between a group of eight migraine patients and ten age-matched healthy controls . we could not recognise previously described fast activity or measure it objectively by peak-to-peak measurements . we can not confirm that measurement of fast wave activity in the vep background is useful in diagnosis of migraine . 
intracranial pressure in african children with cerebral malaria opening lumbar cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) pressure was measured with a paediatric spinal fluid manometer in 26 of 61 kenyan children ( mean age 39 months ) with cerebral malaria . in all cases pressure was above normal ( mean [ sd ] 22.6 [ 7.4 ] cm csf , range 10.5-36 ) . clinical features of our patients suggest that intracranial hypertension is important in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria in children , especially as a cause of death . we suggest that raised intracranial pressure is secondary to increased cerebral blood volume . lowering intracranial pressure may significantly reduce the mortality and morbidity of cerebral malaria . the potential risks and benefits of lumbar puncture should be considered carefully in patients with suspected cerebral malaria . 
intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis : a combined institutional review . intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis constitute true surgical and medical emergencies . the charts of all patients ( n = 649 ) admitted for acute or chronic sinusitis to the university of minnesota hospital and to the university of michigan medical center during a 13-year period ( 1975 to 1988 ) were retrospectively reviewed to determine the incidence of complications . the clinical presentation , bacteriology , involved sinuses , influencing host factors , white blood cell count on presentation , length of hospitalization , and postinterventional complications are presented . twenty-four patients with intracranial complications from paranasal sinusitis are studied for an incidence of 3.7 % . aggressive medical and semi-emergent surgical intervention are required to prevent excessive morbidity and/or mortality . intracranial complications included subdural empyema , frontal lobe abscesses , intrahemispheric abscesses , cavernous and superior sagittal sinus thrombosis , and osteomyelitis . 
polyglucosan body disease . adult polyglucosan disease has been described in 15 cases . all had signs of peripheral neuropathy , upper motor neuron signs , and 12 of the 15 had sphincter problems . dementia was prominent in 8 of 15 cases . we reported 2 cases that contained these clinical features . electrophysiological studies showed axonal neuropathy . somatosensory evoked potentials on the second patient were abnormal . sural nerve biopsy showed clusters of polyglucosan bodies . although the presence of polyglucosan bodies in biopsy is nonspecific , the number as well as the clinical features are necessary to make the diagnosis . branching enzyme activity in muscle extracts of the muscles were normal . hence , a specific enzyme abnormality is not yet known . 
aaem case report # 1 : ulnar neuropathy at the elbow . a patient with bilateral cubital syndrome complicated by anomalous innervation is presented . the electrodiagnostic approach to patients with this neuropathy is reviewed emphasizing new developments . the interpretation of the findings in this patient centers around issues of pathophysiology and methodology . 
abnormal pattern detected in fragile-x patients by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis . the fragile-x syndrome is the most frequent inherited form of mental retardation , with an incidence of 1 in 1,500 males . it is characterized by the presence of a fragile site at xq27 .3 induced in vitro by folate deprivation or by inhibitors of deoxynucleotide synthesis . its mode of inheritance is unusual for an x-linked trait , with incomplete penetrance in both males and females . some phenotypically normal males transmit the mutation to all their daughters who rarely express any symptoms , but penetrance is high in sons and daughters of these carrier women . genetic and physical mapping of the xq27-q28 region has confirmed that the disease locus is located at or very near the fragile site . hypotheses proposed to account for the abnormalities in the inheritance of the disease include sequence rearrangements by meiotic recombination or a mutation that affects reactivation of an inactive x chromosome during differentiation of female germ cells . to detect such rearrangements , or methylation changes that may reflect a locally inactive x chromosome , we used pulsed-field gel analysis of dna from fragile-x patients with probes close to the fragile-x locus . the probe do33 ( dxs465 ) detected abnormal patterns in fragile-x patients , but not in normal controls or in non-expressing male transmitters . 
lexical organization of nouns and verbs in the brain . the analysis of neuropsychological disorders of lexical processing has provided important clues about the general organization of the lexical system and the internal structure of the processing components . reports of patients with selective dysfunction of specific semantic categories such as abstract versus concrete words , living things versus inanimate objects , animals , fruits and vegetables , proper names and so forth , support the hypothesis that the neural organization of the semantic processing component is organized in these categories . there are reports of selective dysfunction of the grammatical categories noun and verb , suggesting that a dimension of lexical organization is the grammatical class of words . but the results reported in these studies have not provided unambiguous evidence concerning two fundamental questions about the nature and the locus of this organization within the lexical system . is the noun-verb distinction represented in the semantic or in the phonological and orthographic lexicons ? is grammatical-class knowledge represented independently of lexical forms or is it represented separately and redundantly within each modality-specific lexicon ? here we report the performance of two brain-damaged subjects with modality-specific deficits restricted principally ( h.w. ) or virtually only ( s.j.d ) to verbs in oral and written production , respectively . the contrasting performance suggests that grammatical-class distinctions are redundantly represented in the phonological and orthographic output lexical components . 
the nature of opioid responsiveness and its implications for neuropathic pain : new hypotheses derived from studies of opioid infusions . in recent years , the observation that the response of patients to opioid drugs may be influenced by properties inherent in the pain or pain syndrome , such as its pathophysiology , has evolved into the belief that certain types of pain , e.g. , neuropathic pains , may be unresponsive to these drugs . this concept has important implications for both clinical practice and basic understanding of opioid mechanisms . we critically evaluate opioid responsiveness , particularly as it relates to neuropathic pain , and propose a clinically relevant definition and a paradigm for its investigation . the paradigm is illustrated by analgesic responses to opioid infusion in 28 patients with neuropathic pains and by a detailed presentation of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic relationships in one of these patients , whose central pain responded promptly to an infusion of hydromorphone . from this analysis , we hypothesize that ( 1 ) opioid responsiveness in man can be defined by the degree of analgesia achieved during dose escalation to either intolerable side effects or the occurrence of ' complete ' or ' adequate ' analgesia ; ( 2 ) opioid responsiveness is a continuum , rather than a quantal phenomenon ; ( 3 ) opioid responsiveness is determined by a diverse group of patient characteristics and pain-related factors , as well as drug-selective effects ; and ( 4 ) a neuropathic mechanism may reduce opioid responsiveness , but does not result in an inherent resistance to these drugs . given the complexity of factors contributing to opioid responsiveness and the observation that outcome can not be reliably predicted , opioids should not be withheld on the assumption that pain mechanism , or any other factor , precludes a favorable response . both the clinical use of opioids and paradigms to investigate opioid responsiveness should include dose escalation to maximally tolerated levels and repeated monitoring of analgesia and other effects . 
chronic musculoskeletal pain and depressive symptoms in the general population . an analysis of the 1st national health and nutrition examination survey data . chronic pain and depression frequently occur together . a selection bias afflicts all hospital clinic and family practice populations in which this relationship has been examined . we report here some of the results from civilian populations outside institutions , examined in the united states in national surveys . the findings are based upon the recollection of individuals with respect to the period of 12 months prior to interview and upon the occurrence of depression in the previous week as indicated by the answers to the depression scale of the centre for epidemiologic studies ( ces-d ) . they indicate that 14.4 % of the united states population between the ages of 25-74 suffer from definite chronic pain related to the joints and musculoskeletal system . another 7.4 % have some pain of uncertain duration . eighty-three percent of the definite pain group received treatment . chronic pain subjects scored significantly higher than normals on the ces-d ( 10.68 + / - s.e.m. 0.76 vs. 8.05 + / - 0.23 , p less than 0.01 ) with subjects with pain of uncertain duration scoring similar to the definite chronic pain population ( 11.13 + / - 0.76 ) . using a high cut-off score for depression . 18 % of the population with chronic pain were found to have depression . this is in contrast to 8 % of the population who did not have chronic pain . 
codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in longer-term treatment of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip . a randomised , double-blind , multi-centre study . this randomized , double-blind , multi-centre study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treatment for 4 weeks with codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in relieving chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip . a total of 158 outclinic patients entered the study . eighty-three patients ( mean age 66 years ) were treated with codeine 60 mg plus paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily , and 75 patients ( mean age 67 years ) with paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily . ibuprofen 400 mg was prescribed as rescue medication . due to an unexpected high rate of adverse drug reactions , the study was closed before the planned 400 patients had entered . over weeks 1-4 , 87 % , 64 % , 61 % and 52 % of patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group , and 38 % , 31 % , 22 % and 29 % of patients in the paracetamol group had one or more adverse drug reactions . significantly more patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group had adverse drug reactions in each of the 4 weeks . nausea , dizziness , vomiting and constipation were predominant adverse reactions in the codeine plus paracetamol group . during the first week of treatment , 30 patients ( 36 % ) in the codeine plus paracetamol group and 9 ( 12 % ) in the paracetamol group dropped out . as evaluated from patients completing the first week of treatment , the pain intensity during that week compared to their baseline pain was significantly lower in the codeine plus paracetamol group than in the paracetamol group . moreover , during the first week the paracetamol group received rescue medicine significantly more frequently . in conclusion , when evaluated after 7 days of treatment , the daily addition of codeine 180 mg to paracetamol 3 g significantly reduced the intensity of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip joint . however , several adverse drug reactions , mainly of the gastrointestinal tract , and the larger number of patients withdrawing from treatment means that the addition of such doses of codeine can not be recommended for longer-term treatment of chronic pain in elderly patients . 
pain ' memories ' in phantom limbs : review and clinical observations . this paper reviews reports of phantom limb sensations which resemble somatosensory events experienced in the limb before amputation . it also presents descriptions of this phenomenon in 68 amputees who took part in a series of clinical studies . these somatosensory memories are predominantly replicas of distressing pre-amputation lesions and pains which were experienced at or near the time of amputation , and are described as having the same qualities of sensation as the pre-amputation pain . the patients who experience these pains emphasize that they are suffering real pain which they can describe in vivid detail , and insist that the experience is not merely a cognitive recollection of an earlier pain . reports of somatosensory memories are less common when there has been a discontinuity , or a pain-free interval , between the experience of pain and amputation . among the somatosensory memories reported are cutaneous lesions , deep tissue injuries , bone and joint pain and painful pre-amputation postures . the experience of somatosensory memories does not appear to be related to the duration of pre-amputation pain , time since amputation , age , gender , prosthetic use , level of amputation , number of limbs amputated , or whether the amputation followed an accident or illness . the results suggest that somatosensory inputs of sufficient intensity and duration can produce lasting changes in central neural structures which combine with cognitive-evaluative memories of the pre-amputation pain to give rise to the unified experience of a past pain referred to the phantom limb . implications for pre - and post-operative pain control are discussed . 
assessment of the components of observed chronic pain behavior : the checklist for interpersonal pain behavior ( chip ) . this article describes the development of the checklist for interpersonal pain behavior ( chip ) , an observation scale which assesses overt pain behavior . the study is an extension of an earlier study in which the dimensions and components of observed chronic pain behavior were examined . a broad definition of pain behavior is chosen ( interpersonal pain behavior ) , namely the interaction between the pain patient and his/her direct environment . the list of pain behaviors , taken from the earlier study , has been transformed into a 78-item global rating scale to be used by nurses to quantify observed pain behavior in a clinical setting . six studies examine the factor structure and the psychometric properties of this behavioral observation method . in the first study , 6 internally reliable factors are derived using factor analytic techniques from a sample of 152 chronic pain patients . they are labeled as : ' distorted mobility , ' ' verbal complaints , ' ' non-verbal complaints , ' ' nervousness , ' ' depression ' and ' day sleeping . ' internal consistency of all factors , except ' day sleeping ' was excellent . the following studies show that the chip is sufficiently reliable and valid . after a discussion on the advantages of this observation scale , the conclusion seems justified that the chip is a useful tool in pain assessment that can easily be used by nurses . 
diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccine and serious neurologic illness : an updated review of the epidemiologic evidence . a widespread impression that dtp vaccine does cause brain damage has been based first on historical precedent -- smallpox and rabies vaccines were recognized as sometimes causing devastating neurologic illness ; analogy to pertussis -- the disease can cause encephalopathy ; and more recently on anecdotal evidence , particularly case series . a noncausal relationship -- coincidence -- could explain the temporal relation between dtp vaccine and neurologic illness , inasmuch as dtp vaccine is given at the age of emergence of idiopathic neurologic disease . the relationship between dtp vaccine and neurologic illness lacks specificity . case series have had an impact on both physicians ' and the lay public 's impression of the safety of pertussis vaccine greatly out of proportion to their scientific importance . case series can be useful for generating hypotheses but can not provide evidence that pertussis vaccine is causally related to acute neurologic illness or brain damage . observational studies using cohort and ecologic designs did not find an association between dtp vaccine and serious neurologic illness , but they were not powerful enough to detect an association as rare as that observed by the nces investigators . the case-control design offers the best chance of providing causal evidence regarding dtp vaccine and serious neurologic illness . the nces is the only published case-control study of this issue . this study found a rare association between dtp vaccine and some types of acute neurologic illness . bias and chance are unlikely to account entirely for the association demonstrated by the nces . however , the association has not yet been replicated by other case-control studies . the nces does not demonstrate that dtp vaccine causes permanent brain damage . 
can clinical judgment detect children with speech-language problems ? pediatricians often rely on clinical judgment derived from observation or parental concern to identify children with developmental problems . the less popular but recommended alternative is to repeatedly administer standardized screening tests . such tests are time consuming but , unlike clinical judgment , have known detection rates . preliminary research concerning clinical judgment showed that clusters of parental concerns related to their childrens ' performances on screening tests . in the present study , previous research was refined by assessment of the meaning of parents ' concerns about their childrens ' speech-language development . in this study of 157 families seeking pediatric care , 72 % of children whose speech-language screening yielded positive results had parents who were concerned about their speech-language development . of children with negative screening results , 83 % had parents with no concerns about their speech-language development . although standardized screening tests should be used occasionally in the developmental surveillance process , the findings show that the problems of most children with developmental problems were detected through clinical judgment based on parental concern . 
location of port-wine stains and the likelihood of ophthalmic and/or central nervous system complications . of 310 patients with port-wine stains , 68 % had more than one dermatome involved ; 85 % had unilateral and 15 % had a bilateral distribution of their port-wine stain . at the time of examination , 8 % of all patients with trigeminal port-wine stains had evidence of eye and/or central nervous system ( cns ) involvement . extensive involvement , with port-wine stain over the trunk and extremities as well as the head and neck , was observed in 12 % . patients who did not have port-wine stains on the areas served by branches v1 and v2 of the trigeminal nerve had no signs or symptoms of eye and/or cns involvement . port-wine stains of the eyelids , bilateral distribution of the birthmark , and unilateral port-wine stains involving all three branches of the trigeminal nerve were associated with a significantly higher likelihood of having eye and/or cns complications . twenty-four percent of those with bilateral trigeminal nerve port-wine stains had eye and/or cns involvement compared with 6 % of those with unilateral lesions . all those who had eye and/or cns complications had port-wine stain involvement of the eyelids ; in 91 % both upper and lower eyelids were involved , whereas in 9 % only the lower eyelid was involved . none of those with upper eyelid port-wine stains alone had eye and/or cns complications . in addition , 3 ( 75 % ) of the 4 subjects with seizures alone had bilateral port-wine stain involvement . a third group , these with unilateral v1 , v2 , and v3 port-wine stains , had eye and/or cns complications in 3 ( 19 % ) of 16 subjects . 
hypoglycemia , hypotonia , and cardiomyopathy : the evolving clinical picture of long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency . inherited defects in fatty acid oxidation , which have been described and diagnosed with increasing frequency in the last decade , are most commonly attributed to a deficiency in the activity of medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase . few cases of the related enzyme defect of long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase activity have been reported . an infant with documented long-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency is described with a detailed metabolic profile , long-term clinical follow-up , and response to treatment . this patient is compared with the seven previously published cases of this disorder in order to stress the unique features of the initial presentation , more subtle late manifestations of the disease , and clinical and biochemical differentiation from the more common medium-chain acyl-coa dehydrogenase deficiency . this report stresses the enlarging spectrum of the clinical presentation and natural history of this defect in fatty acid oxidation . 
tilt test for diagnosis of unexplained syncope in pediatric patients . thirty-five teenage patients with a history of presyncope or syncope underwent a passive head-up tilting to reproduce symptoms of syncope . if tilting alone did not induce syncope , isoproterenol infusion was given to increase heart rate to 150 to 160 beats per minute . in 80 % of patients with a history of syncope , identical symptoms could be reproduced during tilting : an abrupt fall in blood pressure combined with profound nodal bradycardia , ranging from 32 to 86 beats per minute . these symptoms were quickly reversed by returning the patient to the supine position . for patients with frequent occurrences of syncope , especially when there was a history of trauma sustained during these episodes , a therapeutic regimen of either beta blockers or 9 alpha-fluorocortisol was begun . the mechanisms of this common cause of syncope in childhood is neurocardiogenic in response to venous pooling and catecholamine-induced tachycardia . the tilt test is an excellent and cost-effective test for the workup of unexplained syncope in childhood . 
pain management in the orthopedic patient . pain is a familiar phenomenon to all orthopedic nurses . as dunwoody said , " few things we do for patients are more fundamental to the quality of life than relieving pain . " we as orthopedic nurses are in a position to contribute to the positive management of pain by using a comprehensive approach to pain management that involves the participation of the patient . we need to believe the patient 's pain , try new approaches , and help our patients achieve pain relief . 
help for the hurting elderly . safe use of drugs to relieve pain . pharmacologic management of pain in elderly patients is a common and difficult clinical problem . because of altered drug metabolism and pharmacodynamics in the elderly , the drugs of choice are different than in younger patients and side effects occur more often . however , with judicious use and monitoring for toxicity , oral medications given as part of a multimodality approach can achieve adequate analgesia in most elderly patients . 
chronic pain -- assessment of orthopedic physical therapists ' knowledge and attitudes . orthopedic physical therapists ' knowledge of pain mechanisms and methods of pain management and their attitudes toward working with patients with benign chronic pain were studied . a random sample of 500 members of the american physical therapy association 's section on orthopaedics received by mail a 36-item questionnaire . statistical analysis of scores , using frequencies , means , and correlations was performed on the 119 ( 23.8 % ) usable returns . all but 4 % of the respondents preferred to work with patients who are not likely to have chronic pain . seventy-two percent believed their entry-level education in pain management and theory was very inadequate or less than adequate to deal with an orthopedic patient population . pain knowledge scores were low ( 35.8 out of 46 points ) , and the scores on positive attitudes toward treating patients with benign chronic pain were lower ( 20.5 out of 36 points ) . the study suggests specific deficiencies in orthopedic physical therapists ' knowledge of clinical pain mechanisms and management and potentially undesirable attitudes toward treating patients with chronic pain . 
movement analysis -- an aid to early diagnosis of cerebral palsy . the purpose of this article is to review research related to the use of clinical analysis of movement as an aid to the early diagnosis of cerebral palsy . a historical perspective of clinical techniques used by physicians and physical therapists in the early diagnosis of cerebral palsy will be presented first , including recent research findings on clinical signs that were most predictive of this movement disorder . predictive neuromotor behaviors common across several recent studies will be highlighted . future trends in the use of movement analysis , including digitized kinematic analysis of term and preterm infants and fetal ultrasound techniques , will be discussed as well . 
implications of a dynamical systems approach to understanding infant kicking behavior . implications of the dynamical systems approach to understanding movement dysfunction in infants are discussed . traditional theories of motor development attribute changes in movement to the hierarchical maturation of the central nervous system . the dynamical systems approach emphasizes that movement self-organizes as the result of the interaction of the participating subsystems in developmental and real time . in this article , i discuss , from the theoretical perspective of the dynamical systems approach , the organization of leg movements in low - and high-risk preterm and full-term infants , developmental changes in movement in low-risk preterm infants from 34 weeks ' gestational age to 40 weeks ' postgestational age , and differences in movement between low-risk preterm infants at 40 weeks ' postgestational age and full-term infants . preliminary data on high-risk preterm infants are presented . based on these data , the necessity to review and reinterpret traditional concepts of motor development is explored . suggestions are offered and questions posed on how the dynamical systems perspective may influence the practice of physical therapy in the evaluation , and treatment of infants at risk for movement dysfunction . 
cognitive strategies during coincident timing tasks . research findings suggest that experience and cognitive strategies contribute to successful performance during perceptual-motor tasks . this article critically reviews selected literature on the effects of information-processing skills , preferred movement time , experience , and task difficulty on performance during coincident timing tasks . theoretical information and research findings are discussed , and their applications to clinical practice are considered . clinical recommendations include assessment of coincident timing skills and use of functional activities that provide opportunities to explore and dynamically interact with the environment . 
measurement and treatment in cerebral palsy : an argument for a new approach . this article describes the need for a shift in our therapeutic strategies for patients with cerebral palsy . changes in functional abilities must be stressed in therapy . coincident with this emphasis must be the development of functional assessments to be used when documenting intervention outcomes . research on functional arm movement using kinematic analysis is described for this patient group . 
dorsal rhizotomy for children with cerebral palsy : support for concepts of motor control . the results from selective dorsal rhizotomy research suggest that therapists need to question some common clinical assumptions about movement dysfunction . the rationale for performing a selective dorsal rhizotomy is based on the clinical assumptions that spasticity is the underlying cause of disordered movement and that reducing or eliminating the spasticity will improve movement . this article reviews the literature related to movement dysfunction , the effects of selective dorsal rhizotomy , and the evidence for disordered motor control in children with spastic cerebral palsy . selective dorsal rhizotomy appears to reduce spasticity and increase joint range of motion . abnormal movement patterns , however , persist after the spasticity is reduced . well-coordinated movement patterns are acquired slowly and appear to be related to an intense period of physical therapy . i argue that these results provide evidence that the presence of spasticity alone is an insufficient explanation for abnormal movement patterns . i propose that physical therapists redirect their efforts from developing methods for reducing spasticity to developing adequate assessment , treatment , and measurement techniques for assessing motor control in children with cerebral palsy . i believe we can maximize the functional potential of children with cerebral palsy by identifying problems related to motor control and applying sound principles of motor learning to treatment . 
spinal cord injury after subclavian flap aortoplasty . an experimental study in piglets . paraplegia is a rare but much feared complication of corrective surgery for coarctation of the aorta . the problem was studied in 31 newborn pigs submitted to subclavian flap aortoplasty . the aortic cross-clamping time ranged from 9-25 min . twenty-three piglets with clamping times 9-18 min were neurologically intact , whereas eight with aortic clamping for 18-25 min became paraplegic . the clinical implications for newborn children with symptomatic aortic coarctation are discussed with regard to these experimental findings . 
long-term medical consequences of incest , rape , and molestation . one hundred thirty-one patients who gave a history of childhood sexual abuse were seen in a general medical practice decades after the event and were compared with a control group . the subject patients were found to be distinct for chronic depression , morbid obesity , marital instability , high utilization of medical care , and certain psychosomatic symptoms , particularly chronic gastrointestinal distress and recurrent headaches . it is clear that these remote events can underlie difficult chronic medical problems . questions about childhood sexual abuse must become part of the practitioner 's review of systems in these difficult cases , if not routinely . 
scalp pilomatrix carcinoma as an extra-axial mass . we report the ct , mri , and angiographic findings in a case of pilomatrix carcinoma that had invaded the temporal bone and presented itself as an extra-axial mass . even though bone destruction was better shown with ct , the tumor mass with its meningeal and tentorial extension was seen more clearly with mri . the arteriogram demonstrated a unique vascular supply from the external carotid artery . 
cerebral falciparum malaria mimicking thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura . we have described a patient with cerebral falciparum malaria who had rapidly progressive cns deterioration , renal failure , hemolytic anemia associated with striking and varied erythrocyte morphologic changes , and thrombocytopenia . the initial diagnosis was thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ( ttp ) of unknown origin . reexamination of the peripheral smear of this comatose patient led to correct diagnosis and effective treatment in this case of cerebral falciparum malaria -- another of medicine 's great mimickers . 
management of arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the forearm . we initially observed our patient , who had subcutaneous arginine monohydrochloride extravasation in the volar forearm , until his wound demarcation was complete . after wound demarcation , we proceeded with debridement and partial-thickness skin grafting . upper extremity function was totally normal 3 months after this therapy . this is the first case report in the literature that describes a child with an arginine monohydrochloride-induced extravasation necrosis . 
cerebellar degeneration and meige 's syndrome . we have reported a case of meige 's syndrome in a middle-aged man who eventually had a cerebellar degeneration syndrome . the extrapyramidal symptoms preceded cerebellar signs and symptoms by 5 years . most patients with idiopathic meige 's syndrome show some improvement with high-dose anticholinergic therapy . our patient 's lack of response to such agents and his subsequent cerebellar symptoms are reminiscent of the situation seen with parkinsonian patients who do not respond to medications , indicating a more widespread degenerative disease . the association of extrapyramidal symptoms with some spinocerebellar disorders , and the pathologic changes seen in the one reported autopsy case , should place the group of spinocerebellar disorders high on the differential list . 
profound papilledema due to cryptococcal meningitis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome : successful treatment with fluconazole . although cryptococcal meningitis is a frequent infection in patients with aids , papilledema is rarely reported . we have reported a case of profound papilledema associated with cryptococcal meningitis in a patient with aids . after treatment failure with amphotericin b , the patient was successfully treated with fluconazole , and the papilledema resolved . 
acute oculogyric crisis after administration of prochlorperazine . we report a case of acute oculogyric crisis due to prochlorperazine administration in a young black woman with a concomitant viral infection . neuroleptic medications are the most common cause of drug-induced acute dystonic reactions such as oculogyric crisis . prochlorperazine is an antiemetic agent with a phenothiazine-type chemical structure and is known to cause dystonic reactions . drug-induced acute dystonic reactions are most common in young adults and in men . viral infections may also predispose patients to these adverse reactions . caution is warranted when this drug is used in patients who have other risk factors for an acute dystonic reaction . 
experience with surgical treatment of takayasu 's disease . we reviewed 28 patients with takayasu 's disease to determine the incidence of stroke and its relationship to the involvement of the thoracic aortic arch and its branches . we describe surgical experiences with 10 of the 28 patients who required 21 vascular surgical procedures for critical thoracic aortic arch arterial stenoses , upper and lower extremity ischemia , and renal artery stenoses . four of the 28 patients initially had a stroke caused by occlusion of one or more thoracic aortic arch arteries . six of the 10 patients underwent 7 bypass procedures for critical thoracic arch stenoses . all have remained free of stroke for 5 or more years . four patients had five anastomotic stenoses or graft occlusions in late follow-up ; the development of these stenoses did not relate to disease activity at the time of the operative procedure . all bypass grafts originating from the subclavian axillary artery developed anastomotic stenoses ; no anastomotic stenoses occurred in bypass grafts originating from the ascending aorta . in contrast to other reports , no anastomotic false aneurysms occurred . occlusions of major aortic arch arteries in takayasu 's disease cause stroke . bypass of critically stenoses aortic arch arteries protects against stroke and is best performed with grafts originating from the ascending aorta . anastomotic stenoses but not anastomotic aneurysms are common . this study suggests that aggressive surgical treatment can be performed with good results . 
interstitial cystitis : successful management by increasing urinary voiding intervals . a variant of the interstitial cystitis ( ic ) syndrome , minimal or no pain or significant pain that has been lessened by another therapy , can be clinically improved by retraining of the individual 's voiding pattern . patients with greater pain but capable of completing this protocol also may be helped . while this group of patients fills the diagnostic criteria of ic and has many of the classic changes , many differ in that they have minimal or no pain , while simultaneously they have a dysfunctional bladder as expected from long-term low-volume voiding . all patients were placed on a protocol which focused on progressively increasing intervals between voids . fifteen to thirty minutes initially were added to their present voiding time . the same increase was added to the voiding pattern every three or four weeks until an interval of three to four hours between voids was achieved . twenty-one patients fit the criteria to be entered into this study . overall 71 percent ( 15/21 ) had successful management of their symptoms and reported a 50 percent decrease in their symptoms of urinary urgency , frequency , and nocturia . nineteen percent ( 4/21 ) reported 25 percent decrease in symptoms and 10 percent had no change . presence of significant pain adversely affects outcome , 3/7 ( with pain ) improvements versus 12/14 ( without pain ) . for all patients there was a significant increase in bladder capacity ( 92 ml average before study and 179 ml after ) and average daily voids ( 13.2 / day prestudy and 7.4 post-therapy ) . these differences in voided profiles were statistically significant ( p value less than 0.01 ) . 
methamphetamine . stimulant of the 1990s ? during the past several years , the use of a smokable form of methamphetamine hydrochloride called " ice " has increased rapidly . the heaviest use has occurred on the west coast and in hawaii . many regional emergency departments treat more methamphetamine users than cocaine-intoxicated patients . the ease of synthesis from inexpensive and readily available chemicals makes possible the rampant abuse of a dangerous drug that can produce a euphoria similar to that induced by cocaine . clinicians should be familiar with the medical effects and treatment of acute methamphetamine toxicity . 
outpatient management of schizophrenia . as effective antipsychotic pharmacotherapy has become available , patients with schizophrenia are increasingly managed in an outpatient setting by primary care physicians . pharmacotherapy is generally effective in treating " positive , " or psychotic , symptoms and lessening the risks of relapse , but ineffective in improving " negative , " or deficit , symptoms . aggressive attempts to totally control positive symptoms and to ameliorate negative symptoms tend to increase side effects and may be detrimental to the patient . intensive psychotherapeutic and rehabilitative approaches are generally unproductive . attempting to obtain a cure is unrealistic . a moderate approach is recommended , taking into consideration the limitations of existing treatments , achieving control of extreme symptoms and minimizing social and occupational limitations . 
neuromuscular disease of the gastrointestinal tract . gastrointestinal motility is the function of gastrointestinal smooth muscle . it is controlled by both the intrinsic and extrinsic nerves of the gastrointestinal tract and , to a lesser degree , the gastrointestinal hormones . therefore , any abnormality of the above factors , theoretically , can cause gastrointestinal dysmotility . in a clinical situation , commonly seen is gastrointestinal dysmotility caused by either smooth muscle or intrinsic and extrinsic nerves dysfunction . diseases that cause smooth muscle dysfunction include familial visceral myopathies , nonfamilial visceral myopathies , collagen disease , muscular dystrophies , amyloidosis , thyroid disease , and so on . diseases that cause enteric nerve dysfunction include familial visceral neuropathies , nonfamilial visceral neuropathies , diabetes mellitus , chagas ' disease , ganglioneuromatosis of the intestine , visceral neuropathy of carcinomatosis , parkinson 's disease , and so on . the patients with neuromuscular disease of the gastrointestinal tract have a wide range of clinical manifestations regardless of the underlying cause . at one end of the spectrum , the patients may be asymptomatic , and at the other end of the spectrum , the patients may have functional obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract . plain abdominal x-rays , upper gastrointestinal ( ugi ) and small bowel x-rays , enteroclysis , barium enema , and manometric studies are useful for the work-up of these patients . enteroclysis is especially helpful in ruling out mechanical obstruction of the small intestine in patients with chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction . treatment is mainly symptomatic and supportive . there is no effective drug to improve gastrointestinal motility . surgery may be helpful in selected cases of severe gastrointestinal dysmotility . 
murine retroviral neurovirulence correlates with an enhanced ability ofvirus to infect selectively , replicate in , and activate resident microglial cells [ published erratum appears in am j pathol 1991 may ; 138 ( 5 ) :1058 ] to determine the biologic basis of ts1 momulv neurovirulence in vivo , newborn cfw/d mice were inoculated with neurovirulent ts1 momulv and nonneurovirulent wt momulv and the temporal response to virus infection in the central nervous system ( cns ) , spleen , and thymus was studied comparatively . experimental procedures included single and double labeling in situ immunohistochemistry with selective morphometric analyses , and steady state immunoblotting of viral proteins . cellular targets for virus infection were identical for both ts1 and wt momulv and consisted sequentially of 1 ) splenic megakaryocytes , 2 ) splenic and thymic lymphocytes , 3 ) cns capillary endothelial cells , and 4 ) cns pericytes and microglia . resident microglial cells served as the major reservor and amplifier of virus infection in the cns of ts1 momulv-infected mice ; a similar but much less significant role was played by microglia in wt momulv-infected mice . the genesis and progression of severe spongiform lesions in ts1 momulv-infected mice were both temporally and spatially correlated with amplified virus infection of microglia , and hyperplasia and hypertrophy of both virus-infected and nonvirus-infected microglial cells . direct virus infection of neurons was never observed . the development of clinical neurologic disease and spongiform lesions in ts1 momulv-infected mice correlated with the accumulation of both viral gag and env gene products in the cns ; there was no selective accumulation of env precursor polyprotein pr80env . when compared to wt momulv-infected mice , the neurovirulence of ts1 momulv-infected mice occurred by an enhanced ability to replicate in the cns and to infect and activate more microglia , rather than by a fundamental change in cellular tropism or topography of virus infection . 
secondary deposition of beta amyloid within extracellular neurofibrillary tangles in alzheimer-type dementia . the hippocampal areas of 34 autopsy specimen brains from aged demented and nondemented subjects were examined using double staining of bodian and beta protein . in 18 cases ( 75.5 + / - 7.4 years old ) , none of the extracellular neurofibrillary tangles ( e-nfts ) were immunoreactive with beta protein . in 16 cases ( 82.9 + / - 5.4 years old ) , the minority of e-nfts were immunoreactive with beta-protein antiserum . these beta-immunoreactive e-nfts frequently appeared in the areas having senile plaques , while they were not observed in the area lacking beta-immunoreactive senile plaques . the ultrastructure of beta-immunoreactive e-nfts revealed that they consisted of extracellular amyloid fibrils , extracellularly located bundles of paired helical filaments , astroglial processes and degenerating neurites . these findings suggest that the beta immunoreactivity of e-nfts comes from secondary deposition of amyloid fibrils . 
effect of thiopental on neurologic outcome following coronary artery bypass grafting to determine if thiopental reduces the incidence of neurologic sequelae after coronary artery surgery , we prospectively studied 300 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting . patients who had no history of neurologic or psychiatric illness were randomly assigned to receive either a thiopental infusion or a saline placebo infusion beginning with the administration of heparin and ending just after aortic decannulation . the patients received an opioid-relaxant anesthetic administered by an anesthesiologist who was not involved in this investigation and who was blinded to the test infusion . one of the investigators infused either saline or thiopental to produce an isoelectric electroencephalogram with 30-45 s between bursts . standardized neurologic examinations were performed preoperatively and on the 2nd and 5th postoperative days by one of the blinded investigators . the group of patients receiving thiopental required a longer time for awakening ( 6.4 + / - 3.9 vs. 4.0 + / - 2.4 h , mean + / - sd , p less than 0.05 ) and for tracheal extubation ( 22.4 + / - 18.4 vs. 17.4 + / - 9.6 h , p less than 0.05 ) , and a greater number of these patients were lethargic on the 2nd postoperative day . more patients receiving thiopental required vasoconstrictors during the thiopental loading and cardiopulmonary bypass ( cpb ) periods , while a greater number of patients receiving placebo required vasodilators . a greater number of patients receiving thiopental required inotropic drugs during separation from cpb . despite the above differences , only 2 of the 151 patients in the placebo group ( 1.3 % ) and 5 of the 149 patients in the thiopental group ( 3.3 % ) experienced strokes ( p = 0.2535 ) . 
recovery profile after desflurane-nitrous oxide versus isoflurane-nitrous oxide in outpatients . thirty-eight healthy outpatients undergoing elective surgical procedures lasting 1-3 h were randomly assigned to receive either desflurane 3 % ( approximately 0.5 mac ) or isoflurane 0.6 % ( approximately 0.5 mac ) for maintenance of general anesthesia with nitrous oxide 60 % in oxygen after a standardized induction sequence consisting of fentanyl 3 micrograms.kg-1 , thiopental 4 mg.kg-1 , and succinylcholine 1-1 .5 mg.kg-1 , intravenously . although anesthetic conditions were similar during operations in the two treatment groups , significant differences were noted in the recovery profiles as measured by elimination kinetics , psychometric testing , and visual analog scales ( to assess subjective feelings ) . the time required for the end-tidal concentration to decrease by 50 % was 2.5 + / - 0.8 min for desflurane vs. 9.5 + / - 3.4 min for isoflurane ( mean + / - standard deviation [ sd ] ) . times to awakening and ability to follow simple commands were significantly shorter after desflurane than after isoflurane ( 5.1 + / - 2.4 vs. 10.2 + / - 7.7 min 6.5 + / - 2.3 min vs. 11.1 + / - 7.9 min , respectively ) . postoperatively , patients who received desflurane exhibited less impairment of cognitive function ( as measured using the digit-symbol substitution test ) than did those who received isoflurane . furthermore , visual analog scores indicated that patients receiving desflurane experienced significantly less discomfort ( pain ) , drowsiness , fatigue , clumsiness , and confusion in the early postoperative period . we conclude that desflurane may offer clinical advantages over isoflurane when used for maintenance of anesthesia during outpatient surgical procedures . 
the induction dose of propofol in infants 1-6 months of age and in children 10-16 years of age . the propofol dose needed for satisfactory induction of anesthesia was determined in 22 infants 1-6 months of age and 22 children 10-16 yr of age . a single bolus of propofol was given over 10 s. thirty seconds after injection the lid reflex was tested and the anesthesia mask was applied . the patient was considered to be asleep if there were no gross movements during the next 30 s while the patient breathed o2 . the dose required for satisfactory induction in 50 % of patients ( ed50 ) ( + / - se ) was 3.0 + / - 0.2 mg/kg in infants and 2.4 + / - 0.1 mg/kg in older children ( p less than 0.02 ) . pain on injection occurred in 50 % of the infants and 18 % of the children . 
