hyponatraemia secondary to an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone in cardiac tamponade . a spontaneous intrapericardial haemorrhage caused cardiac tamponade in a 29 year old paraplegic man who was being treated with warfarin . the associated persistent hyponatraemia , which was believed to be caused by an inappropriately high release of antidiuretic hormone , rapidly resolved after pericardiocentesis . 
skin manifestations in congenital deficiency of leucocyte-adherence glycoproteins ( cdlg ) . in congenital deficiency of leucocyte-adherence glycoproteins ( cdlg ) there is an immunodeficiency with impaired leucocyte function and cutaneous and extracutaneous infections occur . in more than 30 % of cases the condition has a fatal course . we report the skin manifestations of three siblings with cdlg in which areas of skin necrosis occurred that resembled pyoderma gangrenosum . 
radiographic microcalcification and parenchymal patterns as indicators of histologic " high-risk " benign breast disease . breast tissue from a forensic autopsy series of 486 women ( 15 to 98 years of age ) was studied radiographically and by histologic sampling . prevalence of wolfe p2/dy parenchymal patterns decreased with age . radiographic nonvascular microcalcification and histologic presence of marked ductal epithelial hyperplasia and lobular microcalcification increased with age . both of these histologic parameters of increased risk for breast cancer correlated with the presence of radiographic microcalcification and wolfe p2/dy parenchymal pattern . the predictive value of the radiographic parameters for presence of " high-risk " proliferative fibrocystic change increased with age . 
two siblings with phenotypes mimicking peroxisomal disorders but with discordant biochemical findings . the authors present a report on two sibling with a nearly identical phenotype mimicking peroxisomal disorder but with totally discordant biochemical findings . in an attempt to confirm the diagnosis of a peroxisomal disorder , plasma levels of very long chain fatty acids ( vlcfa ) and phytanic acid were determined . in addition , fibroblasts profile of vlcfa and plasmalogen levels were evaluated for case 2 . pathomorphological examinations represented by lymph node and kidney biopsies as well as postmortem examinations of liver , adrenals and brain were performed in case 1 . the phenotypes of both siblings showed marked resemblance to those observed in children with zellweger syndrome . the results of biochemical tests performed in case 1 , together with abundant peroxisomes in the liver and the wide spectrum of clinical abnormalities suggest pseudo-zellweger or zellweger-like syndromes , but no conclusive data have been found . the plasmalogen level in fibroblasts as well as the fibroblasts profile of vlcfa noted in case 2 were within the normal range , thus excluding the possibility of a peroxisomal disorder . the striking phenotype resemblance of the siblings mimicking zellweger , together with discordant biochemical findings , are difficult to explain on the basis of currently available tests . 
peripheral venous monitoring with acute blood volume alteration : cuff-occluded rate of rise of peripheral venous pressure . we investigated the use of a new peripheral hemodynamic monitoring technique , the cuff-occluded rate of rise of peripheral venous pressure ( corrp ) , in the assessment of volume status in fluid overload . seven adult mongrel dogs were given a general anesthetic , and monitoring lines were inserted . the animals were then subjected to an incremental volume overload of approximately 13 % of estimated initial blood volume at 5-min intervals until a total volume infusion nearly equal to the animal 's initial blood volume was reached . comparison of the various monitoring techniques ( e.g. , cardiac output , cvp , systemic bp , pulmonary wedge pressure ) demonstrated that the peripheral measurement of corrp had better correlation with known administered volume ( r = .96 ) than any of the other variables . the sensitivity of each of the variables in assessing small amounts of volume overload was also studied . the volume of crystalloid infusion necessary to cause a clinically significant change ( defined as greater than 2 sd above the baseline mean ) was compared for each of the monitoring variables . corrp was equivalent to the other variables in sensing early volume overload . in summary , in the anesthetized animal model corrp appears to be a sensitive , minimally invasive method of assessing volume status in acute volume overload . the efficacy of corrp in a canine hemorrhagic shock and reperfusion model had previously been demonstrated . this technique could be clinically applicable in situations such as trauma with hemorrhagic shock , intraoperative volume changes , and in the assessment of intravascular volume after resuscitation . 
nutritional assessment and requirements . nutrition plays an important role in health and disease , both in prevention and treatment . increasing emphasis is being placed upon nutrition as a therapeutic tool to decrease the morbidity and mortality associated with obesity , hypertension , coronary artery disease , and cancer . adequate nutrition should be a concern for all health care workers because of its impact on the overall health of patients . health care professionals should be familiar with the essentials of nutritional assessment and basic nutritional requirements and be able to improve their patients ' care in the face of nutritional deficiencies or excesses . 
nature , nurture , nutrition : interdisciplinary programs to address the prevention of malnutrition and dehydration . malnutrition and dehydration are common problems in nursing home patients . one explanation for this may be the large number of patients requiring feeding assistance . the dysphagia team at the department of veterans affairs medical center in miami , florida served as the primary source in the expansion of a nutritionally supportive environment to assist in the prevention of malnutrition and dehydration in patients with feeding/swallowing disorders . " silver spoons , " a program in which volunteers provide supervised feeding , " happy hour , " a time each day during which an atmosphere is provided that encourages socialization and hydration , and " second seating , " during which lunch is provided for patients who require modification of eating style , food texture , or timing are described . analysis of the program 's outcomes show it to be timely , pleasing to patients , and cost-effective . 
hypokalemic and ecg sequelae of combined beta-agonist/diuretic therapy . protection by conventional doses of spironolactone but not triamterene . salbutamol ( albuterol ) and diuretics are commonly prescribed together in patients with airflow obstruction and are associated with electrocardiographic effects . we have now investigated whether the use of potassium-sparing drugs might prevent the ecg sequelae of such combined therapy . ten healthy subjects received seven days of randomized treatments with : placebo , bendrofluazide ( 5 mg ) , bendrofluazide plus triamterene 50 mg ( conventional dose ) , or triamterene 200 mg ( high dose ) , and bendrofluazide plus spironolactone ( 100 mg ) . potassium and ecg responses to inhaled salbutamol , 2 mg , were measured after each treatment period . the t-wave flattening in response to bendrofluazide and salbutamol ( 0.24 [ ci , 0.19 to 0.29 ] mv ) was attenuated by the addition of triamterene , 200 mg ( 0.33 [ ci , 0.28 to 0.37 ] mv ; p less than 0.05 ) and spironolactone 100 mg ( 0.42 [ ci , 0.37 to 0.47 ] mv ; p less than 0.01 ) , but not by triamterene 50 mg ( 0.25 [ ci , 0.20 to 0.30 ] mv ) . spironolactone and high dose triamterene also diminished the frequency of u waves and st depression . the ecg effects mirrored hypokalemic responses which were also blunted by high dose ( p less than 0.01 ) but not low dose triamterene , as well as by spironolactone ( p less than 0.001 ) . thus , the use of high dose triamterene and spironolactone protected against the hypokalemic and ecg sequelae of combined beta-agonist/diuretic therapy , whereas a conventional dose of triamterene had no effect . these findings may be important in the prevention of a potentially dangerous interaction in susceptible patients taking this combination of drugs . 
the starved colon -- diminished mucosal nutrition , diminished absorption , and colitis . nutrition of colonic epithelial cells is mainly from short chain fatty acids ( scfas ) produced by bacterial fermentation in the colonic lumen . n-butyrate contributes more carbon of oxidation to epithelial cells than glucose or glutamine from the vasculature . incomplete starvation of colonic epithelial cells through lack of luminal scfas leads , in the short term , to mucosal hypoplasia with either diminished absorption or diarrhea . a chronic lack of scfas or complete organ starvation in conjunction with other factors leads to nutritional colitis , either " diversion colitis " or " starvation colitis . " whether predominantly diarrhea or colitis develops in mucosal malnutrition appears to depend upon the severity and duration of starvation . ulcerative colitis may be classified as a nutritional colitis in that colonic epithelial cells are unable to utilize scfas reflecting epithelial starvation despite abundant scfas . 
lack of cutaneous hyperemia in response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia in iddm . cutaneous blood flow was measured with the laser doppler technique and by recording cutaneous o2 tension on the forearm and forehead in nine young adult patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) and nine sex - and age-matched healthy control subjects after induction of hypoglycemia . in the healthy subjects , cutaneous blood flow measured with the laser doppler technique was increased by 120 + / - 26 % in the forehead ( p less than 0.01 ) and 196 + / - 50 % in the forearm ( p less than 0.01 ) at the glucose nadir ( blood glucose 1.8 + / - 0.2 mm ) compared with basal blood flow . in contrast , in diabetic patients , cutaneous blood flow was unchanged . the corresponding changes , at the glucose nadir , with cutaneous o2 tension recordings were 286 + / - 131 % ( p less than 0.05 ) in control subjects and -22 + / - 15 % ( ns ) in diabetic patients . an impairment of sympathetic nervous function , not detectable by simple cardiovascular tests , could be responsible for the lack of cutaneous hyperemia and sweating and could contribute to unawareness of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients . 
is menarche associated with diabetic retinopathy ? the goal of this study was to evaluate the association between menarchal status and diabetic retinopathy . diabetic retinopathy was present in 51 of 129 females ; 7 were premenarchal , and 44 were postmenarchal . the range of severity of retinopathy was greater in the postmenarchal group . in multivariate analyses , duration of diabetes , menarchal status , and diastolic blood pressure were associated with the prevalence of diabetic retinopathy . after partitioning the duration of diabetes into years before and years after menarche , both were significant , but the number of years of diabetes after menarche was more strongly associated . at a 4-yr follow-up examination , more postmenarchal than premenarchal females had progression of their retinopathy ( p = 0.06 ) . these data suggest that stage of sexual development , as reflected by menarchal status , is associated with the presence and possibly the risk of progression of diabetic retinopathy . 
randomized crossover study of effect of resistance training on glycemic control , muscular strength , and cholesterol in type i diabetic men . the goal of this study was to evaluate a program of resistance weight training on cardiovascular risk factors , blood glucose management , and overall strength in diabetic subjects . a randomized crossover design was performed on eight male type i ( insulin-dependent ) diabetic subjects ( mean + / - sd age 31 + / - 3.5 yr , height 176 + / - 5.6 cm , body wt 80 + / - 15 kg , duration of diabetes 12.3 + / - 9.8 yr , and insulin dose 24 u nph/day and 21 u regular/day ) . the program consisted of heavy-resistance weight training 3 days/wk for 10 wk , concentrating on the strengthening of major muscle groups through progressive resistance . blood tests included total cholesterol , triglycerides , very-low-density lipoprotein and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and hba1c . these tests were repeated at three time points during the program . field-strength testing was performed before and after training . an improvement was seen in the squat ( 93.6 % increase , p less than 0.0001 ) and bench press ( 58 % increase , p less than 0.005 ) . hba1c and triglyceride levels showed no change during the resting portion of the experiment but showed a significant change with the training program : hba1c 6.9 + / - 1.4 vs 5.8 + / - 0.9 % ( p = 0.05 ) and triglyceride 5.044 + / - 1.06 vs. 4.628 + / - 0.88 mm ( p = 0.01 ) . self-monitored glucose ( taken pre - and postexercise ) showed a decrease from 7.85 + / - 3.13 to 7.05 + / - 2.91 mm ( p = 0.0001 ) . very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides did not change after training . analysis of variance showed no significant differences over time from the three time points with regard to reductions in cardiovascular risk factors or hba1c . 
impact of glucose self-monitoring on non-insulin-treated patients with type ii diabetes mellitus . randomized controlled trial comparing blood and urine testing . the goal of this study was to compare the relative efficacy and cost of self-monitoring of blood glucose ( smbg ) with routine urine testing in the management of patients with type ii ( non-insulin-dependent ) diabetes mellitus not treated with insulin . fifty-four patients with type ii diabetes mellitus , not treated with insulin , who had inadequate glucose control on diet alone or diet and oral hypoglycemic agents were studied . patients performed smbg or urine glucose testing as part of a standardized treatment program that also included diet and exercise counseling . during the 6-mo study , both the urine-testing and smbg groups showed similar improvement in glycemic control ; within each group , there were significant improvements in fasting plasma glucose ( reduction of 1.4 + / - 3.2 mm , p less than 0.03 ) and glycosylated hemoglobin ( reduction of 2.0 + / - 3.4 % , p less than 0.01 ) levels . seventeen ( 31 % ) of 54 patients actually normalized their glycosylated hemoglobin values , 9 in the urine-testing group and 8 in the smbg group . comparisons between the urine-testing and smbg groups showed no significant differences in mean fasting plasma glucose ( p greater than 0.86 ) , glycosylated hemoglobin ( p greater than 0.95 ) , or weight ( p greater than 0.19 ) . in patients with type ii diabetes mellitus not treated with insulin , smbg is no more effective , but is 8-12 times more expensive , than urine testing in facilitating improved glycemic control . our results do not support widespread use of smbg in diabetic patients not treated with insulin . 
incidence of iddm during 1984-1986 in population aged less than 30 yr . residents of turin , italy . the goal of this study was to measure the incidence of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) during 1984-1986 in residents of turin , italy , aged less than 30 yr . the primary data source was the list of all subjects diagnosed with iddm who attended diabetes clinics in turin . other data sources were the general register of death certificates , the list of hospital discharges , and the computerized data base of insulin prescriptions . eighty incident cases of iddm were identified during the study in 1,130,284 person-yr for those less than 30 yr of age . age-adjusted ( world standard ) incidence rates were 8.05 , 8.10 , and 6.96 / 100,000 in the age-groups 0-14 , 0-19 , and 0-29 yr , respectively . estimated completeness of the primary data source compared with all other data sources was 91 % , whereas the estimated completeness of ascertainment of the registry was 99 % . incidence rates of iddm in northern italy compare with those of european countries with low-medium incidence . a population-based register is being established for the province of turin ( 951,445 inhabitants aged 0-29 yr ) for the collection of incident cases since 1984 . 
comparison of quantitative sensory-threshold measures for their association with foot ulceration in diabetic patients . we compared the accuracy of cutaneous pressure perception-threshold measurements with that of other sensory-threshold measurements for detecting diabetic foot ulcer patients . three hundred fourteen non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients were studied , of whom 91 had either a current foot ulcer or a history of foot ulceration . foot ulcer patients had much higher pressure perception thresholds at the hallux than those without foot ulcers ( mean + / - se 4.63 + / - 0.05 vs. 3.54 + / - 0.04 u , p less than 0.001 ) . the magnitude of association was higher than that for vibration thresholds and markedly greater than those for cool and warm thresholds . pressure thresholds were highly accurate for identifying foot ulcer patients . at a threshold level of 4.21 u , the sensitivity was 0.84 , with a specificity of 0.96 . at similar sensitivities for vibration and thermal thresholds , specificities were lower . foot ulceration and cutaneous pressure perception threshold are strongly associated . pressure-threshold measurements are extremely accurate and perform at least as well as other quantitative sensory tests in identifying foot ulcer patients . assessment of the foot pressure threshold may have promise as a simple and inexpensive method for detecting diabetic patients at risk for foot ulcers . 
who multinational project for childhood diabetes . who diamond project group . insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) is one of the most important chronic diseases of children worldwide . iddm leads to an 8 - to 10-fold excess risk of mortality in developed countries , whereas in developing countries , most cases die within a few years . a 60-fold international gradient in iddm incidence has been reported , and epidemic periods have been identified . a new world health organization program , multinational project for childhood diabetes ( diabetes mondiale or diamond ) , has been developed to investigate and characterize global incidence , mortality , and health care . over 10 yr ( 1990-1999 ) , this study will collect population-based data concerning iddm in greater than 90 centers in 50 countries worldwide . the goals of diamond are to collect standard information on incidence , risk factors , and mortality associated with iddm ; evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of health care and the economics of diabetes ; and establish national and international training programs in diabetes epidemiology . it is hoped that the diamond project will be instrumental for the prevention of this serious disease and its sequelae . 
lack of effect of clonidine and pentoxifylline in short-term therapy of diabetic peripheral neuropathy . the goal of this study was to confirm or rule out anecdotal reports of beneficial effects of clonidine and pentoxifylline in the treatment of painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy . clonidine was administered to 16 subjects at two dosage levels ( 0.1 and 0.2 mg/day ) and was compared to placebo in a crossover design , with each phase lasting 4 wk . either pentoxifylline ( 400 mg 3 times/day ) or placebo was given to 21 subjects in a 12-wk trial . discomfort was characterized and rated with a subjective pain score ( range 0-20 ) . there was a significant decrease in pain score from baseline with both active drugs ( p less than 0.05 ) , but this was no better than the response to placebo ( p less than 0.30 for clonidine and p less than 0.95 for pentoxifylline ) . this study does not demonstrate a short-term benefit of either clonidine or pentoxifylline in the treatment of peripheral neuropathy . 
measuring vibration sensations with graduated tuning fork . simple and reliable means to detect diabetic patients at risk of neuropathic foot ulceration . to find a simple and reliable means to measure vibration sensations , 189 diabetic patients and 88 control subjects were tested at different sites with a graduated tuning fork . within-test variation at big toes reached 8.4 % in diabetic patients vs. 2.2 % in control subjects . mean contralateral variation was 7.5 % in diabetic patients vs. 2.5 % in control subjects . tuning-fork sensations were inversely correlated with duration of diabetes , whereas no correlation was found with hba1c levels or the severity of retinopathy . ninety-nine ( 52 % ) patients had vibratory sensation at big toes of less than 99th percentile of normal values for age . in addition , 51 % of the patients with clinical symptoms at extremities ( n = 67 ) , 70 % of the patients without tendon reflexes ( n = 50 ) , and 75 % of the patients with abnormal nerve conduction velocities ( n = 60 ) also had low vibration sensations . all patients with lower-limb injuries ( n = 7 ) had values at big toes of less than 2 . altogether , the graduated tuning fork represents a simple and reliable alternative to quantitate vibration sensations . long-term follow-up of asymptomatic patients will indicate whether these abnormalities reflect underlying neuropathy . patients with abnormal values at screening will necessitate additional investigations and special foot-care education programs . 
controlled study in diabetic children comparing insulin-dosage adjustment by manual and computer algorithms . a controlled trial of a new microprocessor device for insulin-dosage adjustment was undertaken in two matched groups of a priori well-controlled diabetic children . a prospective study design with three equal 8-wk periods was used . in the first period , both groups used manual methods for insulin-dosage adjustment after manual criteria . in the second period , one group of children adjusted insulin dosage by computer algorithms , whereas the other continued to use manual methods . in the third period , both groups again adjusted insulin by traditional methods . mean premeal glycemia and glycosylated hemoglobin levels did not change in either group throughout the study . during the second period , episodes of hypoglycemia were more frequent in children without the computer than in those who used the device . in keeping with the latter outcome , the group that used the microprocessor device was given less insulin in the second period than the first ( 0.88 + / - 0.02 vs. 0.94 + / - 0.02 u.kg-1 . day-1 , p less than 0.0001 ) and in comparison to the control group of patients who concurrently were given an increased insulin dose in the second period compared with the first . this study showed that insulin treatment through specific computer-mediated dosage-adjusting algorithms was safe and minimized hypoglycemia by effectively accommodating seasonally changing insulin requirements . we recommend the device to help diabetic children and their families in the care of insulin-dependent diabetes . 
complement-fixing antibodies to sympathetic and parasympathetic tissues in iddm . autonomic brake index and heart-rate variation . we describe herein complement-fixing anti-adrenal medullary ( cf-adm ) and anti-sympathetic ganglia ( cf-sg ) antibodies in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) . this study describes complement-fixing anti-vagus ( cf-v ) nerve antibodies and their relationship to the cardiovascular autonomic brake index ( a measure of transient decrease in heart rate during the 1st min after a tilt ) , and r-r interval variation with deep breathing . cf-v was detectable in 7 of 83 ( 8.4 % ) subjects with iddm aged 1.5-65 .5 yr ( mean + / - se 28.7 + / - 1.8 yr ) and duration of diabetes 0-47 yr ( 11.8 + / - 1.4 yr ) . seventy-six nondiabetic subjects ( aged 10-65 yr ) all had negative cf-v scores . cf-v scores correlated with cf-adm ( 0-16 yr of iddm , r = 0.61 , p less than 0.0001 ) and cf-sg ( r = 0.39 , p less than 0.05 ) . seventy iddm subjects ( aged 28 + / - 5 yr , duration of diabetes 17 + / - 3 yr ) without proteinuria or proliferative retinopathy were screened for cf-adm , cf-sg , and cf-v antibodies . five of 70 ( 7.1 % ) had cf-sg only ( negative for cf-adm and cf-v ) . brake indices ranged from 14.7 to 51.3 ( 37.3 + / - 6.9 ) . three of 70 ( 4.2 % ) had cf-adm only , with brake indices from 26.9 to 45.1 ( 32.9 + / - 6.1 ) . four of 70 ( 5.7 % ) had cf-v antibodies only , with brake indices of 12.7-17 .3 ( 15.1 + / - 1.1 ) . subjects with cf-sg or cf-adm ( anti-sympathetic ) had higher brake indices than subjects with cf-v ( anti-parasympathetic ) antibodies ( p less than 0.03 ) . 
effects of fish oil supplements in niddm subjects . controlled study . the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of a fish oil preparation ( maxepa ) on hemostatic function and fasting lipid and glucose levels in non-insulin-dependent diabetic ( niddm ) subjects . eighty niddm outpatients aged 55.9 yr ( mean sd 11.5 yr ) participated in a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled study of maxepa capsules ( 10 g/day ) or olive oil ( control ) treatment over 6 wk . patients received either maxepa or olive oil in addition to preexisting therapy . metabolic and hemostatic variables were measured before treatment and after 3 and 6 wk . platelet membrane eicosapentaenoic acid ( epa ) content increased in the treatment group ( p less than 0.001 ) . maxepa supplementation was associated with a significant fall in total triglycerides ( p less than 0.001 ) but did not affect total cholesterol ( p = 0.7 ) compared with control treatment . fasting plasma glucose increased after 3 wk ( p = 0.01 ) but not after 6 wk ( p = 0.17 ) treatment with maxepa . spontaneous platelet aggregation in whole blood fell in the maxepa group ( p less than 0.02 ) after 6 wk , but there were no changes in agonist-induced platelet aggregation , thromboxane generation in platelet-rich plasma , or plasma beta-thromboglobulin and platelet factor iv levels . an increase in clotting factor vii ( p = 0.02 ) , without changes in fibrinogen or factor x levels , occurred in the maxepa group . similar reductions in blood pressure were observed in both groups . dietary supplementation with maxepa capsules ( 10 g/day ) in niddm subjects is associated with improvement in hypertriglyceridemia but with deleterious effects in factor vii and blood glucose levels . most indices of platelet function are unaffected by this therapy . 
diabetes , hyperinsulinemia , and hyperlipidemia in small aboriginal community in northern australia . a small rural aboriginal community in northern australia was surveyed for diabetes , impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) , hyperinsulinemia , and lipid levels . of the 122 adults greater than 17 yr of age who participated ( 95 % response rate ) , 11.5 % had diabetes , 7.4 % had igt , and the remaining 81.1 % had normal glucose tolerance . both diabetes and igt were strongly age related . this high frequency of diabetes occurred , despite the population being relatively lean . although the body mass index ( bmi ) increased with age in both men and women , only 25 % of the population overall had bmi greater than 25 kg/m2 . there were wide ranges of insulin responses to glucose , with the upper tertile of 2-h insulin levels being more than seven times higher than the lower tertile ( 144 + / - 13 vs. 19 + / - 1 mu/l ) . hyperinsulinemia was associated with igt , elevated triglycerides , and lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels . lipid abnormalities were much more frequent among men than women . cholesterol levels were an average of 0.55 mm higher and triglycerides an average of 1.05 mm higher in men than in women , and both increased with age . in conclusion , this small isolated aboriginal population from northern australia had an unexpectedly high frequency of diabetes ( in view of their relative leanness ) in association with a high frequency of metabolic abnormalities indicative of insulin resistance ( hyperinsulinemia , igt , hypertriglyceridemia ) . 
periodontal disease and niddm in pima indians . the goal of this study was to determine the prevalence and incidence of periodontal disease and its relationship with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . two thousand two hundred seventy-three pima indians ( 949 men , 1324 women ) aged greater than or equal to 15 yr from the gila river indian community in arizona were examined between 1983 and 1989 . periodontal disease was diagnosed by tooth loss and by percentage of interproximal crestal alveolar bone loss ascertained from panoramic radiography . subjects with little or no evidence of periodontal disease were classified as nondiseased . thus , the incidence of advanced periodontal disease was determined . the age - and sex-adjusted prevalence of periodontal disease at first dental examination was 60 % in subjects with niddm and 36 % in those without . twenty-two new cases developed in a subset of 701 subjects ( 272 men , 429 women ) aged 15-54 yr who initially had little or no evidence of periodontal disease and had at least one additional dental examination . the incidence of periodontal disease in this group was similar in men and women ( incidence-rate ratio 1.0 , 95 % confidence interval [ cl ] 0.5-1 .9 , controlled for age and diabetes ) . higher age predicted a greater incidence of periodontal disease ( chi 2 = 30.6 , df = 3 , p less than 0.001 , controlled for sex and diabetes ) . the rate of periodontal disease in subjects with diabetes was 2.6 times ( 95 % cl 1.0-6 .6 , controlled for age and sex ) that observed in those without . although periodontal disease was common in nondiabetic pima indians , in whom most of the incident cases occurred , diabetes clearly conferred a substantially increased risk . thus , periodontal disease should be considered a nonspecific complication of niddm . 
impact of intensive educational approach to dietary change in niddm . the aim of this study was to compare the effects of an intensive educational approach incorporating longer time , greater simplicity , repetition , and cognitive motivational techniques with a conventional one in subjects with established non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) whose weight , glycemic control , and diet were not optimal . subjects were randomly allocated to intensive or conventional education . of 350 subjects , 70 met the study criteria , which included established niddm ( greater than or equal to 3 mo ) , suboptimal recent glycemic control , dietary fat intake greater than or equal to 35 % of total energy intake , and body mass index greater than or equal to 25 kg/m2 . the intensive approach was associated with significantly greater improvements in dietary compliance , dietary intake ( complex carbohydrate , [ p = 0.013 ] , legumes [ p less than 0.0001 ] , fiber [ p less than 0.0001 ] , total fat [ p less than 0.004 ] , saturated fat [ p less than 0.004 ] ) , and total cholesterol level ( p = 0.007 ) . the transient improvement in glycemic control was similar in both groups . an intensive education program can improve dietary compliance in established niddm subjects more than a conventional one . these recommended dietary improvements achieve better improvement in total cholesterol but do not necessarily improve glycemic control . 
effects of childbearing on glucose tolerance and niddm prevalence [ published erratum appears in diabetes care 1990 nov ; 13 ( 11 ) :1138 ] the goal of this study was to estimate the effects of childbearing on subsequent glucose tolerance and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) prevalence . a sample of subjects from 64 different locations in the united states were recruited for inclusion in the second national health and nutrition examination survey . a complex survey design was used to select a probability sample of subjects from each location . a total of 4577 women were recruited , of whom 3057 underwent clinical and laboratory evaluation for the presence of diabetes mellitus . women were classified as to their glucose tolerance based on the results of an oral glucose tolerance test or previous physician diagnosis of diabetes mellitus combined with current use of hypoglycemic medication . childbearing was defined as number of live births experienced by each woman at the time of the interview . fasting plasma glucose increased linearly with increasing number of live births ( coefficient 0.009 , 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 0.006-0 .012 ) , as did the 2-h value ( coefficient 0.015 , 95 % ci 0.009-0 .021 ) . adjustment for age , body mass index ( bmi ) , education , and income substantially reduced the magnitude of the association between childbearing and either plasma glucose measurement . when the prevalence of niddm in relation to childbearing was examined with logistic regression analysis , a significant linear increase in diabetes prevalence was seen with increasing number of live births ( relative prevalence of niddm , 1 birth vs. 0 = 1.73 , 95 % ci 1.39-2 .15 ) , but adjustment for age , bmi , education , and income greatly reduced the magnitude of this association ( relative prevalence of niddm , 1 birth vs. 0 = 1.07 , 95 % ci 0.98-1 .17 ) . 
lowering of plasma glucose concentrations with bezafibrate in patients with moderately controlled niddm . the goal of this study was to investigate whether treatment with bezafibrate improves glucose tolerance in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . the study included 37 niddm patients with hba1 concentrations greater than 8.5 % and normal kidney and liver function who were being treated with diet alone or diet together with a sulfonylurea drug . one patient withdrew because of constipation . at randomization and after 3 mo of treatment , patients were given a standard mixed-test-meal tolerance test ( mtt ; 500 cal ) after an overnight fast , and plasma glucose , insulin , c-peptide , metabolite , nonesterified fatty acid ( nefa ) , and triglyceride concentrations were measured at 15 - to 30-min intervals . serum lipid , hba1 , and fructosamine concentrations were measured at monthly intervals . glucose , nefa , and triglyceride concentrations were significantly lower throughout the second mtt in bezafibrate patients ( p less than 0.01-0 .001 ) but not in the placebo group . fasting serum insulin and c-peptide levels , but not postprandial concentrations , were reduced only in bezafibrate patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . after 3 mo , mean fasting serum triglyceride concentrations fell from 2.2 to 1.4 mm ( p less than 0.001 ) , total serum cholesterol concentrations from 6.3 to 5.5 mm ( p less than 0.001 ) , and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations from 4.2 to 3.5 mm ( p less than 0.001 ) in bezafibrate patients . there were no changes in serum lipid concentrations in the placebo group . treatment of patients with moderately controlled niddm with bezafibrate improves glucose tolerance and the serum lipid profile . bezafibrate treatment may be a useful adjunct to hypoglycemic therapy in patients with niddm . 
development of iddm after donating kidney to diabetic sibling . the goal of this study was to describe a patient who developed insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) after donating a kidney to his sibling and to suggest a possible solution to prevent such an occurrence . a 42-yr-old man was found to have islet cell autoantibodies ( icas ) as part of a screening program of first-degree relatives with iddm . two years previously , he had donated his kidney to his hla-identical sibling with long-standing iddm . both oral and intravenous glucose tolerance tests demonstrated a gradual loss of insulin secretion and increasing glucose intolerance until the patient developed iddm 6 yr after the nephrectomy . whether the presence of ica is an absolute contraindication to being a kidney donor could be debated . nonetheless , ica should be used as a screening test to identify individuals at risk for subsequent iddm . for those found to be positive , counseling should be provided . 
effect of isocaloric substitution of chocolate cake for potato in type i diabetic patients . traditional dietary advice given to people with diabetes includes eliminating simple sugars ( primarily sucrose ) from the diet . many people have difficulty following this recommendation . because patients with type i ( insulin-dependent ) diabetes do not need overall calorie restriction , there is no caloric reason to restrict sucrose . in this study , we looked at the effect of the isocaloric substitution of a piece of chocolate cake for a baked potato in a mixed meal to determine whether this would increase the blood glucose in patients with type i diabetes . the glucose response to a cake-added meal was significantly greater than to a standard meal . the glucose response was no different between a cake-substitution meal and a standard meal . the reproducibility studies showed no difference between repeated standard meals . the urinary glucose excretion was significantly greater after a cake-added meal but was no different with the other pairs . there were no significant differences in the counterregulatory hormone responses at baseline between any of the paired studies . in conclusion , patients with type i diabetes may substitute a sucrose-containing dessert for another carbohydrate in their diet without compromising their postprandial glucose response . these data suggest that a dessert exchange may be helpful and not harmful in the management of diabetic patients . there is an inherent variability ( at least 16 % ) in an insulin-requiring patient 's response to a meal , making self-monitoring of blood glucose and adjustment of insulin doses necessary to achieve near euglycemia . 
relationship of psychiatric illness to impotence in men with diabetes . clinical data from 37 adult males with diabetes mellitus ( insulin dependent , n = 22 ; non-insulin dependent , n = 15 ) who had undergone psychiatric diagnosis and peripheral nerve conduction studies were reviewed to determine whether psychiatric illness was significantly related to complaints of sexual dysfunction . main-effects testing revealed that impotence was associated with both neuropathy ( p less than 0.01 ) and psychiatric illness ( p less than 0.001 ) . logistic regression analysis was then used to determine the independent relationships of these two variables with impotence . after controlling for the effects of neuropathy , psychiatric illness ( generalized anxiety disorder and depression ) remained significantly associated with sexual dysfunction ( p less than 0.01 ) . these data allow for the hypothesis that psychiatric illness may be an important contributor to impotence in diabetic men , as it is in nondiabetic men , even when neuropathic complications of the disease are present . 
oral contraceptives in women with diabetes . we evaluated the association of oral contraceptive use with the presence and severity of diabetic retinopathy , hypertension , and glycosylated hemoglobin in women of childbearing age who have diabetes . neither current or past use nor number of years of use of oral contraceptives was associated with severity of retinopathy , hypertension , or current glycosylated hemoglobin . in conclusion , further study of various birth control methods in young women of childbearing age should be considered . 
sulfonylureas . why , which , and how ? although controversies remain as to the usefulness of sulfonylureas , most evidence is in favor of their use in many if not patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . when used properly , sulfonylureas improve insulin secretion and action , and these effects may be maintained for years . if combined with hypocaloric dietary regulation , rapid - and short-acting sulfonylureas may help patients reach and maintain euglycemia without provoking chronic hyperinsulinemia or weight increase . there is no evidence that sulfonylurea treatment causes beta-cell exhaustion ; instead , the antihyperglycemic effect helps improve beta-cell function . sulfonylurea " failures " are often dietary failures or may be due to late introduction of these drugs , i.e. , when beta-cell function is already attenuated . desensitization of the insulinotropic effect of sulfonylureas may occur but might be avoided by discontinuous ( less than 24 h/day ) sulfonylurea exposure , i.e. , once-daily administration of a short-acting sulfonylurea in a moderate dose . the most important adverse effect of sulfonylureas is long-lasting hypoglycemia , which may lead to permanent neurological damage and even death . this is mainly seen in elderly subjects who are exposed to some intercurrent event , e.g. , acute energy deprivation or a drug interaction , i.e. , aspirin . long-acting sulfonylureas may be more likely to promote long-lasting hypoglycemia . the dose-response relationships of sulfonylureas have been poorly investigated , and sulfonylurea therapy should always be initiated and maintained at the lowest possible dose . 
effect of acarbose on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism in niddm patients poorly controlled by sulfonylureas . the ability of acarbose to lower plasma glucose concentration was studied in 12 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) who were poorly controlled by diet plus sulfonylurea drugs . patients were studied before and 3 mo after the addition of acarbose to their treatment program , and a significant improvement in glycemic control was noted . although the decrease in fasting plasma glucose concentration was modest ( 12.0 + / - 0.8 to 10.8 + / - 0.3 mm ) , average postprandial plasma glucose concentration decreased by 3.4 mm . when acarbose therapy was discontinued in 5 patients , plasma glucose levels rapidly returned toward pretreatment levels . in addition to the improvement in glycemia , acarbose treatment also led to a significant reduction in hba1c ( 7.4 + / - 0.2 to 6.4 + / - 0.2 % , p less than 0.01 ) and triglyceride ( 2.4 + / - 0.1 to 2.1 + / - 0.1 mm , p less than 0.01 ) concentrations . neither the plasma insulin response to meals nor insulin-stimulated glucose uptake improved with acarbose therapy , consistent with the view that acarbose improves glycemic control by delaying glucose absorption . considerable individual variation was noted in the response to acarbose , and the results in 4 patients were dramatic , with striking reductions in both fasting and postprandial glucose concentrations . the addition of acarbose to patients with niddm not well controlled by sulfonylureas appears to have significant clinical benefit . 
biguanides and sulfonylureas as combination therapy in niddm . oral combination therapy with biguanides ( metformin ) and sulfonylureas is discussed . the rationale for the use of this combination is based on the different sites of action of the two kinds of drugs and the possibility for obtaining additive or potentiating effects and reduced side effects . the clinical usefulness of chlorpropamide and glyburide in combination with metformin has been demonstrated in some clinical trials . the combination may provide satisfactory glycemic control for several years , and possibly insulin therapy can be postponed or even avoided . no special safety problems are encountered with the use of the combination other than those attributed to the use of metformin or sulfonylurea alone , i.e. , lactic acidosis and hypoglycemia , respectively . the lethality risks of these associated conditions are comparable . it is concluded that more data are needed to evaluate the full clinical potential and the mechanism of action of oral combination therapy . 
metabolic effects of combination glipizide and human proinsulin treatment in niddm . the effects of 3 mo of treatment with a combination of glipizide and human proinsulin were studied in a small group of closely monitored patients . the patients had non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) and poor glucose regulation , despite maximal sulfonylurea therapy . this was a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial in which there were three treatment groups who received either 20 mg glipizide given 30 min before breakfast and dinner and human proinsulin given subcutaneously at bedtime ( n = 5 ) , glipizide and human proinsulin placebo ( n = 5 ) , or glipizide placebo and human proinsulin ( n = 5 ) . glycemic regulation was assessed by measurements of 24-h plasma glucose profiles and glycosylated hemoglobin . our observations demonstrate that the combination of glipizide plus human proinsulin was more effective than either agent alone in controlling overall glycemia in patients with niddm . the data support the concept of use of an agent during the day that has its major effects postprandially and another agent at bedtime that is relatively hepatospecific . 
combined insulin-sulfonylurea therapy in treatment of niddm . for the past few years , interest has focused on the combination of insulin and sulfonylurea in the search for effective treatments for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) patients who fail on oral hypoglycemic agents . although several studies have demonstrated beneficial effects of such therapy in niddm patients , the average effect is small and is observed in only about half of the patients . however , there are several problems with most previous studies , including small sample size , selection of patients , and simultaneous use of several end points . first , residual beta-cell function has been considered to be a prerequisite for a beneficial effect of combination therapy . therefore , most studies have failed to demonstrate improved glycemic control after adding sulfonylurea to insulin therapy in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . inclusion of patients with impaired beta-cell function will therefore attenuate the effect of combination therapy . second , most studies have used glycemic control as an end point . nevertheless , the insulin dose has been reduced by 20-30 % to avoid hypoglycemia after adding sulfonylurea to insulin . thus , the comparison has been made between treatments with a smaller insulin dose with sulfonylurea and a larger insulin dose without sulfonylurea . the patient most likely to benefit from combination therapy is slightly obese , has had niddm for a relatively short period , and has preserved beta-cell function . in such a patient , combined insulin-sulfonylurea therapy predominantly stimulates basal insulin secretion , resulting in more effective suppression of hepatic glucose production and lower fasting plasma glucose . the side effects are few , most notably more frequent but mild hypoglycemic reactions . 
will sulfonylurea treatment of impaired glucose tolerance delay development and complications of niddm ? the chronic hyperglycemia of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) evolves gradually and is usually preceded by more transient hyperglycemia , classified as impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) . already in this phase , there is an increased risk of cardiovascular complications , and many igt subjects , like niddm patients , often display several of the metabolic and circulatory disturbances that are associated with hyperglycemia , e.g. , insulin resistance , hyperinsulinemia and/or hyperproinsulinemia , delayed insulin release , dyslipidemia , and hypertension . therefore , and because untreated hyperglycemia is a self-perpetuating condition , early detection and early intervention may be necessary to prevent the progression and complications of niddm . this in turn would necessitate screening procedures , and the therapeutic goal should include both euglycemia and normalization of plasma insulin , plasma lipids , and blood pressure . a study in the german democratic republic indicated that the mortality in screening-detected niddm patients did not differ from that in patients detected in routine care . in a swedish study on screening-detected niddm subjects , only those who had igt rather than manifest niddm could maintain fasting blood glucose less than or equal to 6 mm for 5 yr by hypocaloric dietary regulation alone . in those with screening-detected niddm , the delayed acute insulin release and net postprandial hyperglycemia were improved by addition of glipizide , and most managed to attain and maintain fasting blood glucose less than or equal to 6 mm for approximately 2 yr after such addition . however , after 4 yr , there was an increase in blood glucose , suggesting that preventive intervention either may not be possible or may have to start in the igt phase . 
secondary hypogonadism in hemochromatosis . hemochromatosis is a rare disorder of iron storage . this report illustrates a case of hypogonadotropic-hypogonadism in a female with biopsy-proven hemochromatosis . dynamic pituitary and gonadal testing revealed subnormal gonadotropin responses to gonadotropin-releasing hormone ( gnrh ) but normal ovarian reserve , as shown by normal follicular stimulation with hmg . thus , abnormalities of ovulation and menstruation in patients with hemochromatosis are most likely because of inadequate pituitary responsiveness to gnrh . 
insulin-mimetic effects of vanadate . possible implications for future treatment of diabetes . vanadate ions , low-molecular-weight phosphate analogues , mimic most of the rapid actions of insulin in various cell types . when administered orally to diabetic hyperglycemic rats , vanadate reaches the circulation , mimics insulin stimulation of glucose uptake and metabolism , and leads to normoglycemic and partial anabolic states . in addition , vanadate restores tissue responsiveness to insulin and hepatic glycogen levels and activates new synthesis of key enzymes for carbohydrate metabolism . this suggests that correcting hyperglycemia is sufficient to correct the typical metabolic alterations found in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats . several weeks of oral administration of vanadate to diabetic rats has not produced detectable liver or kidney toxicity . the mechanism by which vanadate mimics the actions of insulin is still obscure . unlike insulin , vanadate does not seem to stimulate the autophosphorylation and endogenous tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin-receptor kinase or other intracellular proteins either directly or by virtue of its known inhibitory effect on protein phosphotyrosine phosphatase . results from many studies support a model in which vanadate activates glucose metabolism by either utilizing an alternative ( insulin-independent ) cascade or bypassing the early events of the insulin-dependent cascade . either of these possibilities is of clinical importance , because early insulin events may become defective , as a result of severe hyperinsulinemia , and may contribute to insulin resistance . alternative pathways by which vanadate may stimulate glucose metabolism , e.g. , by increasing intracellular ca2 + levels and/or regulating intracellular and intravesicular ph , are discussed . from a clinical perspective , studies should be continued in evaluating the level of vanadate toxicity after prolonged treatment and searching for agents that potentiate its insulin mimetic actions in vitro and in vivo . 
association of elevated fasting c-peptide level and increased intra-abdominal fat distribution with development of niddm in japanese-american men . the japanese-american population of king county , washington , is known to have a high prevalence of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . as part of a community-based study , we reexamined 146 second-generation japanese-american men who had been initially classified as nondiabetic . at a mean follow-up period of 30 mo , 15 men had developed niddm , and 131 remained nondiabetic . the variables measured at the initial visit that distinguished the 15 diabetic men from the 131 nondiabetic men were older age , higher serum glucose level at 2 h after 75 g oral glucose , higher fasting plasma c-peptide level , and increased cross-sectional intra-abdominal fat area as determined by computed tomography . both older age and higher 2-h glucose levels are variables that have been associated with the development of niddm , but the association of higher fasting c-peptide level and greater intra-abdominal fat area with subsequent development of niddm were new observations . the elevated fasting c-peptide level persisted after adjustment for fasting serum glucose . the elevated c-peptide level represents hypersecretion of insulin and was interpreted to reflect a compensatory response to an underlying insulin-resistant state that antedates the development of niddm . the fasting c-peptide level was correlated with the intra-abdominal fat area , suggesting that the intra-abdominal fat area may be associated with insulin resistance . thus , in individuals who develop niddm , insulin resistance , increased insulin secretion , and increased intra-abdominal fat are present before diabetic glucose tolerance can be demonstrated . 
absence of angiogenesis-inhibitory activity in aqueous humor of diabetic rabbits . we studied inhibitory activity of angiogenesis in the eye to explore the formation of new blood vessels in diabetic microvascular diseases . when we examined the effects of extracts from various ocular tissues of nondiabetic rabbits on the proliferation of bovine aortic endothelial cells , potent inhibitory activity was found in lens and aqueous humor . aqueous humor inhibited both angiogenesis on chorioallantoic membrane in vivo and promotion of endothelial cell growth in vitro , which were induced by retinal extracts . however , in diabetic rabbits , aqueous humor lost the ability to inhibit the growth of endothelial cells . the loss of activity became evident 1 mo after the alloxan injection and lasted while the animals were hyperglycemic . in addition , diabetic aqueous humor failed to suppress retinal extract-induced angiogenesis promotion and endothelial cell growth . the absence of the inhibitory activity of angiogenesis in diabetic aqueous humor might be involved in promotion of neovascularization in diabetic ocular disease . 
effect of hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia on intracellular glucose and fat metabolism in healthy subjects . hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia per se both stimulate glucose uptake and the disposal of glucose by oxidative ( gox ) and nonoxidative ( nox ) metabolism . however , the intracellular metabolic fate of glucose may not be the same when glucose uptake is stimulated predominantly by either of these mechanisms due to different effects on fat oxidation ( fox ) . to address this issue , 11 healthy subjects each had four glucose-clamp studies performed in combination with indirect calorimetry to compare gox , nox , and fox at two different rates of glucose uptake ( approximately 7 and 10 mg.kg-1 fat-free mass [ ffm ] . min-1 ) matched at each level by either hyperglycemia or hyperinsulinemia . when glucose uptake was matched at the lower rate ( 7 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 ) , there was less suppression of both ffa ( 33 vs. 43 % , p less than 0.05 ) and fox ( 73 vs. 90 % , p less than 0.05 ) and less stimulation of incremental ( above basal ) gox ( 1.95 vs. 2.49 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 , p less than 0.025 ) at low insulin ( 72 pm ) and hyperglycemia ( 21.8 mm ) compared with high insulin ( 280 pm ) and euglycemia ( 5.1 mm ) . matching glucose uptake at the higher rates ( 10 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 ) required greater than 300 pm of insulin ( 309 and 632 pm ) in both studies and resulted in maximal suppression of ffa ( 49 vs. 46 % , ns ) and fox ( both greater than 90 % , ns ) and similar incremental gox ( 2.89 vs. 2.73 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 , ns ) whether at hyperglycemia ( 15.7 mm ) or euglycemia ( 5.2 mm ) . therefore , both hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia stimulate glucose uptake and increase intracellular glucose availability , but insulin also regulates gox by suppression of ffa and fox . however , when ffa and fox are maximally suppressed , the rate of glucose uptake , rather than the prevailing insulin level , determines the distribution of intracellular glucose metabolism . 
leucine metabolism in iddm . role of insulin and substrate availability . the effect of insulin on plasma amino acid concentrations and leucine metabolism was examined in 18 healthy nondiabetic young volunteers and in 7 subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) with the euglycemic insulin-clamp technique ( 40 mu.m-2 . min-1 ) in combination with [ 1-14c ] leucine . all diabetic subjects were studied while in poor metabolic control ( fasting glucose 13.3 + / - 1.1 mm ; hba1c 10.8 + / - 0.2 % ) and again after 2 mo of intensified insulin therapy ( fasting glucose 7.2 + / - 0.5 mm ; hba1c 8.0 + / - 0.2 % ) . insulin-mediated total-body glucose uptake in poorly controlled diabetic subjects ( 3.6 + / - 0.5 mg.kg-1 . min-1 ) was significantly reduced compared with control subjects ( 7.5 + / - 0.2 mg.kg-1 . min-1 ; p less than .001 ) and improved slightly after insulin therapy ( 4.8 + / - 0.3 mg.kg-1 . min-1 ; p less than .05 ) , although it still remained significantly lower than in control subjects ( p less than .01 ) . during the insulin-clamp study performed in subjects with poorly controlled iddm , endogenous leucine flux ( elf ) , leucine oxidation ( lo ) , and nonoxidative leucine disposal ( nold ) all decreased ( 50.1 + / - 2.0 to 26.4 + / - 0.4 ; 9.2 + / - 0.4 to 6.0 + / - 0.3 ; 40.9 + / - 2.0 to 20.4 + / - 2.0 mumol.m-2 . min-1 , respectively ) to the same extent as in control subjects . after 2 mo of intensified insulin therapy , the effect of acute hyperinsulinemia on elf , lo , and nold was comparable to that of control subjects , whereas insulin-stimulated glucose metabolism was still impaired . to examine the effect of substrate availability on leucine turnover , well-regulated iddm and control subjects underwent a repeat insulin-clamp study combined with a balanced amino acid infusion designed to increase circulating plasma amino acid levels approximately twofold . under these conditions , nold was equally enhanced above baseline in both control and iddm subjects ( p less than .01 ) , whereas elf was inhibited to a greater extent ( p less than .01 ) than during the insulin clamp performed without amino acid infusion ( control vs. diabetic subjects , ns ) . in conclusion , insulin-mediated glucose metabolism is severely impaired in subjects with both poorly controlled and well-controlled iddm , whereas the effect of acute insulin infusion on leucine turnover is normal , and combined hyperaminoacidemia/hyperinsulinemia stimulated nold to a similar extent in both iddm and control subjects . 
polymorphisms of hepg2/erythrocyte glucose-transporter gene . linkage relationships and implications for genetic analysis of niddm . to assess the contribution of the hepg2/erythrocyte glucose-transporter ( hepg2 gt ) gene to the inherited susceptibility to non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , cdna and genomic probes were used to search for restriction-endonuclease polymorphisms at this locus . analysis of dna from 16 unrelated black american individuals with 19 enzymes and as many as six different probes , defined four polymorphisms over a 45-kilobase region . nucleotide diversity ( pi = 0.006 ) was low relative to that at other loci , with an average of 1 in 1700 base pairs different between two chromosomes at this locus . the observed combined heterozygosity for these four sites was 0.69 , which indicates that the markers at this locus could be useful for linkage analysis in families . linkage-disequilibrium values between the four polymorphisms were evaluated by pairwise analysis and extended haplotypes . calculating pairwise associations by the disequilibrium statistic delta or by another measure of disequilibrium , d' ( the maximum likelihood of disequilibrium , which is less dependent on frequency ) , significant linkage disequilibrium could not be demonstrated . however , the frequencies of the observed extended haplotypes were shown to differ ( chi 2 = 9.1 , df = 2 , p less than 0.025 ) from predicted frequencies if the sites were in linkage equilibrium in blacks . the frequencies of these four polymorphisms were determined in black nondiabetic ( n = 44 ) and niddm ( n = 63 ) subjects . neither the allelic nor genotypic frequencies of the polymorphisms differed between the two groups . 
absence of brown product ffi in nondiabetic and diabetic rat collagen . accumulation of brown products in long-lived proteins might be an important factor in determining long-term diabetic complications . fluorescent chromophore 2 - ( 2-furoyl ) -4 - ( 5 ) - ( 2-furanyl ) -1 h-imidazole ( ffi ) , isolated from hydrolyzed brown products synthesized in vitro , was proposed as a specific brown product responsible for functional and structural changes in long-lived proteins . in this study , an attempt was made to demonstrate by means of collision spectroscopy the presence of ffi in collagen samples taken from diabetic rats . diabetic rat collagen samples showed mean values of absorbance per milligram of 4-hydroxy-l-proline significantly higher than those observed in nondiabetic rats , suggesting higher ffi levels . surprisingly , all collagen samples from diabetic and nondiabetic rats gave collision spectra in which no peak diagnostic of ffi presence was observed . these data suggest that the absorbance level observed in diabetic rats is not due to the presence of ffi but to structurally related compounds , which are being investigated by means of mass spectrometry . 
family of glucose-transporter genes . implications for glucose homeostasis and diabetes . glucose transport by facilitated diffusion is mediated by a family of tissue-specific membrane glycoproteins . at least four members of this gene family have been identified by cdna cloning . the hepg2-type transporter is the most widely distributed of these proteins . it provides many cells with their basal glucose requirement for atp production and the biosynthesis of sugar-containing macromolecules . the liver-type transporter is expressed in tissues from which a net release of glucose can occur and in beta-cells of pancreatic islets . a genetic defect resulting in reduced activity of this transporter could hypothetically lead to the two principal features of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , insulin resistance and relative hypoinsulinemia . the adipocyte/muscle transporter is expressed exclusively in tissues that are insulin sensitive with respect to glucose uptake . this protein is an excellent candidate for a highly specific genetic defect predisposing to insulin resistance . 
effect of cyclosporin on generalized shwartzman reaction in diabetic rats . the effect of cyclosporin ( csa ) on the endotoxin-induced generalized shwartzman reaction ( gsr ) was studied in diabetic and nondiabetic rats . after 4.5 wk of diabetes , csa ( 20 mg/kg ) or intralipid as a control substance was given intraperitoneally daily for 10 days . next , diabetic rats were given either high-dose ( 2 mg/kg or low-dose ( 0.1 mg/kg ) endotoxin ( escherichia coli 026 : b6 lipopolysaccharide b ) as a single injection . the rats were killed at intervals of 1 , 4 , 8 , and 24 h. no significant glomerular thrombi were seen in the nondiabetic control animals , whereas the severity of glomerular thrombi in the diabetic animals was dependent on the presence or absence of csa , endotoxin dose , and degree of glycemic control . in the diabetic rats , glomerular thrombi occurred maximally at 4 h but were no longer present at 24 h. the csa/high-dose-endotoxin rats had fewer glomerular thrombi than rats receiving the intralipid/high-dose endotoxin , but this difference was not statistically significant . the csa/low-dose-endotoxin rats had increased glomerular thrombi compared with the intralipid/low-dose-endotoxin rats ( p less than 0.01 ) . insulin treatment reduced the glomerular capillary thrombi in the csa/low-dose-endotoxin diabetic animals . thus , csa aggravates the gsr with low-dose endotoxin but has no significant effect when high-dose endotoxin is given . improved glycemic control reduces the gsr in csa-treated rats . thus , the interrelationships of diabetes , endotoxin , and csa on the gsr are complex , and the pathogenesis of these events is unclear . 
hla-dq beta sequence polymorphism and genetic susceptibility to iddm . the analysis of hla-dq beta nucleotide sequence polymorphism in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) patients and control subjects suggests a role for the dq beta-chain in genetic susceptibility . sequence determination and oligonucleotide hybridization was carried out on enzymatically amplified dna from various hla-dr-typed individuals , including the rare class of dr2 + patients . in the analysis of dq beta variation in dr4 , drw6 , and dr2 haplotypes , a correlation was observed between the presence of the negatively charged residue asp at position 57 and low susceptibility and the presence of an ala ( dr4 ) , val ( drw6 ) , or ser ( dr2 ) and higher susceptibility . however , important exceptions to this pattern have been identified in the analysis of heterozygous dr1/4 iddm patients . in these individuals , susceptibility appears to correlate with specific dr beta l alleles ( dw4 ) on the dr4 haplotype , rather than with the dq beta allele ( dqb3 .2 ) that contains ala at position 57 . the dq beta alleles found in some chinese iddm patients also proved discordant with the position-57 correlations . thus , although there is a general correlation between the residue at position 57 of the dq beta-chain and iddm susceptibility , these data do not support the notion that asp 57 confers complete resistance or protection to iddm . in general , these results suggest that iddm susceptibility is conferred by specific combinations of dq beta and dr beta sequences . 
a unified hypothesis for the complex genetics of hla associations with iddm . our understanding of the role of hla genes associated with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) is in disarray , despite recent improvements in the definition of specific alleles and haplotypes . some genes are highly associated with iddm , other genes are associated with resistance to iddm , and some highly associated susceptibility genes are markedly influenced by trans-associated synergistic effects ( dr3/4 heterozygotes ) or protective effects ( dr2/4 heterozygotes ) . this plethora of genetic associations has spawned the notion that there are many contributing susceptibility genes , which , in turn , has led to the search for shared structural features among different genes on iddm-associated haplotypes . from a more mechanistic point of view , however , the wide range of variable iddm associations , with both cis - and trans-encoded protective and/or synergistic effects , suggests a different approach . this article proposes a hypothesis in which the different hla associations with iddm can be simply explained by a single unifying concept : a hierarchy of affinities determines the interaction between a diabetogenic peptide and different class ii molecules , and an individual is susceptible to iddm if the class ii molecule in that individual with the highest affinity for such a peptide is a dq beta susceptibility gene . the explicit formulation of this proposal and its genetic implications provide an explanation for hla-encoded dominant " protection " and for some of the more subtle genetic observations related to cis and trans influences in iddm susceptibility . 
differences in lipoprotein subfraction composition and distribution between type i diabetic men and control subjects . subfractions of very-low-density and low-density lipoproteins were examined in 10 male normolipidemic type i ( insulin-dependent ) diabetic patients before and after improvement of metabolic control and were compared with subfractions from male control subjects matched to the diabetic patients at entry for age , body mass index , plasma cholesterol , and plasma triglycerides . two consistent differences in subfraction composition were noted between the diabetic patients at entry and the control subjects . first , subfractions from diabetic patients tended to be cholesterol-ester poor and triglyceride rich ; this was particularly marked for the low-density lipoprotein subfractions . second , the subfractions from pretreatment diabetic patients contained higher proportions of non-apolipoprotein b apolipoproteins . this compositional anomaly , but not the lipid modifications , responded to but was not completely normalized by improved glycemic control , which was also accompanied by reductions in the plasma concentrations of all subfractions . treatment modified subfraction distribution so that the lipoprotein profile of posttreatment diabetic patients more closely resembled the profile observed in the control subjects . these changes were achieved without significant modification of daily insulin dose . in the context of blood lipid risk factors , the results argue for the need to maintain optimal insulinization even in apparently normolipidemic diabetic patients to avoid modifications of the lipoprotein pattern toward a potentially more atherogenic profile . 
increased preproinsulin mrna in pancreatic islets incubated with islet cell-stimulating antibodies from serums of type i diabetic patients . we recently described autoantibodies that stimulate the release of insulin from pancreatic beta-cells both in vitro and in vivo . the aim of this study was to establish whether islet cell-stimulating antibodies ( icstas ) also increase islet cell preproinsulin mrna content . wistar rat islets , isolated by collagenase digestion , were exposed to 2.7 and 11.1 mm glucose . insulin release increased 10-fold in response to the higher glucose concentration , and dot-blot analysis of islet mrna with a rat preproinsulin cdna probe showed a concomitant increase in mrna levels . the globulin fractions of four test serums , three from patients with type i ( insulin-dependent ) diabetes and one from a patient with the insulin autoimmune syndrome , showed clear ( 5 - to 8-fold ) stimulation of insulin release . the nonglobulin fractions of these serums and both fractions of three control serums failed to stimulate secretion of insulin . the insulin mrna content of islets incubated with the icsta globulin fractions was greatly increased compared with levels observed in islets treated with control serum globulin fractions . we conclude that icstas not only can stimulate the release of insulin but also increase the preproinsulin mrna content of islet cells . 
heart-rate variability and cardiac autonomic function in diabetes . cardiac autonomic function was measured in 25 subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and 11 control subjects . autonomic integrity was assessed with standard tests of autonomic function and a new technique of measuring heart-rate variability ( hrv ) for 24 h. all of the diabetic subjects were selected on the basis of peripheral or autonomic neuropathy or long-term poorly controlled diabetes . they were divided into groups according to presence or absence of vagal neuropathy based on the results of standard tests of autonomic function . thirteen diabetic subjects had normal autonomic function tests ( group 1 ) , and vagal neuropathy was detected in 12 diabetic subjects ( group 2 ) . all subjects were monitored by ambulatory electrocardiograph , and the recordings were played back through an analyzer that identified and timed successive pulse ( r-r ) intervals . hrv was measured from the standard deviation of the successive differences between r-r intervals . hrv was significantly reduced in group 1 ( mean + / - se 73 + / - 9 ms ) and group 2 ( 65 + / - 12 ms ) diabetic subjects compared with the control group ( 138 + / - 10 ms ) . the standard tests of autonomic function did not distinguish the vagal dysfunction noted with hrv monitoring in group 1 diabetic subjects compared with control subjects . measurement of 24-h hrv can detect small changes in cardiac autonomic function compared with currently available tests . 
fasting and postprandial concentrations of somatostatin-28 and somatostatin-14 in type ii diabetes in men . recent evidence suggests that somatostatin-28 ( srif-28 ) , cleaved from prosomatostatin by cells of the upper intestine , acts as a nutrient-stimulated inhibitor of insulin secretion in healthy men . a role for srif-28 in the pathophysiology of diabetes has not been previously explored , although several groups have measured circulating somatostatinlike immunoreactivity ( sli ) in diabetic subjects . to investigate the possible mediation of abnormal insulin secretion in diabetes by srif-28 , plasma levels were measured in 10 non-insulin-dependent diabetic men and 9 age - and weight-matched control subjects . concentrations of srif-14 and sli were also obtained . subjects were admitted for study after an overnight fast , blood was collected before and at 30-min intervals for 4 h after a fat meal , and plasma samples were analyzed for srif-28 and srif-14 by specific methods . basal glucose levels in the diabetic men were significantly higher than in control subjects ( 10.2 + / - 1 vs. 5.8 + / - 0.2 mm ) , but insulin levels were similar ( 79 + / - 14.2 vs. 93.3 + / - 14.2 pm ) . the diabetic men had significantly lower basal srif-28 levels than the control subjects ( 11.4 + / - 0.6 vs. 14.6 + / - 1.0 pm , p = 0.017 ) . after fat intake , srif-28 levels throughout the 4 h of study were indistinguishable in the two groups ( 270 vs. 292 % of basal ) . basal srif-14 and sli levels were not significantly different in the two groups , and srif-14 and sli concentrations rose similarly after the meal . there were no correlations between basal srif-28 and glucose or insulin levels . 
strong association between diabetes and displacement of mouse anti-rat insulinoma cell monoclonal antibody by human serum in vitro . in an attempt to identify novel pancreatic beta-cell surface antigens , mouse monoclonal antibodies ( moabs ) were raised against rat insulinoma ( rin5f ) cells with standard techniques . several clones were identified whose antibodies bound specifically to rin5f cells but not to other rat , mouse , and human target cells . each of these moabs was radiolabeled , and the specificity of binding of each moab was determined by the ability of excess cold homologous moab to displace the labeled moab . six rin5f cell-specific moabs of different epitopic specificities were identified . the relevance of these beta-cell epitopes to human insulin-dependent diabetes ( iddm ) was demonstrated by the differential ability of human serums from control and diabetic children to displace the radiolabeled moabs from the rin5f cells . serums from 333 children without diabetes or a family history of diabetes and from 156 newly diagnosed iddm patients were tested . only one igm moab was specifically displaced by the iddm serums , i.e. , 146 of 156 , compared to serums from control children , i.e. , 10 of 333 . with immunofluorescence , the serum component responsible for the displacement of the mouse moab was identified as igg . most of the positive control serums were from children with active autoimmune thyroiditis . serums from children with other forms of glucose intolerance did not displace moab 1a2 . there was no correlation between age and the degree of displacement of 1a2 . thus , the displacement of 1a2 is a specific and sensitive marker of diabetes susceptibility easily applicable to mass screening . 
actions of novel antidiabetic agent englitazone in hyperglycemic hyperinsulinemic ob/ob mice . the effects of cp 68722 ( racemic englitazone ) were examined in ob/ob mice , in adipocytes and soleus muscles from ob/ob mice , and in 3t3-l1 adipocytes . administration of englitazone at 5-50 mg.kg-1 . day-1 lowered plasma glucose and insulin dose dependently without producing frank hypoglycemia in either the diabetic or nondiabetic lean animals . the glucose-lowering effect in ob/ob mice preceded the reduction in hyperinsulinemia . on cessation of drug , plasma insulin returned to untreated levels within 48 h , whereas plasma glucose rose slowly over 5 days . englitazone ( 50 mg/kg ) for 11 days lowered plasma glucose ( 22.2 + / - 1.4 to 14.0 + / - 1.9 mm ) , insulin ( 7.57 + / - 0.67 to 1.64 + / - 0.60 nm ) , nonesterified fatty acids ( 1813 + / - 86 to 914 + / - 88 microm ) , glycerol ( 9.20 + / - 0.98 to 4.94 + / - 0.03 mm ) , triglycerides ( 1.99 + / - 0.25 to 1.03 + / - 0.11 g/l ) , and cholesterol ( 6.27 + / - 0.96 to 3.87 + / - 0.57 mm ) , but no effects were observed 3 h after a single dose . basal and insulin-stimulated lipogenesis were enhanced in adipocytes from ob/ob mice treated with 50 mg/kg englitazone for 11 days compared with lipogenesis in cells from vehicle-treated controls . treatment of ob/ob mice with 50 mg/kg englitazone reversed the defects in insulin-stimulated glycolysis ( from [ 3-3h ] glucose ) and glycogenesis and basal glucose oxidation ( from [ 1-14c ] glucose ) in isolated soleus muscles . englitazone ( 30 microm ) stimulated 2-deoxy-d-glucose transport in 3t3-l1 adipocytes from 0.37 + / - 0.03 to 0.65 + / - 0.06 and 1.53 nmol.min-1 . mg-1 protein at 24 and 48 h , respectively . thus , englitazone has 1 ) insulinomimetic and insulin-enhancing actions in vitro and 2 ) glucose - , insulin - , triglyceride - , and cholesterol-lowering properties in an animal model of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) in which sulfonylureas have little or no effect . thus , this new agent may have beneficial effects including a reduced risk of hypoglycemia in patients with niddm . 
physiological and pharmacological stimulation of pancreatic islet hormone secretion in type i diabetic pancreas allograft recipients . successful heterotopic and denervated pancreas allograft transplantation ( pat ) often results in normoglycemia and peripheral hyperinsulinemia in insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetic recipients . the contribution of altered hepatic insulin extraction ( hie ) to the resulting hyperinsulinemia in such patients remains uncertain . furthermore , whether the denervated pancreas allografts exhibit beta-cell hyperresponsiveness to physiological and pharmacological stimulation is controversial . we evaluated beta-cell function and hie after successful whole cadaveric pat with systemic venous drainage in 13 type i diabetic patients before and after mixed-meal and intravenous glucose and glucagon administration . the results were compared with those of 5 nondiabetic patients with kidney transplantation only , who had native innervated pancreases with portal insulin delivery and were receiving an equivalent triple immunosuppressive therapy ( cyclosporin , azathioprine , and prednisone ) , and 7 healthy control subjects with no family history of diabetes . after pat , fasting and poststimulation serum glucose concentrations were normalized . pat was associated with marked basal hyperinsulinemia ( 3 - to 8-fold ) as assessed by immunoreactive insulin ( iri ) levels in type i diabetic patients ( mean + / - se 345 + / - 43 pm ) compared with control subjects ( 43 + / - 14 pm ) and nondiabetic kidney-transplantation patients ( 129 + / - 38 pm ) . after mixed-meal ingestion , the mean incremental integrated insulin area was similar in pat patients ( 18 + / - 3 nm.min ) compared with kidney-transplantation patients ( 20 + / - 4 nm.min ) and healthy control subjects ( 21 + / - 3 nm.min ) . basal serum c-peptide levels were significantly greater in pat ( 1.72 + / - 0.13 nm ) and kidney-transplantation ( 2.15 + / - 0.33 nm ) patients than in healthy control subjects ( 0.50 + / - 0.10 nm ; p less than 0.01 ) . 
insulinomimetic properties of trace elements and characterization of their in vivo mode of action . lithium and vanadate have insulinomimetic actions in vitro . in this study , we examined the in vivo effects of lithium and vanadate on glucose metabolism in diabetic ( 90 % partial pancreatectomy ) rats . four groups of chronically catheterized rats were studied : control , diabetic , diabetic treated with lithium ( plasma concn 1.0 + / - 0.1 meq/l ) and vanadate ( 0.05 mg/ml in drinking water ) , and diabetic treated with lithium , vanadate , zinc , and magnesium . postmeal plasma glucose was increased in diabetic versus control rats ( 18.7 vs. 7.7 mm , p less than 0.01 ) and was normalized by addition of lithium and vanadate ( 8 mm ) or lithium , vanadate , zinc , and magnesium ( 7.4 mm ) . euglycemic insulin-clamp studies were performed 2 wk posttreatment ; insulin-mediated glucose uptake was reduced in diabetic compared with control rats ( 142 + / - 4 vs. 200 + / - 5 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 , p less than 0.01 ) , returned to normal with lithium and vanadate ( 206 + / - 6 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) , or increased to supranormal levels with lithium , vanadate , zinc , and magnesium ( 238 + / - 6 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) . during the insulin clamp , muscle glycogenic rate was severely impaired in diabetic versus control rats ( 18 vs. 70 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) and was normalized by lithium and vanadate ( 91 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) or lithium , vanadate , zinc , and magnesium ( 93 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 ) . 
limited duration of remission of insulin dependency in children with recent overt type i diabetes treated with low-dose cyclosporin . preliminary data from our group indicated that cyclosporin a induced frequent remissions of insulin dependency in a group of 40 insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetic children if given at the onset of clinical manifestations of diabetes . we report a 2-yr analysis of the response to cyclosporin a in the group of 81 patients included in the initial study . as observed before , a remission could be obtained in most of the patients ( 65 % ) in association with a shorter duration of symptoms , less severe hyperglycemia , lower incidence of ketoacidosis , and higher plasma c-peptide concentrations . all remissions ended during the follow-up period after a mean + / - se duration of 316 + / - 21 days ( range 31-850 days ) . two parameters were linked to the duration of remissions : the mean circulating level of cyclosporin during the first 3 mo and the duration of prediagnostic polyuria . we were unable to relate the end of a remission to variations in the cyclosporin regimen , titer of autoantibodies , or progression of beta-cell failure . the euglycemic clamp technique revealed that insulin sensitivity decreases with time in patients not taking insulin . at 24 mo , the patients who had a remission of insulin dependency had better glycemic control , lower insulin dosages , and c-peptide levels two - to threefold higher than the nonremission patients and four - to sixfold higher than the historical control subjects . the cyclosporin regimen was well tolerated over the observed period : more specifically , serum creatinine remained unchanged , and kidney biopsies performed at 18-24 mo of treatment were within normal limits . 
biochemical studies of rt6 alloantigens in bb/wor and normal rats . evidence for intact unexpressed rt6a structural gene in diabetes-prone bb rats . lymphocytes bearing the t-lymphocyte differentiation antigen rt6 play an important immunoregulatory role in the development of autoimmune diabetes in bb rats . immunofluorescence studies suggest that diabetes-prone ( dp ) - but not diabetes-resistant ( dr ) - bb rat lymphocytes fail to express rt6 antigen during ontogeny . two alloantigenic forms of the molecule exist , i.e. , rt6 .1 and rt6 .2 ; both are linked to cell membranes by a phosphatidylinositol ( pi ) linkage . in these studies , pi-phospholipase c ( plc ) treatment of lymphocytes from bb and normal rats followed by immunoabsorption and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis of released proteins with anti-rt6 allotype-specific monoclonal antibodies was performed . rt6 .1 in several nondiabetic rat strains was found to consist of a family of nonglycosylated and variably glycosylated molecules : an n-glycanase-resistant 24,000 - to 26,000-mr peptide and four n-glycanase-sensitive peptides of 29,000 , 31,000 , 33,000 , and 34,000 mr. in contrast , rt6 .2 was found to be a 24,000 - to 26,000-mr nonglycosylated polypeptide . the electrophoretic pattern of rt6 .1 was observed to be the same when the antigen was extracted from w3/25 + ( cd4 + ) versus w3/25 - t lymphocytes or from resting versus mitogen-activated cells . a pattern of bands characteristic of the rt6 .1 antigen found in normal rat strains was detected after plc treatment or detergent solubilization of lymphocytes obtained from dr rats . in contrast , no evidence of either rt6 species was found after plc or detergent treatment of comparable numbers of t lymphocytes from dp-bb rats . interestingly , t lymphocytes from wistar-furth ( rt6 .2 + ) x dp ( rt6 - ) f1 crosses were observed to coexpress both rt6 .2 and rt6 .1 molecules , with the electrophoretic pattern of rt6 .1 being similar to that obtained in dr and other rat strains . this study provides biochemical evidence that dp rats may have an intact rt6a structural gene . 
genetic control by i-a subregion in h-2 complex of incidence of streptozocin-induced autoimmune diabetes in mice . an experimental autoimmune diabetes in mice characterized by delayed-onset hyperglycemia with lymphocytic infiltrations of the pancreatic islets can be induced by multiple administrations of low doses of streptozocin ( stz ) . we report on the influence of the mhc ( h-2 complex ) on this autoimmune diabetes by comparing the susceptibilities of various congenic and recombinant strains with a b10 background . in congenic strains , c57bl/10 ( h-2b ) and b10.br ( h-2k ) mice showed a high incidence of diabetes , whereas b10.d2 ( h-2d ) and b10.s ( h-2s ) mice showed a low incidence . therefore , we suggest that the h-2 complex influences diabetes susceptibility and that both b and k are high-susceptibility alleles , whereas d and s are low-susceptibility alleles . in recombinant strains , those with the same haplotypes on the k , e , s , and d subregions of the h-2 complex showed undefined ( high and low ) susceptibilities , indicating that the diabetes-susceptibility genes are located outside these loci . strains possessing i-ab or i-ak gene products ( c57bl/10 , b10.br , b10.tl , b10.a , and b10.a ( 2r ] showed high incidences , whereas strains possessing i-ad or i-as ( b10.d2 , b10.s , b10.s ( 7r ) , b10.s ( 9r ) , and b10.gd ) showed low incidences . in addition , administration of anti-i-a monoclonal antibody prevented the manifestation of diabetes in stz-administered mice . passive transfer of stz-administered t lymphocytes to mice given minute doses of stz induced significant hyperglycemia . this successful transfer was only observed in h-2-compatible mice . thus , we conclude that one gene coding for susceptibility to this experimental diabetes was located in the i-a subregion within the h-2 complex . 
diabetes and the myo-inositol paradox . to test the general applicability of the hypothesis that diabetes mellitus causes increased polyol pathway activity , decreased tissue free myo-inositol , and resultant pathological changes in tissues susceptible to the ravages of diabetes , we measured glucose , sorbitol , and myo-inositol with quantitative histochemical techniques in layers of the cornea , the aortic myointima , the cardiac left ventricle and atrioventricular node ( avn ) , and retina and kidney after 19 days or 2 mo ( mildly diabetic non-insulin-treated [ md ] and severely diabetic insulin-treated [ sd ] groups ) in the alloxan-induced diabetes model . in the aqueous humor , glucose rose linearly with increased serum glucose , sorbitol was markedly increased in the md and sd groups , and myo-inositol did not change in any diabetic group . there was no change in glucose or sorbitol in aortic myointima in any group , but myoinositol was decreased in 19-day diabetic rabbits by 26 % , unchanged in md rabbits but paradoxically increased by 60 % in sd rabbits . glucose , sorbitol , and myo-inositol increased in all three corneal layers in sd rabbits but only in epithelium and stroma in 19-day and md rabbits . avn glucose and sorbitol did not change in 19-day diabetic , md , or sd diabetic rabbits . avn myo-inositol was three times higher than ventricular myo-inositol and did not appear to change in sd rabbits . retinal pigmented epithelium myo-inositol was decreased 30 % in sd rabbits . glomerular myo-inositol was also decreased , but not significantly , in sd rabbits . we conclude that the paradoxical increase in corneal and aortal myo-inositol raises fundamental questions about the general applicability of the myo-inositol-depletion hypothesis . 
effect of weight reduction on hepatic abnormalities in overweight patients . the effects of weight reduction on hepatic test results and physical findings related to the liver were retrospectively evaluated in 39 overweight patients screened to exclude other factors affecting the liver . an additional 11 overweight patients with primary liver disease were retrospectively evaluated to compare the effect of weight reduction in patients with liver disease with its effect in those without primary liver disease . this study showed that in overweight adults without primary liver disease , a weight reduction of greater than or equal to 10 % corrected abnormal hepatic test results , decreased hepatosplenomegaly , and resolved some stigmata of liver disease . in similarly studied overweight patients with primary liver disease , some findings improved , but the changes did not correlate with a greater than or equal to 10 % weight loss . increased alanine aminotransferase activity was the most frequent hepatic enzyme abnormality in this population . for every 1 % reduction in body weight , alanine aminotransferase activity improved by 8.1 % . after other causes of liver disease are eliminated by clinical and biochemical parameters , weight reduction should be tried for overweight patients with abnormal hepatic test results in the absence of obvious primary liver disease as judged by clinical and biochemical parameters before extensive and expensive studies are undertaken . 
the uncoupling of biliary lipid from bile acid secretion by organic anions in the rat . a number of organic anions has been shown to inhibit biliary phospholipid and cholesterol secretion without affecting bile acid secretion . however , the mechanism of this uncoupling phenomenon is still unclear . this study shows a comparison of the effects of ampicillin ( 18 mumol/100g body wt ) , sulfated taurolithocholic acid ( 0.2 and 1.0 mumol/100 g body wt ) , and indocyanine green ( 0.6 mumol/100 g body wt ) in control and groningen yellow-wistar rats with chronic ( 8 days ) biliary drainage . groningen yellow rats have a hereditary defect in hepatobiliary transport of various organic anions . bile secretion , but not hepatic uptake , of the three organic anions was strongly impaired in groningen yellow rats compared with controls . ampicillin and sulfated taurolithocholic acid caused a strong uncoupling in control rats but had no effect or a much smaller effect on lipid secretion in groningen yellow rats . indocyanine green did not affect lipid secretion , in either control or in groningen yellow rats . gel-filtration chromatography of bile showed a specific coelution of ampicillin and sulfated taurolithocholic acid with the bile acid fraction , whereas indocyanine green coeluted with the phospholipid/cholesterol fraction . this study concludes that the uncoupling by ampicillin and sulfated taurolithocholic acid occurs after their secretion into bile and is caused by interaction of these compounds with bile acids . it is hypothesized that this interaction inhibits the capacity of bile acids to induce secretion of phospholipids and cholesterol into the bile . 
misdiagnosis of the zollinger-ellison syndrome due to hyperlipidemia . most authorities feel that diagnosis of the zollinger-ellison syndrome is established when the serum gastrin level is greater than 1000 pg/ml ( 1000 ng/l ) in a patient with gastric acid hypersecretion and clinical manifestations consistent with the diagnosis . a patient with recurrent peptic ulcer disease is reported who was thought to have had the zollinger-ellison syndrome based on two serum gastrin level measurements greater than 1000 pg/ml ( 1000 ng/l ) . subsequent evaluation revealed the gastrin elevation to be spurious because the sample was hyperlipidemic . lipemic serum samples may yield falsely elevated serum gastrin determinations as determined by radioimmunoassay . 
practical nutritional advice for the elderly , part i : evaluation , supplements , rdas . a geriatrics panel discussion . by the time someone reaches old age , he or she thinks they know everything they want , or need , to know about nutrition . yet malnutrition and its many effects are a rising danger . in this first of two installments of a panel discussion , nutritional experts review practical concerns for the treating physician , including assessment , interpretation of weight loss , use of supplements , and the relevance of rdas to the elderly . 
biliary calcium and gallstone formation . the purpose of this paper is to present a brief overview of the current status of the field of biliary calcium and the role of calcium in the formation and maturation of gallstones . the study of free ca + ( + ) ions in bile by electrochemical potentiometric measurements using ca + ( + ) - selective ion-exchange electrodes is a relatively new field , but much progress has been made in the past few years . using this powerful analytical tool , new concepts and findings have arisen in almost every aspect of biliary calcium . although the current symposium is targeted primarily toward cholesterol gallstones , there are several areas in which understanding of biliary calcium may significantly contribute to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of cholesterol , as well as " pigment " ( calcium salt ) , gallstones . five broad areas are considered in relation to biliary calcium : ( a ) physiology ( calcium entry into bile ) , ( b ) biophysics ( the regulation of biliary free [ ca + ( + ) ] as related to gibbs-donnan equilibria , ( c ) physical chemistry ( the physicochemical state of calcium in bile , ( d ) thermodynamics ( calcium solubility in bile ) , and ( e ) kinetics ( pronucleating and antinucleating factors and metastable states ) . with more specific reference to cholesterol stones , consideration is also made of ( a ) the calcium salt " seed " hypothesis in cholesterol stone pathogenesis ; ( b ) the interactions of ca + ( + ) with phospholipid-cholesterol vesicles , with consideration of possible structural requirements and ( c ) thermodynamic and kinetic factors as related to peripheral or " eggshell " calcification of existing cholesterol stones . 
hyponatremia in rats induces downregulation of vasopressin synthesis . hyponatremia due to inappropriate secretion of vasopressin is a common disorder in human pathophysiology , but vasopressin synthesis during hypoosmolality has not been investigated . we used a new method to quantitate synthesis of vasopressin in rats after 3 , 7 , and 14 d of hyponatremia induced by administering ddavp ( a vasopressin agonist ) and a liquid diet . vasopressin synthesis was completely turned off by 7 d. vasopressin mrna levels in the hypothalamus paralleled the reduction in synthesis and were reduced to levels of only 10-15 % of the content in control rats . when hyponatremia was corrected by withdrawal of ddavp , vasopressin mrna slowly returned to normal over 7 d. the observation that vasopressin synthesis can be so completely turned off leads to several conclusions : under normal physiological conditions the neurohypophysis is chronically upregulated ; there must be an osmotic threshold for initiation of vasopressin synthesis ( and release ) ; the large store of hormone in the posterior pituitary is essential for vasopressin to be available during times of decreased synthesis ; and , finally , some nonosmolar stimulus for synthesis must be present during clinical disorders when vasopressin is secreted ( and synthesized ) despite hypoosmolality . 
relationship between the content of lysyl oxidase-dependent cross-links in skin collagen , nonenzymatic glycosylation , and long-term complications in type i diabetes mellitus . many abnormalities in collagen have been reported in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , some or all of which have been attributed to increased cross-linking . although recent work has focused on the role of glucose-derived collagen cross-links in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications , relatively few studies have investigated the role of lysyl oxidase-dependent ( lox ) cross-links . in the present study , lox cross-links and nonenzymatic glycosylation were quantified in skin collagen from diabetic subjects . there was an increase in the difunctional cross-link dihydroxylysinonorleucine ( dhlnl ) as well as in one of its trifunctional maturation products , hydroxypyridinium . all other lox crosslinks were normal . nonenzymatic glycosylation was increased in diabetic skin collagen , and this increase was correlated with increases in dhlnl ( p less than 0.001 ) . the biochemical results were examined for correlations with clinical data from the same subjects . increases in dhlnl content were associated with duration of diabetes ( p less than 0.003 ) , glycohemoglobin levels ( p less than 0.001 ) , hand contractures ( p less than 0.05 ) , skin changes ( p less than 0.005 ) , and microalbuminuria ( p less than 0.01 ) . in nondiabetic subjects age was not correlated with collagen cross-link content with the exception that his-hlnl increased with age ( r = 0.79 , p less than 0.02 ) . in diabetic subjects , pa levels decreased with age ( r = 0.51 , p less than 0.02 ) . with increased duration of diabetes , dhlnl content was increased ( r = 0.55 , p less than 0.003 ) and ohp was increased ( r = 0.59 , p less than 0.01 ) , whereas pa levels were decreased ( r = -0.48 , p less than 0.04 ) . nonenzymatic glycosylation of collagen was also increased with increased duration of diabetes ( hex-lys , r = 0.47 , p less than 0.02 ; hex-hyl , r = 0.39 , p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that : ( a ) lysyl oxidase-dependent cross-linking is increased in skin collagen in diabetes and ( b ) that these changes in skin collagen are correlated with duration of diabetes , glycemic control , and long-term complications . 
induction of renal growth and injury in the intact rat kidney by dietary deficiency of antioxidants . we report induction of renal growth and injury in the intact rat kidney using a diet deficient in vitamin e and selenium . this diet was imposed in 3-wk-old male weanling rats , and after 9 wk , enhancement of growth , characterized by increased wet weight , dry weight , protein content , and dna content appeared . morphometric analyses revealed increased kidney volume , tubular epithelial volume , and mean glomerular volume . there were no differences in nephron number . the animals on the deficient diet displayed increased urinary protein excretion at 9 wk . renal injury was also characterized by an interstitial cellular infiltrate and diminutions in glomerular filtration rate . enhanced growth and injury were antedated by increased renal ammoniagenesis . the deficient diet did not induce metabolic acidosis , potassium depletion , glucose intolerance , or elevated plasma amino acid concentration . enhancement of renal growth and ammoniagenesis by the deficient diet was not suppressible by chronic alkali therapy . stimulation of renal growth could not be ascribed to increased intrarenal iron , induction of ornithine decarboxylase , or alterations in glomerular hemodynamics . stimulation of renal ammoniagenesis by dietary deficiency of antioxidants is a novel finding , as is induction of growth and injury . we suggest that increased renal ammoniagenesis contributes to induction of renal growth and injury . 
chylomicron remnant clearance from the plasma is normal in familial hypercholesterolemic homozygotes with defined receptor defects . the retinyl palmitate fat tolerance test was used to measure chylomicron remnant clearance in 10 normal subjects ( apolipoprotein e [ apo e ] isotypes 3 or 4 only ) , 6 normolipidemic apo e2/2 homozygotes and 5 familial hypercholesterolemic homozygotes . skin fibroblasts with fully upregulated ldl receptors from the latter subjects degraded rabbit 125i-beta vldl in vitro at rates ranging from less than 10-48 % of normal . experiments in vivo revealed no significant differences between the normal and homozygous familial hypercholesterolemic ( fhh ) subjects in chylomicron remnant clearance assessed on the basis of " areas under the curves " for retinyl palmitate levels present in post-prandial serum , chylomicron remnants ( sf . less than 1,000 ) , or chylomicrons ( sf . greater than 1,000 ) . remnant clearance was greatly decreased at all times in the apo e2/2 homozygotes , indicative of an important degree of flux control exerted by a receptor-mediated step involving apo e as ligand . the absence of any excess remnant accumulation in fhh subjects with varying " impairment " of ldl receptor-mediated degradation of apo e-containing lipoproteins , permits the conclusion that chylomicron remnants are initially cleared from the plasma by apo e-recognizing receptors which are genetically distinct from ldl receptors . 
regulation of parathyroid hormone gene expression by hypocalcemia , hypercalcemia , and vitamin d in the rat . in vivo in the rat 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 decreases and a low calcium increases pth mrna levels . we now report the effect of 3 and 8 wk of changes in dietary vitamin d and calcium on pth mrna levels . pth mrna levels were increased by 3 wk of calcium deficiency ( five times ) , a vitamin d-deficient diet ( two times ) , and combined deficiency ( 10 times ) , but not changed by high calcium . vitamin d-deficient-diet rats ' pth mrna did not decrease after a single large dose of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 , but did decrease partially after repeated daily doses of 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 . rats after a vitamin d - , calcium-deficient ( - d-ca ) diet did not respond to changes in serum calcium at 1 h. flow cytometry of isolated cells from parathyroid-thyroid tissue separated the smaller parathyroid from the larger thyroid cells and allowed an analysis of parathyroid cell number . in normal vitamin d/normal calcium ( ndnca ) rats the parathyroid cells were 24.7 + / - 3.4 % ( n = 6 ) of the total cell number , whereas in - d-ca rats they were 41.8 + / - 6.6 % ( n = 6 ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . that is , - d-ca rats had 1.7 times the number of cells , whereas they had 10 times the amount of pth mrna , indicating the major contribution ( 6 times ) of increased pth gene expression per cell . moreover , a calcium-deficient , more so than a vitamin d-deficient diet , amplifies the expression of the pth gene , and vitamin d is necessary for an intact response of pth mrna to 1,25 ( oh ) 2d3 or calcium . 
type 2 diabetes mellitus and periodontal disease . the relationship between type 2 diabetes mellitus and periodontal disease was evaluated in 2,878 pima indians of the southwestern united states . two independent measures of periodontal disease , probing attachment loss and radiographic bone loss , were used to compare prevalence and severity of periodontal disease in diabetic and nondiabetic subjects . in all age groups studied , subjects with diabetes had a higher prevalence of periodontal disease , indicating that diabetes may be a risk factor for periodontal disease . 
promoting adherence to low-fat , low-cholesterol diets : review and recommendations . evidence that lowering blood cholesterol levels reduces risk of coronary heart disease has prompted widespread recommendations that hyperlipidemic individuals undergo dietary therapy . however , the extent to which people can adopt and maintain diets to lower lipids is unclear . in our article , we review what is currently known regarding adherence to low-fat diets and present an approach to dietary counseling for lowering cholesterol that incorporates elements of behavioral self-management and social learning theory . we discuss specific recommendations for counseling hyperlipidemic patients based on the dietary alternatives study . recommendations include providing patients with an adequate knowledge base to make dietary changes , using goal setting and self-monitoring to help patients initiate dietary changes , enlisting support from the patient 's family , and enhancing self-efficacy to promote long-term dietary maintenance . 
anxiety levels and cancer fear in patients admitted for elective operations . patients who are to have elective operations project varying degrees of anxiety , and many spontaneously express fear ( without basis ) that their operation involves a diagnosis of malignancy . to measure total , covert , and overt anxiety objectively , we gave the institute for personality and ability testing anxiety test to 125 consecutive patients admitted for elective general surgical procedures . a simple survey of cancer fear was also completed . chi-square and fisher 's exact test were used to compare categoric data , and linear regression and analysis of variance were used where appropriate . total anxiety scores were in the upper quartile compared to the general population . scores indicating fear of cancer were elevated in 75 % of patients who had no history of or reason to suspect malignancy . covert anxiety scores correlated with cancer fear scores , and both significantly decreased as age increased ( p less than .05 ) . also , as age increased , the cancer fear scores decreased ( p less than .002 ) . obese patients had higher scores of cancer fear than all other patients ( p less than .0001 ) . 
synergistic effects of psyllium in the dietary treatment of hypercholesterolemia . we investigated psyllium fiber supplementation as a means of enhancing the cholesterol-lowering effect of the phase i american heart association diet . fifty-nine subjects with total serum cholesterol ( tc ) levels ranging from 5.56 to 10.24 mmol/l ( 215 to 396 mg/dl ) were given a 2-month dietary lead-in followed by 3 months of diet only ( 29 subjects ) or diet supplemented with 20.4 g of psyllium daily ( 30 subjects ) . unlike women , men had a significant decrease in levels of both tc ( -8.0 % ) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( ldl-c ) ( -10.1 % ) during the dietary lead-in . psyllium supplementation resulted in an additional 5.5 % reduction in the tc levels as compared to diet alone . psyllium supplementation combined with dietary lead-in resulted in an overall 17.3 % decrease in the tc and a 20.0 % decrease in ldl-c for men , with decreases of 7.7 % and 11.6 % , respectively , for women . psyllium effectively enhances the cholesterol-lowering effect of the phase i diet . 
surgical management of islet cell dysmaturation syndrome in young children . islet cell dysmaturation syndrome ( icds ) encompasses the causes of infantile hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia histologically described as islet cell hyperplasia , pancreatic adenomatosis and nesidioblastosis . eleven infants underwent 14 pancreatic resections for icds from 1965 to 1990 at the university of california at los angeles medical center for severe hypoglycemia unresponsive to medical therapy . seizures were the presenting symptoms of hypoglycemia in eight infants . six patients had nesidioblastosis , four had islet cell hyperplasia and one patient had an adenoma with histologically normal pancreatic islet cells . four neonates underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection ; three with nesidioblastosis required reoperation ( 90 to 95 per cent resection ) . four older infants underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection but required diazoxide for less than six months postoperatively . three infants underwent 90 to 95 per cent pancreatic resection . none have required reoperation or postoperative medications . all infants are normoglycemic without pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and none had postoperative complications . five infants had preoperative neurologic impairment , with three having severe retardation ; all showed some improvement postoperatively , but only one infant now has normal findings on neurologic examination . early diagnosis and aggressive surgical resection should minimize neurologic complications of the icds . 
results of vein graft reconstruction of the lower extremity in diabetic and nondiabetic patients . the results of 171 vein grafts of the lower extremity were evaluated . these were placed between january 1981 and december 1987 in 150 patients , 75 diabetic and 75 nondiabetic , to determine the influence of diabetes on the outcome of the procedure . one and four year patency rates were determined by a life table analysis . no statistical differences in primary patency were found between the patients with diabetes and those without diabetes for all indications of operations ( one year , diabetic patients 95 + / - 3 per cent , nondiabetic patients 85 + / - 3 per cent ; four years , diabetic patients 89 + / - 11 per cent and nondiabetic patients 80 + / - 12 per cent ; p = n.s. ) . for those operated upon for salvage of the limb because of rest pain , ulceration or gangrene , patency in diabetic patients at one year approached a statistically significant advantage ( diabetic patients 94 + / - 4 per cent versus nondiabetic patients 79 + / - 8 per cent ; p = 0.056 ) . we believe that arterial reconstruction of the lower extremity can be performed upon patients with diabetes with the same high degree of success for revascularization and salvage of the limb as can be accomplished in nondiabetic patients . this is true even though those with diabetes present with necrosis of the tissue and more often require bypass to distal tibial arteries . 
beneficial effects of fetal liver tissue on fetal pancreatic transplantation . recently , composite grafts of hepatocytes and islets have been shown to improve the survival of hepatocytes . the possibility of a reciprocal effect of hepatocytes on islet function was investigated . diabetic lewis rats were isografted with ( 1 ) fetal pancreas and fetal liver ( fp/fl ) , ( 2 ) fetal pancreas alone ( fp ) , and ( 3 ) fetal pancreas and fetal spleen ( fp/fs ) . grafts were transplanted to the small bowel subserosa . all ( 6/6 ) fp/fl recipients were cured ( glucose less than 250 mg/dl for greater than 30 days ) , whereas only 72 % ( 13/18 ) of fp alone and 60 % ( 3/5 ) of fp/fs recipients were cured . the amount of time to normoglycemia for fp/fs recipients was less ( 26 + / - 15 days ) compared with fp ( 50 + / - 29 days ) or fp/fs recipients ( 71 + / - 40 days ) . mean glucose levels at 6 weeks were 166 + / - 78 mg/dl , 237 + / - 97 mg/dl , and 355 + / - 81 mg/dl in cured fp/fl , fp , and fp/fs recipients , respectively . glucose tolerance test results were not significantly different from those of nondiabetic control rats . in contrast to fp alone , fp/fl recipients had well-granulated hyperplastic islets and hepatocytes on histologic examination . when new isograft recipients were treated with cyclosporine , all fp recipients remained hyperglycemic ; however , 75 % ( 6/8 ) of fp/fl recipients were cured . in conclusion , fl in a composite graft with fp resulted in better engraftment , earlier isograft function , and protection from cyclosporine islet toxicity . 
assessment of cardiac function in patients who were morbidly obese . cardiac function of 30 patients who were morbidly obese was studied before bariatric surgery . twelve patients were studied 13 + / - 4 months after surgery . these patients had a mean age of 37.1 + / - 2.9 years and a body mass index of 50.0 + / - 1.4 kg/m2 . cardiac function was measured by echocardiography , radionuclide angiography scanning , and right heart catheterization . to determine the degree of cardiac dysfunction , the patients were studied with exercise and intravenous fluid challenges . ultrasonography produced evidence of myocardial thickening with an increased interventricular septum in eight patients ( 32 % ) and increased left ventricular mass in 17 patients ( 53 % ) . the radionuclide scan suggested that morbid obesity was associated with a significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) increased end-diastolic volume and decreased left ventricular ejection fraction as compared with patients who were of normal weight . with exercise the patient who was of normal weight had an increase in the end-diastolic volume , stroke volume , and heart rate , but the patient who was morbidly obese only increased heart rate to produce the necessary increase in cardiac output . right heart catheterization indicated that the relationship of the pulmonary wedge pressure and the left ventricular stroke work index was abnormal in 14 of 29 patients ( 48.3 % ) and depressed in six of 29 patients ( 20.7 % ) with exercise . one liter of fluid caused an abnormal relationship of the pulmonary wedge pressure and the left ventricular stroke work index in 12 of 30 patients ( 40 % ) and a depressed response in 10 of 30 patients ( 33.3 % ) . cardiac studies were repeated in 12 patients after a 54.8 + / - 1.9 kg weight loss . echocardiography indicated a decrease in dilatation ( 27.3 % to 9.1 % ) and a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decrease in hypertrophy ( 45.5 % to 0 % ) . after the weight loss , radionuclide and right heart catheterization studies indicated improved cardiac function with reduced filling pressures and increased left ventricular work during fluid and exercise challenges . these results support the presence of obesity-related cardiomyopathy with ventricular dysfunction , which appears to be caused by a noncompliant ventricle . significant weight loss achieved with gastroplasty results in increased ventricular compliance and improved cardiac function . 
the changing epidemiology of diabetes mellitus among navajo indians . although early descriptions of diabetes mellitus among navajo indians characterized the disease as an infrequent and " benign chemical abnormality , " the prevalence of diabetes and its complications among navajos appears to have increased substantially in this century . we reviewed recent indian health service inpatient and ambulatory care data and compared these data with previous reports . of the estimated navajo population aged 45 years or older , 4,331 ( 16.9 % ) had an ambulatory care visit for diabetes between october 1 , 1986 , and september 30 , 1987 . diabetes was coded for 1,041 ( 7.0 % ) of hospital admissions of persons aged 20 and older . of 377 lower-extremity amputations done from 1978 to 1987 , diabetes was involved in 245 ( 66 % ) . the 1986 age-adjusted mortality rate from diabetes was 30.3 per 100,000 , approximately twice that for the general us population . the explanation for the increased prevalence of diabetes mellitus among navajos probably relates to an increasing prevalence of obesity . 
overview of hemochromatosis . hemochromatosis is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder that occurs with high prevalence in populations of european origin . the gene that is abnormal in hemochromatosis is found on the short arm of chromosome 6 in close proximity ( approximately 1 centimorgan ) to hla-a , but the product coded for by that gene is unknown . the pathogenetic mechanism in hemochromatosis is that of continued , excessive absorption of dietary iron with loss of normal control mechanisms , leading to a gradual but vast expansion of storage iron as ferritin and especially as hemosiderin . through mechanisms that probably include peroxidation of lipid membranes , the excess iron injures hepatocytes , islet b cells , gonadotropes in the anterior pituitary , myocardium , synovial cells , and chondrocytes , and probably other cells and tissues as well . most patients with hemochromatosis remain undiagnosed throughout life . removal of the excess iron by phlebotomy will prevent all of the complications of hemochromatosis when begun early and will significantly improve survival in virtually all patients . it is important , therefore , that the diagnosis of hemochromatosis be considered much more frequently in clinical medicine in order that this effective therapy be utilized . 
desmopressin for diabetes insipidus , hemostatic disorders and enuresis . arginine vasopressin preparations have been used in the treatment of diabetes insipidus for many years . compared with older antidiuretic agents , the synthetic analog desmopressin is more potent , longer acting and easier to use . it is available for intravenous , subcutaneous and intranasal administration . desmopressin may be useful in the treatment of hemostatic disorders such as von willebrand 's disease and hemophilia a. it has also been used for nocturnal enuresis . the vasopressor effects of arginine vasopressin preparations have been exploited for use as a temporizing measure in controlling acute gastrointestinal bleeding . side effects such as hyponatremia and water intoxication are uncommon when these drugs are used with proper precautions . 
renal effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in congestive heart failure . some studies report that inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) improves renal function in patients with congestive heart failure , whereas others report that renal deterioration is a frequent complication of treatment with ace inhibitors . this article explores the mechanisms by which antagonism of the renin-angiotensin system improves kidney function in some patients while causing harm in others . ace inhibition may alter renal blood flow , glomerular perfusion pressure , basement membrane activity and renal tubular function both directly and indirectly . in most patients , renal function is maintained as other neurohormonal mechanisms compensate for the negative effects and permit the positive effects ( such as improved renal flow ) to predominate . however , when physiologic characteristics or iatrogenic interventions ( such as volume reduction or prostaglandin inhibition ) limit the effectiveness of neurohormonal compensation to maintain renal autoregulation , clinically important deterioration in renal function may occur . an understanding of the renal effects of ace inhibitors permits their safe and effective use in most patients with congestive heart failure . 
aortic calcified plaques and cardiovascular disease ( the framingham study ) . the relation between the presence of calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta , as detected on chest x-rays , and the development of cardiovascular disease is examined during 12 years of follow-up of the framingham cohort ( n = 5,209 ) . the prevalence of aortic calcified plaques approximately doubled with each decade of age , with only a trivial male predominance . its presence was associated with a twofold increase in risk of cardiovascular death in men and women younger than age 65 , even after other risk factors were taken into account . similar increases in risk were found for coronary artery disease , stroke and intermittent claudication among middle-aged women . in middle-aged men these risks were less marked . the predictive value of aortic calcified plaques generally diminished with age . risk of sudden coronary death in men with calcified plaques in the thoracic aorta ranged from a sevenfold increase at age 35 to no excess risk at age 70 years . these results support the view that atherosclerosis is a generalized process . the finding of aortic calcified plaques in a relatively young subject on a routine chest x-ray should be regarded as a sign for potential development of clinically manifest atherosclerotic disease in the cardiac , cerebral and peripheral arterial circulation . 
serial evaluation of lipid profiles and risk factors for development of hyperlipidemia after cardiac transplantation . to determine the prevalence , time course and factors responsible for hyperlipidemia after heart transplantation , 83 consecutive 1-year survivors were studied . by 1 year , 83 % of patients had serum total cholesterol levels greater than 5.2 mmol/liter ( 200 mg/dl ) and 28 % of the patients had serum total cholesterol higher than the age - and sex-matched ninety-fifth percentile . at the end of 1-year follow-up , serum total cholesterol correlated with the recipient age ( p less than 0.0001 ) , the preoperative cholesterol level ( p less than 0.001 ) , the actual dose of maintenance prednisone at 1 year ( p less than 0.02 ) and the cumulative 1-year steroid dose ( p less than 0.03 ) . similarly , the serum triglyceride level at 1 year correlated with the pretransplant level of serum triglycerides ( p less than 0.0001 ) , recipient age ( p less than 0.03 ) and cumulative 1-year steroid dose ( p less than 0.03 ) . patients with a pretransplant diagnosis of coronary artery disease had a significantly higher level of serum total cholesterol and triglyceride levels at 1 year ( p less than 0.02 and p less than 0.03 , respectively ) . heart transplant recipients with body mass index greater than or equal to 25 kg/m2 also presented with significantly elevated serum total cholesterol and triglyceride levels at 1 year compared with nonobese patients ( p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.002 , respectively ) . hyperlipidemia occurs frequently and is detected within the first month after heart transplantation . optimal management of this problem requires further study . 
liver pathology in morbidly obese patients with and without diabetes . the contribution of obesity and/or diabetes to liver pathology in the morbidly obese patient is controversial . we studied the liver biopsies of 100 consecutive patients undergoing gastric bypass surgery for morbid obesity . multiple morphologic parameters were analyzed and graded independently , without knowledge of the clinical history , liver function tests , and oral glucose tolerance results of the patients . six percent of the entire group demonstrated no fat , 42 % mild fat , 20 % moderate fat , and 24 % severe fatty metamorphosis of the liver . twenty-three percent of the patients had central vein fibrosis , 23 % sinusoidal fibrosis , 19 % bridging fibrosis , and 4 % cirrhosis . thirty-six percent of the patients had some degree of steatohepatitis , 66 % possessed so-called glycogen nuclei of hepatocytes , 6 % had pas-positive thickening of blood vessels in the portal tracts , and 1 % had lipogranulomas . the degree of fatty metamorphosis and fibrosis was analyzed in three separate groups , categorized by the glycemic status of the patient : 46 patients with normal glucose tolerance ( ngt ) , 23 patients with impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) , and 31 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . increasing severity of fatty metamorphosis from the normoglycemic obese to the diabetic obese patients was found , which was statistically significant by chi 2 analysis . four of the six patients showing no fatty metamorphosis were normoglycemic . glycogen nuclei and pas-positive blood vessels were significantly more prevalent in the diabetic obese than in the normal obese . in conclusion , the distribution of significant liver histopathology in the morbidly obese patient correlates in severity with the degree of impaired glycemic status . 
protein-losing enteropathy in systemic lupus erythematosus associated with intestinal lymphangiectasia . this case report concerns a young woman with systemic lupus erythematosus who presented with a protein-losing enteropathy . intestinal biopsy revealed lymphangiectasia . mesenteric lymph nodes showed paracortical lymphoid depletion and multiple small sinusoids . elevated cholesterol levels and normal lymphocyte counts characterized the peripheral blood samples . lymph nodes , though enlarged , showed no evidence of obstructive pathology . no secondary cause of lymphangiectasia could be identified . the patient exhibited antinuclear antibodies and antibodies to dsdna at the onset , and then , 5 yr later , the classic features of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . the lymphocytopenia and hypolipidemia that characterizes lymphangiectasia is not a feature of the sle cases reported to date . furthermore , the mechanism for the dilated lymphatics and villous edema is more likely immunological than mechanical disruption of lymphatics . 
hyperkalemia in the elderly . physiologic and pathologic events that occur in patients as they grow older may result in distal renal tubular dysfunction , as well as decreased levels of plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone . such alterations result in a tendency toward hyperkalemia . a syndrome termed hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism , associated with hyperkalemia , has been frequently described in elderly patients . the common occurrence of hyperkalemia in the elderly may be aggravated by the use of drugs that either further suppress renin and/or aldosterone or interfere with distal tubular potassium excretion . some patients with hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism respond to diuretic therapy . the recognition of the possible development of severe hyperkalemia in the elderly patient may avoid serious and even fatal complications of this electrolyte disorder . 
geriatric diabetic nephropathy : an analysis of renal referral in patients age 60 or older . we report a series of 33 consecutive hospitalized geriatric diabetic patients who were referred for evaluation of diabetic nephropathy , defined as proteinuria greater than or equal to 1 g/d ( 1,000 mg/24 h ) or a serum creatinine concentration greater than or equal to 177 mumol/d ( greater than or equal to 2 mg/dl ) . the study population was 60 years old or older ( mean age , 68 + / - 6 years ) , was comprised mainly of women ( 24 of 33 , 72.7 % ) , and was predominantly black ( 25 of 33 , 75.8 % ) . all patients had type ii diabetes . a family history of diabetes in parent or sibling was elicited in 24 ( 72.7 % ) patients . there were eight patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis and 25 with less severe nephropathy ( mean proteinuria , 2.7 g/d [ 2,700 mg/24 h ] ; mean creatinine clearance , 0.57 ml-s [ 34 ml/min ] ) . cardiac disorders were noted in the majority of patients : congestive failure in 20 ( 60.6 % ) , myocardial infarction in eight ( 24.2 % ) , and active angina in five ( 15.2 % ) . other comorbid diseases were present in both hemodialysis patients and the subset of nondialyzed azotemic-proteinuric patients , and consisted of peripheral neuropathy in 31 ( 93.9 % ) , gastroparesis in 16 ( 48.5 % ) , retinopathy in 28 ( 84.8 % ) , and legal blindness in 11 ( 33 % ) . we conclude that geriatric diabetic nephropathy in type ii diabetes is similar in presentation and severity of comorbid extrarenal complications to the syndrome described in younger adults . this inference must be tempered by both the small size and the limitation imposed by the demographics of the study population , which is predominantly composed of black patients receiving treatment at inner city hospitals . 
diabetes mellitus and hypertension . hypertension and diabetes mellitus are chronic medical conditions that frequently coexist . in the united states , it is estimated that 10 million persons suffer from diabetes mellitus , 60 million from hypertension , and 3 million from the combination of the two . there may be a causal relationship between hypertension and diabetes . obesity may be a precipitating factor for both hypertension and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . those with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus generally become hypertensive only with the onset of nephropathy . glucose tolerance , insulin resistance , and hyperinsulinemia frequently occur with essential hypertension and may be aggravated by hypertension therapy , especially with diuretics and beta-blockers . hyperinsulinemia may be an important common factor promoting sodium retention , sympathetic nervous system stimulation , and inhibition of the sodium pump . the working group on hypertension in diabetes has outlined a flexible modified version of the stepped-care approach to the treatment of hypertension in diabetes . management is complex because diabetes is associated with autonomic neuropathy , sexual dysfunction , hyperlipidemia , and fluid and electrolyte disorders . all these problems can be exacerbated by antihypertensive treatment . nonpharmacologic measures , which address weight reduction and sodium restriction , are logical , but aggressive antihypertensive medication is invariably necessary . diuretics and/or beta-blockers were the mainstay of treatment until the introduction of angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors and calcium channel blockers . these newer agents have no deleterious effects on carbohydrate metabolism and are generally better tolerated . antihypertensive therapy may slow the rate of deterioration in diabetic nephropathy . this was first shown with diuretics , beta-blockers , and hydralazine and more recently with ace inhibitors , which provide effective blood pressure control and a significant drop in albuminuria without affecting the glomerular filtration rate adversely . ace inhibition may also lead to increased insulin sensitivity and glucose disposal rate . long-term trials are needed to assess the effects of these new agents on the treatment of hypertension in the diabetic population . 
haplotype analysis of the human apolipoprotein b mutation associated with familial defective apolipoprotein b100 . haplotype analysis was conducted on the mutant allele of 14 unrelated subjects heterozygous for a mutation in the codon for amino acid 3500 of human apolipoprotein b100 . this mutation is associated with defective binding of low-density lipoprotein to the low-density lipoprotein receptor and with moderate hypercholesterolemia . ten markers were used for haplotyping : eight diallelic markers within the structural gene and two hypervariable loci flanking the gene . seven of eight unequivocally deduced haplotypes were identical , and one revealed only a minor difference at one of the hypervariable loci . the genotypes of the six other affected subjects were consistent with this same assigned haplotype . these data are consistent with a common ancestral chromosome and provide no evidence for a recurrent mutation at this potentially hypermutable cg dinucleotide , despite the fact that this mutation is not rare . 
definitive prenatal diagnosis for type iii glycogen storage disease . prenatal diagnosis for type iii glycogen storage disease was performed by using ( 1 ) immunoblot analysis with a polyclonal antibody prepared against purified porcine-muscle debranching enzyme and ( 2 ) a qualitative assay for debranching-enzyme activity . cultured amniotic fluid cells from three pregnancies ( three families in which the proband had absence of debrancher protein ) were subjected to immunoblot analysis . two unaffected and one affected fetus were predicted . in addition , cultured amniotic fluid cells from nine pregnancies ( eight families ) were screened with a qualitative assay based on the persistence of a polysaccharide that has a structure approaching that of a phosphorylase limit dextrin when the cells were exposed to a glucose-free medium . this qualitative assay predicted six unaffected and three affected fetuses . all predictions by either method were confirmed postnatally except for one spontaneously aborted fetus . our data indicate that a definitive diagnosis of type iii glycogen storage disease can be made prenatally by these methods . 
alkaline phosphatase ( tissue-nonspecific isoenzyme ) is a phosphoethanolamine and pyridoxal-5 ' - phosphate ectophosphatase : normal and hypophosphatasia fibroblast study . to clarify its physiologic role , alkaline phosphatase ( alp ) was examined in normal skin fibroblasts and was shown to be the tissue-nonspecific ( tns ) isoenzyme type ( as evidenced by heat and inhibition profiles ) and to be active toward millimolar concentrations of the putative natural substrates phosphoethanolamine ( pea ) and pyridoxal-5 ' - phosphate ( plp ) . fibroblast alp has a low-affinity activity , with a distinctly alkaline ph optimum ( 9.3 ) , toward 4-methylumbelliferyl phosphate ( 4-mup ) , pea , and plp but a more physiologic ph optimum ( 8.3 ) toward physiologic concentrations ( micromolar ) of pea and plp . normal fibroblast alp is linked to the outside of the plasma membrane , since in intact cell monolayers ( 1 ) dephosphorylation rates of the membrane-impermeable substrates pea and plp in the medium at physiologic ph were similar to those observed with disrupted cell monolayers , ( 2 ) brief exposure to acidic medium resulted in greater than 90 % inactivation of the total alp activity , and ( 3 ) digestion with phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase c ( pi-plc ) released about 80 % of the alp activity . hypophosphatasia fibroblasts were markedly deficient ( 2 % -5 % control values ) in alkaline and physiologic alp activity when 4-mup , plp , and pea were used as substrate . the majority of the detectable alp activity , however , appeared to be properly lipid anchored in ecto-orientation . thus , our findings of genetic deficiency of pea - and plp-phosphatase activity in hypophosphatasia fibroblasts , as well as our biochemical findings , indicate that tns-alp acts physiologically as a lipid-anchored pea and plp ectophosphatase . 
pseudohypophosphatasia : aberrant localization and substrate specificity of alkaline phosphatase in cultured skin fibroblasts . we explored the biochemical basis for the disorder pseudohypophosphatasia ( pshypt ) in one patient by examining the substrate specificity and localization of alkaline phosphatase ( alp ) in cultured dermal fibroblasts . despite substantial alp activity , in cell homogenates , toward the artificial substrate 4-methyl-umbelliferyl phosphate ( 4-mup ) , there was a marked deficiency in alp activity toward the natural substrates pyridoxal 5 ' - phosphate ( plp ) and phosphoethanolamine ( pea ) , indicating altered substrate specificity . furthermore , although 4-mup phosphatase ( 4-mup-p ' tase ) activity was predominantly localized as an ecto-enzyme , the small amount of plp phosphatase ( plp-p ' tase ) activity was intracellular . this differential localization was apparent in intact cells , since ( 1 ) brief acidification of the medium at 4 degrees c inactivated a majority of the 4-mup-p ' tase activity but only 15 % of the plp-p ' tase activity ( in contrast to greater than 85 % inactivation of both in homogenates ) , ( 2 ) greater than 70 % of the 4-mup-p ' tase activity but only 30 % of the plp-p ' tase activity was released by phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase c ( pi-plc ) digestion , and ( 3 ) degradation of extracellular plp was less than 35 % of that of disrupted cells . both 4-mup - and plp-p ' tase activities were predominantly in a lipid-anchored form that could be converted to a soluble , lipid-free form by pi-plc digestion . our findings suggest that the clinical and biochemical presentation of this pshpt patient results from the production of two aberrant alp species . one form of alp has appropriate ectoorientation but is preferentially deficient in activity toward natural substrates ; the other alp species has appropriate substrate specificity but is sequestered from substrates by its intracellular location . 
deletion mapping of aland island eye disease to xp21 between dxs67 ( b24 ) and duchenne muscular dystrophy . aland island eye disease ( aied ) is an x-linked form of ocular hypopigmentation -- also known as forsius-eriksson , or type 2 , ocular albinism -- in which affected males demonstrate subnormal visual acuity , protanomalous red-green colorblindness , axial myopia , astigmatism , hypoplasia of the fovea , and hypopigmentation of the fundus . a patient has previously been described who , in addition to aied , manifested a contiguous gene syndrome which included congenital adrenal hypoplasia ( ahc ) , glycerol kinase deficiency ( gkd ) , and duchenne muscular dystrophy ( dmd ) . in the present paper report we report the molecular genetic analysis of his deletion . initially , multiplex polymerase-chain-reaction amplification was used to screen for a dmd-locus deletion which was then further characterized , using dmd cdna and genomic probes , via southern blot analysis . the deletion includes the region encompassed by probes c7 ( dxs28 ) and dmd cdna 8 . probes b24 ( dxs67 ) and dmd cdna 5b-7 show normal hybridization patterns and appear to flank the deletion , while the dmd cdna 8 detects a junction fragment . molecular genetic techniques have mapped the deletion in this patient to the subbands xp21.3-21 .2 , between dxs67 and dmd . 
effect of dietary protein restriction on functional renal reserve in diabetic nephropathy . purpose , patients , and methods : functional renal reserve in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , as determined by the glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) response test , is a measure of the capacity of the kidney to increase glomerular filtration in response to the stimulus of a protein meal or amino acid infusion . this 12-month study evaluated the changes in functional renal reserve in eight patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with nephropathy ( micro-albuminuria [ greater than or equal to 30 micrograms/minute ] ) who chronically decreased their dietary protein intake to a mean of 0.6 g/kg/day ( group 1 ) compared with a group of similar patients ( n = 7 ) who maintained their unusual dietary protein intake ( 1.0 g/kg/day , group 2 ) . patients were evaluated and measurements taken at 3 - , 6 - , and 12-month intervals . absolute and percent increases in gfr were calculated from three averaged 1-hour measurements after an 80-g protein test meal . results : although the initial absolute mean rise ( 14 + / - 12 versus 18 + / - 13 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 ) in gfr and maximal percent rise ( 16 % + / - 16 % versus 32 % + / - 27 % ) after the meal did not differ significantly between the two groups , at 12 months , values in the lower protein group increased ( 27.8 + / - 9.5 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 and 54.7 % + / - 48.8 % ) , whereas those in the normal protein intake group declined significantly ( 3.7 + / - 3.6 ml/min-ute/1 .73 m2 and 6.5 % + / - 6.5 % ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . both urine urea and microalbuminuria decreased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) in the low protein group . unstimulated gfr at the end of 12 months was significantly less ( p less than 0.05 ) in group 2 ( 47 + / - 2 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 ) than in group 1 ( 71 + / - 21 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 ) . the rate of decline in gfr was significantly greater ( p less than 0.05 ) in the normal protein intake group than in the low protein intake group ( 0.68 + / - 0.4 versus 0.28 + / - 0.15 ml/minute/1 .73 m2/month ) . conclusions : this study indicates that sustained dietary protein restriction can help to preserve renal function , decrease albuminuria , and lower the baseline gfr while maintaining functional renal reserve in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . 
high infectious morbidity in pregnant women with insulin-dependent diabetes : an understated complication . patients with insulin-dependent diabetes are prone to infection , possibly related to poor metabolic control . relative immune deficiency exists in pregnancy . we hypothesized that pregnant patients with insulin-dependent diabetes are at an increased risk for infection and that infection is related to poor glycemic control . we matched 65 pregnant women with insulin-dependent diabetes to 65 nondiabetic pregnant controls . at least one episode of infection before delivery occurred in 83 % of the women with insulin-dependent diabetes ( 26 % in control group ) . the rate of postpartum infection was five times higher in the group with insulin-dependent diabetes and they were susceptible to more kinds of infections . although there was no overall difference among the indices of glycemic control , hemoglobin a1 obtained before the infection was higher than during infection . we conclude that a high rate of infection exists in pregnant women with diabetes ; infection and poor glycemic control may be associated , but it is unclear whether improvement in metabolic control will reduce this high infection rate . 
long-term maternal-fetal exposure to high-low insulin concentrations alter liver but not brain insulin receptors . we investigated the effects of long-term ( 5 to 6 days ) in vivo exposure to hyperinsulinemia and hypoinsulinemia on maternal and fetal rat ( 18 to 20 days ' gestation ; term approximately 21 days ) brain and liver insulin receptors . further we studied the in vitro effects of long-term insulin exposure on cultured rabbit neuronal cell insulin receptors . long-term glucose infusions to maternal rats resulted in maternal and fetal hyperglycemia and mild hyperinsulinemia , which decreases the liver insulin receptor abundance of the mother but increased that of the fetus . streptozotocin-induced maternal diabetes resulted in maternal and fetal hyperglycemia with hypoinsulinemia ( or near-normal insulin levels ) and increased maternal and fetal liver insulin receptors . the maternal and fetal brain insulin receptor abundance failed to change at high or low insulin concentrations . similarly long-term insulin ( 5 micrograms/ml ) exposure failed to alter cultured neuronal cell insulin receptors as well . we conclude that perturbations in maternal and fetal circulating insulin concentrations fail to affect the brain insulin receptors . this protective phenomenon may be critical in maintaining the normal neuronal energy balance and functioning during certain disease states such as diabetes mellitus and hyperinsulinism . 
immunopathology of diabetes in the rt6-depleted diabetes-resistant bb/wor rat . insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus appears to be an autoimmune disease that is characterized morphologically by insulitis , an inflammation of the pancreatic islets of langerhans that results in the destruction of the insulin-producing beta cells . the rt6-depleted dr rat provides a good model for the in situ study of insulitis . the authors used the anti-rt6 .1 monoclonal antibody to selectively deplete rt6 t cells in dr rats and produce a synchronous and rapid development of insulitis that commences 10 days after treatment . the phenotype of cells that infiltrated the islets at different stages of insulitis in the rt6-depleted dr rat was determined by immunocytochemical techniques . a prodromal period of 10 days was present in which the authors could not detect morphologic alterations within the pancreas . this is followed by a second phase of early insulitis in which a few islets are infiltrated by macrophages and t cells . this rapidly progresses by 18 days to the final phase of generalized insulitis in which the islets are massively infiltrated by macrophages and t cells . 
neuromuscular effects of respiratory and metabolic acid-base changes in vitro with and without nondepolarizing muscle relaxants . the effects of metabolic ( bicarbonate , [ hco3 ] ) and respiratory ( carbon dioxide , pco2 ) acid-base changes on indirectly elicited twitch tension with and without nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents were compared in a rat phrenic nerve-hemidiaphragm preparation . ionized calcium [ ca2 + ] and magnesium [ mg2 + ] concentrations in the modified krebs ' solution were measured and kept constant . likewise , twitch was altered when ph changes were produced by altering either pco2 or [ hco3 ] . decreasing ph either by increasing pco2 or by decreasing [ hco3 ] significantly decreased ( p less than 0.01 ) twitch , by 9.5 + / - 0.6 ( sem , n = 8 ) and 10.6 + / - 1.5 % , respectively . increasing ph by decreasing pco2 or by increasing [ hco3 ] significantly increased ( p less than 0.01 ) twitch , by 5.6 + / - 0.9 and 7.9 + / - 0.6 % , respectively . after a partial depression of twitch by nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents , the effects of pco2 and [ hco3 ] changes were again assessed . decreasing ph by increasing pco2 or by decreasing [ hco3 ] intensified d-tubocurarine ( dtc ) ( 28.2 + / - 1.6 and 32.0 + / - 2.9 % , respectively ) and vecuronium ( 23.0 + / - 1.4 and 36.8 + / - 3.2 % , respectively ) block , whereas it reversed metocurine ( 1.2 + / - 2.2 % ns and 2.9 + / - 1.3 % , respectively ) and pancuronium ( 8.3 + / - 1.5 and 11.5 + / - 3.0 % , respectively ) block . conversely , increasing ph by decreasing pco2 or by increasing [ hco3 ] antagonised dtc ( 12.8 + / - 2.2 and 13.6 + / - 1.8 % , respectively ) and vecuronium ( 25.3 + / - 1.7 and 25.0 + / - 3.0 % , respectively ) block , whereas it potentiated metocurine ( 4.2 + / - 0.6 and 8.0 + / - 1.1 % , respectively ) and pancuronium ( 11.0 + / - 1.2 and 17.5 + / - 2.0 % , respectively ) block . except where indicated , all changes in block described above were statistically significant . 
effect of high-dose furosemide in refractory congestive heart failure . high-dose firosemide is considered effective in primary renal sodium retention but is not generally recommended in congestive heart failure . in order to evaluate efficacy and safety of high-dose furosemide ( greater than 500 mg/day ) , the authors studied 20 patients ( pts ) resistant to therapy ( including furosemide less than 500 mg/day ) selected from 161 pts admitted for chronic heart failure . all refractory pts ( 15 men and 5 women , mean age sixty + / - 12 years ) were in nyha class iv and showed hyponatremia ( 130 + / - 5 meq/l ) and impaired renal function ( bun 31 + / - 14 mg/dl , serum creatinine 1.3 + / - 0.3 mg/dl and bun/creatinine ratio 23 + / - 7 ) . in addition to digitalis , dopamine , angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors , or vasodilators , iv high-dose furosemide ( 775 + / - 419 mg/day , 500-2000 ) was given for ten + / - five days under daily clinical and laboratory monitoring . three pts died of low-output syndrome while 16 pts were upgraded to nyha class iii and 1 pt to class ii ; a mean weight reduction of 7.3 + / - 2.9 kg in ten + five days ( 0.80 + / - 0.4 kg/day ) and a mean diuresis increase of 88 + / - 57 % occurred . the maximal dose of furosemide did not correlate with serum creatinine but did correlate with bun/creatinine ratio ( r = 0.78 , p less than .001 ) . pts were discharged on with chronic heart failure , and 43 % in the subgroup in nyha class iv with hyponatremia . high dose furosemide was effective for rapid removal of excess water and salt in " furosemide-resistant " congestive heart failure . the relationship between renal impairment and maximal furosemide doses seems to confirm the role of renal pharmacokinetics in the appearance of furosemide resistance . 
use of doppler flow velocity waveform analysis in detection of initial diabetic microangiopathy . doppler flow velocity waveform analysis ( fvwfa ) , recorded from the dorsalis pedis artery ( dpa ) and the radial artery ( ra ) , was performed on 36 women in attempting to detect an initial diabetic microangiopathy ( dm ) . the study comprised two groups of women affected by non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , 6 patients ( pts ) of reproductive age ( 1 ) , 12 pts in menopause ( ii ) , and two groups of age-matched healthy controls ( c ) ( iii and iv ) . clinical signs of initial dm were present in group i. all the examined pts were nonsmokers and normotensive and without cardiopathy , signs of diabetic macroangiopathy , collagen vascular disease and/or raynaud 's phenomenon , and renal failure . four waveform dimensions capable of separating different degrees of peripheral obstructive arteriolar disease were determined on velocity tracing and the results used in a single best discriminant equation . the resultant discriminant score ( ds ) , derived by fvwfa on dpa , showed a highly accurate rate of separating the young pts with dm from both c and the pts in menopause without dm . furthermore , the resultant ds was statistically not different in groups ii , iii , and iv . in conclusion , fvwfa on dpa , in this experience , has proved to be an accurate and sensitive method in the detection of initial dm . 
brain water content , brain blood volume , blood chemistry , and pathology in a model of cerebral edema . study objectives : the objective was to correlate regional changes during brain water content with alterations in blood chemistry and cerebral pathology during hypo-osmotic edema . participants : sprague-dawley male adult rats were used in these studies . design : animals were block-randomized to receive either an intraperitoneal distilled water injection equivalent to 5 % or 15 % of their body weight or no injection ( controls ) . rats were sacrificed 15 or 60 minutes after water injection or at an equivalent time for controls . interventions : no interventions were performed . measurements and main results : water content of cerebral cortical gray and white matter was calculated from measurements of tissue specific gravity . blood plasma osmolality and sodium and potassium concentrations were determined at various times after water injection . an index of blood-brain barrier permeability was obtained by measuring brain red blood cell and plasma volumes . a qualitative assessment of edema was made from light and electron micrographs of the cerebral cortex . we found that water injection produced a dose-dependent decrease in plasma osmolality and sodium concentration within 15 minutes . cortical water content was unchanged after this period . an influx of water into cerebral gray , and , less readily , into cerebral white matter occurred during the next 15 minutes . whole blood specific gravity and brain blood content were unchanged and thus did not confound the measurement of cerebral water content . hematocrit was increased 60 minutes after a 15 % water injection . the blood-brain barrier remained intact throughout this period . microscopy revealed astrocytic swelling with slight extracellular fluid accumulation 60 minutes after the water injection . conclusions : homeostatic mechanisms in the cerebral cortex can maintain constant water content for at least 15 minutes during maintained intravascular hypo-osmolality . fluid that subsequently moves into the tissue primarily enters an intracellular compartment . this model will be useful in investigating physiological mechanisms of brain water regulation and the pathogenesis of brain edema , a common clinical entity in emergency conditions . 
a prospective assessment of the garren-edwards gastric bubble and bariatric surgery in the treatment of morbid obesity . morbid obesity is a serious medical hazard , and effective alternatives to surgery have been unsuccessful . in 1985 , the garren-edwards gastric bubble ( gegb ) was offered as an adjunct to dietary and behavioral therapy for weight loss treatment . the safety and efficacy of the gegb were compared with bariatric surgery , the current standard for the treatment of morbid obesity . fifty-seven patients received gegb and 77 underwent bariatric surgery . gegb patients were divided into two groups : those who attended group therapy and those who did not . this study showed that bariatric surgery was far more effective in reducing excess body weight during a 12-month period compared with the gegb plus group therapy and the gegb alone . the morbidity from bariatric surgery was greater than in the gegb-treated groups , while the cost for uncomplicated cases for a year 's treatment was comparable . it is concluded that the gegb does not offer an effective alternative to bariatric surgery in the treatment of morbid obesity . 
branch retinal vein occlusion : the pathogenetic role of blood viscosity . the pathogenesis of branch retinal vein occlusion has not been completely clarified . the role of abnormal blood viscosity in the appearance and evolution of the disease has recently been advocated . we studied 54 patients with long-standing branch retinal vein occlusion from a hemorrheologic point of view . depending on the extension of retinal ischemia , two subgroups were identified . hematocrit , blood and plasma viscosity , whole blood filterability , cell deformability , and fibrinogen levels were investigated . thirty-five subjects of similar age , sex , and risk factors of diabetes and hypertension served as controls . our results showed that blood viscosity is higher in patients with occlusion and particularly in those with severe retinal ischemia . statistical analysis showed a direct correlation between blood viscosity and hematocrit . 
relation of hyperglycemia early in ischemic brain infarction to cerebral anatomy , metabolism , and clinical outcome . we studied the relation of serum glucose level measured in the first 12 hours of symptoms to the clinical findings , results of computed tomography ( ct ) , and patterns of cerebral metabolism in 39 patients who had acute ischemic cerebral infarction . structural damage was assessed by ct . metabolic disruption was assessed using 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography ( pet ) . median initial serum glucose concentration was 155 mg/dl ( 6.7 mm ) . clinical recovery was significantly poorer in patients with initial serum glucose levels higher than the median ( p less than 0.05 , chi square ) . pet tended to show normal results or minor abnormalities in patients with initial glucose levels less than the median , as opposed to lobar or multilobe abnormalities in patients with levels that were higher than the median ( p less than 0.05 , kendall 's tau b ) . the severity of hypometabolism in the ischemic region , expressed as the percent asymmetry of local cerebral glucose metabolism between homologous brain regions , was greater in patients with initial glycemia concentrations higher than the median ( p less than 0.001 , t test ) . relationships of serum glucose level with metabolic derangement and structural damage , but not outcome , held true in patients without a history of diabetes mellitus . 
acute gastroenteritis in infants under 6 months old . sixty two babies under the age of 6 months who were admitted with gastroenteritis completed a study of gradual refeeding compared with abrupt refeeding after a period of rehydration . there was no difference in the incidence of recurrence of diarrhoea due to lactose intolerance , effect on weight , or duration of hospital stay . twenty six babies ( 42 % ) had recurrence of diarrhoea after refeeding , all of whom settled with the introduction of a lactose free soya based formula . well nourished babies under 6 months of age with mild to moderately severe gastroenteritis can be fed immediately with full strength milk feeds after rehydration . the introduction of a lactose free soya based preparation may provide an alternative to repeated attempts at regrading with cows ' milk feeds in those patients with lactose intolerance . 
cystic tumors of the pancreas . new clinical , radiologic , and pathologic observations in 67 patients . within a 12-year period we treated 67 patients ( 49 women , 18 men ; mean age , 61 years ) with cystic neoplasms of the pancreas , including 18 serous cystic adenomas , 15 benign mucinous cystic neoplasms , 27 mucinous cystadenocarcinomas , 3 papillary cystic tumors , 2 cystic islet cell tumors , and 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia . mean tumor size was 6 cm ( 2 to 16 cm ) . in 39 % the patients had no symptoms , and in 37 % the lesions had been misdiagnosed as a pseudocyst . computed tomography was useful for detection , for distinguishing the microcystic subgroup of serous cystadenoma , and for showing rim calcification ( all 7 cases were malignant ) but was not reliable for distinguishing neoplasm from pseudocyst , serous from mucinous tumors , or benign from malignant . arteriography showed hypervascularity in 4 of 10 serous adenomas , 3 of 11 mucinous carcinomas , and 1 of 1 papillary cystic tumors . endoscopic pancreatography showed no communication with the cyst cavity in 37 of 37 cases of cystic neoplasms but opacified the ectatic ducts in 2 of 2 cases of mucinous ductal ectasia . stenosis or obstruction of the pancreatic duct indicated cancer . the tumor was resected by distal pancreatectomy in 25 patients , by proximal resection in 29 , and by total pancreatectomy in one , with no operative deaths . forty-four per cent of the tumors were malignant . in 10 cases the tumor was unresectable because of local extension or distant metastases , and those patients died at a mean of 4 months . seventy-five per cent of those resected for cure are alive without evident recurrence . because the epithelial lining of the tumor was partially ( 5 % to 98 % ) absent in 40 % to 72 % of cases of the major tumor types , and the mucinous component comprised only about 65 % of mucinous cystadenoma lining , misdiagnoses on frozen and even permanent sections were made . mitoses and histologic solid growth correlated with malignancy . neuroendocrine elements were seen in 87 % of benign and 47 % of malignant mucinous tumors . it is recommended that the terms macrocystic and microcystic be abandoned in favor of the histologic designations serous and mucinous . incomplete examination of the cyst wall can be misleading , however . it is suggested that mucinous ductal ectasia be recognized separately from cystic tumors and that all of these lesions be resected , with the possible exception of asymptomatic confirmed serous cystadenomas . 
fast and effective treatment of malignant hypercalcemia . combination of suppositories of calcitonin and a single infusion of 3-amino 1-hydroxypropylidene-1-bisphosphonate . seventeen patients with malignant hypercalcemia were treated with a combination of a single dose of 3-amino 1-hydroxypropylidene-1-bisphosphonate ( apd [ also known as ahprbp or palmidronate disodium ] ) and salmon calcitonin given as suppositories for 3 days . to assess whether such a combined short treatment has a significant benefit leading to earlier normalization of the plasma calcium level than does apd alone , 17 additional patients matched for the type of tumor , initial plasma calcium level , urinary hydroxyproline level , and the dose of apd served as controls . all patients receiving the combination of calcitonin and apd achieved normalization of the plasma calcium level within 9 days , with a decrease from 3.22 + / - 0.90 mmol/l ( mean + / - sem ) to 2.29 + / - 0.03 mmol/l . in the group receiving apd alone , the plasma calcium level normalized in only 14 of 17 patients by day 9 . in the group receiving calcitonin and apd , the drop in the plasma calcium level occurred more rapidly , and the plasma calcium values were lower from days 2 to 4 . this advantage was explained by the calciuric effect of calcitonin , as reflected by a significant decrease in the notional setting of renal reabsorption of calcium , reaching 2.16 + / - 0.06 mmol/l compared with 2.34 + / - 0.06 mmol/l in the group receiving apd alone . there were no side effects of both treatments , in particular neither flushing nor nausea induced by the suppositories of calcitonin . clinical improvement occurred after 2 days in the group receiving the combined treatment . in conclusion , the combined treatment is rapidly effective and safe in the treatment of patients with hypercalcemia , particularly when the notional setting of renal tubular reabsorption of calcium is increased and a rapid correction of the plasma calcium level is needed . 
immediate breast reconstruction following mastectomy is as safe as mastectomy alone . we evaluated wound complications and potential risk factors after mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction and compared them with similar data after modified radical mastectomy . the incidences of infection , seroma , hematoma , and epidermolysis were compared among 395 patients ( 305 with modified radical mastectomies and 90 with mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction ) from virginia mason medical center , seattle , wash , between 1983 and 1989 . obesity , age ( 60 years or older ) , smoking , antibiotics , and wound drainage were examined as possible risk factors . there were more wound complications in the modified radical mastectomy group ( 48 % vs 31 % ) , and specifically , more seromas ( 30 % vs 13 % ) . in the modified radical mastectomy group , age of 60 years or older was associated with seroma and infection , drainage greater than 30 ml per day ( at time of drain removal ) with seroma , and smoking with epidermolysis . in the mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction group , obesity was associated with seroma and epidermolysis . we conclude that mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction appears to be as safe as modified radical mastectomy alone with respect to wound complications . 
utility of computed tomography for surveillance of small abdominal aortic aneurysms . preliminary report . to assess the ability of computed tomography to predict the potential for expansion of small abdominal aortic aneurysms , we analyzed the computed tomographic scans of 30 patients who had two or more abdominal computed tomographic scans at least 6 months apart between 1979 and 1989 . clinical variables and 10 defined objective characteristics of computed tomography were evaluated . twenty-five men and five women with abdominal aortic aneurysms ranging from 30 to 64 mm ( mean , 45 mm ) were followed up with serial computed tomographic scans for a mean ( + / - se ) of 26 + / - 3 months . in 19 patients , enlargement of aneurysm diameter of 3 mm or more on serial computed tomographic scans was noted , whereas in 11 , there was little or no expansion . of the clinical variables studied , only serum cholesterol correlated with an increased risk of expansion . thrombus area , measured by computed tomography , was 7.3 + / - 0.9 cm2 in enlarging aneurysms vs 4.3 + / - 0.9 cm2 in stable aneurysms . based on these preliminary data , we conclude that computed tomography may provide valuable information about the likelihood of future expansion of small abdominal aortic aneurysms . 
reoperative surgery for the morbidly obese . a university experience . patients who undergo surgery for morbid obesity are often subjected to reoperation for a wide array of indications . to evaluate outcome following revisional procedures , we reviewed the records of 32 such patients treated at ucla between april 1986 and may 1989 . twenty-five women ( 78 % ) and 7 men ( 22 % ) with a mean age of 44 years underwent 76 reoperations ( 2.4 per patient ) for complications of prior obesity surgery . indications for initial surgical revision consisted primarily of metabolic derangements ( 12 patients ) and weight-related problems ( 11 patients ) . in contrast , indications for the patients ' final surgical procedure were commonly for bowel obstruction ( 41 % ) , intra-abdominal sepsis ( 12 % ) , and gastrointestinal bleeding ( 6 % ) . following initial revision , 23 patients ( 71.8 % ) required further surgery for major complications and four patients died ( 12.5 % ) . while initial revisions are frequently indicated for metabolic problems , final reoperations are more frequently undertaken for urgent , life-threatening complications . revisional procedures for morbid obesity should be carefully considered , and the potential for major complications and/or death should be weighted heavily against proposed benefits . 
x-linked spinal muscular atrophy ( kennedy 's syndrome ) . a kindred with hypobetalipoproteinemia . kennedy 's syndrome , x-linked adult-onset bulbospinal muscular atrophy , has been described in over 30 families . the characteristic distribution of weakness creates a recognizable syndrome , augmented by frequent findings of testicular atrophy and gynecomastia . type iv or type ii hyperlipoproteinemia has been found in some families . we have studied another family with kennedy 's syndrome , this one with hypobetalipoproteinemia . the diversity of serum patterns suggests that lipoprotein abnormalities are not causally related to either the endocrinopathy or the spinal muscular atrophy . however , gene linkage studies indicate proximity of the gene for kennedy 's syndrome and the gene encoding the androgen receptor , which could explain the combination of a motor neuron disorder and the endocrine abnormalities . 
episodic hyperammonemia in adult siblings with hyperornithinemia , hyperammonemia , and homocitrullinuria syndrome . a 39-year-old man and his 42-year-old sister , both vegetarians , had episodic confusion for many years , but their mental function was normal between those episodes . they were recently diagnosed with hyperornithinemia , hyperammonemia , and homocitrullinuria syndrome . hyperammonemia was documented during an episode of confusion in the male sibling but not in his sister . both had elevated plasma ornithine , glutamine , and alanine levels and persistently low plasma lysine levels . homocitrulline was present in their urine , and orotic aciduria and orotidinuria developed in the male sibling following ingestion of allopurinol . studies on their cultured skin fibroblasts showed deficient metabolism of ornithine , indicating a defect in ornithine transport across the mitochondrial membrane . during therapy with citrulline and phenylbutyrate sodium , plasma ornithine levels increased in both patients , while plasma levels of glutamine and alanine decreased to normal . since therapy started , their clinical conditions have also improved , and no recurrent neurologic dysfunction has occurred during a follow-up period of 20 months . 
assessment of vitamin a status by a disk applicator for conjunctival impression cytology . conjunctival impression cytology was performed on 236 indonesian preschool children , half of whom had mild xerophthalmia and half of whom were age-matched controls . we devised an applicator that applies a paper disk of fixed area to the conjunctiva with even pressure . the disk applicator was used to collect impression cytology specimens from the temporal bulbar conjunctiva of one eye while the original strip technique was used on the other eye . mean ( + / - sd ) serum retinol values for children with normal and abnormal discs were 22.0 + / - 8.6 micrograms/dl and 18.0 + / - 7.2 micrograms/dl p less than .0001 ) . mean serum values for normal and abnormal strips were 21.7 + / - 8.6 micrograms/dl and 19.0 + / - 7.7 micrograms/dl ( p less than .03 ) . specimens obtained with the new disk applicator corresponded more closely with serum vitamin a levels and therefore vitamin a status than those obtained with the traditional strip technique . 
s-antigen . identification of human t-cell lymphocyte proliferation sites . immune responses to normal retinal proteins , including s-antigen , have been demonstrated in patients with a variety of retinal disorders , as well as in those who have received panretinal laser photocoagulation . t-cell lymphocytes ( t cells ) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of several ocular inflammatory diseases of possible autoimmune etiology . we used synthetic peptides that correspond to the amino acid sequence of s-antigen in lymphocyte proliferation assays to identify specific sites in the molecule recognized by human t cells . ten patients with type ii diabetes were studied before and after initial panretinal laser photocoagulation for proliferative diabetic retinopathy . t-cell responses , expressed as a stimulation index , to s-antigen and peptides were negative in all patients before treatment . three weeks after panretinal laser photocoagulation , eight of 10 assays were positive ( stimulation index greater than 2 ; p less than .01 ) when lymphocytes were stimulated with peptide bsa ( 273-292 ) ; six of nine were positive ( p less than .01 ) with peptide bsa ( 303-332 ) ; and six of six were positive ( p less than .001 ) with peptide bsa ( 343-362 ) . our study identifies several specific sites in s-antigen that elicit human immune responses . the implications of these findings with regard to the pathogenesis and treatment of autoimmune uveitis are discussed . 
effects of felodipine on urinary albumin excretion and metabolic control in hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetics . the effect of a blood pressure reduction by 10 mg extended release felodipine once daily on urinary albumin excretion ( uae ) as well as the possible diabetogenic effect of felodipine was studied . a 2 x 12 week placebo-controlled double-blind crossover study was performed in 12 hypertensive non-insulin-dependent diabetic ( niddm ) patients without nephropathy on concomitant treatment with beta-blocker and/or a diuretic agent . metabolic control as estimated by fasting plasma glucose , hemoglobin a1c and fasting plasma c-peptide was unaltered after felodipine . blood pressure was significantly reduced by felodipine : systolic 166 + / - 26 mm hg ( placebo ) v 153 + / - 26 mm hg ( felodipine ) ( p less than .05 ) and diastolic 95 + / - 7 mm hg v 90 + / - 8 mm hg ( p less than .05 ) . heart rate was unchanged . there was no correlation between blood pressure and uae , but the relative change in uae expressed as uae placebo/uae felodipine was significantly correlated to the fall in systolic blood pressure ( r = 0.64 , p = .03 ) and mean blood pressure ( r = 0.66 , p = .02 ) . since microalbuminuria predicts proteinuria and reduced survival , early antihypertensive treatment may be beneficial in niddm as it is in iddm . long-term consequences on kidney function and mortality remains , however , to be elucidated . 
abnormal diastolic function in patients with type 1 diabetes and early nephropathy . left ventricular diastolic function was assessed by pulsed doppler echocardiography in non-diabetic controls ( n = 11 ) and in patients with type 1 diabetes without microvascular disease ( n = 16 ; diabetic controls ) , with microalbuminuria ( n = 9 ) , or with early persistent proteinuria ( n = 11 ) . the peak filling velocities during the early and atrial phases of left ventricular diastole and their ratio ( e : a ratio ) were measured . all patients with diabetes had a normal serum concentration of creatinine and exercise electrocardiogram . the mean e : a ratio was significantly lower in those with proteinuria than in the diabetic controls because of an increase in peak atrial filling velocity ; most patients with proteinuria had an abnormal e : a ratio of less than 1.0 . multiple regression analysis showed that systolic blood pressure was the major determinant of both the peak filling velocity during the atrial phase of diastole and also left ventricular mass . blood pressures were significantly higher in the proteinuria group than in the diabetic controls . glycaemic control and autonomic function did not influence diastolic filling . the slightly raised blood pressures at the earliest stages of diabetic nephropathy are sufficient to alter left ventricular diastolic compliance -- this may reflect early hypertensive heart disease . these data do not preclude a specific heart muscle disease related to diabetes , but suggest that these slightly raised blood pressures contribute significantly to left ventricular dysfunction in these patients , in whom the risk of cardiovascular disease is already greatly increased . 
extradural abscess following local anaesthetic and steroid injection for chronic low back pain . a case is described of extradural abscess following extradural injection of local anaesthetic and steroid for the management of chronic low back pain . the common signs and symptoms are reviewed , possible causes discussed and the association with diabetes stressed . 
biometry of the crystalline lens in early-onset diabetes lenticular biometry on non-cataractous lenses has been studied by means of scheimpflug photography and digital image analysis in 153 patients with early-onset insulin-dependent diabetes and 153 non-diabetic controls . anteroposterior axial lens thickness , cortical thickness , nuclear thickness , anterior and posterior lenticular curvatures , and anterior chamber depth were assessed . highly significant differences between the lenses of the diabetic subjects and non-diabetic controls were found . after the effect of age had been accounted for within the diabetic subgroup , diabetic duration was found to be a highly significant determinant of lens dimensions , such that age-related dimensional changes for various biometric parameters were accelerated by between 52 % and 121 % after the onset of diabetes . because the diabetic duration of the early-onset diabetic subjects studied in this work was accurately known , this report is the first in which a precise assessment of the effect of ' true ' diabetic duration on lens biometry has been possible . 
the electroretinogram in minimal diabetic retinopathy . the pattern and diffuse flash electroretinograms were measured in 20 normal subjects and 40 diabetic patients who had either normal fundi or microaneurysms only . the amplitudes of the pattern electroretinogram were found to be similar in both normals and diabetics . in the case of the flash electroretinogram the diabetic patients showed a division into two main groups . one group was not dissimilar to the group of normal subjects , while the second group showed hypernormal amplitudes . no explanation could be given , from the data collected , for this subdivision , though it is suggested it might reflect the degree of metabolic disturbance . 
sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells of patients with insulin dependent diabetes and nephropathy and their parents objective -- to determine whether there are familial and genetic aspects of sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells in diabetic nephropathy . design -- case-control study . setting -- teaching hospital diabetic clinic . subjects -- 40 patients with insulin dependent diabetes , both of whose parents were alive : 20 with persistent proteinuria and 20 with normal albumin excretion matched for age , duration of diabetes , and body mass index . all 80 parents . main outcome measures -- sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells and arterial blood pressure . results -- sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells was higher in the patients with proteinuria than in the patients with normoalbuminuria ( mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) 0.47 ( 0.39 to 0.54 ) v 0.33 ( 0.28 to 0.38 ) mmol/l red cells/h respectively , p = 0.0036 ; mean difference 0.14 ( 0.04 to 0.22 ) ) . the mean countertransport activity for the two parents of each patient was calculated , and from this the mean value for each group of parents was calculated ; the value was higher in the parents of the patients with proteinuria than in the parents of the patients with normoalbuminuria ( 0.40 ( 0.32 to 0.48 ) v 0.30 ( 0.26 to 0.33 ) mmol/l red cells/h respectively , p = 0.016 ; 0.10 ( 0.02 to 0.19 ) ) . twenty-eight of the parents of the patients with proteinuria compared with 12 of the parents of the patients with normoalbuminuria had a countertransport activity that was above the median value in all 80 parents ( p less than 0.001 ) . mean arterial blood pressure in the parents of the patients with proteinuria was related to that of their offspring ( r = 0.46 ; p less than 0.01 ) . there was a positive correlation between the sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells in the parents and their offspring when all parents and patients were considered ( r = 0.37 ; p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions -- increased sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells in the parents of diabetic patients with nephropathy provides further evidence that familial , and possibly genetic , factors related to a predisposition to arterial hypertension have a role in the susceptibility of diabetic renal disease . 
unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation : no causal relation with diabetic autonomic neuropathy objective -- to examine the traditional view that unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation in insulin dependent diabetes mellitus are manifestations of autonomic neuropathy . design -- perspective assessment of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and detailed assessment of autonomic neuropathy in patients with insulin dependent diabetes according to the adequacy of their hypoglycaemic counterregulation . setting -- one routine diabetic unit in a university teaching hospital . patients -- 23 patients aged 21-52 with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ( seven with symptoms suggesting autonomic neuropathy , nine with a serious clinical problem with hypoglycaemia , and seven without symptoms of autonomic neuropathy and without problems with hypoglycaemia ) and 10 controls with a similar age distribution , without a personal or family history of diabetes . main outcome measures -- presence of autonomic neuropathy as assessed with a test of the longest sympathetic fibres ( acetylcholine sweatspot test ) , a pupil test , and a battery of seven cardiovascular autonomic function tests ; adequacy of hypoglycaemic glucose counterregulation during a 40 mu/kg/h insulin infusion test ; history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia ; and response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide during hypoglycaemia , which depends on an intact and responding autonomic innervation of the pancreas . results -- there was little evidence of autonomic neuropathy in either the 12 diabetic patients with a history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia or the seven patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation . by contrast , in all seven patients with clear evidence of autonomic neuropathy there was no history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and in six out of seven there was adequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation . unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation were significantly associated ( p less than 0.01 ) . the response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide in the diabetic patients with adequate counterregulation but without autonomic neuropathy was not significantly different from that of the controls ( change in plasma pancreatic polypeptide 226.8 v 414 pmol/l ) . the patients with autonomic neuropathy had a negligible plasma pancreatic polypeptide response ( 3.7 pmol/l ) , but this response was also blunted in the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation ( 72.4 pmol/l ) compared with that of the controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate glucose counterregulation during hypoglycaemia are related to each other but are not due to autonomic neuropathy . the blunted plasma pancreatic polypeptide responses of the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation may reflect diminished autonomic activity consequent upon reduced responsiveness of a central glucoregulatory centre , rather than classical autonomic neuropathy . 
chronic dehydration stone disease . a study was made of 819 patients attending a metabolic stone clinic . a firm diagnosis was made in 708 ( 86 % ) and in 132 of these ( 19 % ) the diagnosis was thought to be chronic dehydration . the records were available for study for 87 males and 11 females in the chronic dehydration group . the mean age at presentation was 43 years . the causes of chronic dehydration were hot climate ( 62 % ) , with hot occupation and low water intake almost equal in second place . in patients with a single cause of chronic dehydration , 57 % also had a dietary risk factor for urolithiasis and this was most commonly high oxalate intake . following dietary advice , the mean urinary volume increased from 1720 to 2475 ml/24 h. this was accompanied by a rise in mean urinary calcium from 6.02 to 6.96 mmol/24 h , presumably due to the calcium in the additional water drunk . urinary oxalate did not change significantly . the mean follow-up time was 4.85 years and the stone recurrence rate was low . it was concluded that chronic dehydration is a common cause of urolithiasis ; this can be treated satisfactorily by increasing water intake plus dietary advice in certain cases . 
early detection and treatment of hyperlipidemia : physician practices in canada . we surveyed primary care physicians in canada to determine their current practices regarding the detection and treatment of hyperlipidemia in asymptomatic adults 20 years of age or more and to determine the role of selected patient characteristics ( age , sex and the presence of coronary heart disease [ chd ] risk factors ) in their management decisions . the self-administered questionnaire was completed by 428 of 804 family physicians and general practitioners . the proportion of physicians who reported having tested at least 50 % of their adult patients varied from 29 % to 85 % and was related to the number of chd risk factors present and the patient 's age . the proportion of respondents who reported starting dietary or drug therapy among patients with a cholesterol level of 6.2 mmol/l or less increased as the number of chd risk factors increased and was not related to patient age or sex . according to the factors examined our results suggest that primary care physicians in canada select patients for screening and treatment mainly on the basis of chd risk factors present and that their approach is more conservative than that recommended by the canadian and us consensus conferences . 
parathyroid hormone-like peptide in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells . mesothelioma has not been commonly reported as a cause of hypercalcemia of malignancy . we have studied a patient with malignant mesothelioma and hypercalcemia in association with elevated plasma concentrations of parathyroid hormone-like peptide ( plp ) . immunohistochemical analysis of the tumor and seven of eight other mesotheliomas that were not associated with hypercalcemia revealed the presence of plp cytoplasmic immunopositivity . plp immunopositivity was also detected in normal and reactive mesothelial cells . the results of these studies suggest that plp immunoreactivity is common in normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells and raises the possibility that plp production may play a role in the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia associated with mesothelioma . 
death at cardiac catheterization : coronary artery embolization of calcium debris from ionescu-shiley bioprosthesis . the case described is a death due to embolization of calcium debris from a bioprosthesis , dislodged at cardiac catheterization . as more bioprosthetic valves are implanted , and more of them fail long-term with calcification , such complications of the invasive study of these valves may be expected . 
hyperkalaemia during rapid blood transfusion and hypovolaemic cardiac arrest in children . a morbidity and mortality review documented a high occurrence of hyperkalaemia in cardiac arrests associated with rapid blood transfusion , which resulted in further study . in order to stimulate events during rapid blood transfusion and cardiac arrest , the central circulation was modeled as a linear one compartment , and used to stimulate a child who suffered a hypovolaemic cardiac arrest and was resuscitated with rapid blood transfusion ( rbt ) . the simulation suggested that the combination of rbt and a low cardiac output state could be associated with hyperkalaemia , if the potassium concentration in the plasma fraction of the transfused blood was greater than or equal to 10 mmol.l-1 . in an associated clinical study the plasma potassium concentration during cardiac arrest was documented from a retrospective review of 138 cardiac arrests in a paediatric population . patients were divided into two groups . the rbt-group received a rapid blood transfusion during resuscitation . the non-rbt group did not receive blood during resuscitation . during cardiac arrest the plasma [ k ] in the non-rbt group was 5.63 + / - 2.39 mmol.l-1 compared with 8.23 + / - 1.99 mmol.l-1 in the rbt-group ( p less than 0.05 ) . the hyperkalaemia during cardiac arrest in the rbt-group could be explained as a consequence of rbt to a hypovolaemic child with a low cardiac output . 
recent progress in understanding apolipoprotein b. for the past 5 years , investigators from many different laboratories have contributed to a greatly increased understanding of two very important lipid-carrying proteins in plasma -- apo b-100 and apo b-48 . apo b-100 , an extremely large protein composed of 4,536 amino acids , is synthesized by the liver and is crucial for the assembly of triglyceride-rich vldl particles . apo b-100 is virtually the only protein of ldl , a cholesteryl ester-enriched class of lipoproteins that are metabolic products of vldl . the apo b-100 of ldl serves as a ligand for the ldl receptor-mediated uptake of ldl particles by the liver and extrahepatic tissues . the ldl receptor-binding region of apo b-100 is located in the carboxyterminal portion of the molecule , whereas its lipid-binding regions appear to be broadly dispersed throughout its length . apo b-48 contains the amino-terminal 2,152 amino acids of apo b-100 and is produced by the intestine as a result of editing of a single nucleotide of the apo b mrna , which changes the codon specifying apo b-100 amino acid 2,153 to a premature stop codon . apo b-48 has an obligatory structural role in the formation of chylomicrons ; therefore , its synthesis is essential for absorption of dietary fats and fat-soluble vitamins . both apo b-48 and apo b-100 are encoded on chromosome 2 by a single gene that contains 29 exons and 28 introns . an elevated level of apo b-100 in the plasma is a potent risk factor for developing premature atherosclerotic disease . in the past 3 years , many different apo b gene mutations that affect the concentrations of both apo b and cholesterol in the plasma have been characterized . a missense mutation in the codon for apo b-100 amino aid 3,500 is associated with hypercholesterolemia . this mutation results in poor binding of apo b-100 to the ldl receptor , thereby causing the cholesteryl ester-enriched ldl particles to accumulate in the plasma . this disorder is called familial defective apo b-100 , and it is probably a cause of premature atherosclerotic disease . familial hypobetalipoproteinemia is a condition associated with abnormally low levels of apo b and cholesterol ; affected individuals may actually have a reduced risk of atherosclerotic disease . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
low-dose lovastatin safely lowers cholesterol after cardiac transplantation . hypercholesterolemia occurs in many cardiac transplant patients and may aggravate graft coronary arteriopathy as well as contributing to peripheral vascular disease . lovastatin , which inhibits 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase , in doses of 40-80 mg/day effectively lowers cholesterol in the general cardiac population but has been associated with rhabdomyolysis in cardiac transplant recipients . to determine whether lower doses of lovastatin would be effective and safe for lowering cholesterol after cardiac transplantation , 44 patients with blood cholesterol greater than 200 mg/dl at least 6 months after cardiac transplantation received 10-20 mg lovastatin daily . in addition , lovastatin enzyme inhibitor level was assayed in six patients to determine whether metabolism of the drug was abnormal . lovastatin decreased total cholesterol by 28 % from 282 + / - 54 to 208 + / - 62 mg/dl ( p less than 0.005 ) , primarily because of reduction in the low-density lipoprotein fractions , and was well-tolerated without any symptoms or abnormal creatine phosphokinase levels in 43 of 44 patients . one patient developed rhabdomyolysis and reversible renal failure when lovastatin was increased to 40 mg daily . enzyme inhibitor levels in the six transplant patients were 4.2-7 .8 times higher than those measured in normal volunteers . low-dose lovastatin effectively lowers cholesterol in patients after transplantation , but metabolism is altered , perhaps by cyclosporine . monitoring of enzyme inhibitor levels may be required to allow safe administration of this drug to cardiac transplant recipients . 
diabetic patients have abnormal cerebral autoregulation during cardiopulmonary bypass . we tested the hypothesis that insulin-dependent diabetic patients with coronary artery bypass graft surgery experience altered coupling of cerebral blood flow and oxygen consumption . in a study of 23 patients ( 11 diabetics and 12 age-matched controls ) , cerebral blood flow was measured using 133xe clearance during nonpulsatile , alpha-stat blood gas managed cardiopulmonary bypass at the conditions of hypothermia and normothermia . in diabetic patients , the cerebral blood flow at 26.6 + / - 2.42 degrees c was 25.3 + / - 14.34 ml/100 g/min and at 36.9 + / - 0.58 degrees c it was 27.3 + / - 7.40 ml/100 g/min ( p = ns ) . the control patients increased cerebral blood flow from 20.7 + / - 6.78 ml/100 g/min at 28.4 + / - 2.81 degrees c to 37.6 + / - 8.81 ml/100 g/min at 36.5 + / - 0.45 degrees c ( p less than or equal to 0.005 ) . the oxygen consumption was calculated from jugular bulb effluent and increased from hypothermic values of 0.52 + / - 0.20 ml/100 g/min in diabetics to 1.26 + / - 0.28 ml/100 g/min ( p = 0.001 ) at normothermia and rose from 0.60 + / - 0.27 to 1.49 + / - 0.35 ml/100 g/min ( p = 0.0005 ) in the controls . thus , despite temperature-mediated changes in oxygen consumption , diabetic patients did not increase cerebral blood flow as metabolism increased . arteriovenous oxygen saturation gradients and oxygen extraction across the brain were calculated from arterial and jugular bulb blood samples . the increase in arteriovenous oxygen difference between temperature conditions in diabetic patients and controls was significantly different ( p = 0.01 ) . these data reveal that diabetic patients lose cerebral autoregulation during cardiopulmonary bypass and compensate for an imbalance in adequate oxygen delivery by increasing oxygen extraction . 
acute deterioration of renal function associated with enteric hyperoxaluria . enteric hyperoxaluria due to malabsorption syndromes has been well documented to cause renal calculi and chronic tubulointerstitial renal damage . rarely , in the setting of intestinal bypass operations for morbid obesity , enteric hyperoxaluria has produced acute renal failure . we report two patients who suffered acute deterioration of renal function associated with increased intestinal absorption and renal excretion of oxalate associated with steatorrhea . one patient had a large portion of his small bowel resected many years prior to the onset of the renal failure and the second patient had chronic pancreatitis causing steatorrhea . both patients had renal biopsy documentation of the acute nature of the tubular damage produced by oxalate deposition . the mechanisms of their deterioration of renal function may relate to sudden increases in steatorrhea in association with episodes of volume depletion . enteric hyperoxaluria may be an easily overlooked and potentially preventable etiology of acute renal dysfunction . 
urinary excretion of albumin and enzymes in non-insulin-dependent chinese diabetics . urine albumin ( alb ) , total protein ( tp ) and creatinine ( cr ) concentrations and the activities of n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase ( nag ) , alanine aminopeptidase ( aap ) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase ( ggt ) were measured in untimed random urine samples from 157 non-insulin-dependent ( niddm ) diabetic subjects and 54 healthy subjects . in niddm subjects the excretions of tp , alb , nag , aap , ggt ( expressed in relation to creatinine ) were significantly higher and were abnormal in 59.9 % , 68.8 % , 47.2 % , 41.4 % and 13.4 % of the subjects , respectively . however , 24.5 % , 22.4 % and 6.1 % of niddm subjects with normal alb/cr ratio had abnormal excretion of nag , aap and ggt , respectively . alb/cr ratio was greater than 26.8 mg/mmol ( considered to be equivalent to albumin excretion of 250 mg/24 h ) in 14.6 % and between 2.5-26 .8 mg/mmol ( equivalent to albumin excretion rates of 20-250 mg/24 h ) in 54.1 % of subjects . in those diabetic subjects with clinical retinopathy only alb/cr ratio was higher . arterial blood pressure was significantly correlated with alb/cr ( r = 0.365 ) and nag/cr ( r = 0.204 ) . we conclude that prevalence of abnormal alb/cr is relatively common among chinese niddm subjects . 
effects of lovastatin in diabetic patients treated with chlorpropamide . patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) have a higher risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease than nondiabetic subjects . in seven patients with both hypercholesterolemia and niddm controlled by chlorpropamide , lovastatin ( 20 mg b.i.d. for 6 weeks ) lowered low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 28 % , total cholesterol by 24 % , and apolipoprotein b by 24 % . lovastatin levels for a 4-hour period ( measured as 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase inhibitory activity ) were similar to those measured previously in nondiabetic patients . lovastatin did not alter chlorpropamide kinetics or glycemic profiles . no patient had an elevation in serum transaminases or creatinine phosphokinase , and no patient had any other laboratory or clinical drug-related adverse experience during the study . lovastatin was as effective in reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in patients with niddm as in nondiabetic subjects . diabetic control was unaltered , and no evidence of alteration in lovastatin or chlorpropamide blood levels was noted . 
hypocalcemia and hypercalcitoninemia in critically ill children . to study ca metabolism in critically ill children , we measured ionized ca ( ca2 + ) , parathyroid hormone ( pth ) , calcitonin , 25 hydroxycholecalciferol ( 25 [ oh ] d3 ) , 1-25 dihydroxycholecalciferol ( 1-25 [ oh ] 2d3 , and gastrin levels in critically ill children and in healthy controls . patients were considered hypocalcemic if ca2 + was less than 1.1 mmol/l . six ( 14 % ) of 45 patients were hypocalcemic . five hypocalcemic patients were studied and were found to have higher calcitonin levels than normocalcemic patients and healthy controls and higher pth levels than healthy controls . 25 ( oh ) d3 and 1-25 ( oh ) 2d3 were not significantly different in the three groups of patients . gastrin levels were low in critically ill patients , whether or not they were hypocalcemic . we conclude that hypocalcemia occurs frequently in critically ill children . it is associated with raised levels of calcitonin and pth . the mechanism for the increase in calcitonin is unknown . 
pulmonary malignant angioendotheliomatosis . presentation with fever and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone . a 64-year-old man presented with protracted fever , hyponatremia , and mononeuritis multiplex . inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion was established . the absence of pulmonary infiltrates precluded any lung biopsy . autopsy revealed malignant angioendotheliomatosis involving multiple organs including the alveolar septa and pulmonary vasculature . an early diagnosis of mae in the setting of fever and siadh may be possible via transbronchial biopsy . 
dynamic ct scanning of pancreatic duct after secretin provocation in pancreas divisum . variations in pancreatic duct diameter at ct scanning and serum pancreatic amylase response following secretin administration were studied in 29 patients with pancreas divisum and unexplained upper abdominal pain . eleven healthy individuals were used as controls . at endoscopic retrograde pancreatography ( erp ) six patients had signs of marked and six moderate pancreatitis , whereas there were no pancreatitis changes in 17 of the patients . at ct scanning patients with marked pancreatitis ( erp ) had significantly increased pancreatic duct diameter as compared to patients without signs of pancreatitis . the duct was visualized in 52 % of all patients before and 71 % after secretin stimulation the corresponding figures for healthy controls , being 18 % both before and after secretin . in patients without signs of pancreatitis , it was demonstrated in 5/17 ( 29 % ) before and 11/17 ( 65 % ) after secretin , whereas it was seen in 10/12 ( 83 % ) pancreatitis patients both before and after the hormonal provocation . in five of the nonpancreatitis patients in whom the duct was measurable before and at all study intervals ( 10 , 20 , and 50 min ) after secretin , there was a significant duct dilation response both at 10 min and when comparing the maximal duct diameter after secretin to the initial values . in contrast secretin did not affect the duct caliber in pancreatitis patients . serum pancreatic amylase increased significantly after secretin administration to healthy controls and nonpancreatitis patients but was uninfluenced in the marked and moderate pancreatitis groups , respectively . however , when all pancreatitis patients were grouped together , the amylase levels were significantly elevated by secretin . in conclusion , secretin provocation caused duct dilation at ct scanning in pancreas divisum patients without signs of pancreatitis at erp . 
insulin use in niddm . rationale based on pathophysiology of disease . because basal hyperglycemia is a major feature in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , diabetes control can be monitored by the fasting blood glucose concentration . a hierarchical sequence of therapies is proposed in which the major aim is to maintain near-normal fasting blood glucose concentrations , in the expectation that this will help prevent development of long-term complications . when diet and tablet therapy are no longer effective in keeping the fasting blood glucose level less than 6 mm , a basal insulin supplement from a long-acting insulin such as ultralente can be added . when monitored by fasting blood glucose concentration , there is little risk of hypoglycemia , and the patient can continue a normal life-style without restrictions concerning exercise or the size of individual meals . a basal insulin supplement does not induce marked weight gain . the dose of insulin required can be predicted from the level of the fasting blood glucose and the degree of obesity , which provides an index of the accompanying insulin resistance . based on current evidence , insulin therapy is equally appropriate in patients with insulin deficiency and insulin resistance , because the benefit from maintaining near-normal glucose concentrations probably outweighs a putative risk of hyperinsulinemia . in more severely affected patients , additional regular insulin to cover meals is needed . lowering fasting blood glucose to normal with a basal insulin supplement reduces endogenous insulin production , and this may be advantageous if accompanying production of islet amyloid polypeptide and islet amyloid formation are also reduced . 
insulin administration via liposomes . liposomes have been used in insulin therapy as a means to selectively target insulin to the liver , enhance oral absorption of insulin , and prolong insulin action . liposomes are an effective means of delivering insulin specifically to hepatocytes . the usefulness of hepatically targeted liposomes in the treatment of diabetes is restricted due to the requirement that they be given intravenously , the dilute concentration of insulin present in liposomal preparations , and the cost associated with liposome production . encapsulating insulin in liposomes results in enhanced oral absorption of insulin . the high doses of liposome-entrapped insulin required perorally , coupled with extreme variability in the glycemic response to peroral liposomes , limits the value of peroral liposomal insulin as a viable diabetic therapy . insulin action can be sustained via encapsulation of insulin in liposomes given subcutaneously . most insulin appears to remain at the injection site , and the presence of a lipid matrix for subcutaneous insulin delivery raises concerns over enhanced antigenicity of liposomal insulin given subcutaneously . viewed in the light of the limitations outlined above , the contribution of liposomal insulin to understanding and treatment of diabetes mellitus will probably be via use of hepatically targeted liposomes as a pharmacological probe to decipher the role of the liver in the metabolic complications associated with diabetes mellitus . 
monomeric insulins and their experimental and clinical implications . due to the inherent pharmacokinetic properties of available insulins , normoglycemia is rarely , if ever , achieved in insulin-dependent diabetic patients without compromising their quality of life . subcutaneous insulin absorption is influenced by many factors , among which the associated state of insulin ( hexameric ) in pharmaceutical formulation may be of importance . this review describes the development of a series of human insulin analogues with reduced tendency to self-association that , because of more rapid absorption , are better suited to meal-related therapy . dna technology has made it possible to prepare insulins that remain dimeric or even monomeric at high concentration by introducing one or a few amino acid substitutions into human insulin . these analogues were characterized and used for elucidating the mechanisms involved in subcutaneous absorption and were investigated in preliminary clinical studies . their relative receptor binding and in vitro potency ( free-fat cell assay ) , ranging from 0.05 to 600 % relative to human insulin , were strongly correlated ( r = 0.97 ) . in vivo , most of the analogues exhibited approximately 100 % activity , explainable by a dominating receptor-mediated clearance . this was confirmed by clamp studies in which correlation between receptor binding and clearance was observed . thus , an analogue with reduced binding and clearance gives higher circulating concentrations , counterbalancing the reduced potency at the cellular level . absorption studies in pigs revealed a strong inverse correlation ( r = 0.96 ) between the rate of subcutaneous absorption and the mean association state of the insulin analogues . these studies also demonstrated that monomeric insulins were absorbed three times faster than human insulin . in healthy subjects , rates of disappearance from subcutis were two to three times faster for dimeric and monomeric analogues than for human insulin . concomitantly , a more rapid rise in plasma insulin concentration and an earlier hypoglycemic response with the analogues were observed . the monomeric insulin had no lag phase and followed a monoexponential course throughout the absorption process . in contrast , two phases in rate of absorption were identified for the dimer and three for the normal hexameric human insulin . the initial lag phase and the subsequent accelerated absorption of soluble insulin can now be explained by the associated state of native insulin in pharmaceutical formulation and its progressive dissociation into smaller units during the absorption process . in the light of these results , the effects of insulin concentration , injected volume , temperature , and massage on the absorption process are now also understood . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
devices for insulin administration . there is a significant need for revised , safe , and more effective insulin-delivery methods than subcutaneous injections in the treatment of both type i ( insulin-dependent ) and type ii ( non-insulin-dependent ) diabetes . the aim of this review is to describe the rationale and methods for better use of injection and infusion devices for intensive insulin therapy and to describe results of animal and human research that will lead to an implantable artificial pancreas . injection devices , e.g. , jet injectors , insulin pens , and access ports , can not be considered as a major breakthrough in the quest for improved control , although they may improve the patient 's comfort . external pumps have benefits over multiple injections and conventional insulin therapy only in specific subgroups of patients , e.g. , those with recurrent severe hypoglycemia , but only when used by experienced personnel . the external artificial pancreas ( biostator ) is also to be used by experienced personnel for limited clinical and research applications , e.g. , surgery of the diabetic patient . the development of an implantable version of the artificial pancreas is linked to progress in the field of reliable long-duration glucose sensors . finally , programmable implantable insulin pumps , used as an open-loop delivery system , are the most promising alternative to intensive subcutaneous insulin strategies in the short term , although clear evidence of improved safety and efficacy remains to be documented . 
role of insulin in management of surgical patients with diabetes mellitus . because surgery is a likely event during the lifetime of patients with diabetes , health-care team members need to be aware of the metabolic problems that may occur during the perioperative period . surgery , especially in the presence of general anesthesia , will produce a diabetogenic response . this is generally due to an elevation of counterregulatory hormones , although endogenous insulin is also suppressed . the excessive lipolysis and ketogenesis that can occur during surgery can have particularly deleterious effects for patients with diabetes . thus , sufficient insulin must be provided during this period to suppress these catabolic processes . the major controversy regarding surgery and diabetes concerns the route of insulin administration . this article reviews the various treatment options for patients with insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , with particular emphasis on the role of insulin . special situations , e.g. , outpatient surgery , coronary artery bypass , and emergency surgery , are also discussed . 
natural history of beta-cell dysfunction in niddm . non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) is characterized by insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction . this review focuses on the beta-cell , what defects occur when and why . two major anatomic observations have been made in niddm . the beta-cell mass is mildly reduced , especially when obesity is taken into account . also , amyloid deposits are frequently observed in the islets . it is unclear whether these changes are genetically mediated or result secondary to the loss of glucose homeostasis . many studies have looked at some aspect of insulin secretion in niddm , and two types of distinct abnormalities have been described . early on , there is a marked disruption in pulsatile insulin delivery , which is potentially an important contributor to the insulin resistance . it is unclear whether the loss of pulsatile delivery is acquired or genetically induced . later , after glucose intolerance has started , several other secretory abnormalities develop coincident with loss of beta-cell glucorecognition . the net result is further deterioration in timing of insulin delivery and postprandial hyperglycemia . a second important consequence of the glucose blindness is that the inherent compensatory beta-cell mechanisms that guard against hyperglycemia are bypassed . we propose that the loss of glucose responsiveness is a direct result of an elevated glucose concentration ( so-called glucotoxicity ) and have generated substantial data in rat models that support this idea . the logical conclusion is that beta-cell function in niddm can be maximized by achieving the best metabolic control possible . 
alcoholic ketoacidosis . alcoholic ketoacidosis is characterized by a metabolic acidosis with an elevated anion gap . it generally is seen in the chronic alcoholic patient who has recently gone on a " binge " that was terminated because of complaints such as nausea , vomiting or abdominal pain . caloric intake is diminished . treatment includes volume repletion and glucose administration . morbidity and mortality usually result from intercurrent illness . 
electrolyte abnormalities in the alcoholic patient . the acute effect of ethyl alcohol ingestion is to induce diuresis with excretion of free water and preservation of electrolytes . this occurs as the blood alcohol concentration is increasing and is due to the suppression by alcohol of the endogenous release of adh . during a steady blood alcohol concentration , alcohol acts as an antidiuretic , causing retention of water and electrolytes . while at steady state , additional doses of alcohol will produce progressively smaller and eventually absent diuretic responses . the chronic effect of alcohol is to promote isosmotic retention of water and electrolytes due to increased adh levels . excess water and electrolytes are acutely excreted in response to additional alcohol ingestion . with the cessation of alcohol intake , this excess will be excreted over several days . routine parenteral fluid administration to chronic and withdrawing alcoholics should be avoided . the role of potassium and magnesium in the genesis of specific manifestations of the alcohol withdrawal syndrome is not clear . alcoholic patients may have electrolyte abnormalities due to alcohol-induced diseases , poor nutrition , or vomiting and diarrhea . each case must be individually evaluated . 
involvement of epidermal growth factor deficiency in pathogenesis of oligozoospermia in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice . based on previous findings that epidermal growth factor ( egf ) , which plays an important role in maintenance of spermatogenesis , is deficient in diabetic mice , the significance of egf deficiency in the pathogenesis of oligozoospermia in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice was studied . egf levels in the submandibular glands and plasma of diabetic mice were 0.61 + / - 0.07 micrograms/mg tissue and 0.25 + / - 0.02 ng/ml ( mean + / - se ) , respectively , whereas those of normal mice were 1.63 + / - 0.08 micrograms/mg tissue and 0.54 + / - 0.04 ng/ml , respectively . the epididymal sperm counts of diabetic mice , 4.7 + / - 0.14 x 10 ( 5 ) / mg tissue , were significantly lower ( p less than 0.01 ) than those of normal mice , 6.0 + / - 0.10 x 10 ( 5 ) / mg tissue . administration of egf ( 5 micrograms/mouse/day ) to diabetic mice significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) increased their sperm counts to 5.5 + / - 0.16 x 10 ( 5 ) / mg tissue without affecting plasma levels of testosterone and glucose . furthermore , insulin treatment ( 1 u/mouse/day ) of diabetic mice restored the submandibular gland , plasma egf concentrations , and sperm counts to normal levels . the restorative effects of insulin on sperm production appeared to be mediated , at least in part , by egf , because its effect was significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) reduced by the concomitant administration of egf antiserum . in addition , the plasma testosterone levels of diabetic mice , 67 + / - 14.3 ng/ml , were lower that those of normal mice , 122 + / - 19.1 ng/ml . administration of testosterone ( 1 mg/mouse/day ) normalized the submandibular gland and plasma egf levels and significantly increased sperm counts in the epididymis . these results suggest that egf deficiency is a possible cause for the pathogenesis of oligozoospermia in diabetic mice . 
small intestinal fatty acid synthesis is increased in diabetic rats . several studies have demonstrated that intestinal triglyceride production and secretion are increased in diabetic animals and may contribute to the hypertriglyceridemia that accompanies diabetes . there are three potential sources of fatty acids for intestinally derived triglycerides ; de novo fatty acid synthesis , circulating free fatty acids , or dietarily derived fatty acids . prior data have demonstrated that de novo cholesterol synthesis is increased in the small intestine of diabetic animals . the primary aim of the present study was to determine the effect of diabetes on small intestinal de novo fatty acid synthesis . we found that de novo fatty acid synthesis in the small intestine is increased approximately 2-fold in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats . in contrast , hepatic fatty acid synthesis is decreased in the diabetic animals . the increase in intestinal fatty acid synthesis is observed in both the fed and fasting states . limiting food intake by pair feeding prevents the diabetic-induced increase in small intestinal fatty acid synthesis , a finding similar to previous data on cholesterol synthesis . thus , the increase in both small intestinal cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis is dependent on the increased food intake that accompanies poorly controlled diabetes . the present study indicates that increases in small intestinal de novo fatty acid synthesis in diabetic animals could play an important role in providing fatty acids for increased small intestinal triglyceride synthesis and secretion . 
mapping genes in diabetes . genetic epidemiological perspective . research on mapping diabetes-susceptibility genes is dependent on several factors , including the existence of a single major gene for susceptibility , genetic homogeneity , and the existence of appropriate clinical material . the power to detect susceptibility genes is dependent on the risks in relatives and the distance of genetic markers from the susceptibility genes . for insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) , the best-fitting risk models are those with a single major locus with residual polygenic factors . the major locus effect is likely represented by genes in the hla complex , because specific genotypes have been found to affect iddm risk significantly . thus , mapping the remaining polygenic iddm susceptibility factors -- each of small effect -- is a difficult and long task . for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , the likely risk models result in few genes with moderate effect . models of niddm have significant residual polygenic variation remaining , reflecting the importance of multiple loci with small effect , environmental effects , or genetic heterogeneity ; however , the prospects for mapping genes that provide at least moderate susceptibility for niddm now appear promising . 
reduced insulinotropic effects of glucagonlike peptide i - ( 7-36 ) - amide and gastric inhibitory polypeptide in isolated perfused diabetic rat pancreas . the pathophysiological role of incretin in diabetes mellitus has not been established . we therefore examined the effects of glucagonlike peptide i - ( 7-36 ) - amide ( truncated glp-i ) and gastric inhibitory polypeptide ( gip ) on insulin and glucagon release from isolated perfused pancreases of diabetic rats ( 12-14 wk of age , mean + / - se fasting plasma glucose 8.9 + / - 0.6 mm , n = 25 ) after an injection of 90 mg/kg streptozocin on the 2nd day after birth and compared the results with those of nondiabetic control rats . in diabetic rats , the infusion of 1 nm glp-i or gip in perfusates with varying glucose concentrations ( 2.8 , 5.6 , 8.3 , 11.1 , or 22.2 mm ) caused a nearly equal degree of insulin stimulation from a similar basal insulin level . meanwhile , basal and glp-i - or gip-stimulated insulin release increased in correlation with the ambient glucose concentration in nondiabetic rats . the degree of stimulation of insulin release at glucose concentrations of 5.6 mm in diabetic rats was approximately 33 % that of nondiabetic rats . the stimulation potency was the same between glp-i and gip . the insulin treatment for diabetic rats ( 5 u/kg nph insulin at 0900 and 2100 for 6 days ) brought only a slight improvement in the glucose dependency of glp-i-stimulated insulin release . the effects of glp-i and gip on glucagon release were completely opposite . glp-i suppressed release ; gip stimulated it . in diabetic rats , the degree of suppression by glp-i and stimulation by gip were almost the same with similar basal glucagon levels in the perfusate with varying glucose concentrations . 
marked improvement of glucose homeostasis in diabetic ob/ob mice given oral vanadate . the trace element vanadium exerts insulinlike effects in vitro and decreases hyperglycemia in insulin-deficient animals . this study examined whether vanadate can improve glucose homeostasis in genetically obese hyperglycemic insulin-resistant ob/ob mice , which present metabolic abnormalities similar to those of human non-insulin-dependent diabetes . sodium orthovanadate ( 0.3 mg/ml ) was administered for 7 wk in h2o . vanadate treatment induced a fall in fed and fasted plasma glucose and insulin levels and improved tolerance to oral glucose ; the stimulated glucose area was decreased by 65 % , and an early peak of insulin secretion was restored . during an intravenous glucose tolerance test , the glucose disappearance rate was twofold higher in vanadate-treated mice , and the reappearance of a significant insulin response was also observed . moreover , vanadate produced a twofold increase in hepatic glycogen content and prevented the exhaustion of pancreatic insulin stores . the hypoglycemic response to exogenous insulin was similar in control and treated mice . in vitro experiments showed that basal glucose oxidation by hemidiaphragms was 32 % higher in vanadate-treated mice than in controls , although stimulation by insulin was similar in both groups . in conclusion , oral vanadate caused a marked and sustained improvement of glucose homeostasis in diabetic insulin-resistant mice by exerting an insulinlike effect on peripheral tissues and apparently preventing the exhaustion of pancreatic insulin stores . 
short-term administration of captopril and nifedipine and exercise-induced albuminuria in normotensive diabetic patients with early-stage nephropathy . recent studies have demonstrated that short-term angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibition with captopril can reduce urinary albumin excretion rate ( uaer ) after exercise in normotensive diabetic patients with early-stage nephropathy . the aim of this study was to investigate whether this effect of ace inhibition was due to a systemic hypotensive action or a specific action at the intrarenal level . thus , we compared the acute effects of captopril and the ca2 ( + ) - channel blocker nifedipine on exercise-induced uaer in normotensive ( blood pressure less than 165/95 mmhg ) diabetic patients who were normoalbuminuric or microalbuminuric at rest ( stage 2 or 3 of diabetic nephropathy ) . twenty-five stage 2 diabetic nephropathy patients , 39 stage 3 diabetic nephropathy patients , and 12 nondiabetic subjects performed five submaximal cycloergometric exercises ( 90 % of theoretical heart rate ) on nonconsecutive days . the first two exercises were performed in basal conditions ; the next three exercises were performed 24 h after administration of captopril ( 25 mg twice daily ) or nifedipine ar ( 20 mg twice daily ) or placebo ( 1 tablet twice daily ) according to a randomized double-blind crossover trial . after placebo , blood pressure and uaer did not change at rest or 1 h after exercise . after captopril , blood pressure at rest and during exercise was similar to that observed after placebo . uaer at rest was not modified , whereas 1 h after exercise , it was significantly decreased both in stage 2 and stage 3 diabetic nephropathy patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . after nifedipine , blood pressure decreased significantly at rest and during exercise in respect to placebo and captopril . uaer at rest did not change significantly . 
abnormal redox status without increased lipid peroxidation in sugar cataract . in conflict with a previous report , we find that phenolic inhibitors of lipid peroxidation ( butylated hydroxytoluene [ bht ] and butylated hydroxyanisole [ bha ] ) do not have significant inhibitory effect on galactosemic cataract formation . this is consistent with the lack of enhancement of stable products of lipid peroxidation ( measured by the thiobarbituric acid assay ) in the lenses of galactosemic rats . this does not imply that oxidative stress plays no role in galactosemic cataract formation ( indeed , we find that galactosemic lens homogenates contain increased amounts of an fe2 + oxidant , possibly a peroxide ) , but rather that bht - and bha-inhibitable lipid peroxidation specifically has no role to play . in instances where drugs appear to inhibit galactosemic cataract formation , other effects caused by the drugs , e.g. , inhibition of feeding or induction of general detoxification pathways , must be considered . 
anti-islet cell antibodies from nod mice . we produced a panel of monoclonal autoantibodies from the spleen cells of prediabetic nonobese diabetic mice . the antibodies were selected on the basis of their ability to bind to the surface of nondiabetic mouse islet cells , and from greater than 4000 hybridomas screened , 35 islet-reactive antibodies were isolated . most of these reagents also bind to nondiabetic rat and human islet cells and beta-cell tumor lines . a few of the antibodies were found to be reactive with insulin . when tested for cross-reactivity with other cell types , most of the antibodies were found to be islet specific . 
characteristics of learning and memory in streptozocin-induced diabetic mice . we demonstrated that mice with streptozocin-induced diabetes mellitus have normal acquisition for relatively simple tasks but show problems in learning more complex tasks such as shuttle box avoidance . enhanced learning previously reported in simple passive avoidance tasks appears to be due to increased foot shock sensitivity . diabetic mice show a marked memory retention deficit after learning an active avoidance t-maze task . this retention deficit was reversed by a single injection of insulin , suggesting that it may be related to hyperglycemia per se . diabetic mice have a shift to the left in the inverted u-shaped dose-response curve for memory retention produced by the acetylcholine agonist arecoline . based on a preliminary screening , responses to several other pharmacological memory enhancers are probably altered in diabetic mice . these studies suggest that this mouse model of diabetes mellitus demonstrates a deficit in memory retention and retrieval similar to that seen in humans with diabetes mellitus . 
inhibition of hepatic glucose production by sdz 51641 . the new oral hypoglycemic agent sdz 51641 was evaluated in nondiabetic rats and a rat model of human non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . diabetes was induced with a single injection of 37.5 mg/kg streptozocin , and the rats exhibited hyperglycemia in the fed state with normal insulin levels . treatment of nondiabetic animals with 100 mg/kg sdz 51641 given orally significantly decreased serum glucose and ketone levels within 4 h without affecting insulin levels . nonesterified fatty acids increased more than twofold during the same period . its effect on ketone and fatty acid levels suggests that sdz 51641 acts as an inhibitor of fatty acid oxidation . diabetic rats treated with sdz 51641 exhibited a significant acute hypoglycemic response , which was more pronounced after 3 days of treatment . the compound also significantly decreased serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels 27 and 53 % , respectively . when endogenous hepatic glucose production was assessed in nondiabetic and diabetic animals via continuous infusion of [ 3-3h ] glucose , we found that hepatic glucose production was elevated 43 % in diabetic compared with control animals . when diabetic rats were treated with 100 mg/kg sdz 51641 , hepatic glucose production decreased to normal levels within 6 h. hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp studies indicated that sdz 51641 had no effect on insulin-stimulated glucose utilization . measurement of [ 1-14c ] oleate oxidation in isolated hepatocytes demonstrated that sdz 51641 inhibited long-chain fatty acid oxidation in a concentration-dependent manner . the compound was ineffective at inhibiting long-chain fatty acid oxidation in epitrochlearis or soleus muscles . 
insulinlike activity of new antidiabetic agent cp 68722 in 3t3-l1 adipocytes . we examined the in vitro effects of cp 68722 , a novel antidiabetic agent , in 3t3-l1 adipocytes . cp 68722 stimulated 2-deoxyglucose uptake in the absence of insulin . at least 30 min of incubation were required for stimulation of uptake . this effect increased over 5 h and was sustained up to 72 h. the stimulation of 2-deoxyglucose uptake by cp 68722 could be inhibited approximately 60 % by inhibition of protein synthesis with cycloheximide . half-maximal and maximal responses to cp 68722 at 72 h of incubation were observed at 10 and 100 microm of drug , respectively , with a threefold stimulation of uptake at 100 microm approximating the maximal response of these cells to acute insulin stimulation . cp 68722 was able to overcome insulin resistance induced by dexamethasone in 3t3-l1 cells . the effect of drug , like that of insulin , was primarily to increase the vmax of 2-deoxyglucose uptake . the stimulation of uptake by cp 68722 or insulin could be prevented by incubating the cells at 10 degrees c , a temperature that impedes translocation of glucose transporters to the plasma membrane . therefore , it appears that cp 68722 , like insulin , stimulates glucose uptake by a mechanism that involves translocation of intracellular glucose transporters to the plasma membrane and de novo protein synthesis . we compared the effect of cp 68722 with the sulfonylureas , the primary drugs used in the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . cp 68722 was a more potent and effective stimulator of 2-deoxyglucose uptake in 3t3-l1 cells than either first - or second-generation sulfonylureas . 
autoxidative glycosylation and possible involvement of peroxides and free radicals in ldl modification by glucose . it has been postulated that the etiology of the complications of diabetes involves oxidative stress , perhaps as a result of hyperglycemia . consistent with this hypothesis , it has been shown that glucose , under physiological conditions , produces oxidants that possess reactivity similar to the hydroxyl free radical . these oxidants hydroxylate benzoic acid , fragment protein , and induce peroxidation in phosphatidylcholine liposomes and low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) when ldl is incubated with hyperglycemic levels of glucose in vitro . these reactions are accelerated by transition metals and inhibited by a metal-chelating agent . the atherosclerotic potential of ldl in diabetes mellitus is often discussed in terms of protein glycosylation , which may affect cellular interactions . our studies demonstrate , however , that peroxidative reactions also accompany ldl glycosylation in vitro . peroxidative modification of ldl has also been implicated in ldl atherogenicity . our studies indicate that glycosylation and peroxidation occur concomitantly in ldl modified by glucose in vitro and may both contribute to the behavioral changes of this lipoprotein . 
insulin and hypertension . relationship to obesity and glucose intolerance in pima indians . the relationships among blood pressure , obesity , glucose tolerance , and serum insulin concentration were studied in 2873 pima indians aged 18-92 yr ( mean 37 yr ) . age - and sex-adjusted to the pima population , the prevalence of hypertension ( systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mmhg , diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mmhg , or receiving drug treatment ) was 7.1 % for subjects with normal glucose tolerance compared with 13.0 % for subjects with impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) and 19.8 % for those with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . the prevalence ratio of hypertension was 1.8 ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 1.2-2 .5 ) for igt and 2.6 ( 95 % ci 2.0-3 .2 ) for niddm compared with normal glucose tolerance , controlled for age , sex , and body mass index ( bmi ) . in logistic regression analysis , hypertension was positively related to age , male sex , bmi , glucose tolerance , and fasting but not 2-h postload serum insulin concentration . among subjects not taking antihypertensive drugs , however , neither fasting nor 2-h postload serum insulin was significantly related to hypertension . furthermore , in 2033 subjects receiving neither antihypertensive nor antidiabetic drugs , blood pressure was not significantly correlated to fasting insulin concentration , and 2-h postload serum insulin was negatively correlated with diastolic blood pressure . in conclusion , insulin is not significantly related to blood pressure in pima indians not receiving antihypertensive drugs . higher insulin concentrations in drug-treated hypertensive patients might result from the treatment rather than contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension . thus , these data do not support a major role for insulin in determining the occurrence of hypertension or regulation of blood pressure in pima indians . 
defective free-fatty acid and oxidative glucose metabolism in iddm during hypoglycemia . influence of glycemic control . to examine the impact of diabetes and its treatment on plasma free-fatty acid ( ffa ) and oxidative fuel metabolism during hypoglycemia , we combined indirect calorimetry with [ 3-3h ] glucose during a 4-h low-dose insulin infusion ( plasma insulin approximately 2-fold above basal ) in six poorly controlled and nine well-controlled insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) patients and in six healthy subjects . diabetic subjects received insulin overnight to maintain euglycemia before study . although free-insulin levels and counterregulatory hormone responses were similar , the plasma glucose fall was more pronounced in well-controlled diabetic subjects . in well-controlled diabetic and healthy subjects , the small increment in insulin rapidly suppressed plasma ffa and fat oxidation by approximately 50 % and stimulated carbohydrate oxidation by approximately 80 % . in contrast , plasma ffa levels did not fall in poorly controlled diabetic subjects , and glucose oxidation was not stimulated . to determine whether this resistance to the antilipolytic effect of insulin occurs in the absence of hypoglycemic counterregulation , we used a sequential low-dose euglycemic insulin clamp ( 0.2 , 0.3 , and 0.5 mu.kg-1 . min-1 ) . in healthy subjects , plasma ffa was nearly maximally suppressed at the lowest insulin dose . in contrast , plasma ffa remained persistently elevated in poorly controlled diabetic subjects at each insulin dose . however , the insulin dose-response curve for suppression of plasma ffa was near normal in well-controlled subjects . we conclude that poorly controlled iddm diabetic patients are resistant to the antilipolytic effects of insulin and show impaired stimulation of glucose oxidation during insulin-induced hypoglycemia . amelioration of these defects in well-controlled patients may be another factor contributing to the higher risk of hypoglycemia during intensified insulin therapy . 
metabolic effects of hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia on fate of intracellular glucose in niddm . hyperglycemia in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) stimulates peripheral glucose uptake , which tends to compensate for impaired insulin-mediated glucose uptake . the metabolic fate of glucose and suppression of fat oxidation may differ , however , when glucose uptake is stimulated primarily by insulin or hyperglycemia . to address this issue , three hyperinsulinemic glucose-clamp studies were performed in combination with indirect calorimetry in seven nonobese subjects with niddm . in the first two experiments , when glucose uptake was matched at approximately 8 mg.kg-1 fat-free mass ( ffm ) . min-1 with primarily hyperinsulinemia ( 1350 + / - 445 pm ) or hyperglycemia ( 20.8 + / - 1.8 mm ) , identical rates of glucose oxidation ( 3.21 + / - 0.29 and 3.10 + / - 0.23 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 , ns ) and nonoxidative glucose metabolism ( 5.19 + / - 0.75 and 5.46 + / - 0.61 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 , ns ) were achieved . when glucose uptake was increased further to 11.11 + / - 0.36 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 with less insulin ( 625 + / - 70 pm ) and hyperglycemia , glucose oxidation ( 3.85 + / - 0.26 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 ) and nonoxidative glucose metabolism ( 7.26 + / - 0.51 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 ) rose significantly ( both p less than 0.05 from matched studies at lower rates of glucose uptake ) . during all glucose-clamp studies , free fatty acids were comparably suppressed by 40-46 % ( all p less than 0.005 vs. basal values ) , whereas fat oxidation was suppressed by 70-80 % ( all p less than 0.005 vs. basal values ) . a strong negative correlation was observed between rates of glucose and fat oxidation ( r = -0.88 , p less than 0.001 ) when all studies were combined . 
calcitonin gene-related peptide and induction of hyperglycemia in conscious rats in vivo . the effect of calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp ) on glucose metabolism was investigated in conscious and unrestrained rats in vivo . intravenous injection of rat cgrp ( 5.67 and 0.567 nmol/kg ) caused a significant , dose-dependent increase in plasma glucose concentration and a simultaneous dose-dependent increase in plasma insulin level . in contrast , plasma glucagon level was not changed . on the other hand , intravenous infusion of cgrp ( 46.6 pmol.kg-1 . min-1 ) decreased tolerance to intragastric administration of glucose ( iggtt ) . plasma insulin response to iggtt , however , was not affected by cgrp infusion . moreover , although intravenous injection of cgrp ( 5.67 nmol/kg ) elicited a significant increase in plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine concentrations , concomitant administration of epinephrine and norepinephrine , inducing a more prominent rise in plasma catecholamines than those induced by cgrp , affected neither plasma glucose nor insulin levels . finally , plasma insulin levels obtained by simulating cgrp-induced changes in plasma glucose or glucose plus catecholamine levels by infusion of glucose or glucose plus catecholamines were not different from those induced by cgrp injection . these results suggest that cgrp has a hyperglycemic action that is not mediated by sympathetic outflow in conscious rats , and inhibition of insulin secretion , if any , does not play a major role in this hyperglycemic action of cgrp . we have demonstrated specific cgrp receptors linked to adenylate cyclase activation in rat liver plasma membranes ; this hyperglycemic effect of cgrp in vivo may be partly due to its direct action on the liver . 
change in hexose distribution volume and fractional utilization of [ 18f ] -2 - deoxy-2-fluoro-d-glucose in brain during acute hypoglycemia in humans . we used positron emission tomography ( pet ) to study the effects of mild hypoglycemia on cerebral glucose uptake and metabolism . nine healthy men were studied under basal saline-infusion conditions , and during euglycemic and hypoglycemic clamp studies . insulin was infused at the same rate ( 1 mu.kg-1 . min-1 ) in both clamp studies . in euglycemic clamp studies , glucose was infused at a rate sufficient to maintain the basal plasma glucose concentration , whereas in hypoglycemic clamp studies , the glucose infusion rate was reduced to maintain the plasma glucose at 3.1 mm . each study lasted 3 h and included a 30-min baseline period and a subsequent 150-min period in which insulin or glucose was administered . blood samples for measurement of insulin , glucose , cortisol , growth hormone , and glucagon were obtained at 20 - to 30-min intervals . a bolus injection of 5-10 mci [ 18f ] -2 - deoxy-2-fluoro-d-glucose ( 2-dfg ) was administered 120 min after initiation of the study , and plasma radioactivity and dynamic pet scans were obtained at frequent intervals for the remaining 40-60 min of the study . cerebral regions of interest were defined , and concentrations of radioactivity were calculated and used in the three-compartment model of 2-dfg distribution described by sokoloff . glucose levels were similar during saline-infusion ( 4.9 + / - 0.1 mm ) and euglycemic clamp ( 4.8 + / - 0.1 mm ) studies , whereas the desired degree of mild hypoglycemia was achieved during the hypoglycemic clamp study ( 3.1 + / - 0.1 mm , p less than 0.05 ) . the insulin level during saline infusion was 41 + / - 7 pm . 
is insulinlike growth factor i associated with diabetic retinopathy ? insulinlike growth factor i ( igf-i ) is the mediator of the growth-promoting effects of growth hormone and has been suspected of playing a role in the pathogenesis of proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( pdr ) . however , previous attempts to correlate igf-i levels with pdr have yielded conflicting results . we determined igf-i levels in a large population-based study of 682 early-onset ( diagnosed before 30 yr of age ) adult ( greater than or equal to 18 yr old ) insulin-taking diabetic subjects . pdr was found in 25 % of the population . igf-i levels were measured by radioimmunoassay . the mean serum level of igf-i was 277 + / - 108 micrograms/l ( mean + / - sd ) . spearman rank correlations showed statistically significant negative correlations between igf-i levels and age ( r = -0.51 , p less than 0.0001 ) , duration of disease ( r = -0.36 , p less than 0.0001 ) , and glycosylated hemoglobin ( r = -0.09 , p less than 0.05 ) . there was a significant trend ( p less than 0.001 ) toward decreasing risk of pdr with increasing igf-i . however , after controlling for duration of diabetes , glycosylated hemoglobin , diastolic blood pressure , and the presence of proteinuria and/or creatinine greater than or equal to 265 microm in a multiple logistic regression model , igf-i was not significantly associated with pdr . these data suggest that igf-i may not be a risk factor for the development of pdr . 
altered steady-state mrna levels of basement membrane proteins in diabetic mouse kidneys and thromboxane synthase inhibition . we examined steady-state levels of mrna encoding type iv collagen , b1 chain of laminin , and the basement membrane heparan sulfate proteoglycan in the kidney cortex of a mouse model ( kkay ) of non-insulin-dependent diabetes . mrnas encoding laminin b1 and the proteoglycan were unchanged in kidneys taken from diabetic mice with demonstrable basement membrane thickening . mrna levels for type iv collagen , in contrast , were significantly elevated ( 2-fold ) in diabetic mice concurrent with but not preceding morphologically thickened basement membranes . there was a negative correlation between a ratio of proteoglycan/type iv collagen and levels of albuminuria in the diabetic mice . no correlation was noted with laminin . we also examined the effects of inhibiting the synthesis of thromboxane , a potent vasoconstrictor , on the steady-state levels of type iv collagen in the diabetic mice . inhibition of thromboxane stopped the progression of albuminuria and prevented an increase in type iv collagen mrna levels . we conclude that basement membrane thickening in diabetes , a hallmark of diabetic nephropathy , is partly a consequence of an unbalanced increase in the production of type iv collagen . the relative decrease in proteoglycan production may contribute to chronic albuminuria . 
lack of predictive value of islet cell antibodies , insulin antibodies , and hla-dr phenotype for remission in cyclosporin-treated iddm patients . the canadian-european randomized control trial group . the effect of immunosuppression on the humoral immune response to islet autoantigens and exogenously administered insulin and the predictive value of islet cell cytoplasmic antibodies ( icas ) , insulin antibodies ( ias ) , and hla-dr phenotype for remission during immunosuppression were studied in a prospective randomized double-blind trial of cyclosporin administration in 98 newly diagnosed insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) patients . hla-dr phenotype and glycosylated hemoglobin were determined at study entry , and insulin requirement , glucagon-stimulated c-peptide , icas , and ias were measured at entry and after 1 , 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 mo of follow-up . cyclosporin therapy caused significant suppression of the prevalence and serum concentrations of icas and ias . cyclosporin-treated iddm patients ica + at study entry had higher levels of stimulated c-peptide after 1 mo of study , but the increased beta-cell function was not associated with a higher frequency of insulin-free remission at 1 mo . ica and ia status at entry did not predict cyclosporin-insulin-free remission as assessed by the prevalence of insulin-free remission or beta-cell function at 3-12 mo of study , and significant decrements in the titers or total disappearance of icas were not associated with an increased prevalence or duration of non-insulin-requiring remission or higher stimulated c-peptide values . there was no correlation between the serum levels of icas and ias at entry and beta-cell function at 12 mo of follow-up . 
contribution of impaired muscle glucose clearance to reduced postabsorptive systemic glucose clearance in niddm . the reduced postabsorptive rates of systemic glucose clearance in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) are thought to be the consequence of insulin resistance in peripheral tissues . although the peripheral tissues involved have not been identified , it is generally assumed to be primarily muscle , the major site of insulin-mediated glucose disposal . to test this hypothesis , we measured postabsorptive systemic and forearm glucose utilization and clearance in 15 volunteers with niddm and 15 age - and weight-matched nondiabetic volunteers . although systemic glucose utilization was increased in niddm subjects ( 14.5 + / - 0.5 vs. 11.2 + / - 0.2 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 , p less than 0.001 ) , systemic glucose clearance was reduced 1.40 + / - 0.06 vs. 2.13 + / - 0.05 ml.kg-1 . min-1 , p less than 0.01 ) . although forearm glucose utilization was increased in niddm subjects ( 0.663 + / - 0.058 vs. 0.411 + / - 0.019 mumol.dl-1 . min-1 , p less than 0.001 ) , forearm glucose dl-1 clearance was reduced ( 0.628 + / - 0.044 vs. 0.774 + / - 0.037 ml.l-1 . min-1 , p less than 0.01 ) . however , extrapolation of forearm data to total-body muscle indicated that impaired clearance reduced muscle glucose disposal by only 61 + / - 21 mumol/min , whereas impaired systemic clearance reduced systemic glucose disposal by 662 + / - 82 mumol/min . thus , impaired muscle glucose clearance accounted for less than 10 % of the reduced systemic glucose clearance in niddm subjects . therefore , we conclude that muscle insulin resistance plays only a minor role in the reduced systemic glucose clearance found in niddm in the postabsorptive state and propose that reduced brain glucose clearance is largely responsible . 
hepatic and extrahepatic responses to insulin in niddm and nondiabetic humans . assessment in absence of artifact introduced by tritiated nonglucose contaminants . it is well established that patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) are resistant to insulin . however , the contribution of hepatic and extrahepatic tissues to insulin resistance remains controversial . the uncertainty may be at least in part due to errors introduced by the unknowing use in previous studies of impure isotopes to measure glucose turnover . to determine hepatic and extrahepatic responses to insulin in the absence of these errors , steady-state glucose turnover was measured simultaneously with [ 6-3h ] - and [ 6-14c ] glucose during sequential 5 - and 4-h infusions of insulin at rates of 0.4 and 10 mu.kg-1 . min-1 in diabetic and nondiabetic subjects . at low insulin concentrations , [ 6-3h ] - and [ 6-14c ] glucose gave similar estimates of glucose turnover . hepatic glucose release was equal to but not below zero in the nondiabetic subjects , but persistent glucose release ( p less than 0.001 ) and decreased glucose uptake ( p less than 0.001 ) was observed in the diabetic patients . at high insulin concentrations , both isotopes underestimated glucose turnover during the 1st h after initiation of the high-dose insulin infusion . more time ( p less than 0.05 ) was required to reachieve steady state in niddm than nondiabetic subjects . at steady state , [ 6-3h ] - but not [ 6-14c ] glucose systematically underestimated ( p less than 0.05 ) glucose turnover in both groups due to the presence of a tritiated nonglucose contaminant . the percentage of radioactivity in plasma due to tritiated contaminants was linearly related to turnover . 
inducement by fat feeding of basal hyperglycemia in rats with abnormal beta-cell function . model for study of etiology and pathogenesis of niddm . non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) is a heterogenous disorder characterized by defects in insulin action and secretion . this study was aimed at developing a rat model in which these pathogenic factors might be studied . male wistar rats were injected at 2 days of age with 45 or 30 mg/kg streptozocin ( stz ) or vehicle ( control ) . fasting plasma glucose and insulin levels were not significantly different between the two groups between 5 and 8 wk of age . at 8 wk , half of each group was randomly assigned to isocaloric diets high in either fat ( 59 % of calories ) or starch ( 70 % of calories ) . after 1 wk on the diets , 45-mg/kg-stz-administered fat-fed animals displayed significant fasting hyperglycemia ( 8.6 + / - 0.2 mm ; p less than 0.01 ) , which was exacerbated by the stress of anesthesia and/or cannulation , whereas no changes were observed in any of the other groups before ( stz starch fed , 6.7 + / - 0.1 mm ; control fat fed , 6.8 + / - 0.1 mm ; control starch fed ; 6.4 + / - 0.1 mm ) or after anesthesia and/or cannulation . in the 30-mg/kg-stz animals , fat feeding did not significantly elevate plasma glucose concentration , but a significant hyperglycemic response was seen with anesthesia and/or cannulation . in all stz groups , substantial impairment of glucose-induced insulin secretion was observed , particularly early-phase insulin secretion . further studies indicated that stz animals on a diet conferring normal insulin sensitivity ( starch ) maintained basal normoglycemia and mildly impaired ( i.v. ) glucose tolerance despite this gross insulin secretory defect . 
reduced membrane fluidity in platelets from diabetic patients . platelets from diabetic patients are hypersensitive to agonists in vitro . membrane fluidity modulates cell function , and reduced membrane fluidity in cholesterol-enriched platelets is associated with platelet hypersensitivity to agonists , including thrombin . decreased membrane fluidity of these platelets is attributed to an increased cholesterol-phospholipid molar ratio in platelet membranes . we examined the response of platelets from diabetic subjects to thrombin , platelet membrane fluidity , and platelet cholesterol-phospholipid molar ratio . twelve poorly controlled diabetic subjects were compared with 12 age - and sex-matched control subjects . in response to a low concentration of thrombin , mean values for release of [ 14c ] serotonin from washed prelabeled platelets were not significantly different between diabetic and control subjects , but in 8 of 12 diabetic subjects , the release response was greater than in their paired control subjects . mean steady-state fluorescence polarization values in 1,6-diphenyl-1 ,3,5 - hexatriene-labeled platelets prepared from diabetic subjects were significantly greater than in control subjects ; this indicates a decreased membrane fluidity in platelets from diabetic subjects . total or very-low-density ( vldl ) , low-density ( ldl ) , or high-density ( hdl2 , hdl3 ) lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations in plasma were not significantly different between groups ; however , the ratio of vldl + ldl to hdl2 + hdl3 was significantly greater in diabetic than in control subjects . there was no difference in the total platelet cholesterol-phospholipid molar ratio between groups . 
relationship between blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion in development of microalbuminuria . two hundred nine consecutive normotensive insulin-dependent diabetic ( iddm ) patients were followed prospectively from november 1982 to january 1988 . patient urinary albumin excretion rate ( uae ) had to be normal ( less than 30 mg/24 h ) on at least two occasions before inclusion in the study . patients were aged 18-50 yr with a duration of diabetes of 10-30 yr . uae was measured every 4 mo , and supine blood pressure was measured annually . two hundred five patients completed the study . five years later , 15 patients had developed persistent microalbuminuria with median uae greater than 30 mg/24 h for at least 2 yr ( group 2 ) , and 190 patients stayed normoalbuminuric ( group 1 ) . although within normal range , initial uae was significantly elevated in group 2 compared with group 1 ( mean 19 mg/24 h [ range 15-23 mg/24 h ] vs. 11 mg/24 h [ 10-12 ] , 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , p less than 0.001 ) . initially , there was no difference in blood pressure between group 2 ( mean systolic 122 mmhg [ 117-127 ] , diastolic 80 mmhg [ 76-84 ] ) and group 1 ( mean 126 mmhg [ 124-128 ] , 79 mmhg [ 78-80 ] , 95 % ci ) , and a significant increase in diastolic blood pressure could first be detected during the 3rd yr of persistent microalbuminuria ( mean systolic 132 mmhg [ 124-140 ] , diastolic 85 mmhg [ 81-89 ] vs. 128 mmhg [ 126-130 ] , 79 mmhg [ 78-80 ] , p less than 0.05 ) . initial hemoglobin a1c was significantly elevated in group 2 compared with group 1 ( 9.6 % [ 8.8-10 .4 ] vs. 8.5 % [ 8.3-8 .7 ] , p less than 0.01 ) . 
insulin-receptor autophosphorylation and endogenous substrate phosphorylation in human adipocytes from control , obese , and niddm subjects . we identified a possible endogenous substrate ( pp185 ) of the insulin-receptor kinase in human adipocytes by treating intact cells with insulin and immunoblotting the cellular extracts with polyclonal antiphosphotyrosine antibody . this 185,000-mr protein was phosphorylated on tyrosine residues in response to insulin in both rat and human adipocytes . the time course of pp185 phosphorylation at 37 degrees c was rapid and corresponded closely to insulin-receptor autophosphorylation but preceded insulin-stimulated glucose transport . unlike many growth factor receptors , including the insulin receptor , pp185 was not adsorbed to wheat-germ agglutinin . we found that pp185 phosphorylation occurred at 12 degrees c and that the phosphoprotein was associated with both cytoplasmic and membrane fractions at this temperature . furthermore , pp185 phosphorylation was induced to the same extent as insulin by vanadate and hydrogen peroxide , compounds previously shown to mimic the biologic effects of insulin . in addition , dose-response analysis of insulin-stimulated glucose transport , receptor autophosphorylation , and pp185 phosphorylation resulted in ed50 values of 0.3 , 12 , and 12 ng/ml , respectively . these results demonstrate the magnitude of " spare " autophosphorylation and pp185 phosphorylation with respect to glucose transport stimulation in human adipocytes . to determine whether the insulin resistance characteristic of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) and obesity is associated with a defect in receptor autophosphorylation and/or endogenous substrate phosphorylation , we estimated the extent of beta-subunit and pp185 phosphorylation in adipocytes from niddm , obese , and healthy subjects . although the efficiency of coupling between receptor activation and pp185 phosphorylation was normal in obesity and niddm , the capacity for insulin-receptor autophosphorylation was approximately 50 % lower in niddm subjects compared with nondiabetic obese or lean subjects . 
induction of insulin resistance in vivo by amylin and calcitonin gene-related peptide . during hyperinsulinemic glucose-clamp studies , intravenous infusion of calcitonin gene-related peptide ( cgrp ) in rats antagonized the ability of insulin to stimulate peripheral glucose disposal by 52 % ( 196 + / - 7.2 vs. 105 + / - 10.5 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 , p less than 0.05 ) and to inhibit hepatic glucose output by 54 % ( p less than 0.01 ) . cgrp also inhibited the in vitro effects of insulin to stimulate hexose uptake in cultured bc3h1 myocytes at all insulin concentrations studied . amylin is a peptide isolated from amyloid deposits in pancreatic islets of type ii ( non-insulin-dependent ) diabetic subjects , is present in normal beta-cells , and bears a striking homology to cgrp . when synthetic human amylin was infused during clamp studies , it inhibited the ability of insulin to stimulate glucose disposal by 56 % ( 96.9 + / - 9.4 vs. 42.4 + / - 5.0 mumol.kg-1 . min-1 , p less than 0.05 ) and to suppress hepatic glucose output by 64 % . therefore , amylin and cgrp can cause insulin resistance in vivo and may be implicated in insulin-resistant states such as type ii diabetes mellitus . 
high frequency of aspartic acid at position 57 of hla-dq beta-chain in japanese iddm patients and nondiabetic subjects . the hla-dq beta-chain ( dqb1 ) genes of 72 japanese patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) and 85 control subjects were studied with polymerase chain-reaction ( pcr ) amplification and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization . dqw4 ( dqbblank ) and dqw9 ( dqb3 .3 ) were increased in iddm patients compared with the control subjects , and dqb1 .2 , dqb1 .9 , and dqw7 ( dqb3 .1 ) were decreased . thirty-five ( 48.6 % ) iddm patients had both alleles carrying an aspartic acid at position 57 of the dq beta-chain ( asp 57 ) , 35 ( 48.6 % ) were asp 57/non-asp 57 heterozygous , and 2 ( 2.8 % ) had non-asp 57 alleles only . of 85 control subjects , the respective values for these three genotypes were 49 ( 57.6 % ) , 29 ( 34.1 % ) , and 7 ( 8.2 % ) , respectively . the high frequency of asp 57 alleles in both iddm and control subjects contrasts with data for whites . therefore , the asp 57 hypothesis that the presence of an aspartic acid at position 57 of dq beta-chain provides protection against developing iddm is not tenable for japanese iddm patients . the drb1 gene , particularly position 57 of the dr beta-chain , may contribute to iddm susceptibility in japanese . 
adaptive hyperphagia in patients with postsurgical malabsorption . the specific nutritional consequences of malabsorption after small-bowel surgery were studied in a consecutive series of 48 ambulatory patients who had had small-bowel resection ( n = 43 ) or bypass ( n = 5 ) and in 10 patients who had an ileal pouch ( n = 10 ) . the patients received a 3-day standardized oral regimen providing daily 30 kcal/kg of ideal body weight ( ibw ) . throughout the study , 41 patients had malabsorption ( fecal fat greater than 5 % ) ; 17 had fecal fat less than 5 % and served as controls . the malabsorption patients absorbed 70 % of protein and 71 % of fat . twenty-one were normonourished and 20 had features of mild energy malnutrition , vs. 15 and 2 controls , respectively . compared with controls , malabsorption patients had decreased body weight and triceps skin-fold but no features of protein malnutrition . their mean daily food intake at home was significantly enhanced ( 39.6 + / - 13.1 kcal/ibw kg ) vs. controls ( 28.8 + / - 5.8 kcal/ibw kg , p less than 0.001 ) . in the malabsorption group , caloric intake was higher in the normonourished patients than in those with mild malnutrition . this study shows that a chronic malabsorption has limited nutritional consequences . the patients compensate for their absorptive handicap by increasing their oral intake . 
fatty liver hepatitis ( steatohepatitis ) and obesity : an autopsy study with analysis of risk factors . steatohepatitis ( fatty liver hepatitis ) , histologically identical to alcoholic disease , occurs in some obese patients after jejunoileal bypass . a similar lesion occurs rarely in obese patients without bypass surgery , but the risk factors are poorly understood . hepatic steatosis , steatohepatitis and fibrosis were sought in 351 apparently nonalcoholic patients at autopsy and various risk factors were evaluated . incidence of steatosis and steatohepatitis correlated with the degree of obesity . steatohepatitis was found in 18.5 % of markedly obese patients and 2.7 % of lean patients . additional risk factors for steatohepatitis were type ii diabetes , weight loss in the preterminal period shortly before death and intravenous glucose therapy in the last week of life . severe fibrosis was found in 13.8 % of markedly obese patients and in 6.6 % of lean patients ; this difference was largely explained by the higher prevalence of diabetes in obese groups . the risk factors defined in this study are known to be associated with abnormalities of free fatty acid metabolism . obesity , type ii diabetes and intravenous glucose therapy are associated with hyperinsulinemia , which may inhibit fatty acid oxidation . obesity and weight loss increase the presentation of fatty acids to the liver . similar metabolic changes may occur in obese patients after jejunoileal bypass surgery . thus this study supports the hypothesis that fatty acids have a role in the hepatocellular necrosis found in some obese individuals . 
close correlation of intra-abdominal fat accumulation to hypertension in obese women . the relation between intra-abdominal visceral fat accumulation and blood pressure was investigated in 67 obese women ( mean body mass index , 33.6 + / - 3.1 ; average age , 50 + / - 11 years ) . as an index of intra-abdominal fat accumulation , the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area was determined using a computed tomographic section at the level of the umbilicus . when the obese subjects were divided into a hypertensive group and a normotensive group , the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area in the hypertensive group was significantly higher ( 0.53 + / - 0.33 versus 0.29 + / - 0.12 , p less than 0.01 ) . significant correlations between the ratio of intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area and systolic blood pressure ( r = 0.62 , p less than 0.001 ) and diastolic blood pressure ( r = 0.53 , p less than 0.001 ) also were found . however , no significant difference existed in either the body mass index or the waist-to-hip circumference ratio between the hypertensive and normotensive groups . plasma renin activity , aldosterone , epinephrine , and norepinephrine levels were not significantly different between the two groups . moreover , the correlation between the ratio of the intra-abdominal visceral fat area to subcutaneous fat area ratio and blood pressure was found independent of age and body mass index by multiple regression analyses . we conclude that intra-abdominal fat accumulation itself may play an important role in the pathogenesis of hypertension in obesity . 
effects of exercise on insulin-induced hypoglycemia . the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of exercise on the rate of onset of hypoglycemia induced by infusion of excess insulin ( 0.8 mu.min-1 .100 g-1 ) . rats were either fasted overnight ( fs ) or fed ad libitum ( fd ) . fs rats were killed after 5 , 10 , or 15 min of infusion at rest or after running on the treadmill at 21 m/min and 15 % grade . fd rats were killed after 10 , 20 , or 40 min of infusion at rest or after exercise . rats were also killed 15 min postexercise for fs and 60 or 120 min postexercise for fd with continued insulin infusion . the progressive decline in blood glucose was not altered by exercise in the fs rats . fd rats showed a significant difference due to exercise only after 40 min ( rest 4.2 + / - 0.3 mm , exercise 3.2 + / - 0.2 mm ) . a significant postexercise repletion of glycogen was observed in red vastus and soleus muscles of fd rats despite the decreasing blood glucose values . these data indicate that exercise accelerates the rate of development of hypoglycemia in fd rats . in the fs rats , where the rate of decline in blood glucose was greater , exercise had no effect on the time course of development of hypoglycemia . 
total knee arthroplasty in obese patients . we examined 182 patients ( 257 knees ) who had had a total knee arthroplasty two to five six years earlier . the patients were grouped into five weight classes . eighteen patients ( twenty-seven knees ) were considered moderately obese and twelve patients ( twenty-seven knees ) , severely obese . the results in all but four knees were rated excellent or good . one patient needed a revision procedure for late infection , and the result was rated poor . three results were rated fair . there was no discernible difference in the over-all scores among the five weight groups . however , 30 per cent of the knees of the moderately and severely obese patients had patellofemoral symptoms , whereas the incidence was 14 per cent in the other groups ( p less than 0.03 ) . no clear-cut association was found between obesity and either thrombophlebitis or complications related to the wound . 
aneurysmal dilatation in saphenous vein bypass grafts . three patients are reported who developed aneurysmal degeneration of a saphenous vein arterial bypass graft . all three had hypercholesterolemia and two had marked elevation of triglycerides . one bypass was for occlusive disease and two for popliteal aneurysm . there was a long lag , 3 to 7 years between graft implantation and aneurysmal degeneration . the pathology was similar for all three cases with lipid laden macrophages , loss of elastic lamina , and other atherosclerotic changes in the vein wall . while atheromatous changes and aneurysm formation in saphenous vein bypass grafts are rare , this may occur especially in patients with hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia . careful and prolonged follow-up plus vigorous management of the hyperlipidemic state is mandatory in these patients . 
glucose and gluconeogenic substrate exchange by the forearm skeletal muscle in hyperglycemic and insulin-treated type ii diabetic patients . to determine the contribution of skeletal muscle to fasting hyperglycemia in noninsulin dependent type ii diabetes ( niddm ) , the forearm balance of glucose , lactate , and alanine was quantified in 25 control subjects , 21 hyperglycemic ( blood glucose : 11.6 mmol/l ) , and 19 insulin-treated patients with niddm ( blood glucose : 5.8 mmol/l ) . forearm glucose uptake was similar in controls ( 4.6 + / - 0.6 mumol l-1 min-1 ) and in hyperglycemic diabetic patients ( 4.5 + / - 0.9 mumol l-1 min-1 ) . in spite of this , in the diabetic patients lactate ( 5.1 + / - 0.8 mumol l-1 min-1 ) and alanine ( 2.6 + / - 0.4 ) release by the forearm was 3 - and 2-fold higher than in the control group ( lactate : 1.7 + / - 0.8 , p less than 0.005 ; and alanine : 1.3 + / - 0.2 , p less than 0.05 , respectively ) . the ratio of lactate release to glucose uptake was 57 % and 18 % in diabetic and control subjects , respectively . insulin administration did not affect either glucose uptake or the release of gluconeogenic substrates by the forearm . it is concluded that : 1 ) in fasting patients with niddm , glucose is taken up by the skeletal muscle in normal amounts but preferentially used nonoxidatively with lactate formation . this suggests that , although the muscle does not contribute directly to fasting hyperglycemia , it may play an indirect role through an increased delivery of glucose precursors ; and 2 ) insulin-induced normoglycemia is maintained by mechanisms that do not involve the exchange of glucose and gluconeogenic substrates by the skeletal muscle . 
effect of central obesity on regulation of carbohydrate metabolism in obese patients with varying degrees of glucose tolerance . it has been proposed that central obesity , by virtue of the enhanced lipolytic activity of abdominal adipose tissue , leads to higher plasma ffa concentrations , which , in turn , decrease both hepatic removal of insulin and insulin-stimulated glucose uptake by peripheral tissues . in short , the predicted consequences of abdominal obesity are elevations in circulating ffa and insulin levels as well as insulin resistance . the goal of this study was to evaluate the relationships predicted by the overall hypothesis ; this study was carried out in 31 obese females , defined as having normal glucose tolerance ( n = 12 ) , impaired glucose tolerance ( n = 8 ) , or noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( n = 11 ) . abdominal obesity was estimated by determining the ratio of waist to hip girth , fasting and postprandial plasma ffa and insulin concentrations were measured at hourly intervals from 0800-1600 h , and insulin-stimulated glucose disposal was quantified by the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp technique . the first step in the postulated sequence of events to be tested was that the greater the whr , the higher the total integrated plasma ffa response . the correlation coefficient between these two variables was 0.29 , indicating that the results did not support the prediction . furthermore , we could not demonstrate any relationship between the magnitude of the plasma ffa and insulin responses ( r = 0.20 ; p = ns ) . however , there was a modest inverse relationship between height of circulating plasma insulin concentration and a decrease in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake ( r = -0.43 ; p less than 0.03 ) in the group as a whole . on the other hand , when the three groups were analyzed individually , a significant inverse relationship was only seen in the control group ( r = -0.67 ) , and a direct relationship was actually seen in patients with impaired glucose tolerance ( r = 0.88 ) . furthermore , when the mean responses for the variables in each of the three groups were compared , it was apparent that the postulated relationships between abdominal obesity , plasma ffa concentration , and insulin secretion and action were not present . thus , the data presented do not support the hypothesis that differences in the degree of central obesity play an important role in regulation of plasma concentrations of either ffa or insulin or in modulation of insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in the patients we studied . 
primary hyperparathyroidism and severe hypercalcemia with low circulating 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d. we report a postmenopausal woman with primary hyperparathyroidism ( phpt ) and severe hypercalcemia while her total calcium intake was more than 2 g daily . despite a markedly elevated intact pth level , her serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d [ 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d ] level was low ( 17 pmol/l ; 7 pg/ml ) . with reduced calcium intake , her serum calcium normalized , and 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d increased to 122 pmol/l ( 51 pg/ml ) . at the same time , intact pth decreased to 32 % of the initial value . phpt may be associated with low circulating 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d levels . furthermore , low 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d levels in phpt may be due to a direct effect of severe hypercalcemia and be reversible with correction of hypercalcemia . 
beta-cell cytoadherent lymphocytes in some subjects at risk for type 1 ( insulin-dependent ) diabetes : progression to diabetes within 2 years . the increased binding in vitro of cd3 cd4 t-lymphocytes from type 1 ( insulin-dependent ) diabetic patients to beta-cell membrane antigens compared to lymphocytes from control subjects was previously shown to be a marker of cell-mediated immunity , called diabetic rosettes . in the present study diabetic rosettes were detected in some subjects at risk for type 1 diabetes ( first degree relatives of type 1 diabetic patients or nondiabetic subjects with previous transient hyperglycaemia ) . the mean number of lymphocytes adherent to beta-cells ( beta-cl ) was significantly higher in subjects at risk for type 1 diabetes than in age - and sex-matched control blood bank donors ( p less than 10 ( -6 ] . this number of beta-cl was higher in type 1 diabetic patients than in subjects at risk ( p less than 10 ( -6 ] , and one-way analysis of variance by rank ( kruskal-wallis ) revealed that the three populations ( controls , diabetics , and risk subjects ) were different in terms of beta-cl values ( p less than 0.001 ) . the percentage of subjects at risk that had a positive test ( arbitrarily defined as a beta-cl value higher than the 95th percentile of 228 controls ) was 20 % . no difference was observed between the two subgroups of subjects at risk in terms of either mean + / - sem of beta-cl or percentages of individuals with a positive test . these diabetic rosettes were slightly associated with acute insulin response to iv glucose lower than the 5th percentile of controls ( immunoreactive insulin at 1 + / - 3 min , 250 pmol/l ; by chi 2 , p = 0.04 ) and with hla dr 3/4 heterozygosity ( by chi 2 , p = 0.04 ) . they were not associated with islet cell antibodies ( regardless of the threshold for positivity , expressed in juvenile diabetes foundation units ) , insulin autoantibodies , activated ( hla dr + ) t-lymphocytes , or sex . a statistical association was detected between hla dr 3/4 heterozygosity and a low acute insulin response to iv glucose ( by chi 2 , p less than 0.003 ) . the preliminary ( 2-yr ) longitudinal follow-up revealed that out of five islet cell antibody-positive subjects who progressed to type 1 diabetes , three displayed beta-cl values higher than the 90th percentile of controls . diabetic rosettes could , thus , be detected in some individuals at risk for type 1 diabetes as a marker of cell-mediated immunity . 
increased overnight growth hormone concentrations in diabetic compared with normal adolescents . to determine the extent to which spontaneous plasma gh concentrations are abnormal in adolescents with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus we performed 12-h overnight plasma gh profiles in 21 diabetic adolescents ( 11 males and 10 females ; aged 9.8-16 .5 yr ; median , 13.6 yr ) and 34 healthy adolescent controls ( 17 males and 17 females ; aged 9.1-20 .9 yr ; median , 13.1 yr ) . data were analyzed using the pulse detection program pulsar and time series analysis , and are presented with respect to age and puberty stage . mean and maximum gh concentrations , sum of the peak amplitudes , and mean calculated baseline concentrations in the normal children were higher during puberty ; highest levels were seen in girls at puberty stages 2-3 , and in boys at stages 4-5 . a similar pattern was observed in the diabetic adolescents , but all measures of pulse height and mean calculated baseline concentrations were significantly greater than those in the normal subjects ( multivariate analysis , p less than 0.001 ) . pulse frequency did not change during puberty in the normal or diabetic subjects , and the dominant pulse periodicity in both groups was about 180 min . we conclude that the predominant change in gh release during puberty is in pulse amplitude , and that this is increased in diabetes , whereas pulse frequency remains constant in both normal and diabetic adolescents . 
clinical review 16 : parathyroid hormone-related proteins : coming of age in the 1990s . the last 3 yr have yielded a fertile harvest of new information on the hhm clinical syndrome and on the novel peptide hormone family responsible for the syndrome . whereas the clinical riddle enshrouding the hhm syndrome first posed in the early 1940s appears to have been largely solved , a whole new field , concerning the physiological role ( s ) of pthrp has opened . the field has evolved rapidly and provides an example of fruitful clinical investigation : the original problem was a clinical one ( the hhm syndrome ) ; understanding the clinical disorder led to pursuit of the problem in the laboratory ( adenylate cyclase assays , protein purification , molecular cloning , pthrp synthesis ) ; and observations made in the laboratory have rapidly yielded clinical fruits ( pthrp immunoassays ) and opened a new window on normal physiology . 
association of fasting glucose levels with a delayed secretion of insulin after oral glucose in subjects with glucose intolerance . two hundred and nineteen second generation japanese-american men were classified with a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test : 77 with normal glucose tolerance , 74 with impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) , and 68 with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . the peak insulin response to the oral glucose load was progressively delayed with each of the 3 glucose tolerance categories . a similar finding was observed with the peak c-peptide response to oral glucose , except for the absence of distinction between igt and niddm . variables measuring the initial rate of insulin or c-peptide secretion ( 0-30 min ) after oral glucose also demonstrated a progressive diminution with increasing glucose intolerance . the relative incremental insulin response at 30 min and the relative incremental c-peptide response at 30 min were highly correlated with the fasting glucose levels ( r = -0.61 and r = -0.62 ; p less than 0.0001 , respectively ) . variables measuring the 0-30 min secretory response had high variances , whereas the variance for fasting glucose was low . twelve men who were initially classified as igt subsequently developed niddm . these 12 men had significantly higher fasting glucose levels at baseline than the remaining men who did not develop diabetes , but the 30 min secretory parameters after oral glucose , although lower in those who subsequently developed diabetes , were not significantly different at baseline . however , if fasting glucose is used as a surrogate measure of secretory response , these 12 men appear to have had an impairment of oral glucose-stimulated insulin secretion antedating the development of niddm . the inability of the secretory parameters to detect the abnormality may be due to a type ii statistical error , which may be resolved by a larger sample size . 
impaired growth hormone ( gh ) response to pyridostigmine in type 1 diabetic patients with exaggerated gh-releasing hormone-stimulated gh secretion . in the present study we investigated the effects of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor pyridostigmine ( pd ) , which is hypothesized to decrease hypothalamic somatostatin tone , alone and in association with gh-releasing hormone ( ghrh ) on gh secretion in 18 type 1 diabetic patients and 12 normal subjects using a randomized double blind placebo-controlled protocol . all subjects received either 120 mg oral pd or placebo 60 min before iv injection of either human ghrh - ( 1-29 ) nh2 ( 100 micrograms ) or sterile water ( 2 ml ) . in normal subjects both pd alone and ghrh alone caused a significant increase in gh . pd and ghrh acted in a synergistic fashion when combined . in diabetic patients the gh response to ghrh was variable . to segregate the responses , the ratio between the gh increase after ghrh plus pd and after ghrh alone was calculated for each subject . in 10 diabetic patients ( group a ) the ratio was lower than 2 sd ( p less than 0.05 ) from the mean response of normal subjects . these patients showed an exaggerated gh increase after ghrh and a lower gh increase after pd with respect to normal subjects . eight diabetic patients ( group b ) showed a ratio similar to that in normal subjects and similar gh responses to the stimuli . no significant differences were found between groups a and b with respect to age , body mass index , and blood glucose levels . duration of diabetes was longer and basal gh levels were higher in group a. hemoglobin-a1c was higher in group a , but of only borderline statistical significance ( p = 0.052 ) . our data demonstrate that in diabetic patients with exaggerated gh responses to ghrh an increase in cholinergic tone does not affect gh secretion . these data suggest that in some type 1 diabetic patients an altered somatostatinergic control of gh secretion may contribute to their abnormal gh response to ghrh . 
adrenal medullitis in type i diabetes . to investigate whether cell-mediated immunity against the adrenal medulla occurs in type i diabetes ( iddm ) , we conducted a retrospective autopsy study of adrenal glands from iddm and nondiabetic subjects using formalin-fixed tissue . forty-four iddm subjects , aged 4-67 yrs ( mean + / - sd , 44.8 + / - 15.4 ) with a duration of iddm from 0-55 yr ( 28.6 + / - 14.2 ) , and 29 nondiabetic controls , aged 8-82 yr ( 51.8 + / - 18.6 ) , were evaluated for a lymphocytic infiltrate using uchl1 , which recognizes a subpopulation of resting t-lymphocytes and most activated t-lymphocytes . immunohistochemistry using antihuman b-cell antibody ( l26 ) was also performed . sections were scored for both lymphocytic infiltrates and fibrosis [ none ( 0 ) , small ( 1 ) , moderate ( 2 ) , or large ( 3 ) ] . blinded scoring was performed . a moderate to severe uchl1 infiltrate was present in 9 of 44 ( 20 % ) iddm , compared with 1 of 29 ( 3 % ) control subjects ( p less than 0.04 ) . mild to severe fibrosis ( score 1 , 2 , or 3 ) was present in 22 of 42 ( 52 % ) iddm subjects compared with 4 of 25 ( 16 % ) control subjects ( p = 0.003 ) . eight of 42 ( 19 % ) iddm subjects had moderate to severe fibrosis ( score 2 or 3 ) compared with 1 of 25 ( 4 % ) control subjects . seventeen of 44 ( 39 % ) iddm subjects had either a moderate to large cellular infiltrate or moderate to severe adrenal medullary fibrosis compared with 2 of 29 ( 7 % ) control subjects ( p = 0.003 ) . staining of the adrenal medulla with l26 revealed a large cellular infiltrate in only one subject who was uchl1 negative . adrenal medullitis was observed in 20 % of iddm subjects , suggesting that the adrenal medulla may be another immunological target in iddm . 
changes in basal and stimulated growth hormone secretion in the aging rhesus monkey : a comparison of chair restraint and tether and vest sampling . we studied basal serum gh and gh responses to iv clonidine and insulin-induced hypoglycemia in a group of four young ( 5-7 yr old ) and four older ( 10-14 yr old ) adult male rhesus monkeys under two restraint conditions , chair adaptation and a tether and vest system , to determine what changes in gh secretion occur with aging . the serum gh response to iv administration of gh-releasing hormone ( ghrh ) was also studied in the groups under tether and vest restraint . serum samples were collected every 15 min and assayed for gh using a human gh ria and for cortisol using an enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay . gh and cortisol concentrations in the young and older groups were analyzed with analysis of variance ( anova ) . in the chaired studies the older animals had a lower mean 6-h basal gh concentration than did the younger animals ( 2.7 + / - 0.8 vs. 3.5 + / - 0.5 micrograms/l ; p = 0.0002 ) . prestimulation gh was lower before clonidine and insulin in the older chaired group ( 1.1 + / - 0.5 and 2.3 + / - 0.6 micrograms/l , respectively ) compared to the younger group ( 3.6 + / - 0.8 and 3.8 + / - 0.7 micrograms/l , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) . poststimulation gh was lower after clonidine and insulin in the older chaired group ( 3.2 + / - 2.4 and 7.1 + / - 2.8 micrograms/l , respectively ) compared to the younger chaired group ( 6.3 + / - 2.2 and 10.3 + / - 3.0 micrograms/l , respectively ; p less than 0.05 ) , but the differences in gh increments were not statistically significant . in the tether and vest studies the older animals had a lower mean 6-h basal gh concentration than did the younger animals ( 1.7 + / - 0.4 vs. 3.5 + / - 1.2 micrograms/l ; p less than 0.0001 ) . prestimulation gh concentrations were also lower in the older tethered animals before clonidine ( 2.1 + / - 0.3 micrograms/l ) and ghrh ( 1.4 + / - 0.2 micrograms/l ) compared to levels in the younger animals ( 3.1 + / - 0.9 and 3.2 + / - 0.7 micrograms/l ; p = 0.0023 and p = 0.0001 , respectively ) . the younger tethered animals had greater poststimulation responses to clonidine ( 8.7 + / - 3.0 micrograms/l ) , insulin ( 8.8 + / - 3.6 micrograms/l ) , and ghrh ( 6.0 + / - 2.4 micrograms/l ) than the older animals ( 3.8 + / - 0.9 , 3.9 + / - 2.5 , and 2.9 + / - 0.7 micrograms/l ; p less than 0.0001 , p = 0.0025 , and p less than 0.03 , respectively ) . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
brain glucose metabolism in noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus : a study in pima indians using positron emission tomography during hyperinsulinemia with euglycemic glucose clamp . to determine whether insulin or noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus affects brain glucose metabolism , brain glucose utilization was studied in the basal state and during hyperinsulinemic euglycemic glucose clamps in nondiabetic and diabetic pima indians by positron emission tomography with 2 - [ 18f ] fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose ( 18fdg ) . glucose utilization in 75 brain areas was determined by analysis of single scans and by least squares estimation of the rate parameters for the fdg model ; these data were compared to results in normal caucasian volunteers . no effect of ethnicity or diabetic status on brain glucose utilization was observed . during the hyperinsulinemic clamps ( mean insulin , 11,708 + / - 3,026 pmol/l ) , clearance of 18fdg from blood was accelerated , and accumulation of brain radioactivity was reduced . however , glucose utilization by the brain was identical to results during sham glucose clamps ( mean insulin , 204 + / - 56 pmol/l ) performed in the same patients . during the studies with hyperinsulinemia , k4 ( representing loss of tissue radioactivity ) was increased in most brain areas ( mean increase , 0.0031 + / - 0.0018 min-1 ; p less than 0.02 ) . the possible mechanisms for this effect are multiple , and the physiological significance , if any , is unknown . further studies of the effects of insulin on brain glucose metabolism are needed . 
androgen response to endogenous insulin secretion during the frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test in normal and hyperandrogenic women . women with ovarian hyperandrogenism frequently have insulin resistance , whose underlying mechanism remains to be determined . in the present study we have investigated the relationship between insulin sensitivity and the acute effect of endogenous insulin secretion on circulating androgen levels . insulin sensitivity , glucose-mediated insulin release , and glucose/insulin-stimulated androgen responses were determined during a frequently sampled iv glucose tolerance test in a group of 19 women with clinical evidence of polycystic ovary syndrome ( pcos ) and 9 age - and weight-matched controls . insulin ( i ) , glucose , androstenedione , testosterone ( t ) , free t , and dehydroepiandrosterone ( dhea ) levels were measured before and during the 3 h following iv administration of glucose ( 300 mg/kg ) . intravenous tolbutamide ( 300-500 mg ) was injected 20 min after the glucose injection . insulin sensitivity ( si ) was calculated by application of the minimal model of glucose kinetics . fasting androstenedione , t , free t , and i concentrations were significantly higher in the women with pcos than in controls ( p less than 0.02 ) . in pcos subjects , fasting i was correlated with both t ( r = 0.51 ; p less than 0.05 ) and dhea ( r = 0.706 ; p less than 0.01 ) . si was significantly lower in pcos subjects [ si , 68.35 + / - 8.34 min-1 / ( nmol/ml ] than in control subjects ( si , 133.36 + / - 21.7 min-1 / ( nmol/ml ) ] . a significant decline in dhea levels was observed in control subjects 3 h after glucose administration ( from 28.4 + / - 3.0 ; final , 16.2 + / - 2.4 ; p less than 0.02 ) . pcos women with normal insulin sensitivity [ si , greater than 75.0 min-1 / ( nmol/ml ) ] showed a similar fall in dhea ( from 20.3 + / - 2.5 to 12.8 + / - 1.8 nmol/l ; p less than 0.02 ) . no significant change occurred in insulin-resistant pcos subjects [ si , less than 75.0 min-1 / ( nmol/ml ) ] . other androgen levels showed a modest nonsignificant decline during the study in pcos and control groups . these findings confirm the weight-independent insulin resistance of some hyperandrogenic women . the failure of glucose-stimulated endogenous insulin secretion to significantly depress dhea levels in insulin-resistant women with pcos may account in part for their androgen excess . 
folate status of adolescents : effects of folic acid supplementation . this study was designed to determine the folate status of an adolescent population and to demonstrate the effect of folic acid supplementation on subjects with low folate status . in phase one , folate status was evaluated in a biracial sample of 164 adolescents 12 to 15 years old . socioeconomic , demographic , anthropometric , and 7-day food record data were collected , and serum and erythrocyte folate levels were determined . thirty-five adolescents considered to have had low folate status 6 months earlier participated in phase two , a 2-month supplementation period and reevaluation . no racial differences were observed in folate status , as indicated by amount of folate in the blood and diet . boys had significantly ( p less than .05 ) higher folate levels in serum and erythrocytes than did girls . thirteen percent of the boys and 40 % of the girls were folate deficient as judged by amount of erythrocyte folate less than 317 nmol/l ( 140 ng/ml ) . the folate-deficient subjects had significantly ( p less than .05 ) lower values of hemoglobin than did the normal subjects . seventeen percent of the boys and 42 % of the girls had folate intakes below the recommended dietary allowance for folate . supplementation of 400 micrograms folic acid daily for 2 months resulted in significant ( p less than .05 ) increases in serum folate , erythrocyte folate , and hemoglobin values and a decrease in mean corpuscular volume . evidence of high prevalence of low folate status , positive relationship between erythrocyte folate and hemoglobin , and responses of hemoglobin and mean corpuscular volume to the supplement indicated that folate consumption may not be optimal in some groups of adolescents , especially in girls . 
the effects of moderate exercise training on nutrient intake in mildly obese women . the relationship between moderate exercise training ( five 45-minute sessions per week , brisk walking at 62 + / - 2 % vo2 max for 15 weeks ) and changes in nutrient intake was investigated in a group of 36 sedentary , mildly obese women . the study was conducted using a 2 x 3 factorial design ( two groups of subjects : exercise and nonexercise groups ; three periods : baseline , 6-week , and 15-week testing sessions ) . data were analyzed using repeated measures anova . the pattern of change in caloric intake over time tended to be different between groups ( f [ 2 , 68 ] = 2.50 , p = .089 ) ; the exercise group experienced a significant decrease in caloric intake by 15 weeks . significant group x time interactions were found for intakes of carbohydrate , dietary fiber , thiamin , niacin , vitamin b-6 , and folate . intake tended to decrease in the exercise group and to increase in the nonexercise group . change in intake of each of these nutrients was significantly correlated with change in bread and cereal consumption . the pattern of change in bread and cereal intake over time was significantly different between groups ( pillais trace = 0.266 , f [ 2 , 33 ] = 5.99 , p = .006 ) ; the exercise group had significant decreases in intake at 6 and 15 weeks vs baseline values . these data suggest that mildly obese women reduce energy intake subsequent to initiating an exercise program ; concomitantly there is a decrease in the quality of nutrient intake from their diets compared with those of sedentary controls . 
cholesterol screening in 5,719 self-referred elderly subjects . to assess the frequency of hypercholesterolemia as a potential major public health problem in the elderly , we studied 5,719 self-referred subjects greater than age 60 and 11,890 less than or equal to 60 years , whose nonfasting capillary blood cholesterol levels were measured during an 18-month screening in cincinnati area grocery stores . we followed national cholesterol education program guidelines for serum cholesterol ( less than 200 mg/dl " desirable , " 200-239 " borderline-high , " and greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl " high " ) . of 4,011 61-70 year-olds , only 19 % had capillary blood total cholesterol less than 200 , 38 % were 200-239 , and 43 % greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl . of 1,493 aged 71-80 years , only 20 % had total cholesterol less than 200 , 36 % had levels 200-239 , and 44 % were greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl . in 215 subjects , 81 and over , 29 % had total cholesterol less than 200 , 36 % were 200-239 , and 35 % were greater than or equal to 240 mg/dl . application of the non-age , non-race , non-sex specific national cholesterol education program guidelines to the elderly may necessitate followup and perhaps therapy in 71-81 % of subjects , suggesting that the appropriate intervention approach be general population-oriented , rather than the individual detection , diagnosis , and treatment approach which presents a huge , expensive load for a relatively unprepared health care community . 
conjugated catecholamines in human plasma : where are they coming from ? the origins of conjugated catecholamines remain poorly known . the aim of the present study was to see whether a major contribution comes from the sympathetic nervous system . we have assumed some kind of parallelism between the activity of the sympathetic nervous system , the amount of catecholamines released and taken up , and the amount of conjugated catecholamines circulating in plasma . accordingly , an increase in sympathetic activity should be followed by an increase in the plasma level of conjugated catecholamines . the plasma levels of sulfoconjugated and glucuroconjugated catecholamines were measured in 10 patients with mental disease resistant to drug treatment , before and after electroconvulsive therapy . as expected , blood pressure , norepinephrine concentration , and epinephrine concentration in plasma were transiently increased . neither sulfoconjugated nor glucuroconjugated catecholamines were significantly changed . conjugated catecholamines were measured in 10 volunteers before and at the nadir of insulin-induced hypoglycemia . as expected , plasma levels of norepinephrine and epinephrine were drastically increased . plasma levels of sulfoconjugates were decreased and glucuroconjugates increased ; these were narrow but statistically significant variations . data reported in the present article do not support a major role for the activity of the sympathetic system in fixing the level of conjugated catecholamines in human plasma . this is a negative , but nonetheless important , observation . in human subjects , currently available information suggests an important role for the intestinal wall and renal function in determining the level of circulating sulfoconjugates . 
deposits of crystalline material containing silicon in surgically excised human valves . ninety-seven surgically excised natural cardiac valves were examined by scanning electron microscopy and x-ray energy spectroscopy to assess the occurrence of crystalline deposits that contain the element silicon . valves examined included 33 mitral valves , 63 aortic valves , and 1 tricuspid valve . to reduce the possibility of surface contamination , the deep layers of some valves were examined after exposure by fracture of the valve . crystalline material containing silicon was observed in the deep tissue . such crystalline material was sometimes entwined within subendothelial fibers . crystalline deposits that contained silicon were associated with 34 of 97 of these valves ( 35 % ) . among the 34 valves that showed silicon , 24 ( 71 % ) also showed microdeposits of calcific material . in view of evidence that silicon may participate in the calcification of bone , and is found in the intima of arteries , a role for this element in ectopic calcification of valves may exist . 
central nervous system involvement in nephropathic cystinosis . nephropathic cystinosis , an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder due to impaired cystine transport , causes damage to multiple organs that results in end-stage renal disease , hypothyroidism , and retinopathy , usually in childhood . dialysis and renal transplantation now frequently enable patients with cystinosis to live into adulthood . examinations at autopsy of a 28-year-old man who died of complications of this disease showed deposits of cystine crystals in multiple organs . there was severe cerebral involvement with multifocal cystic necrosis , dystrophic calcification , spongy change , and vacuolization that had produced profound neurologic deficits . electron microscopy of the brain documented cytoplasmic deposition of cystine crystals in membrane bound vacuoles within the cytoplasm of pericytes and within parenchymal cells of the white matter . while affected patients who have received renal transplants may no longer die from renal failure , serious , potentially life-threatening , neurologic complications of this disorder may supervene . 
lambert eaton syndrome : autonomic neuropathy and inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion in a patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung . a patient with small cell carcinoma of the lung developed asymptomatic autonomic neuropathy , inappropriate antidiuretic hormone ( adh ) secretion and lambert eaton myasthenic syndrome . the autonomic neuropathy and inappropriate adh secretion were present at the time of diagnosis of the tumour . following chemotherapy these resolved , but 5 months later the patient developed lambert eaton syndrome which responded to 3,4-diaminopyridine . this sequence of changes appears to be unique . 
reflections on the u.s. preventive services task force recommendations for screening for hypertension and hypercholesterolemia . the u.s. preventive services task force recommendations for screening for hypertension and high blood cholesterol are generally consistent with preexisting national guidelines promulgated by the joint national committee for detection , evaluation , and treatment of high blood pressure and the national cholesterol education program expert panel on detection , evaluation , and treatment of high cholesterol in adults . while a welcome addition to the armamentarium of the clinician , the task force recommendations represent only a partial solution to our current epidemic of blood-pressure - and cholesterol-related cardiovascular disease . a meaningful reduction in society 's burden of cardiovascular disease can be achieved only by complementing the task force recommendations with community-based mass treatment strategies aimed at shifting the distribution of blood pressure and cholesterol toward a biologically more normal pattern . 
pedunculated soft-tissue mass on the alveolar gingiva [ clinical conference ] a case of peripheral ameloblastoma , a rare intraoral neoplasm , has been presented . the lesion appears most commonly as a mass on the mandibular lingual gingiva of patients in their fifth and sixth decades of life . the peripheral ameloblastoma does not share the aggressive nature of the intraosseous variant . the lesion has been overtreated in the past and warrants only a local supraperiosteal excision . 
rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure associated with cocaine abuse . cocaine abuse has emerged as a major public health problem among young adults . illicit use of cocaine has been associated with an increasing array of medical complications . both traumatic and nontraumatic rhabdomyolysis , often complicated by acute renal failure , has recently been described following cocaine abuse . the present report describes our experience with 15 such patients and serves to further define the spectrum of muscle injury associated with cocaine abuse ranging from the incidental finding of elevated serum levels of muscle enzymes to acute renal failure . those patients who developed renal failure experienced more severe rhabdomyolysis in association with trauma , seizures or hyperpyrexia . 
visual impairment in a rural appalachian community . prevalence and causes . a population-based survey of 1136 subjects aged 40 years and older was conducted in a rural valley of kentucky to determine the nature and extent of visual disability in an underserved area of rural america . data on corrected visual acuity and ocular history , along with demographic , socioeconomic , and health care utilization parameters , were gathered . those subjects with an acuity below 20/60 in either eye underwent a comprehensive ophthalmologic examination . the prevalence of binocular blindness ( acuity worse than 20/400 in the better eye ) was 0.44 % and of monocular blindness ( acuity worse than 20/400 in one eye ) was 3.3 % , approximately twice the national rates . the chief cause of bilateral visual impairment was macular degeneration among men and cataract among women . cataract , trauma , and amblyopia were the major causes of monocular visual impairment in both sexes . risk factor analysis revealed younger age , higher education , active employment , access to a health care facility , and comprehensive health insurance coverage to be inversely associated with visual impairment . 
ten-year follow-up of behavioral , family-based treatment for obese children using a prospective , randomized , controlled design , we examined the effects of behavioral family-based treatment on percent overweight and growth over 10 years in obese 6 - to 12-year-old children . obese children and their parents were randomized to three groups that were provided similar diet , exercise , and behavior management training but differed in the reinforcement for weight loss and behavior change . the child and parent group reinforced parent and child behavior change and weight loss , the child group reinforced child behavior change and weight loss , and the nonspecific control group reinforced families for attendance . children in the child and parent group showed significantly greater decreases in percent overweight after 5 and 10 years ( -11.2 % and -7.5 % , respectively ) than children in the nonspecific control group ( + 7.9 % and + 14.3 % , respectively ) . children in the child group showed increases in percent overweight after 5 and 10 years ( + 2.7 % and + 4.5 % , respectively ) that were midway between those for the child and parent and nonspecific groups and not significantly different from either . at 10 years , child height was related strongly to the height of the parent of the same sex ( r = .78 children were 1.8 cm taller than their parents , with no differences in height between groups . 
primary hypertriglyceridemia with borderline high cholesterol and elevated apolipoprotein b concentrations . comparison of gemfibrozil vs lovastatin therapy a common pattern of dyslipidemia is elevated levels of plasma triglyceride , borderline high total cholesterol , reduced high-density lipoprotein , and increased apolipoprotein b. this pattern of dyslipidemia frequently is associated with premature coronary heart disease . nicotinic acid is the drug of first choice for this pattern . in this study , gemfibrozil and lovastatin were compared for their effects on the overall lipoprotein profile in 13 men with this type of dyslipidemia . both drugs significantly reduced very-low-density lipoprotein and intermediate-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels , and both modestly raised high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels . gemfibrozil therapy , however , failed to reduce total cholesterol or total apolipoprotein b levels , whereas lovastatin therapy lowered levels of total cholesterol by 28 % , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 33 % , and total apolipoprotein b by 32 % . moreover , lovastatin therapy caused greater declines in lipoprotein cholesterol ratios than gemfibrozil therapy . lovastatin thus seems to have certain advantages over gemfibrozil for treatment of elevated plasma triglyceride levels accompanied by borderline high total cholesterol and raised apolipoprotein b levels ; therefore , lovastatin therapy should be considered as one approach for management of this condition . 
is exogenous fructose metabolism truly insulin independent ? although fructose is widely regarded as an insulin-independent fuel source , its in vivo conversion to glucose represents a theoretical limitation to its clinical usefulness in diabetics , particularly if given in large doses . to determine whether small amounts of fructose can be well utilized in the setting of insulinopenia , we administered a low-dose fructose infusion ( 4.2 g/hr ) to a fasting type 1 diabetic patient receiving continuous subcutaneous insulin at a dose that had previously maintained stable euglycemia for 72 hr ( plasma glucose = 80-110 mg/dl ) . despite the low infusion rate ( less than 20 % of calorie requirement ) , fructose caused an immediate and marked rise in plasma glucose ( to 370 mg/dl after 27 hr ) . glucose loss in the urine and accumulation in plasma could account for fully half of the administered hexose load . thus , the utilization of even small quantities of exogenous fructose is profoundly impaired under hypoinsulinemic conditions . it is misleading to regard fructose as a truly insulin-independent fuel source . 
role of enhanced glomerular synthesis of thromboxane a2 in progressive kidney disease . normotensive rats of the milan strain ( mns ) spontaneously develop focal glomerulosclerosis . in order to explore the contribution of glomerular thromboxane ( tx ) a2 synthesis to the development of the disease , we have characterized the time course of renal functional and biochemical changes , and their modification by long-term treatment with a tx-synthase inhibitor . oral administration ( 150 mg.kg-1 from 1 to 14 months of age ) of fce 22178 suppressed enhanced glomerular txb2 production at all experimental times ( mean inhibition 80 % ) and proteinuria ( varying between 27.1 and 73.0 % ) while preserving renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate . these effects of tx-synthase inhibition were seen in the absence of any statistically significant changes in systemic blood pressure . moreover , fce 22178 had no antihypertensive effects in hypertensive rats of the milan strain ( mhs ) nor in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( shr ) . treatment also prevented the age-related hypoalbuminemia and hyperlipidemia observed in control mns and significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) reduced glomerular histologic damage , as demonstrated by light microscopy studies and measurement of sclerotic area . we conclude that : 1 ) mns rats provide an animal model of long-lasting proteinuria characterized by an age-related increase in glomerular txb2 production paralleled by progressive loss of renal structural integrity and function and by a secondary dyslipidemia ; 2 ) pharmacological inhibition of glomerular tx-synthase attenuates the structural as well as the functional expression of kidney disease , without a primary effect on systemic blood pressure . these data are suggestive of an important modulating role of txa2 in the progression of mns renal disease . 
removal of an inorganic acid load in subjects with ketoacidosis of chronic fasting . when a large inorganic acid load is ingested by normals , the proton load is eliminated because the rate of excretion of ammonium can rise to 200 to 300 mmol/day . in subjects with ketoacidosis of chronic fasting , such a large increase in the rate of excretion of ammonium might not be possible because of atp balance considerations in proximal cells . subjects with ketoacidosis of chronic fasting excreted less net acid as defined in the conventional way when they consumed a large inorganic acid load ( 136 + / - 6 vs. 176 + / - 26 mmol/day in control fasted subjects ) . nevertheless , the vast majority of this inorganic acid load was eliminated because they were in steady state and had only a slightly lower concentration of bicarbonate ( 13 + / - 0.6 vs. 15 + / - 0.5 mmol/liter ) and ketoacid anions ( 3.3 + / - 0.2 vs. 5.5 + / - 0.2 mmol/liter ) in their blood . using a definition of net acid excretion where the component of bicarbonate loss was expanded to include " potential bicarbonate " ( ketoacid anions ) in the urine , the rate of excretion of net acid was higher in subjects who ingested the inorganic acid load , owing to a much lower rate of excretion of ketoacid anions ( 9 + / - 2 vs. 120 + / - 7 mmol/day ) . this lower rate of excretion was not only due to a lower filtered load , but also to a higher fractional reabsorption of ketoacid anions during acidosis ( 97 + / - 0.1 vs. 77 + / - 0.2 % ) . this higher fractional reabsorption could not be explained by a lower filtered load of ketoacid anions or to a restricted intake of sodium . 
parathyroid hormone-related peptide in plasma of patients with hypercalcemia and malignant lesions we developed and validated a radioimmunoassay for circulating human parathyroid hormone-related peptide ( pthrp ) , based on a commercial antiserum to the synthetic 1-34 fragment of pthrp , 125i-tyr degrees-pthrp ( 1-34 ) as radioligand , and prior extraction of the native peptide from plasma with c-2 cartridges . we determined immunoreactive pthrp concentrations in plasma samples from 48 healthy persons ( mean + / - sd , 3.1 + / - 1.0 pmol/liter ; range , less than 2 to 5 pmol/liter ) , 8 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism , 36 patients with hypercalcemia and a concurrent malignant lesion , and 9 normocalcemic patients with cancer and increased serum levels of carcinoembryonic antigen or prostate-specific antigen . pthrp was normal in samples from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism ( 3.2 + / - 1.1 pmol/liter ) , secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 2.5 + / - 1.3 pmol/liter ) , and cancer without hypercalcemia ( 2.4 + / - 1.0 pmol/liter ) . in contrast , plasma immunoreactive pthrp levels were increased ( 6.0 to 85.0 pmol/liter ) in 47 % of patients with hypercalcemia and cancer of various types , with or without bone metastatic lesions . large amounts of pthrp were also found in conditioned medium from cultured human prostatic carcinoma cells . thus , pthrp may be a causative factor for hypercalcemia associated with a malignant lesion in at least half of the cases . measurement of circulating pthrp may be of differential diagnostic help in hypercalcemic states . 
effect of short-term intermittent antibiotic treatment on growth of burmese ( myanmar ) village children . to test the hypothesis that subclinical enteric infection ( such as bacterial overgrowth ) , rice malabsorption , and growth faltering are causally linked , a field trial of low-dose , short-term , intermittent antibiotic treatment was carried out in 142 hydrogen-producing ( by lactulose breath hydrogen test ) burmese village children aged 6-59 months . the children were randomly allocated treatment with metronidazole ( 20 mg/kg or 5 mg/kg daily ) , amoxycillin ( 25 mg/kg daily ) , or placebo given 1 week per month for 6 months . a cooked rice meal breath hydrogen test was done to classify the children as rice absorbers ( ra ) or rice malabsorbers ( rm ) before treatment and monthly on the day before each cycle of treatment . there were no differences between the treatment groups , so they were considered together . factorial analysis showed that antibiotic treatment did not significantly affect the proportion of rm children . the only significant difference between antibiotic-treated and placebo-treated children 's growth was in the subgroup of rm children aged 36-47 months ; the antibiotic-treated children had significantly greater linear growth . in other age groups antibiotic treatment had no effect on growth . 
cerebral malaria in children cerebral malaria is a rapidly progressive encephalopathy with up to 50 % mortality . a cardinal feature is the massing of red cells containing mature plasmodium falciparum within the cerebral capillaries . adhesion of these parasitised red cells to endothelium , an event which may initiate cerebral malaria , is being studied at the molecular level . however , the relevance of these studies to the pathophysiology and treatment of human cerebral malaria is uncertain . although chloroquine is still widely used to treat falciparum malaria , resistance has spread to most of the endemic zone . quinine is emerging as the only effective treatment for cerebral malaria , though resistance to this drug threatens to become a problem . alternative drugs are urgently needed . 
daily pattern of % vo2max and heart rates in normal and undernourished school children . the pattern of usage of the vo2max , expressed as % vo2max during ordinary school days , with minute-by-minute heart rate recording , was studied in 106 boys and 83 girls , 6-16 yr of age divided into three age groups ( 6-8 , 10-12 , and 14-16 yr ) , living under economically deprived conditions in colombia and classified as nutritionally normal or marginally malnourished . in a 12-h period , the 12 groups of children spent , on the average , 7-10 h at less than 30 % vo2max , 1.5-4 h at 30-50 % vo2max , and an accumulated time of 20-60 min above 50 % vo2max . the latter occurred in short bursts rather than during sustained periods . there was a statistically significant but small decrease ( approximately -3 % ) in the average 12 h % vo2max with age but no effects of sex or nutritional status . the overall average was about 25 % vo2max in all groups . the data may suggest the existence of the regulation of physical activity to some level easily sustainable for long periods . expressing the data as 30 min averages during 5 h of school and 5 h of free-time activity allows for the possibility of seeing group differences during shorter periods of time . this may prove useful in exercise training programs and studies of effort in the workplace . 
the accuracy of self-reports of physical activity . this investigation determined the accuracy of self-reports of physical activity compared to observations obtained surreptitiously . subjects were 44 adults engaged in 1 h of their preferred physical activity while actual activity levels were surreptitiously obtained and compared to immediate self-reported estimates of physical activity . results indicated that subjects were moderately accurate in recalling their physical activity levels ( r = 0.62 ) but underestimated sedentary activities and overestimated aerobic activities by over 300 % . males overestimated their activity relative to females , and obese subjects underestimated their activity levels compared to normal-weight subjects . finally , a number of two-way interactions that moderated the accuracy of those subjects engaging in high chronic levels of physical activity were observed . 
time course of sprouting during muscle reinnervation in vitamin e-deficient rats . a typical aspect of motoneuron plasticity is the sprouting which occurs during muscle reinnervation , resulting in a transitory multiple innervation of the muscle cells . in order to verify the effect of a decreased protection from free radical attack on the sprouting , the multiple innervation in the extensor digitorum longus muscle , following sciatic nerve crush and regeneration , was studied in vitamin e-deficient rats . thus , the innervated end-plates and the end-plates with multiple innervation were studied with histochemical and electrophysiological techniques . the percentage of innervated end-plates was similar in both groups at 30 as well as at 60 days after nerve crush . nevertheless , multiple innervation was found in a larger part of the muscle and it lasted longer in the deficient rats . this finding is discussed in relation to some of the major hypotheses of sprouting ; it may be relevant in the treatment of some lesions of peripheral nerve . 
an unusual complication of silastic dural substitute : case report . a case is presented in which a patient developed an unusual complication after the use of silastic dural substitute . in 1983 , the patient underwent removal of a meningioma with the involved dura . five years later , he developed around the graft material a very thick connective tissue capsule , which simulated a recurrent meningioma clinically and radiologically . 
electron transfer flavoprotein : ubiquinone oxidoreductase ( etf : qo ) deficiency in an adult . a 19-year-old woman with mild myopathic symptoms from age 6 and fasting intolerance presented with a reye-like syndrome and a myopathy . investigations disclosed a lipid storage myopathy , type ii glutaric acidemia , and carnitine deficiency in skeletal muscle . riboflavin and carnitine treatment corrected the metabolic abnormalities and she improved clinically . she later died from pulmonary complications secondary to aspiration . subsequent studies established electron transfer flavoprotein : ubiquinone oxidoreductase ( etf : qo ) deficiency ( fibroblast etf : qo activity was 2.9 mu/mg , normal range is 14.1 + / - 3.8 mu/mg ) as the cause of her illness . this is the first documented case of etf : qo diagnosed in an adult . 
argon versus krypton panretinal photocoagulation side effects on the anterior segment . the modification of corneal sensitivity , accommodation , pupillary diameter and endothelial cell density after argon versus krypton panretinal photocoagulation were studied prospectively in 88 eyes of 64 diabetic patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy , randomized for one of the two laser treatments . in both groups a marked internal ophthalmoplegia and reduction of corneal sensitivity occurred after laser photocoagulation . at no time , 2 , 90 and 180 days after prp , were these parameters significantly different . endothelial cell loss was non significantly greater in the krypton group . the results indicated that the side effects commonly observed on the anterior segment after prp are comparable using argon or krypton lasers . 
central visual field changes after panretinal photocoagulation in proliferative diabetic retinopathy . this study comprises 53 eyes , divided into two groups a and b , with proliferative diabetic retinopathy which were treated with panretinal photocoagulation ( prp ) . its purpose is to investigate the alterations in the central 15 degrees and 30 degrees of the visual field and in each quadrant separately . in both groups a and b , prp covered the periphery and mid-periphery . in group a , it stopped 2 disc diameters ( dd ) from the upper temporal and lower margin of the fovea including the papillomacular bundle , while in group b , prp stopped 3 dd from the upper temporal and lower margin of the fovea and 1 dd of the nasal margin of the optic disc . the investigation revealed , in group b after prp , an improvement of the retinal sensitivity in the central 15 degrees of the visual field ( p less than 0.01 ) . in the 30 degrees of the visual field a deterioration after prp was noted in both groups a and b , the deterioration being however much more prominent in group a. comparing the results between groups b and a after prp , a difference in the retinal sensitivity in favour of group b at 15 degrees and 30 degrees of the visual field was found . as regards regression of neovascularization and visual acuity , no statistically significant difference has been observed between the two groups . 
retinal sensitivity in acute hypoglycemia . we measured retinal threshold sensitivity via automated computerized static perimetry in predetermined meridians in euglycemic diabetic subjects and in the same subjects during insulin-induced hypoglycemia . during periods of reduced blood glucose levels , decreased retinal sensitivity , most marked in temporal meridians , was observed . 
argon green ( 514 nm ) versus krypton red ( 647 nm ) modified grid laser photocoagulation for diffuse diabetic macular edema . between 1984 and 1988 , 225 eyes of 132 patients were entered in a prospective , randomized clinical trial to determine if any significant differences exist between treatment with argon green ( 514 nm ) and krypton red ( 647 nm ) modified grid laser photocoagulation for patients with diffuse diabetic maculopathy with or without cystoid macular edema . at the 12 - and 24-month follow-up visits , no statistically significant difference was found between the two groups with respect to all of the following : reduction or elimination of macular edema , improvement in visual acuity , worsening of visual acuity , number of treatments per eye , and effect on the visual field . at the 12-month follow-up visit , none of the following factors statistically affected the visual outcome in either of the two groups : a history of systemic hypertension , systemic vascular disease , cystoid macular edema , or initial poor visual acuity . 
nitrendipine-induced gingival hyperplasia . first case report . drug-induced gingival hyperplasia is well documented within the literature . it has been associated with phenytoin , cyclosporine , and calcium channel blocking agents . nitrendipine is an experimental calcium channel blocking agent that also appears to cause the side effect of drug-induced gingival hyperplasia . the clinical and histologic presentation of this side effect and possible biochemical mechanisms of pathogenesis are discussed . 
case-control study of cryptosporidium parvum infection in peruvian children hospitalized for diarrhea : possible association with malnutrition and nosocomial infection . a retrospective , hospital-based case-control study was used to investigate whether there were any clinical characteristics that could distinguish cryptosporidium parvum-infected children with diarrhea from other non-c . parvum-infected children with diarrhea . ten percent ( 24 of 248 ) of children admitted to a rehydration ward at cayetano heredia university hospital , lima , peru , were infected with c. parvum . the 24 patients infected with c. parvum ( cases ) were matched to an equal number of noninfected patients ( controls ) . c. parvum-infected patients were more likely to be malnourished than were children without this infection ( p less than 0.05 ) . also nosocomial infection caused by c. parvum occurred in three severely malnourished patients , two of whom died . no other clinical or laboratory characteristics were found that would distinguish children with diarrhea caused by c. parvum from other children with diarrhea . in children hospitalized for diarrhea c. parvum infection occurs most frequently in malnourished children . 
dexamethasone effects on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia who are dependent on artificial ventilation . a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of enterally administered dexamethasone on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . a total of 23 infants with a birth weight less than 1500 g who were dependent on artificial ventilation 3 to 4 weeks of age received dexamethasone ( n = 12 ) or saline placebo ( n = 11 ) . dexamethasone ( 0.5 mg/kg per day ) was given in tapering doses for 7 days followed by hydrocortisone ( 8 mg/kg per day ) which was progressively reduced for a total of 17 days of therapy . infants who received dexamethasone required less oxygen on days 8 and 17 ( p less than .05 ) and were more likely to extubate 8 days after therapy than infants in the control group ( respectively 8/12 vs 3/11 infants , p less than .05 ; p = .12 after yates correction ) . the use of dexamethasone significantly shortened median duration of mechanical ventilation ( 4 vs 22 days , p less than .05 ) but had no effect on length of oxygen therapy , hospitalization , home oxygen therapy , occurrence and severity of retinopathy of prematurity , rate of growth , and mortality . no significant complications resulted from dexamethasone therapy . measurements of plasma dexamethasone levels confirmed the absorption of drug from the gastrointestinal tract ( 23.7 ng/ml in dexamethasone vs 4.6 ng/ml in the control group , p less than .05 ) . dexamethasone administration resulted in short-term improvements in pulmonary function but did not ameliorate the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia . 
pulmonary and acid-base assessment . with increased technology , increased patient longevity , and burgeoning health care knowledge , pulmonary assessment of clients has become more complex , and nurses are now challenged to develop more comprehensive skills . these include a more focused patient history on selected clients as well as careful inspection , palpation , percussion , and auscultation . additional techniques such as voice sounds provide the nurse with even more assessment data . an understanding of common pathologic pulmonary problems and their corresponding assessment findings as well as knowledge about acid-base imbalances will result in more effective professional nursing care . 
organ-specific and systemic autoimmune diseases originate from defects in hematopoietic stem cells . transplantation of bone marrow cells from nonobese diabetic ( nod ) mice , a model for type 1 diabetes mellitus , to c3h/hen mice , which express i-e alpha molecules and have aspartic acid at residue 57 of the i-a beta chain , induced insulitis followed by overt diabetes in the recipient c3h/hen mice more than 40 weeks after bone marrow transplantation . when cyclosporin a , which perturbs t-cell functions , was injected intraperitoneally into [ nod ---- c3h/hen ] chimeric mice daily for 1 month , the chimeric mice developed insulitis and overt diabetes within 20 weeks following bone marrow transplantation . transplantation of bone marrow cells from ( nzw x bxsb ) f1 mice , which develop lupus nephritis , myocardial infarction , and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura , into c3h/hen or c57bl/6j mice induced in the recipient strains both lupus nephritis and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura more than 3 months after transplantation . transplantation of a stem-cell-enriched population from ( nzw x bxsb ) f1 mice into normal mice also induced autoimmune disease in the recipients . these results indicate that both systemic autoimmune disease and organ-specific autoimmune disease originate from defects that reside within the stem cells ; the thymus and environmental factors such as sex hormones appear to act only as accelerating factors . 
temporary amelioration of hyperlipidemia in low density lipoprotein receptor-deficient rabbits transplanted with genetically modified hepatocytes . familial hypercholesterolemia is an inherited disease in humans that is associated with coronary artery disease and is caused by a deficiency of the receptor that mediates the internalization of low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) . we have used an animal model for familial hypercholesterolemia , the watanabe heritable hyperlipidemic ( whhl ) rabbit , to design a therapeutic approach for this disease , which attempts to correct the hepatic defect in ldl receptor expression . hepatocytes were harvested from whhl rabbits , plated in primary cultures , and exposed to recombinant retroviruses capable of efficiently transferring a functional human ldl receptor gene . genetically modified cells were harvested and infused into the portal vein of whhl recipients , who were analyzed for metabolic consequences of human ldl receptor expression . each animal exhibited a statistically significant decrease in total serum cholesterol 2-6 days after transplantation , with an eventual return to pretreatment levels . proviral dna sequences and virus-directed transcripts were detected in liver tissue 24 hr after transplantation . in situ hybridization demonstrated provirus expression in a small population of hepatocytes distributed in periportal sections of the liver . this study illustrates the potential of somatic gene therapy in ameliorating hyperlipidemia associated with familial hypercholesterolemia . 
molecular mapping of the mouse db mutation . diabetes ( db ) is an autosomal recessive mutation located in the midportion of mouse chromosome 4 that results in profound obesity with hyperphagia , increased metabolic efficiency , and insulin resistance . to clone this gene and generate a molecular map of the region around this mutation , two genetic crosses were established : an intraspecific backcross between c57bl/6j db/db females and c57bl/6j db/db x dba/2j + / + f1 ( b6d2 db / + f1 ) male mice and an interspecific intercross between b6d2 db / + f1 males and c57bl/6j db/db x mus spretus f1 ( b6spretus db / + f1 ) females . the progeny of both crosses were characterized for genotype at the db locus to map a series of restriction fragment length polymorphisms relative to the db locus . measurements of body weight , body length , and plasma concentrations of glucose and insulin in the animals allowed the assignment of genotype ( db/db vs. db / + or + / + ) . a total of 132 progeny of the intraspecific cross and 48 db/db progeny of the interspecific cross were typed for individual restriction fragment length polymorphisms to generate a gene order of : centromere-brown ( mt4 ) - p lambda mm3 ( 2 ) - ifa ( inta ) - cjun-db-d4rp1-glut1-mtv-13-lck . several of the genes that are linked to db [ cjun , glucose transporter ( glut1 ) and lck ] map to human chromosome 1p , suggesting that db may be part of a syntenic group between human 1p and the distal portion of mouse chromosome 4 . in addition , phenotyping of the progeny of these crosses revealed a wide range in plasma concentrations of glucose and insulin among the obese progeny , with some animals developing overt diabetes and other remaining euglycemic . distributions of age-controlled plasma [ glucose ] and [ insulin ] among the intraspecific-cross obese progeny were not bimodal , suggesting a role for polygenic differences between the progenitor strains ( c57bl/6j and dba/2j ) in the development of overt diabetes . 
therapy for hypercholesterolemia . for most patients , hypercholesterolemia can be effectively lowered with drug therapy but only after several issues have been considered . first , drug therapy should never be considered without adequate dietary intervention . dietary therapy may be effective for many patients with mild to moderate elevations in cholesterol . none of the drugs used to treat lipid disorders are benign agents . there is still debate about the interpretations of recent studies , the ability to generalize from studies to the whole population , and the cost effectiveness of drug treatment . within the framework of the aha and ncep guidelines , an individualized approach to therapy is prudent . this should be initiated with maximal patient education because drug therapy will be maintained for the long-term or for life . the ldl and hdl levels , age , sex , other chd risk factors , cost of treatment , patient awareness , and motivation must all be assessed when making treatment decisions . when drug therapy is considered for patients with isolated hypercholesterolemia , bile acid sequestrants are the drugs of choice . 
asian osteomalacia is determined by dietary factors when exposure to ultraviolet radiation is restricted : a risk factor model twenty-seven previously osteomalacic and 77 normal asian women participated in a seven-day survey of dietary intake and daylight outdoor exposure . individual levels of daylight outdoor exposure discriminated poorly between normal and osteomalacic women . the presence of osteomalacia was strongly related to varying degrees of vegetarianism . lactovegetarianism ( no meat , fish or egg consumption ) was associated with significantly greater osteomalacic risk than ovolactovegetarianism ( no meat or fish consumption ) . unlike asian rickets , high-extraction wheat cereal as chapatti was not a significant risk factor for osteomalacia in asian women and dietary fibre was a less important risk factor than absent dietary meat , fish or egg . when exposure to ultraviolet radiation is limited , asian osteomalacia ( and asian rickets ) are determined by dietary factors . 
hypercalcitoninemia , hypocalcemia , and toxic shock syndrome . toxic shock syndrome is a multisystem illness frequently complicated by hypocalcemia . the etiology of the hypocalcemia , which may be severe , is not well understood . we report two cases of fatal toxic shock syndrome accompanied by severe hypocalcemia ; each patient also had an inappropriately elevated serum calcitonin level , which in one case was as high as 179,000 pg/ml . hypercalcitoninemia may be a cause of the low serum calcium levels as well as of certain clinical manifestations of toxic shock syndrome . 
a case of group b streptococcal pyomyositis the group b streptococcus is an opportunistic pathogen that causes a variety of serious infections including bacteremias , puerperal sepsis , and neonatal meningitis . group b streptococcal infections of muscle are rare . we report here an unusual case of group b streptococcal pyomyositis . pyomyositis arises predominantly from infections caused by staphylococcus aureus and , occasionally , streptococcus pyogenes . because of the rarity of pyomyositis in temperate climates , the common lack of localizing signs or symptoms , and the frequently negative blood cultures , considerable delay often precedes the diagnosis of pyomyositis ; in fact , the infection has been initially misdiagnosed as muscle hematoma , cellulitis , thrombophlebitis , osteomyelitis , or neoplasm . diagnosis may be greatly aided by radiologic techniques that can demonstrate the sites of muscle enlargement and the presence of fluid collections . the response to antibiotics is usually rapid , but resolution of the infection may require aspiration of deeply situated muscle abscesses . this report describes a diabetic patient with an unusual presentation of pyomyositis that mimicked an acute abdomen . 
underexpression of beta cell high km glucose transporters in noninsulin-dependent diabetes [ published erratum appears in science 1990 nov 30 ; 250 ( 4985 ) :1195 ] the role of defective glucose transport in the pathogenesis of noninsulin-dependent diabetes ( niddm ) was examined in zucker diabetic fatty rats , a model of niddm . as in human niddm , insulin secretion was unresponsive to 20 mm glucose . uptake of 3-o-methylglucose by islet cells was less than 19 % of controls . the beta cell glucose transporter ( glut-2 ) immunoreactivity and amount of glut-2 messenger rna were profoundly reduced . whenever fewer than 60 % of beta cells were glut-2-positive , the response to glucose was absent and hyperglycemia exceeded 11 mm plasma glucose . we conclude that in niddm underexpression of glut-2 messenger rna lowers high km glucose transport in beta cells , and thereby impairs glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and prevents correction of hyperglycemia . 
primary prevention of coronary artery disease through a family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinic . primary prevention of coronary artery disease in children and young adults is important and can be instituted through a family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinic . such a clinic was initiated at the medical college of georgia in march 1988 . children whose total cholesterol level ( tc ) exceeded 200 mg/dl when screened by their primary care physician were referred with their siblings and parents for fasting lipid profile and further evaluation . data are available for the initial 21 families , including 30 children and 36 adults . the mean tc level was 258 mg/dl for index cases , 195 mg/dl for siblings , and 233 mg/dl for parents . follow-up data obtained after therapy at a mean of 6 months are available for 12 families , including 14 children and 14 adults . the mean change in tc was from 265 to 246 mg/dl ; 82 % of the patients had a decrease in tc . only one index case was documented as having neither a sibling nor a parent with an elevated cholesterol level . family-oriented cardiac risk factor clinics are important for the identification and treatment of hypercholesterolemia in asymptomatic young people when primary prevention is possible . 
pursuing mild elevations of liver enzyme values to exclude hemochromatosis . to determine whether physicians in an academic medical center excluded hemochromatosis as a diagnosis in a population of patients with mildly elevated liver enzyme values , we reviewed 100 charts of patients with both aspartate aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase levels that were less than twice the upper limit of normal . we analyzed each chart to determine if hemochromatosis would have been excluded by a subsequent workup . those patients who did not have a complete workup were assigned to one of three categories : ( 1 ) no mention was made of abnormal liver enzyme values ; ( 2 ) liver enzyme values were ascribed to some condition other then hemochromatosis and no definitive workup was done ; and ( 3 ) the condition of the patient was so poor that assessment did not seem indicated . ninety of 100 patients were not given a workup to exclude hemochromatosis . physicians often ignore mild elevations in liver enzyme values . 
hypercalcemia as a clinical prodrome to lymphoma . a 73-year-old man was admitted for evaluation of unexplained hypercalcemia and was found to have a large-cell non-hodgkin 's lymphoma with stage iv disease . treatment with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin ( adriamycin ) , vincristine sulfate , and prednisone chemotherapy returned his calcium levels to normal . hypercalcemia with lymphoma is rare , and persistent evaluation for malignancy is essential . 
pseudohypoglycemia in adult victims of adolescent incest . two patients with complaints of hypoglycemia came for evaluation , and both complained of intermittent episodes of mental dullness , disorientation , confusion , and palpitations relieved by eating . plasma glucose levels at the time of symptoms were always above 70 mg/dl . initial onset of symptoms was within 1 to 2 years after cessation of repeated incest , and on recognition of this , both patients associated the onset of episodes of similar feelings with the acts of incest . recognition of this connection did not decrease the frequency of episodes . both persistently refer to the episodes as " hypoglycemia " despite recognition that no glucose level below 70 mg/dl has been recorded during an episode . recurrent episodes of derealization and depersonalization in both patients appear to be sequelae of adolescent incest experiences , but these patients cling to the label " hypoglycemia , " perhaps in part because they are unwilling to accept a psychiatric diagnosis for their episodes . 
the predictive value of needle localization mammographically assisted biopsy of the breast . this study was done to review critically the experience at the university of california at san diego in needle localization mammographic biopsy of the breast with regard to use and accuracy in identifying early carcinoma of the breast . ninety-seven patients underwent needle localization mammographic biopsy of the breast between 1985 and 1987 . indications for this procedure included the presence of microcalcifications or a mass shown on mammographic examination , or both , in conjunction with physical examination which did not define a discrete abnormality in the area . mammographic , demographic , pathologic , hormone receptor data and staging information were recorded and processed on the microvax ii computer ( digital equipment corporation ) . twenty-four per cent of lesions with needle localization mammographic assisted biopsy proved to be malignant . sixteen lesions were diagnosed as an infiltrating ductal carcinoma and ten of these had an accompanying intraductal carcinoma . over-all , intraductal carcinoma was present in 16 of the 23 specimens diagnosed as malignant . at biopsy , the margins were clear in 17 of 23 , and vascular invasion was present in only one patient with an infiltrating lobular carcinoma . five were tumor in situ , 12 were stage 1 and five were stage 2 ( staging information was not available in one instance ) . hormone receptor data were available in 17 of 23 specimens . estrogen receptors were positive in 13 and progesterone receptors were positive in six . the smallest preinvasive malignant lesion was 4 millimeters , as seen on the mammogram , and the smallest free-standing invasive lesion was 8 millimeters . preinvasive lesions ( intraductal ) presented as microcalcifications in 80 per cent . invasive lesions presented as either a mass ( n = 9 ) or as a mass and microcalcifications ( n = 5 ) in 81 per cent . all five lesions presenting as both a mass and microcalcifications on mammogram proved to be malignant . multifocal lesions on mammographic examination which proved to be malignant were multifocal pathologically in only 50 per cent . needle localization mammographic biopsy is useful in detecting early carcinoma of the breast . biopsy should be done on lesions presenting on mammogram as both a mass and microcalcifications and not observed . focality of lesions on mammogram does not correlate with focality on biopsy and may be misleading as criteria for operative planning . 
calcifications of the breast after reduction mammoplasty . mammograms of 152 patients after mammoplasty were studied and 37 patients were noted to have calcifications . the pattern of these calcifications was studied to determine if specific characteristics could be identified . the calcifications were found to occur within the skin of the breast , mainly at a periareolar location . the ability to identify these benign calcifications further aids in reliably monitoring patients by mammography after reduction mammoplasty . 
disc swelling in an adult diabetic patient [ clinical conference ] a patient with insulin dependent adult onset diabetes presented with bilateral disc edema and minimal visual dysfunction . initial work-up excluded an intracranial lesion , and a lumbar puncture revealed a normal opening pressure . the patient developed proliferative retinopathy , for which she received photocoagulation therapy . she subsequently developed an exacerbation and change of her disc swelling , associated with raised intracranial pressure . the differential diagnosis of diabetic papillopathy and papilledema is discussed . 
severe primary hyperparathyroidism in a neonate having a parent with hypercalcemia : treatment by total parathyroidectomy and simultaneous heterotopic autotransplantation . neonatal primary hyperparathyroidism is a life-threatening disease because of marked hypercalcemia and severe respiratory distress caused by the hypoplastic thorax and occasional rib fractures . we report a 29-day-old girl treated by total parathyroidectomy and simultaneous autotransplantation of parathyroid tissue ( one fifth of each of the two glands ) in the femoral quadriceps muscle near the groin . at the time of operation , all four of the parathyroid glands were markedly enlarged , and their total weight was 900 mg . part of the resected parathyroid tissue was cryopreserved for further autotransplantation should hypoparathyroidism develop . two years six months after surgery , the infant was well and had normal levels of serum calcium and immunoreactive parathyroid hormone in the absence of any supplementary treatment . asymptomatic hypercalcemia in the presence of abnormally low fractional excretion of calcium was found in the father . based on our experience and review of the literature , we recommend total parathyroidectomy , autotransplantation , and cryopreservation for the neonate with primary hyperparathyroidism . 
nutritional rickets . nutritional rickets was diagnosed in 18 infants aged eight to 24 months . clinical features included progressive leg bowing , poor linear growth , a diet deficient in vitamin d , seizures , and abnormal serum calcium , phosphate and alkaline phosphatase levels . wrist radiographs and serum alkaline phosphatase levels were the most useful confirmatory tests . breast milk may not contain enough vitamin d to protect infants , particularly dark-skinned children and those living in cloudy , northern u.s. cities , from rickets after six months of age . as breast feeding becomes more widely practiced , care is required to ensure that infants at high risk for rickets receive appropriate vitamin d supplementation . 
approaching the protein-sparing modified fast . the protein-sparing modified fast is a safe and effective method for losing a large amount of weight relatively quickly . this diet should be used in combination with an exercise program , behavior modification and patient education . caloric intake is in the range of 400 to 800 per day . candidates for the diet should be generally healthy ; they should have at least 40 lb to lose or be at more than 120 percent of their ideal body weight . 
silent myocardial ischemia and infarction in diabetics with peripheral vascular disease : assessment by dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy . we investigated the incidence of silent myocardial ischemia and infarction as assessed by dipyridamole thallium scintigraphy in 30 diabetic patients with peripheral vascular disease and without clinical suspicion of coronary artery disease . seventeen patients ( 57 % ) had thallium abnormalities , with reversible thallium defects compatible with ischemia in 14 patients ( 47 % ) and evidence of prior , clinically silent myocardial infarction in 11 patients ( 37 % ) . thallium abnormalities were most frequent in patients with concomitant hypertension and cigarette smoking ( p = 0.001 ) . these results suggest that unsuspected coronary artery disease is common in this particular group of patients with diabetes mellitus . 
cardiac fluoroscopy for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease : a meta analytic review . to evaluate variability in the reported accuracy of fluoroscopically detected coronary calcific deposits for predicting angiographic coronary disease , we applied meta analysis to 13 consecutively published reports comparing the results of cardiac fluoroscopy with coronary angiography . population characteristics and technical and methodologic factors were analyzed . sensitivity and specificity for predicting serious coronary disease compare quite well with those from the literature on the exercise ecg and the exercise thallium scintigram . sensitivity increases and specificity decreases more significantly with patient age , and sensitivity is paradoxically lower in laboratories testing patients with more severe disease , as well as when 70 % rather than 50 % diameter narrowing is used to define angiographic disease . work-up and test review bias were also significantly related to reported accuracy . 
is obesity-related hypertension less of a cardiovascular risk ? the framingham study . the hypothesis that obesity-related hypertension is relatively innocuous was explored by an examination of cardiovascular events over 34 years of follow-up when related to biennially measured weights and blood pressures using time-dependent covariate proportional hazards analysis . the 5209 participants were also classified by age , cigarette smoking , and antihypertensive treatment at each of four baseline examinations with 8-year follow-up periods . over the period of follow-up , there were 978 cardiovascular events in men and 836 in women . risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in general and of chd in particular was as strongly related to hypertension at all levels of body mass index . this was also found to apply when adjustment was made for possible confounding by cigarette smoking . age and smoking-adjusted absolute risks of cardiovascular events were found to be higher in hypertensive individuals with high than with low bmis . furthermore , the relative risk of cardiovascular disease did not vary significantly with bmi . thus hypertension is at least as dangerous in obese as in lean persons at all ages in either sex , providing no support for the hypothesis that hypertension in the obese is more benign . this is important , since obesity predisposes to hypertension and most who have hypertension are obese . this report examines the hypothesis for cvd outcomes considered by previous reports and also the subcategories of cvd disease such as myocardial infarction and stroke , and includes data on both men and women and on young and old . 
maintenance and relapse after weight loss in women : behavioral aspects . obese women who regained weight after successful weight reduction ( relapsers , n = 44 ) ; formerly obese , average-weight women who maintained weight loss ( maintainers , n = 30 ) ; and women who had always remained at the same average , nonobese weight ( control subjects , n = 34 ) were interviewed . most maintainers ( 90 % ) and control subjects ( 82 % ) exercised regularly , were conscious of their behaviors , used available social support ( 70 % and 80 % , respectively ) , confronted problems directly ( 95 % and 60 % , respectively ) , and used personally developed strategies to help themselves . few relapsers exercised ( 34 % ) , most ate unconsciously in response to emotions ( 70 % ) , few used available social support ( 38 % ) , and few confronted problems directly ( 10 % ) . these findings suggest the advisability of development and prospective evaluation of individualized treatment programs designed to enhance exercise , coping skills , and social support . 
obesity and iron status in menstruating women . the relationship between iron stores and obesity in menstruating women was studied in 20 obese and 20 nonobese women matched for age and contraception . although no difference was observed in serum iron or total-iron-binding capacity , the obese group showed significantly higher hemoglobin ( 137 + / - 9 vs 10 g/l , mean + / - sd ; p less than 0.01 ) , hematocrit ( 0.41 + / - 0.02 vs 0.39 + / - 0.03 , p less than 0.05 ) , and serum ferritin concentrations ( 48.0 + / - 44.3 vs 25.8 + / - 19.5 micrograms/l , p less than 0.05 ) . there was no difference between obese and nonobese women in either the menstrual-cycle interval or the duration of the menstrual flow . iron intake was significantly higher in the obese group ( 15.9 + / - 2.9 vs 14.1 + / - 2.9 mg/d , p less than 0.05 ) . these results suggest that obese menstruating women are at low risk of depleting iron stores , possibly because of high iron intake . iron-fortification programs might thus be undesirable in such subjects . 
dietary predictors of symptom-associated gallstones in middle-aged women . in 1980 , 88,837 women aged 34-59 y completed a semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire and were followed for 4 y. four hundred thirty-three women reported a cholecystectomy for recent cholecystitis , and 179 reported unremoved , newly symptomatic gallstones diagnosed by ultrasound or x ray . among the 59,306 women with quetelet 's index of relative weight less than 25 kg/m2 , inverse associations were observed between intakes of vegetable fat and vegetable protein and the risk of reportedly symptomatic gallastones , after adjusting for age , quetelet 's index in 1980 , weight change between 1976 and 1980 , energy intake , and alcohol intake . the relative risk in the highest quintile of vegetable fat intake , as compared with the lowest quintile , was 0.6 [ 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) , 0.4-0 .9 ] , and the corresponding relative risk for vegetable protein intake was 0.7 ( 95 % ci , 0.6-0 .9 ) . no significant associations were found with energy-adjusted intakes of cholesterol , animal fat , animal protein , carbohydrate , or sucrose . 
urinary organic acid excretion during feeding of medium-chain or long-chain triglyceride diets in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . medium-chain triglycerides ( mcts ) are absorbed and metabolized differently from long-chain triglycerides ( lcts ) . recent data indicate that mcts may be useful as a dietary substitute in a variety of clinical disorders . the current studies were undertaken to characterize urinary organic acid excretion in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus during 4 d of an lct or mct diet . urinary excretion of the dicarboxylic acids adipic , suberic , and 3-hydroxysebacic and the ( omega-1 ) hydroxylation products 5-hydroxyhexanoic acid and 7-hydroxyoctanoic acid , was increased during mct feeding as compared with lct feeding . urinary suberic and 7-hydroxyoctanoic acid excretions were increased 55 - and 30-fold , respectively , during the mct-substituted diet . urinary organic acid profiles provide information on the fate of lipids during mct feeding and may also be useful in assessing complicance during clinical trials employing mct-substituted diets . 
cholesterol-lowering effect of skim milk from immunized cows in hypercholesterolemic patients . the effect of skim milk from cows immunized against a variety of human intestinal bacteria on serum cholesterol concentrations was examined in 11 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia in a 24-wk , randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled , crossover study . after a 4-wk baseline period , patients were treated for 8 wk either with skim milk from immunized cows ( active ) or with control skim milk ( placebo ) followed by an 8-wk period with the treatment order reversed . eight weeks of active treatment with skim milk from immunized cows reduced serum total cholesterol concentrations by 0.52 + / - 0.59 mmol/l ( mean + / - sd ; p less than 0.025 ) , or 8 % , ldl cholesterol by 0.16 + / - 0.59 mmol/l ( ns ) , or 4 % , and the atherogenic index ( total cholesterol/hdl cholesterol ) by 0.42 + / - 1.85 ( p less than 0.05 ) , or 8 % , compared with the placebo treatment . reversal of the favorable development occurred upon cessation of active treatment . we conclude that daily supplementation of a normal diet with skim milk from immunized cows can result in a significant reduction of elevated blood cholesterol concentrations . 
cholesterol-lowering effects of soluble-fiber cereals as part of a prudent diet for patients with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia . soluble-fiber breakfast cereals were examined for their cholesterol-lowering ability in 58 male patients with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study . patients followed a step 1 diet for a minimum of 6 wk , then were randomly assigned to groups incorporating either corn flakes or one of two soluble-fiber cereals ( pectin enriched or psyllium enriched ) in the diet for an additional 6 wk . during the diet-only phase , total cholesterol dropped 3.8 % . during the cereal-plus-diet phase , total and ldl cholesterol values of the pectin-enriched cereal group dropped an additional 2.1 % ( p = 0.243 ) and 3.9 % ( p = 0.16 ) , respectively , and they dropped 5.9 % ( p = 0.005 ) and 5.7 % ( p = 0.034 ) , respectively , in the psyllium-enriched cereal group . during the cereal-plus-diet phase , no significant effects on hdl cholesterol , triglyceride , or body weight were found within or between any cereal groups . these results support use of soluble-fiber cereals as an effective and well-tolerated part of a prudent diet in the treatment of mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia . 
continuous glucose for treatment of patients with type 1 glycogen-storage disease : comparison of the effects of dextrose and uncooked cornstarch on biochemical variables . responses to uncooked cornstarch ( ucs ) , dextrose ( dex ) , and a 3:1 mixture ( ucs : dex ) were determined in seven children with type 1 glycogen-storage disease ( gsd-1 ) . ucs maintained blood glucose ( bg ) and serum insulin concentrations between 3.5 + / - 0.3 and 4.0 + / - 0.4 mmol/l ( mean + / - sem ) and 50 + / - 7 and 79 + / - 22 pmol/l , respectively , in six of the seven patients for 4 h. only four of seven patients completed the 4-h test after ucs : dex ( bg 2.9 + / - 0.3 mmol/l ) : after dex , tests had to be stopped in all patients by 150 min after initiation ( bg 2.7 + / - 0.4 mmol/l ) . two methods of providing dietary glucose overnight , continuous intragastric glucose infusion ( cog ) and intermittent ucs at 2100 and 0200 , were compared by monitoring metabolites and glucoregulatory hormones . the use of ucs in amounts equal to the calculated glucose production rate is an effective method of providing a continuous dietary source of glucose overnight to patients with gsd-1 . 
physical growth and development of children with type 1 glycogen-storage disease : comparison of the effects of long-term use of dextrose and uncooked cornstarch . thirteen patients with type 1 glycogen-storage disease ( gsd-1 ) were studied to compare the effects on biochemical control and growth of 2 y of therapy with intermittent feedings of uncooked cornstarch ( ucs ) at the fasting glucose production rate and therapy with continuous overnight glucose ( cog ) and dextrose feedings during the day . mean biochemical abnormalities for the groups were minimized but not normalized by either cog or ucs . growth progressed normally when cog was started by 1.2 y of age and normal growth rate was maintained by ucs . weight increased from 101 + / - 3 % ideal body weight at onset of cog to 127 + / - 5 % during cog and the first year of ucs therapy but did not increase further in the second year . when growth failure occurred before onset of cog [ -3.7 sd score for chronological age ( sdsca ) ] , only partial correction ( -1.9 sdsca ) to genetic potential for height occurred . intermittent feeding of ucs provides an effective alternative to cog for the treatment of gsd-1 . 
vitamin a status in preschool-age indonesian children as assessed by the modified relative-dose-response assay . the modified relative-dose-response ( mrdr ) assay has been validated in rats as a function of vitamin a status and tested in a group of american children . in this study the mrdr assay was applied to west javan children who are at risk of being vitamin a deficient . of 86 children enrolled , 75 were tested . in a time-course study involving 22 children aged 3.7-5 .3 y , blood samples were taken at different times after doses of 0.35 mumol 3,4-didehydroretinyl acetate/kg body wt . generally , the ratio of dehydroretinol to retinol ( dr-r ratio ) peaked between 4 and 8 h. thereafter , in a survey of 53 children aged 0.6-4 .8 y , single blood samples were drawn 5 h after the dehydroretinyl acetate dose . the dr-r ratio ranged from 0.0028 to 0.169 . with a dr-r ratio of 0.03 as the cutoff value , 62 % of the children were judged to be of marginal vitamin a status . 
effects of fish-oil ingestion on cardiovascular risk factors in hyperlipidemic subjects in israel : a randomized , double-blind crossover study . effects of a daily fish-oil supplement on serum lipids , apolipoproteins , and some platelet functions and hemorheologic variables were examined in 27 hyperlipidemic subjects in a randomized , controlled , double-blind , crossover fashion with an identically encapsulated vegetable oil serving as the control treatment . despite the habitual high linoleic acid intake of the study population , significant incorporation of n-3 ( omega-3 ) fatty acids into the serum , platelet , and erythrocyte lipids was observed after the fish-oil supplement . ingestion of fish oil resulted in a 40 % decrease in the triglyceride concentration , a 12 % increase in hdl cholesterol , and a significant decrease in plasma viscosity , whereas the vegetable-oil placebo had no significant effect . we conclude that a moderate intake of fish oil ( 15 g/d ) is a feasible treatment for hypertriglyceridemia even in patients with a background of high linoleic acid intake and that it may have a beneficial effect on several cardiovascular risk factors . 
self-reported weight and height . the error in self-reported weight and height compared with measured weight and height was evaluated in a nationally representative sample of 11,284 adults aged 20-74 y from the second national health and nutrition examination survey of 1976-1980 . although weight and height were reported , on the average , with small errors , self-reported weight and height are unreliable in important population subgroups . errors in self-reporting weight were directly related to a person 's overweight status -- bias and unreliability in self-report increased directly with the magnitude of overweight . errors in self-reported weight were greater in overweight females than in overweight males . race , age , and end-digit preference were ancillary predictors of reporting error in weight . errors in self-reporting height were related to a person 's age -- bias and unreliability in self-reporting increased directly with age after age 45 y. overweight status was also a predictor of reporting error in height . 
evidence for a secular change in obesity , height , and weight among navajo indian schoolchildren . a survey measuring heights and weights of 1969 schoolchildren residing on the navajo indian reservation was conducted in 1989 . the findings were compared with national center for health statistics ( nchs ) reference data and with surveys of navajo children from 1955 , 1968 , and 1981 . approximately twice as many children exceeded the 95th percentile of weight-for-age ( 11.2 % of girls , 12.5 % of boys ) than would be expected for the nchs reference population . the mean weight-for-height z scores exceeded those for the nchs reference population for all ages in both sexes . compared with data from 1955 , mean heights increased 6.1 % among boys and 4.4 % among girls whereas mean weights increased 28.8 % among boys and 18.7 % among girls across all age groups . the data suggest that there has been a secular change in height , weight , and obesity in navajo indian children over the past 35 y. 
aggressive oral refeeding in hospitalized patients . malnutrition is an important clinical condition leading to increased morbidity and mortality . this report describes an aggressive oral refeeding program of high-caloric foods , which was instituted in severely anorectic patients because of their refusal to eat meals or supplements . after ascertaining a patient 's favorite sweet , hospital personnel and family collaborated in providing the food . frequently , sweets were the patient 's only intake for weeks . we saw a gradual return of appetite , inclusion of other foods in the diet , and overall clinical improvement in comorbid conditions . these cases suggest that aggressive oral refeeding with high-caloric foods is an underutilized therapy for multiply impaired elderly patients . 
etiology of hypercalcemia in hemodialysis patients on calcium carbonate therapy . fourteen of 39 dialysis patients ( 36 % ) became hypercalcemic after switching to calcium carbonate as their principal phosphate binder . in order to identify risk factors associated with the development of hypercalcemia , indirect parameters of intestinal calcium reabsorption and bone turnover rate in these 14 patients were compared with results in 14 eucalcemic patients matched for age , sex , length of time on dialysis , and etiology of renal disease . in addition to experiencing hypercalcemic episodes with peak calcium values of 2.7 to 3.8 mmol/l ( 10.7 to 15.0 mg/dl ) , patients in the hypercalcemic group exhibited a significant increase in the mean calcium concentration obtained during 6 months before the switch , compared with the mean value obtained during the 7 months of observation after the switch ( 2.4 + / - 0.03 to 2.5 + / - 0.03 mmol/l [ 9.7 + / - 0.2 to 10.2 + / - 0.1 mg/dl ] , p = 0.006 ) . in contrast , eucalcemic patients exhibited no change in mean calcium values over the same time period ( 2.3 + / - 0.05 to 2.3 + / - 0.05 mmol/l [ 9.2 + / - 0.2 to 9.2 + / - 0.2 mg/dl ] ) . caco3 dosage , calculated dietary calcium intake , and circulating levels of vitamin d metabolites were similar in both groups . physical activity index and predialysis serum bicarbonate levels also were similar in both groups . however , there was a significant difference in parameters reflecting bone turnover rates between groups . 
the renal concentrating defect associated with potassium depletion is independent of prostaglandin e2 . prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) impairs the hydrosmotic effect of vasopressin in toad bladder and mammalian kidney . because some studies in animals have suggested that potassium depletion enhances renal pge2 production , the present study examined whether the renal concentrating defect of potassium depletion in humans is mediated by pge2 . five normal volunteers were studied before and after moderate potassium depletion achieved by 10 days of dietary potassium restriction and administration of a polystyrene sulfonate potassium exchange resin ( kayexalate ) . maximal urinary osmolality ( umax ) decreased from 1,094 + / - 58 ( mean + / - sem ) to 820 + / - 26 mmol/kg ( mosm/kg ) ( p less than 0.01 ) following potassium depletion , but urinary pge2 excretion did not change ( 496 + / - 145 and 435 + / - 186 ng/d , respectively ) . indomethacin suppressed pge2 excretion significantly , but failed to increase umax in either the normal or the potassium-depleted state ( 1,094 + / - 34 and 825 + / - 56 mmol/kg , respectively ) . it is concluded that the renal concentrating defect produced by moderate potassium restriction in humans is not mediated by pge2 . 
temporary loss of limb function secondary to soft tissue calcification in a patient with rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure . a case of unusually severe soft tissue calcification with temporary loss of limb function in a patient with rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure ( arf ) is described . a large dose of intravenous ( iv ) calcium was administered early in the hospital course to treat hypocalcemia , and hemodialysis , when initiated , was with a 1.75-mmol / l calcium dialysate . this case illustrates the danger of administering calcium supplementation and raises questions about the use of normal to high dialysate calcium concentration in the early stages of rhabdomyolysis-induced oliguric arf . calcium supplementation should be reserved for patients with clear clinical signs of hypocalcemia and dialysate calcium should be adjusted to prevent excessive positive calcium balance . 
does magnesium play a role in the hypokalemia of bartter 's syndrome ? a patient with bartter 's syndrome manifested hypomagnesemia in addition to hypokalemia . under conditions of maximal free water production , he had a fractional distal solute reabsorption of 0.65 , a value consistent with a renal defect in sodium chloride reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of the loop of henle . this is also the site of 65 % to 70 % of urinary magnesium reabsorption . with magnesium supplementation and amiloride , the urinary potassium decreased and the serum potassium increased . atrial natriuretic peptide concentrations in the plasma were low . evaluation of family members showed five of nine offspring had hypokalemia with no disorder in the parents , an apparent autosomal recessive mode of inheritance . this is a us government work . there are no restrictions on its use . 
the nt 1311 polymorphism of g6pd : g6pd mediterranean mutation may have originated independently in europe and asia . a polymorphic site exists in exon 11 of g6pd : in the wild-type enzyme , nucleotide ( nt ) 1311 is a c , but is some individuals from diverse populations a t is present instead . nine of 54 x chromosomes from europeans of mixed origins , nine of 41 x chromosomes of ashkenazi jewish subjects , three of 18 x chromosomes of sicilians , five of 20 african x chromosomes , and nine of 20 asian indian x chromosomes had the mutant genotype . in contrast , the mutation was found in only three of 59 oriental x chromosomes and in three of 30 central/south american x chromosomes . the mutation was absent from four samples of chimpanzee dna . twenty-one of 22 male subjects from mediterranean countries who had the g6pd mediterranean 563t genotype investigated in the present study or reported previously had a t at nt 1311 . only one had the normal c at nt 1311 . in contrast , both g6pd mediterranean563t males from the indian subcontinent had the normal c at nt 1311 . these findings suggest that the same mutation at nucleotide 563 giving rise to g6pd mediterranean may have arisen independently in europe and in asia . 
origin and spread of the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase variant ( g6pd-mediterranean ) in the middle east . a common glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase ( g6pd ) variant characterized by severe enzyme deficiency and b-like electrophoretic mobility is called " g6pd-mediterranean " because it is found in different populations around the mediterranean sea . sequence analysis of italian subjects has revealed that the molecular basis of g6pd-mediterranean is a single c-t transition at nucleotide position 563 , causing a serine phenylalanine replacement at amino acid position 188 . most g6pd-mediterranean subjects also have a silent c-t transition ( without amino acid replacement ) at nucleotide position 1311 . twenty-one unrelated individuals from saudi arabia , iraq , iran , jordan , lebanon , and israel with both severe g6pd deficiency and b-like electrophoretic mobility were tested for both mutations by using amplification followed by digestion with appropriate restriction enzymes . all but one had the 563 mutation , and , of these , all but one had the 1311 mutation . another 24 unrelated middle eastern individuals with normal g6pd activity or not known to be g6pd deficient were similarly tested . four had the silent mutation at position 1311 in the absence of the deficiency mutation at position 563 . we conclude that ( 1 ) the large majority of middle eastern subjects with the g6pd-mediterranean phenotype have the same mutation found in italy , ( 2 ) the silent mutation is an independent polymorphism in the middle east , with a frequency of about .13 , and ( 3 ) the mutation leading to the g6pd-mediterranean deficiency has probably arisen on a chromosome that already carried the silent mutation . 
contrast nephropathy in azotemic diabetic patients undergoing coronary angiography . purpose : to evaluate the incidence of , risk factors for , and outcome of contrast nephropathy in azotemic diabetic patients undergoing coronary angiography . patients and methods : fifty-nine insulin-dependent diabetics with a mean serum creatinine level of 522 mumol/l ( 5.9 mg/dl ) underwent coronary angiography as part of a pretransplant evaluation . twenty-four azotemic diabetics undergoing inpatient evaluation not including angiography for transplantation formed the control group . serum creatinine measurements obtained at baseline and after radiocontrast exposure were compared in patients and control subjects . risk factors for contrast nephropathy were evaluated in patients with a 25 % or greater increase in serum creatinine . results : serum creatinine was significantly elevated 24 hours after radiocontrast exposure in patients ( 557 + / - 141 mumol/l versus 522 + / - 141 mumol/l , mean + / - sd ; p less than 0.001 ) but not in controls . seven patients required dialysis within 6 days of coronary angiography and two additional patients required dialysis within 14 days . contrast nephropathy , defined as a serum creatinine increase of greater than 25 % when measured 48 hours after radiocontrast exposure , occurred in 50 % of patients and no controls . univariate analysis of risk factors for contrast nephropathy revealed a significant association with dye quantity ( p = 0.002 ) , mean arterial pressure less than 100 mm hg ( p = 0.02 ) , and ejection fraction less than 50 % ( p = 0.04 ) . stepwise logistic regression verified the independence of dye quantity and low mean arterial pressure but not low ejection fraction as risk factors for contrast nephropathy . follow-up serum creatinine values were not significantly different in patients and control subjects . conclusions : azotemic patients with diabetes are at high risk of developing contrast nephropathy even when less than 100 ml of radiocontrast agent is used . the acute renal failure is reversible but precipitates the need for short-term dialysis in some patients . radiocontrast quantity is an important risk factor not previously noted . the incidence of contrast nephropathy can be minimized by using less than 30 ml of radiocontrast agent . 
an assault on old friends : thiazide diuretics under siege . the adverse biochemical effects of thiazide use are of uncertain clinical significance . thiazides raise ldl cholesterol only slightly in long-term studies and do not decrease hdl cholesterol . the evidence linking thiazide-induced hypokalemia with arrhythmias and sudden death is tenuous at best . thiazide diuretics cause glucose intolerance , but no strong evidence has been advanced to suggest that this is dangerous . because these effects are probably related to hypokalemia , a randomized trial comparing the effects of thiazides with thiazides plus a potassium-sparing diuretic on ldl cholesterol , ectopy on 48 hour ambulatory cardiac monitoring , fasting glucose and insulin , and post-glucose tolerance glucose and insulin would be of interest . the most compelling reason for continuing to use thiazides is that they have been shown in long-term randomized studies to reduce cardiovascular risk . beta-blockers are the only other class of anti-hypertensive agent for which this claim can be made . the importance of long-term clinical trials in assessing the efficacy and toxicity of therapeutic agents is illustrated by the study that found clofibrate reduced cholesterol levels and coronary disease but increased total mortality . this finding remained undetected until a large randomized long-term trial was completed . thiazide diuretics have not reduced the rate of coronary disease to the degree expected from epidemiologic studies , but the short length of the randomized trials may be responsible . it is not clear that other anti-hypertensive agents will be superior . thiazides are less expensive than other anti-hypertensive agents being touted as metabolically safer ; the cost issue is not a trivial matter . 
prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in elderly women . to better understand which women use estrogen replacement therapy , we examined the prevalence and determinants of estrogen replacement therapy in 9704 nonblack women , age greater than or equal to 65 years , who participated in the multicenter prospective study of osteoporotic fractures . overall , 13.7 % of women reported current use of oral estrogen ; 10.9 % took estrogen alone and 2.8 % took estrogen opposed by progestin . four percent currently used parenteral estrogen compounds . current use declined sharply with age from 17 % at age 65 to 4 % at age greater than or equal to 85 . the primary determinant of estrogen replacement therapy was the type of menopause ; the odds of using estrogen replacement therapy in current users compared with never users were approximately five times higher in women with a surgical menopause . estrogen use was more common among women who had higher levels of education and were less obese . furthermore , estrogen replacement therapy users were more likely to drink alcohol and to participate in sports and recreation . a diagnosis of osteoporosis was the major determinant of continued estrogen use , but only 24 % of women with a diagnosis of osteoporosis used estrogen replacement therapy . we conclude that only a small proportion of elderly women in the united states use estrogen replacement therapy . selection factors for use of estrogen are evident and may introduce bias in studies of estrogen and disease . in consideration of the distribution of these selection factors , estrogen users will tend to be at lower risk of coronary disease and possibly breast cancer but at greater risk for hip fractures . 
prenatal diagnosis of fetal intracranial calcifications . a case is presented wherein fetal intracranial calcifications as a result of intrauterine cytomegalovirus infection were visualized by computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging at 36 weeks ' gestation . diagnosis of in utero cytomegalovirus infection was made by isolation of the virus from amniotic fluid . no symptomatic abnormality has been noted in the neonatal period except periventricular calcifications . 
behavioral covariates of waist-to-hip ratio in rancho bernardo . we examined lifestyle and dietary habits in 685 men and 943 women ( mean age 67 years ) who completed an interview , examination , and food frequency questionnaire in 1984-87 . waist-to-hip ratio increased with age and body mass index in both men and women . in multiple regression , waist-to-hip ratio was independently associated with smoking , alcohol consumption , and exercise in men , and with smoking and alcohol consumption in women . the data suggest that waist-to-hip ratio is affected , at least in part , by behavioral , and potentially modifiable , factors . 
pouch outlet obstruction following vertical ring gastroplasty for morbid obesity . we have experienced a 14 % ( 38 of 264 patients ) incidence of pouch outlet obstruction following vertical ring gastroplasty . initial management consisted of dilatation in 34 of 38 patients ( 94 % ) . ten of 34 patients ( 29 % ) were spared reoperation by 1 to 3 dilatations . non-passage of an endoscope through the stoma immediately following dilatation predicted the need for surgery ; 4 of 11 patients ( 36 % ) with passage underwent reoperation compared with 17 of 20 patients ( 85 % ) without passage ( p less than 0.02 ) . surgical findings included " tipped bands " in 9 of 28 patients ( 32 % ) ; fibrous reaction to the band in 10 of 28 patients ( 36 % ) ; adhesions with angulation of the pouch in 2 of 28 patients ( 7 % ) ; and no identifiable cause of obstruction in 7 of 28 patients ( 25 % ) . surgical therapy consisted of removal of the band ( 2 patients ) , removal of the band and replacement with a similar length or larger band ( 20 patients ) , " tacking " the band in the horizontal position ( 4 patients ) , or conversion to a roux-y bypass ( 2 patients ) . the first three options were associated with an unacceptably high rate of weight regain and/or continued symptoms , whereas the last-named procedure met with good success . 
hypothermia and acidosis worsen coagulopathy in the patient requiring massive transfusion . massive transfusion may cause abnormalities of electrolytes , clotting factors , ph , and temperature and may occur in a scenario of refractory coagulopathy and irreversible shock . identification of correctable variables to improve survival is complicated by the interplay of this pathophysiology . temperature may be an under-appreciated problem in the genesis of coagulopathy . in vitro studies have demonstrated that platelet function and vascular response are critically temperature-dependent . we reviewed the records of 45 trauma patients without head injury or co-morbid medical illness who required massive transfusions . the mean injury severity score was 55 + / - 6 , a mean of 22.5 + / - 5 units of blood was transfused , and mortality was 33 % . nonsurvivors were more likely to have had penetrating injury ( 88 % versus 55 % ) , received more transfusions ( 26.5 + / - 9 versus 18.6 + / - 1 , p less than 0.05 ) , had lower ph ( ph 7.04 + / - 0.06 versus 7.18 + / - 0.02 , p less than 0.05 ) , had lower core temperature ( 31 + / - 1 degree c versus 34 + / - 1 degree c , p less than 0.01 ) , and had a higher incidence of clinical coagulopathy ( 73 % versus 23 % ) . severe hypothermia ( temperature less than 34 degrees c ) occurred in 80 % of the nonsurvivors and in 36 % of survivors . patients who were hypothermic and acidotic developed clinically significant bleeding despite adequate blood , plasma , and platelet replacement . avoidance or correction of hypothermia may be critical in preventing or correcting coagulopathy in the patient receiving massive transfusion . 
anaesthetic problems in ex situ resection of the liver . ex-situ resection of the liver is a new surgical technique for treatment of liver tumours not amenable to conventional surgery . this paper describes the cardiovascular and metabolic changes that occurred in nine consecutive such patients . no severe haemodynamic or pulmonary complications occurred . specific problems were encountered during the prolonged anhepatic period , which lasted an average of 5.96 ( sd 1.46 ) hours . significant metabolic and coagulation disorders occurred 2 to 3 hours after hepatectomy because of complete loss of hepatic function . the predominant findings during the anhepatic period were hypoglycaemia and severe metabolic acidosis , mainly from increased levels of lactic acid . exogenous administration of dextrose 5 % at an average rate of 188 ml/hour was necessary to maintain normoglycaemia , while correction of metabolic acidosis required 403 ( sd 159.79 ) mmol of sodium bicarbonate , supplemented by hyperventilation . tris-hydroxymethylaminomethane was used when sodium overload was thought to be a problem . there was a marked decrease of factor v and fibrinogen , a moderate thrombocytopenia and fibrinolysis . the severity of these alterations was dependent on the duration of the anhepatic period and the primary function of the re-implanted liver . 
the delta ( delta ) gap : an approach to mixed acid-base disorders the anion gap ( ag ) is a helpful , yet underused , clinical tool . not only does the presence of a high ag suggest a certain differential , but knowledge of the relationship between the rise in ag ( delta ag ) and the fall in bicarbonate ( delta hco3 ) is important in understanding mixed acid-based disorders . simple arithmetic converts this relationship into a numerical value , the delta gap ( delta gap ) . the delta gap = delta ag - delta hco3 . if the delta gap is significantly positive ( greater than +6 ) , a metabolic alkalosis is usually present because the rise in ag is more than the fall in hco3 . conversely , if the delta gap is significantly negative ( less than -6 ) , then a hyperchloremic acidosis is usually present because the rise in ag is less than the fall in hco3 . familarity with the relationship between the changes in ag and hco3 can be useful in unmasking occult metabolic disorders . 
ponderal index as a predictor of postoperative complications . four hundred sixty-eight patients undergoing elective surgery were prospectively followed for the development of postoperative complications . there was a trend toward increasing complication rate with a lower ponderal index . however , lower ponderal indices were associated with increasing rates of diabetes mellitus and hypertension . of these patients , forty cases with postoperative complications were matched to 40 control cases for sex , age , concomitant illness and operation performed . the cases of postoperative complications had a statistically significantly lower ponderal index than the controls ( 11.98 versus 12.43 ) . the increased risk of postoperative complications in those patients with a ponderal index of less than 11 was 3.36 , and less than 13 was 3.44 . surgeons who treated patients with lower ponderal indices need to have a high index of suspicion for the development of postoperative complications in these patients . 
serum and tissue magnesium concentrations in patients with heart failure and serious ventricular arrhythmias . objective : to compare magnesium concentrations in serum and tissue from patients with heart failure . two groups of patients were compared , those with or without serious ventricular arrhythmias . design : consecutive enrollment . blinded laboratory analyses . setting : referral inpatient service of the cardiology division of a university hospital . patients : twenty-three patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and mild to moderately severe congestive heart failure ( new york heart association functional class ii to iv ) were divided into two groups : 9 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardias and 14 patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias ( control ) . interventions : medications for heart failure were withdrawn 12 hours or more before study . antiarrhythmic therapy was continued throughout the study . measurements and main results : the patients had skeletal muscle biopsies , myocardial biopsies , and blood sampling for the analysis of magnesium concentrations . no statistically significant differences in the mean magnesium concentrations in serum , circulating mononuclear cells , skeletal muscle , and myocardium were found when the 9 patients with ventricular arrhythmias were compared with the 14 control patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias . conclusions : in a general , ambulatory sample of patients with heart failure , magnesium depletion in serum and tissue does not appear to occur more commonly in patients with serious ventricular arrhythmias than in patients without serious ventricular arrhythmias . 
slow glucose removal rate and hyperinsulinemia precede the development of type ii diabetes in the offspring of diabetic parents . objective : to determine whether insulin resistance or insulin deficiency is primary in the pathogenesis of type ii diabetes . design : cohort analytic study of persons with normal glucose tolerance but with a high risk for developing type ii diabetes ( average follow-up time , 13 years ) . setting : outpatients had an intravenous glucose tolerance test and were contacted periodically to ascertain diagnoses of diabetes . participants : one hundred and fifty-five normal offspring , ranging in age from 16 to 60 years , of two parents with type ii diabetes and 186 normal control subjects in the same age range who had no family history of diabetes . measurements and main results : two phenotypic characteristics distinguished the offspring of diabetic parents from control subjects . they had slower glucose removal rates ( kg ) ( p less than 0.01 ) and higher insulin levels ( fasting and during the second phase of insulin response to intravenous glucose ; p less than 0.0001 ) than did control subjects , even after adjustment for differences in obesity . sixteen percent of the offspring developed type ii diabetes . mean kg at baseline was 1.7 % / min among offspring who subsequently developed diabetes , 2.2 % / min among offspring who remained nondiabetic , and 2.3 % / min among control subjects . corresponding means for first-phase insulin were 498 , 354 , and 373 pm , respectively , whereas second-phase insulin means were 329 , 117 , and 87 pm , respectively . in multivariate analysis , low kg and high serum insulin levels independently increased the risk for developing diabetes among the offspring of diabetic parents . conclusions : one to two decades before type ii diabetes is diagnosed , reduced glucose clearance is already present . this reduced clearance is accompanied by compensatory hyperinsulinemia , not hypoinsulinemia , suggesting that the primary defect is in peripheral tissue response to insulin and glucose , not in the pancreatic beta cell . 
high blood cholesterol in elderly men and the excess risk for coronary heart disease . objective : to determine whether high blood cholesterol is an important risk factor for mortality from coronary heart disease in elderly men . design : cohort study with a mean follow-up of 10.1 years . setting : a health maintenance organization . patients : the cohort included 2746 white men 60 to 79 years of age who had no self-reported history of coronary heart disease . measurement and main results : a total of 260 deaths occurred during 27,842 person-years of follow-up . the relative risk for mortality from coronary heart disease in men 60 to 79 years of age in the highest serum cholesterol quartile was 1.5 ( 95 % ci , 1.2 to 2.0 ) compared with those in the three lower quartiles combined . the relative risk did not change greatly with age , ranging from 1.4 in men 60 to 64 years of age to 1.7 in men 75 to 79 years of age . however , because mortality from coronary heart disease increased with age , the excess risk for such mortality attributable to elevated serum cholesterol levels increased fivefold over these 20 years , from 2.2 deaths per 1000 person-years to 11.3 deaths per 1000 person-years . conclusions : our results support those of other observational studies in elderly men . if treatment of high blood cholesterol is as effective in reducing cholesterol-related risk for coronary heart disease after 65 years of age as it is in middle-aged men , it might actually produce greater reductions in mortality due to coronary heart disease . a clinical trial is needed to confirm this extrapolation . 
amniotic fluid insulin concentration as a predictor of obesity . longitudinal correlations were obtained between amniotic fluid insulin concentration at 32 to 38 weeks ' gestation and anthropometric characteristics at the age of 6 years in 56 children of diabetic mothers . the prospective studies indicated that at the age of 6 years , as at birth , the greatest increase in weight in relation to height ( relative obesity ) was seen in children who experienced the greatest exposures to insulin in the uterus ( as judged by amniotic fluid insulin concentration ) . significant correlations between amniotic fluid insulin and relative obesity at the age of 6 years were found after adjustment for maternal obesity and macrosomia at birth . the highest amniotic fluid insulin values are clustered in the subgroup of 14 children who were obviously obese by the age of 6 years . these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that there is an association between anthropometric development and intrauterine metabolism , and suggest that premature and excessive exposure to insulin during gestation may predispose to obesity in childhood . the amniotic fluid insulin concentration may predict this eventuality . 
acute hypercalcemic crisis after an open heart operation . acute hyperparathyroidism developed in a previously normocalcemic 64-year-old woman during the first week after a coronary operation . prolonged qt interval in the electrocardiogram and hypercalcemia were documented on the fourth postoperative day . neck exploration on the fifth postoperative day revealed a lower right parathyroid adenoma . parathyroidectomy resulted in rapid and dramatic improvement of the clinical picture and normalization of laboratory values . 
ultrasonic debridement during mitral valve reconstruction for calcified mitral stenosis . an ultrasonic device in conjunction with open mitral commissurotomy was applied in 8 patients with heavily calcified , stenosed mitral valves . in 6 patients , reconstruction of the mitral valve by debridement of the leaflet calcification with the device was successful . two patients required valve replacement because of an increase in preexistent mitral regurgitation caused by excessive decalcification . the ultrasonic device proved to be a useful and effective adjunct for salvaging the heavily calcified mitral valve , which would otherwise have to be replaced . 
easy dissection of hard and thickened pericardium on constrictive pericarditis . the keys to successful pericardiectomy for constrictive pericarditis are early operation and as complete a pericardiectomy as possible . with the high-speed burr it is easy and safe to dissect the calcified pericardium and define the epicardium even in a small operative field such as the inferior or posterior portion of the heart . this method has the important ability to perform very complete pericardiectomy . 
hyperammonemic encephalopathy in urinary diversion with urea-splitting urinary tract infection . we present two cases of hyperammonemic encephalopathy secondary to urea-splitting urinary tract infection with urinary diversion . one patient had a ureterosigmoidostomy , the other an ileal loop diversion . neither patient had significant underlying liver disease , but both had considerable muscle atrophy that may have predisposed them to develop hyperammonemia . medical therapy did not provide long-term control of symptoms . in both cases , hyperammonemic encephalopathy resolved after revision of their urinary diversions . the probable mechanism of the metabolic derangements produced by urea-splitting urinary tract infections is reviewed . we suggest that patients with urinary diversion who develop hyperammonemic encephalopathy secondary to a urea-splitting urinary tract infection be treated with surgical revision of the urinary system to improve drainage and decrease bowel contact time . 
treatment of severe reactive hypoglycemia with a somatostatin analogue ( sms 201-995 ) . reactive ( or postprandial ) hypoglycemia can sometimes represent a severe disorder refractory to conventional therapeutic measures . we present in this first individual trial , to our knowledge , that the administration of a somatostatin analogue ( sms 201-995 ) may alleviate the severity of complaints and does not appear to be diabetogenic . the effects of the somatostatin analogue were documented in a 5-hour oral glucose tolerance test , where not only the glucose-induced and c-peptide rise was clearly attenuated , but also the blood glucose concentration did not fall low enough to induce hypoglycemic symptoms . 
lovastatin . warfarin interaction . two patients who developed hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding due to lovastatin-warfarin drug interaction are described . because of the wider use of lovastatin and warfarin , heightened clinical awareness of this potentially serious interaction must be publicized . therefore , prothrombin time should be monitored diligently when warfarin is prescribed to patients receiving lovastatin . 
the influence of hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus on immediate and 3-month morbidity and mortality after acute stroke . fasting serum glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , and fructosamine concentrations were determined in 304 consecutive subjects admitted with acute stroke , within 48 hours of ictus . based on the medical history and these results , subjects were divided into known diabetics , newly diagnosed diabetics , subjects with stress hyperglycemia , and nondiabetics . the type of stroke was classified as lacunar infarct , cerebral infarct , or intracerebral hemorrhage , based on clinical examination by a neurologist and computed tomographic brain scan and/or autopsy . immediate and 3-month outcomes were examined in relation to ( 1 ) fasting glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , and fructosamine levels by stroke subtypes , and ( 2 ) glucose tolerance categories by stroke subtypes . a high fasting glucose level was associated with an increased mortality , but this was observed only among patients with intracerebral hemorrhage . patients with stress hyperglycemia , but not diabetics , had increased mortality . in spite of having similar glucose concentrations to those patients with stress hyperglycemia , diabetics did not have a worse outcome compared with nondiabetics . it is concluded that the association between glucose concentration and outcome is a reflection of stress relating to stroke severity , rather than a direct harmful effect of glucose on damaged neurons . 
a subluxing arthropathy associated with the anti-jo-1 antibody in polymyositis/dermatomyositis . of 180 patients with polymyositis/dermatomyositis ( pm/dm ) seen at the university of pittsburgh and affiliated hospitals since 1975 , 21 of 100 tested positive for the anti-jo-1 antibody . sixteen of the 21 patients were women and 18 were white . fifteen had adult pm , 4 had myositis in overlap with scleroderma , and 2 had adult dm . evidence of interstitial lung disease was found in 12 of 18 anti-jo-1 positive patients ( 67 % ) , but in only 15 of 79 anti-jo-1 negative patients ( 19 % ) ( p less than 0.0002 ) . the 21 anti-jo-1 positive patients were divided into 3 separate groups based on the observed articular findings . four patients had a deforming , predominantly nonerosive arthropathy with subluxations of the distal interphalangeal joints , especially the thumbs . eight patients had a nondeforming arthropathy primarily affecting the small joints of the hands , wrists , shoulders , and knees . those with deformities had a longer duration of arthritis compared with those with nondeforming arthropathy ( mean 14.5 years versus 3.3 years ) . nine anti-jo-1 positive patients had no joint arthropathy . three of 4 patients with deformities have required articular reconstructive surgery for subluxation , with 2 having associated subcutaneous calcinosis . 
quantitative histologic study of the sural nerve in lesch-nyhan syndrome . the sural nerve of a 31-year-old man with lesch-nyhan syndrome obtained at autopsy was studied histologically . large , myelinated nerve fibers were reduced in number and no myelinated nerve fibers larger than 5 microns were seen . diameter distribution of myelinated nerve fibers did not demonstrate a bimodal pattern . the density of myelinated nerve fibers was 5,530 / mm2 and was decreased as compared to the controls . on electron microscopic examination , lipid-like inclusions were observed in the cytoplasm of some schwann cells . the role of these inclusions could not be elucidated , but reduction of larger myelinated nerve fibers suggests a peripheral nervous disorder in patients with this syndrome ; therefore , patients with lesch-nyhan syndrome must be reappraised for disorders of the peripheral nervous system . 
structure and distribution of an alu-type deletion mutation in sandhoff disease . sandhoff disease is a recessively inherited lysosomal storage disease resulting from a deficiency of beta-hexosaminidase activity . the enzyme occurs in two major forms , beta-hexosaminidase a , composed of an alpha - and beta-subunit and beta-hexosaminidase b , composed of two beta-subunits . both isozyme activities are deficient in sandhoff disease , owing to mutations of the hexb gene encoding the common beta-subunit . we have cloned and fully characterized a deletion at the hexb gene from fibroblasts of a patient with the infantile form of sandhoff disease . the deletion removes approximately 16 kb of dna including the hexb promoter , exons 1-5 and part of intron 5 . it most likely arose from recombination between two alu sequences , with the breakpoints occurring at the midpoint between the left and right arms in each case and regenerating an intact alu element in the deletion sequence . the deletion allele accounts for 27 % of the sandhoff mutant alleles we analyzed . two cell lines were shown to be homozygous for the deletion and both had the infantile form of the disease . four additional patients were compound heterozygotes with other mutations , all of whom displayed a different clinical phenotype . finally , the mutant allele was present in different ethnic backgrounds , suggesting that it may have been subject to genetic drift . 
reduced beta-cell glucose transporter in new onset diabetic bb rats . previous studies from our laboratories have suggested a defect in glucose transport in islets isolated from bb rats on the first day of overt diabetes . to quantitate by immunostaining the glucose transporter of beta-cells ( glut-2 ) before and at the onset of autoimmune diabetes we employed an antibody to its cooh-terminal octapeptide . on the first day of overt diabetes , defined as the day the daily blood glucose first reached 200 mg/dl , the volume density ratio of glut-2-positive to insulin-positive beta-cells was only 0.48 + / - 0.06 , compared to 0.91 + / - 0.02 in age-matched nondiabetic diabetes-resistant controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . in age-matched nondiabetic diabetes-prone rats , most of which would have become diabetic , the ratio was 0.85 + / - 0.02 , also less than the controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . protein a-gold labeling of glut-2 in beta-cells of day 1 diabetic rats revealed 2.17 + / - 0.16 gold particles per micrometer length of microvillar plasma membranes compared to 3.91 + / - 0.14 in controls ( p less than 0.001 ) and 2.87 + / - 0.24 in the nondiabetic diabetes-prone rats ( p less than 0.02 ) . reduction in glut-2 correlates temporally with and may contribute to the loss of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion that precedes profound beta-cell depletion of autoimmune diabetes . 
the need for accurate nutrition survey methodology : the south carolina experience . assessment of two nutrition-related risk factors , obesity and fat intake , was completed on a representative sample of south carolina adults . obesity estimates determined from self-reported heights and weights were less than prevalences determined from direct measurements ( white males 21.4 % vs. 28.2 % ; white females 20.8 % vs. 24.5 % ; black males 29.2 % vs. 30.1 % ; black females 43.6 % vs. 50.6 % ; and total 24.9 vs. 29.8 % ) . nine fat-intake habits were identified from dietary mannerisms involving the consumption of red meat , fat on meat , fried fish/chicken , butter , eggs , whole milk , bacon/sausage , and cheese and the use of solid fats when cooking vegetables . the mean number of the nine habits exhibited was four . the total number of habits did not correlate well with serum cholesterol , as 27 % of the individuals with none of the nine fat intake habits had blood cholesterol values greater than 6.2 mmol/l ( 239 mg/100 ml ) , while only 17 % of the individuals with seven habits had the high level of cholesterol . these nine habits explained less than 10 % of the variability of serum cholesterol values . 
folate status assessment . this paper is a review of established methods of folate status assessment and the primary factors that increase the risk of folate deficiency , including physiological life cycle changes . the first stage of folate depletion can be assessed by measuring serum folate levels , which drop prior to tissue depletion , and which are paralleled by a reduction in red blood cell ( rbc ) folate . functional changes associated with abnormalities in biochemical pathways can be monitored by the deoxyuridine suppression test . cell division , including erythropoiesis , becomes impaired in the same time sequence as changes in biochemical functions , as evidenced by abnormal erythrocyte morphology and a reduction in hemoglobin concentration . in addition to inadequate dietary folate intake , key factors that may impair folate utilization and thus status include alcohol consumption , smoking , and specific drugs . folate requirements may increase during various phases of the life cycle due to physiological stresses such as pregnancy and lactation . folate status may also be compromised during adolescence and in senescence for diverse reasons that require special emphasis on factors such as biological maturity and socioeconomic status , as well as chronic use of alcohol , drugs , and smoking . 
the importance of context in choosing nutritional indicators . nutritional indicators are used to screen , diagnose , and evaluate interventions in individuals . they are also used in populations to ascertain and place under surveillance the magnitude of nutritional problems , their location and causes , and to evaluate the impact of programs and policies . nutritional indicators are also used for research to make inferences about biological and social mechanisms affecting or being affected by nutrition . all these activities include measurements of nutritional indicators , but the choice of indicators , their measurements , analyses , and the need for other data can be very different for inferences from research , for patient management , for making public policy , or for planning or evaluating programs . there is no best indicator , best measure of an indicator , or best analysis of an indicator in a generic sense . the definition of " best " depends ultimately on what is most appropriate for the decision that must be made . this paper gives examples . 
on the metallothionein , glutathione and cysteine relationship in rat liver . stress and starvation increased liver metallothionein ( mt ) and decreased liver glutathione ( gsh ) levels . serum cysteine plus cystine levels were increased by stress . the exogenous administration of gsh , while not modifying hepatic gsh content , increased liver mt levels in basal and starved rats but not in stressed rats . liver and serum cysteine levels were increased by gsh administration , a process partially reverted by the irreversible inhibitor of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase , alpha-amino-3-chloro-4 ,5 - dihydro-5-isoxazoleacetic acid . mouse and rat liver mt levels were also increased by buthionine sulfoximine , an inhibitor of gsh synthesis , indicating that gsh is not a necessary precursor of mt. in addition , the hepatic mt content was increased by the administration of cysteine in a dose-response manner . these results suggest that hepatic mt synthesis is elevated by increased cysteine pools , and that mt , gsh and cysteine levels are somehow inter-related . mt , besides gsh , may be contemplated as a putative intracellular reservoir of cysteine in the liver of adult rats . 
regression of coronary atherosclerosis during treatment of familial hypercholesterolemia with combined drug regimens . we conducted a randomized , controlled trial in 72 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia to test whether reducing plasma low-density lipoprotein levels by diet and combined drug regimens can induce regression of coronary lesions . four hundred fifty-seven lesions were measured before and after a 26-month interval by computer-based quantitative angiography . the primary outcome variable was within-patient mean change in percent area stenosis . mean low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels decreased from 7.32 + / - 1.5 to 4.45 + / - 1.6 mmol/l . the mean change in percent area stenosis among controls was +0.80 , indicating progression , while the mean change for the treatment group was -1.53 , indicating regression ( p = .039 by two-tailed t test for the difference between groups ) . regression among women , analyzed separately , was also significant . the change in percent area stenosis was correlated with low-density lipoprotein levels on trial . we conclude that reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels can induce regression of atherosclerotic lesions of the coronary arteries in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia . the anticipation of benefit from treatment applies to women and men alike . 
beneficial effects of colestipol-niacin on coronary atherosclerosis . a 4-year follow-up . the cholesterol lowering atherosclerosis study ( clas ) was a randomized , placebo-controlled , angiographic trial testing combined colestipol-niacin therapy in 162 subjects . two-year results ( clas-i ) showed decreased atherosclerosis progression and increased regression . we now describe a subgroup of 103 subjects treated for 4 years ( clas-ii ) . changes in blood lipid , lipoprotein-cholesterol , and apolipoprotein levels were maintained , and at 4 years significantly more drug-treated subjects demonstrated nonprogression ( 52 % drug - vs 15 % placebo-treated ) and regression ( 18 % drug - vs 6 % placebo-treated ) in native coronary artery lesions . significantly fewer drug-treated subjects developed new lesions in native coronary arteries ( 14 % drug - vs 40 % placebo-treated ) and bypass grafts ( 16 % drug - vs 38 % placebo-treated ) . these results confirm clas-i findings and indicate that regression can continue for 4 years . they reaffirm the need for early initiation of vigorous long-term lipid lowering therapy in coronary bypass subjects . 
use of cholesterol measurements in childhood for the prediction of adult hypercholesterolemia . the muscatine study this article describes the validity and utility of screening tests for total cholesterol levels in school-age children to predict those who , when adults , will have cholesterol levels that the national cholesterol education program suggests need continuing surveillance and intervention . two thousand three hundred sixty-seven children aged 8 to 18 years were examined on several occasions and were followed up to ages 20 to 30 years . of children with cholesterol concentrations exceeding the 75th percentile on two occasions , 75 % of girls and 56 % of boys would not qualify for intervention as adults by the national cholesterol education program criteria . of children with cholesterol levels exceeding the 90th percentile on two occasions , 57 % of girls and 30 % of boys would not qualify for intervention as adults . because the efficacy , safety , acceptability , and cost of treatment for high cholesterol concentrations in childhood is evolving , the need for universal screening of childhood cholesterol levels must be considered carefully in view of the number of children with high levels of cholesterol who , as adults , do not meet the criteria for intervention suggested by the national cholesterol education program . 
cholesterol and coronary heart disease . future directions . the importance of high serum cholesterol levels as a risk factor for coronary heart disease and the benefit of lowering cholesterol levels for reducing risk are being increasingly accepted . a broad consensus to this effect has led to the establishment of the national cholesterol education program . although the available evidence fully justifies this program , its practical application to the american public has generated a series of new questions that must be explored . for example , it can be questioned whether reduction in coronary risk through lowering cholesterol levels extends to both sexes and all age groups . for people with high cholesterol levels , dietary modification is undoubtedly the first step of management , but the fraction of people responding adequately to dietary change remains to be determined . finally , indications for drug therapy and choice of drugs need further exploration , particularly in the area of cost vs benefit . thus , continuing research must be carried out in parallel with clinical and public health application of cholesterol education . 
increased testosterone in type i diabetic subjects with severe retinopathy . diabetic retinopathy rarely occurs before puberty , suggesting that changes in sex hormones may influence the development of this condition . the authors measured serum testosterone , estradiol , dhea-s , and sex hormone binding globulin levels in 26 men and 22 women with type i diabetes from the wisconsin epidemiologic study of diabetic retinopathy ( wesdr ) , a population-based study of diabetic complications . the mean age was 23 years and the mean duration of diabetes was 14 years . subjects with proliferative or preproliferative retinopathy ( greater than or equal to retinopathy level 51-80 ) were matched by duration of diabetes ( + / - 2 years ) and sex to subjects with minimal or no retinopathy ( less than or equal to retinopathy level 21 ) . seven stereoscopic retinal photographs of each eye were obtained and photographs were read by the university of wisconsin reading center . serum testosterone concentrations were significantly higher in male diabetic subjects with proliferative retinopathy ( 648 + / - 36 ng/dl ) than in male diabetic subjects with minimal or no retinopathy ( 512 + / - 43 ng/dl ) ( p = 0.017 ) . no other statistically significant differences in sex hormones between subjects with and without proliferative retinopathy were observed . although these results should be regarded as preliminary because of the small number of subjects , they support the hypothesis that testosterone concentrations may be associated with the development of retinopathy in type i diabetic patients . 
indications and results of relaxing retinotomy . the authors report their results of a consecutive series of 40 eyes undergoing relaxing retinotomy during vitrectomy to achieve retinal reattachment for the following indications : proliferative vitreoretinopathy ( pvr ) , 21 eyes ( 52 % ) ; trauma , 10 eyes ( 25 % ) ; diabetic retinopathy , 6 eyes ( 15 % ) ; and expulsive choroidal hemorrhage , 3 eyes ( 8 % ) . thirty eyes ( 75 % ) had undergone previous vitreoretinal procedures . extended tamponade was achieved in all cases with either silicone oil ( 27 eyes , 68 % ) or long-acting gas ( 13 eyes , 32 % ) . retinotomy size ranged from 45 degrees to 360 degrees . intraoperative retinal attachment was possible in all eyes with 33 ( 83 % ) achieving total or subtotal retinal attachment including the macula for 5 months or more . twenty-seven eyes ( 68 % ) achieved 3/200 visual acuity or better and 10 ( 37 % ) achieved 20/400 or better . thirteen eyes ( 32 % ) failed to achieve 3/200 visual acuity secondary to recurrent detachment ( 18 % ) , corneal decompensation ( 8 % ) , macular dysfunction ( 5 % ) , and glaucoma ( 3 % ) . 
emergent signs of cancer . recognizing them early in the office or er . primary care physicians have a crucial role in recognition of potentially emergent conditions in patients with known or suspected cancer . this task presents a significant challenge because the initial manifestations of these conditions are usually nonspecific . in most cases , therapy is far more effective when diagnosis is made at the earliest possible point . thus , physicians should become familiar with conditions commonly seen in cancer patients , such as superior vena cava syndrome , malignant pericardial effusion , spinal-epidural metastasis , and altered mentation from brain metastases , metabolic encephalopathy , or hypoglycemia . 
mixed form , diffusely scattered calcifications in breast cancer with apocrine features diffusely scattered calcifications visible with mammography are almost always benign . certain patterns , however , should arouse concern . for example , extensive comedocarcinoma is associated with large areas of mammographically visible calcium deposition . the authors identified 10 women in whom calcifications were visible throughout large volumes of breast tissue at mammography . the calcifications did not resemble those typical of extensive comedocarcinoma , yet they were associated with extensive breast cancer . their mammographic pattern was characterized by a strikingly wild , chaotic appearance with profuse deposition of calcium . as in many cancers , the particles were heterogeneous , but unlike in most carcinomas , many deposits had a typically benign morphology . histologic examination showed that even these typically benign calcifications were associated with malignant cells . the authors believe that the apocrine features displayed by many of the cancer cells in these 10 patients may explain the unusual profusion of calcium deposits . 
diet-induced hypercholesterolemia in mice : prevention by overexpression of ldl receptors . the current studies were designed to determine whether chronic overexpression of low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) receptors in the liver would protect mice from the increase in plasma ldl-cholesterol that is induced by high-fat diets . a line of transgenic mice was studied that express the human ldl receptor gene in the liver under control of the transferrin promoter . when fed a diet containing cholesterol , saturated fat , and bile acids for 3 weeks , the transgenic mice , in contrast to normal mice , did not develop a detectable increase in plasma ldl . the current data indicate that unregulated overexpression of ldl receptors can protect against diet-induced hypercholesterolemia in mice . 
angiographic progression to total coronary occlusion in hyperlipidemic patients after acute myocardial infarction . posch group . the progression of coronary artery stenosis to total occlusion was assessed in 413 hyperlipidemic patients with a previous myocardial infarction . coronary angiograms were recorded at baseline , 3 ( n = 312 ) , and 5 years ( n = 248 ) after initial study and analyzed by 2 independent readers . there were 177 ( 43 % ) patients with 1 - , 130 ( 31 % ) with 2 - , and 61 ( 15 % ) with 3-vessel disease ( greater than or equal to 50 % diameter narrowing ) , whereas 45 ( 11 % ) did not have significant disease within a major coronary vessel at baseline . a new finding of total occlusion occurred in 4 % ( 30 of 748 ) and 7 % ( 40 of 605 ) of major coronary artery segments at 3 and 5 years , respectively . the risk of progression to total occlusion was higher if the initial stenosis was greater than 60 % compared to lesions less than or equal to 60 % both at 3 years ( 19 of 143 = 13 % vs 11 of 605 = 2 % ; p less than 0.001 ) and 5 years ( 27 of 91 = 30 % vs 13 of 514 = 3 % ; p less than 0.001 ) . the frequency of occlusion was highest for the right coronary artery by 5 years ( 18 of 167 = 11 % for right vs 8 of 225 = 4 % for circumflex vs 14 of 213 = 7 % for left anterior descending coronary arteries ; p less than 0.02 ) . clinical and laboratory data revealed that myocardial infarction was associated with a new total occlusion in 23 % of patients ( 7 of 30 ) at 3 years and in 64 % ( 25 of 39 ) at 5 years . 
growth in obese children treated for obesity . this study assesses the growth patterns during a 5-year period in children aged 6 to 12 years treated for obesity using behavioral family-based treatment procedures . previous studies have suggested a decrease in height velocity after weight reduction , but these results did not consider either the height of the parent or the greater height of obese than nonobese children . results show that at entry , obese children are taller than their nonobese peers ( 74th percentile ) , and that even after 5 years , they remain taller than the norm ( 65th percentile ) . child weight and level of physical maturity accounted for 54 % of the variance in predicting baseline height percentile . entrance height and parental height accounted for 9 % of the variance in changes in height percentile , both adjusted for parental height . weight change did not correlate with growth adjusted for parental height . these results do not suggest that negative effects on height are a long-term side effect of child weight control . 
the influence of renal function on diabetic foot ulceration . we examined the effect of renal function on the formation , severity , and outcome of diabetic foot lesions . information was collected from a retrospective hospital chart survey and analyzed by univariate and multivariate linear regression analysis . creatinine clearance , peripheral neuropathy , and peripheral vascular disease were all found to be independently associated with formation of foot lesions , indicating that each of these acts by distinct biologic mechanisms . renal function had no bearing on the severity of lesions or on their eventual healing . we conclude that foot ulcers are more likely to develop in diabetic patients who also suffer from renal impairment , but they are no less likely to heal than are those in patients with normal renal function . we further conclude that attempts to preserve functional limbs in these patients are justified . 
the macular photostress test in diabetic retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration . we propose the macular photostress test for the evaluation of macular function in the office setting . eighty eyes were tested and divided into four diagnostic categories : background diabetic retinopathy , diabetic macular edema , age-related macular degeneration , and normal . the recovery times for the eyes with age-related macular degeneration were longer than for eyes with macular edema ( p = .03 ) . age-matched patients with age-related macular degeneration had longer recovery times than did those without age-related macular degeneration ( p = .0001 ) . a possible explanation is that the prolonged recovery time in the eyes with age-related macular degeneration reflects that the anatomic lesion is located in the retinal pigment epithelium-photoreceptor complex . in comparison , the eyes with macular edema , whose lesion is in the inner retina and not the retinal pigment epithelium , show a less-prolonged recovery time than the eyes with age-related macular degeneration . 
ticlopidine treatment reduces the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy . the timad study group . the ticlopidine microangiopathy of diabetes study ( timad ) , a randomized , double-masked , placebo-controlled trial , assessed the effect of this antiplatelet agent ( ticlopidine hydrochloride ) in reducing the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy in 435 patients followed up for 3 years . the mean yearly increase in definite microaneurysms on fluorescein angiograms was significantly higher ( p = .03 ) in the placebo group ( 1.44 + / - 4.67 ) than in the ticlopidine group ( 0.48 + / - 5.79 ) . significance was limited to primary analysis using a quality angiographic coefficient for definite microaneurysms in patients with at least three readable angiograms over a 3-year period . ticlopidine was significantly beneficial to insulin-treated diabetic patients , inducing a sevenfold reduction of the yearly microaneurysm progression ( 0.23 + / - 6.66 ) compared with the placebo ( 1.57 + / - 5.29 ) ( p = .03 ) . among insulin-treated diabetic patients , fewer had development of new vessels in the ticlopidine group than in the placebo group , at borderline statistical significance ( p = .056 ) . overall retinopathy progression was significantly less severe in the ticlopidine group ( p = .04 ) . adverse reactions associated with ticlopidine included neutropenia ( severe in one patient ) with no clinical complications , diarrhea , or rash . this study demonstrated that ticlopidine slows down the progression of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy . 
l-arginine augments endothelium-dependent vasodilation in cholesterol-fed rabbits . evidence exists that an endothelium-derived relaxing factor is nitric oxide and that l-arginine is the precursor for the synthesis of nitric oxide in vitro . whether exogenous l-arginine contributes to the modulation of vascular smooth muscle tone in vivo is still controversial . in hypercholesterolemia , resistance vessels do not relax normally in response to pharmacological stimuli that release endothelium-derived relaxing factor ; bioassay experiments have suggested that impaired synthesis or release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor accounts , in part , for this blunted relaxation . we hypothesized that hypercholesterolemia reduces arginine metabolism and thereby impairs endothelium-derived relaxing factor synthesis . accordingly , we designed a study to determine whether exogenous l-arginine could augment endothelium-dependent vasodilation of hind limb resistance vessels in anesthetized cholesterol-fed rabbits . femoral blood flow was recorded with an electromagnetic flow probe in 16 cholesterol-fed and 12 control rabbits . the hind limb vasodilator responses to incremental intra-arterial infusions of acetylcholine ( 0.3-9 .0 micrograms/kg/min ) and nitroprusside ( 0.3-9 .0 micrograms/kg/min ) were studied before and during intravenous administration of l-arginine ( 10 mg/kg/min ) , d-arginine ( 10 mg/kg/min ) , or saline . the vasodilator response to acetylcholine was impaired in cholesterol-fed rabbits as compared with control rabbits . l-arginine augmented vasodilation to acetylcholine in cholesterol-fed but not in control rabbits . l-arginine did not alter the effect of nitroprusside in either group . neither saline nor d-arginine changed the response to either acetylcholine or nitroprusside . our data demonstrate that exogenous l-arginine normalizes the endothelium-dependent vasodilation of hind limb resistance vessels in cholesterol-fed rabbits . 
risk factors for the development of osteoarthrosis of the knee . the roles of physical activity ( both work and leisure time ) , obesity , and history of significant knee injury on the development of severe osteoarthrosis ( oa ) of the knee were evaluated . a case-control design compared 46 cases with a history of severe oa of the knee with 46 community controls matched for age and gender . data were gathered with a self-administered questionnaire . the oa cases were 3.5 times more likely than controls to have been obese at 20 years of age , two to three times more likely than controls to have performed heavy work , and almost five times more likely than controls to have had a significant knee injury . in contrast , leisure-time physical activity was not significantly different in cases compared with controls . obesity , significant knee injury , and long-term heavy physical activity are important risk factors for the development of oa of the knee . 
insulin-mimicking anti-idiotypic antibodies in development of spontaneous autoimmune diabetes in bb/e rats . bb/e rats spontaneously develop a form of autoimmune diabetes resembling insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) in humans . iddm results from central destruction of the insulin-producing beta-cells of the pancreatic islets . herein , we report that the outbreak of iddm in bb/e rats is preceded by the spontaneous development of an anti-idiotypic antibody to a particular antibody to insulin made by the rats . this anti-idiotype , designated anti-dm-id , behaves as an antibody to the insulin-hormone receptor . thus , a spontaneous anti-idiotypic antibody network whose products can affect the peripheral utilization of insulin seems to accompany the central destruction of beta-cells in developing iddm . 
allelic variants at insulin-receptor and insulin gene loci and susceptibility to niddm in welsh population . a cohort of 132 well-documented white welsh non-insulin-dependent diabetic ( niddm ) subjects were genotyped for 5 restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms ( rflps ) at the insulin-receptor gene ( irg ) locus and a polymorphic locus 5 ' to the insulin gene . there was no significant difference in rflp frequencies between the niddm subjects and a group of 87 matched white control subjects . paired haplotype analysis of the irg rflps suggested a difference between niddm and control groups for the endonuclease combinations bgl ii-rsa i and bgl ii-xba i. analysis of implied haplotypes defined by the endonucleases bgl ii , rsa i , and xba i revealed one haplotype to be more prevalent in the niddm group ; whereas , another haplotype was associated with the control group ( p less than 0.02 ) . subset analysis within the niddm cohort compared the metabolic response of niddm subjects with the differing irg haplotypes to a standard meal tolerance test . both groups showed equivalent basal and postprandial glucose excursions , but one group revealed a significantly exaggerated plasma insulin response compared with the other ( p less than 0.05 ) . this may reflect the influence of genetic variation at the irg locus on insulin sensitivity in patients with niddm . 
increased susceptibility to hypoxia of prolonged action potential duration in ventricular papillary muscles from diabetic rats . the action potential duration ( apd ) of ventricular muscles obtained from diabetic animals is reported to be prolonged . we studied the effect of varied periods of diabetes on apd prolongation using isolated ventricular papillary muscles from streptozocin-injected rats . we found that a diabetic period greater than 30 wk was necessary for the evolution of significant prolongation of apd . we then studied the effect of repeated hypoxia ( po2 40 mmhg ) and normoxia ( po2 300 mmhg ) on prolonged apd of diabetic muscles and compared the findings with those from control rats . transmembrane potentials were recorded with conventional glass microelectrodes . under normoxic conditions , the apds of diabetic muscles were significantly prolonged , the maximum upstroke velocity of action potentials tended to be decreased , and the resting membrane potential was not changed significantly compared with controls . the first hypoxia ( 20 min ) shortened the apd in both diabetic and control rats but more so in diabetic rats , thereby making the apd of diabetic rats virtually identical to the control rat apd during the hypoxia . on subsequent reoxygenation ( 30 min ) , these hypoxia-induced changes were almost recovered . the second hypoxia ( 20 min ) produced more severe shortening of the apd in both muscle types , and the effect was again far greater in diabetic rats than controls , ending with a reversed sequence of apds and the apd of diabetic muscles much shorter than the controls . excessive shortening of apd in diabetic muscles during hypoxic conditions was speculated to be due to greater increases in the outward k + current through atp-regulated k + channels that may be secondary to the more severe reduction of intracellular atp concentrations in diabetic versus control hearts . 
experimental diabetes increases insulinlike growth factor i and ii receptor concentration and gene expression in kidney . insulinlike growth factor i ( igf-i ) is a mitogenic hormone with important regulatory roles in growth and development . one of the target organs for igf-i action is the kidney , which synthesizes abundant igf-i receptors and igf-i itself . to study the involvement of igf-i and the igf-i receptor in the development of nephropathy , one of the major complications of diabetes mellitus , we measured the expression of these genes in the kidney and in other tissues of the streptozocin-induced diabetic rat . the binding of 125i-labeled igf-i to crude membranes was measured in the same tissues . we observed a 2.5-fold increase in the steady-state level of igf-i-receptor mrna in the diabetic kidney , which was accompanied by a 2.3-fold increase in igf-i binding . in addition to this increase in igf-i binding to the igf-i receptor , there was also binding to a lower-molecular-weight material that may represent an igf-binding protein . no change was detected in the level of igf-i-peptide mrna . similarly , igf-ii-receptor mrna levels and igf-ii binding were significantly increased in the diabetic kidney . igf-i - and igf-ii-receptor mrna levels and igf-i and igf-ii binding returned to control values after insulin treatment . because the igf-i receptor is able to transduce mitogenic signals on activation of its tyrosine kinase domain , we hypothesize that , among other factors , high levels of receptor in the diabetic kidney may also be involved in the development of diabetic nephropathy . increased igf-ii-receptor expression in the diabetic kidney may be important for the intracellular transport and packaging of lysosomal enzymes , although a role for this receptor in signal transduction can not be excluded . finally , the possible role of igf-binding proteins requires further study . 
distribution of elements and water in peripheral nerve of streptozocin-induced diabetic rats . accumulating evidence suggests that alterations in na , ca , k , and other biologically relevant elements play a role in the mechanism of cell injury . the pathogenesis of experimental diabetic neuropathy is unknown but might include changes in the distribution of these elements in morphological compartments . in this study , this possibility was examined via electron-probe x-ray microanalysis to measure both concentrations of elements ( millimoles of element per kilogram dry or wet weight ) and cell water content ( percent water ) in frozen , unfixed , unstained sections of peripheral nerve from control and streptozocin-induced diabetic rats . our results indicate that after 20 wk of experimental diabetes , mitochondria and axoplasm from myelinated axons of proximal sciatic nerve displayed diminished k and cl content , whereas in tibial nerve , the intraaxonal levels of these elements increased . in distal sciatic nerve , mitochondrial and axoplasmic levels of ca were increased , whereas other elemental alterations were not observed . these regional changes resulted in a reversal of the decreasing proximodistal concentration gradients for k and cl , which exist in nondiabetic rat sciatic nerve . our results can not be explained on the basis of altered water . highly distinctive changes in elemental distribution observed might be a critical component of the neurotoxic mechanism underlying diabetic neuropathy . 
multigenic basis for type i diabetes . association of hras1 polymorphism with hla-dr3 , dqw2/dr4 , dqw8 . we analyzed extended haplotypes composed of dna loci on the short arm of chromosome 11 for segregation with insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetes mellitus . the markers for these loci are tyrosine hydroxylase , insulin , and c-ha-ras-1 proto-oncogene ( hras1 ) . we report , in a study of 27 families , that a specific haplotype ( h ) , containing a 3-kilobase ( kb ) hras1-taq i dna polymorphism , segregated differentially in diabetic and nondiabetic siblings ( p = 0.005 ) . a parallel population study showed that the 3-kb hras1-taq i polymorphism is increased in frequency in type i patients having two strong hla-susceptibility haplotypes compared with other type i patients or healthy control blood donors ( p less than 0.010 and p less than 0.025 , respectively ) . the polymorphic variable , enhancer , and promoter regions flanking the human insulin gene on the h haplotype were not associated with type i diabetes . these results indicate that the hras1 locus or genes in linkage disequilibrium with this locus are involved in the pathogenesis of hla-dr3 / 4 type i diabetes mellitus . 
influence of obesity , impaired glucose tolerance , and niddm on ldl structure and composition . possible link between hyperinsulinemia and atherosclerosis . the possible causes of the enhanced risk for coronary heart disease ( chd ) were examined in morbidly obese women with normoglycemia , impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) , and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) before and after gastric bypass surgery . compared with age-matched lean women , plasma lipid and apolipoprotein concentrations of the obese women before surgery favored atherogenesis . the risk for chd may further be exacerbated in the igt and niddm groups by the prevalence of smaller and denser low-density-lipoprotein ( ldl ) particles . ldl size correlated negatively with plasma insulin levels independent of triglyceride levels , age , or body mass index ( bmi ) . after surgery , bmi , plasma insulin , and triglyceride levels decreased , but ldl size increased , and ldl density decreased . neither cholesterol nor ldl cholesterol levels were affected after surgery , but high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol was increased in all patients after surgery . although the mechanisms underlying the changes in the properties of ldl could not be determined from this study , these changes appear to be of benefit in reducing chd risk in these patients . 
polymorphisms of glut2 and glut4 genes . use in evaluation of genetic susceptibility to niddm in blacks . the liver/islet ( glut2 ) and muscle/adipose tissue ( glut4 ) glucose-transporter gene products , membrane proteins that facilitate glucose uptake into cells , are important molecules for normal carbohydrate metabolism . recent isolation of the genes encoding these proteins provides a means to assess the role of possible defects that might contribute to impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion or impaired insulin-mediated glucose uptake , both prominent phenotypic features of non-insulin-dependent diabetes ( niddm ) . a glut2 cdna clone was isolated from a human liver cdna library to search for polymorphisms at this locus in american blacks . three highly polymorphic sites were identified , one of which ( ecori-hae iii ) appears to be due to an insertion and/or deletion of 200 base pairs of dna . significant linkage disequilibrium between these sites over approximately 30 kilobases of genomic dna suggested that these polymorphisms could be in linkage disequilibrium with mutations at this locus if they exist . a glut4 cdna clone was also utilized to search for polymorphisms at this locus , but only one previously described polymorphism was observed . glut2 and glut4 cdna probes were used to evaluate dna polymorphisms in genomic dna from american blacks with niddm . the allelic , genotypic , and haplotypic frequencies of the dna polymorphisms at these loci did not differ from the frequencies in nondiabetic subjects . because no associations with niddm were found , it appears unlikely that mutations at these loci contribute in a major way to the genetic susceptibility to niddm observed in american blacks . 
role of two types of glucose transporters in enlarged adipocytes from aged obese rats . the mechanism of insulin-resistant glucose-transport activity in enlarged aged adipocytes was examined . glucose-transport activity was assessed by measuring 3-o-methylglucose transport and the concentration of hepg2 erythrocyte/glucose transporter ( glut1 ) , and the muscle/adipose tissue transporter ( glut4 ) was estimated by immunoblotting . basal glucose-transport activity increased 6.3-fold / cell but remained constant per unit cellular surface area due to cell enlargement . maximal insulin-stimulated transport activity remained constant per cell but decreased per unit cellular surface area . on a per protein basis , glut1 and glut4 from aged rats decreased to approximately 60 and 10 % of those from young rats , respectively . however , when the protein content of each fraction and the recoveries of marker enzymes were used for estimating the amount of transporters in intact adipocytes , the amount of glut1 per cell remained relatively constant , whereas that of glut4 decreased . in basal cells from young rats , 31 % of the total glut1 per cell was located in the plasma membrane , whereas in those from aged rats , 63 % was located in the plasma membrane . thus , in comparing basal adipocytes from aged rats with those from young rats , glut1 per cell in the plasma membrane increased 2.8-fold , but this increase was less than that of transport activity ( 6.3-fold ) . in basal cells from young rats , 8 % of the total glut4 was located in the plasma membrane , and a 4.5-fold increase was observed with insulin treatment , but the amount of glut4 in each fraction from aged rats markedly decreased . 
mild hypoglycemia and impairment of brain stem and cortical evoked potentials in healthy subjects . to evaluate the impact of mild hypoglycemia on cns function in healthy adults , we measured brain stem auditory evoked potentials and p300 potentials ( elicited by cognitive processing of auditory stimuli ) during hypoglycemic or euglycemic insulin clamps ( 80 mu.m-2 . min-1 ) . in the hypoglycemic clamp study ( n = 8 ) , plasma glucose was allowed to fall from 4.6 to 3 mm in hourly approximately 0.5-mm steps and subsequently returned to euglycemic baseline levels . in the euglycemic clamp study ( n = 8 ) , plasma glucose was maintained at baseline levels throughout . neither brain stem nor p300 responses changed during the euglycemic control study ; symptoms and counterregulatory hormones were also unaffected . during the hypoglycemia study , epinephrine and growth hormone rose once plasma glucose reached 3.4 + / - 0.1 mm . brain stem and p300 potentials remained unchanged until the 3-mm glucose step , when neurophysiological changes suddenly developed in conjunction with reported symptoms . at this glucose level , the wave v component of the brain stem potential was selectively altered in 7 of 8 subjects . furthermore , p300 latency significantly increased , and amplitude diminished . changes in both brain stem and cortical ( p300 ) responses reversed when euglycemia was restored . we conclude that modest reductions in plasma glucose ( to 3 mm ) produce marked alterations in both brain stem and cortical responses to auditory stimuli . these changes in neural function appear at the same time as symptoms and follow rather than precede the rise in counterregulatory hormones during hypoglycemia . our data suggest that the adverse effects of mild hypoglycemia on brain function are not limited to higher centers but also involve the brain stem . 
recognition of hypertension and abnormal blood pressure burden with ambulatory blood pressure recordings in type i diabetes mellitus . ambulatory blood pressure ( ambp ) measurements were obtained at 20-min intervals for 24 h in 25 subjects with insulin-dependent ( type i ) diabetes mellitus and 21 control subjects . the diabetic patients had normal kidney function ( glomerular filtration rate 112.1 + / - 7.2 ml.min-1 .1.73 m-2 , renal plasma flow 459.0 + / - 23.4 ml.min-1 .1.73 m-2 ) and were normotensive according to standard sphygmomanometer examinations . mean + / - se ambp ( systolic/diastolic in mmhg ) measurements in diabetic patients ( 24 h , 131.7 / 77.2 + / - 2.9 / 1.8 ; 0600-2200 , 132.3 / 78.4 + / - 2.9 / 3.4 ; 2200-0600 , 125.1 / 75.7 + / - 3.9 / 3.4 ) significantly exceeded control values during all times ( 24 h , 121.8 / 70.3 + / - 2.9 / 1.9 ; 0600-2200 , 120.7 / 71.8 + / - 2.6 / 2.0 ; 2200-0600 , 108.2 / 61.5 + / - 6.6 / 2.7 ) . mean 24-h ambp exceeded 135/85 mmhg in 49 % of diabetic patients . the same threshold of 135/85 mmhg was used to determine the prevalence of abnormal measurements per time period ( pressure burden ) . pressure burden was increased twofold in diabetic patients compared with control subjects . mean ambp was significantly reduced at night in control subjects but not in diabetic patients . changes in blood pressure were not related to kidney function in diabetic patients . ambp recordings uncovered an increased prevalence of abnormal mean blood pressure , increased pressure burden , and a lack of diurnal variation of blood pressure in subjects with type i diabetes mellitus . these findings have important implications for early intervention strategies in diabetes mellitus because ambp recordings correlate well with end-organ damage . 
changes in phosphoinositide turnover , ca2 + mobilization , and protein phosphorylation in platelets from niddm patients . enhanced platelet functions have been demonstrated in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . this study evaluated abnormalities in platelet signal transduction in diabetic patients , including turnover of phosphoinositides , mobilization of intracellular ca2 + , and phosphorylation of 20,000 - and 47,000-mr proteins ( p20 and p47 ) . washed platelets were obtained from 6 patients with niddm whose platelet aggregation rates were abnormally elevated ( dm-a group ) , 11 niddm patients with normal platelet aggregation rates ( dm-b group ) , and 8 age-matched healthy control subjects . the mass and specific radioactivity of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate ( pip2 ) , phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate ( pip ) , phosphatidylinositol ( pi ) , and phosphatidic acid ( pa ) in 32p-labeled platelets were not different among the three groups . hydrolysis of pip2 , pip , and pi ; accumulation of pa ; and phosphorylation of p20 in platelets stimulated by 0.05 u/ml thrombin were significantly increased in the dm-a group compared with the control or dm-b group . there was no difference in p47 phosphorylation among the three groups . on the contrary , p20 and p47 phosphorylation induced by 50 nm of 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate , an activator of protein kinase c , was significantly decreased in the dm-a group . additionally , the intracellular free ca2 + concentration [ ( ca2 + ] i ) was measured with the fluorescent ca2 + indicator fura 2 . although the basal [ ca2 + ] i value was similar in the three groups , the rise in [ ca2 + ] i induced by 0.05 u/ml thrombin in the presence and the absence of extracellular ca2 + was significantly higher in the dm-a group than the other groups . 
tumor necrosis factor-increased hepatic very-low-density lipoprotein production and increased serum triglyceride levels in diabetic rats . previous studies demonstrated that administration of tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) to diabetic rats rapidly increases serum triglyceride levels and stimulates hepatic lipogenesis without affecting the activity of adipose tissue lipoprotein lipase or serum insulin levels . the purpose of this study was to determine the mechanism by which tnf increases serum triglyceride levels and stimulates hepatic fatty acid synthesis in diabetic animals . the maximal increase ( approximately 2-fold ) in serum triglyceride levels in diabetic rats is seen with a dose of 10 micrograms tnf/200 g body wt , and the half-maximal effect is observed with 5 micrograms tnf/200 g body wt . the clearance of labeled triglyceride-rich lipoproteins from the circulation is not affected by tnf administration ( triglyceride t 1/2 ; diabetic vs. tnf-administered diabetic , 3.5 + / - 0.7 vs. 4.0 + / - 0.6 min , respectively ; ns ) . the production of triglyceride , measured by the triton wr-1339 technique , is increased twofold in diabetic animals after tnf administration . these results indicate that the rapid increase in serum triglyceride levels after tnf treatment is accounted for by increased hepatic lipoprotein secretion . tnf administration did not alter either the amount or activation state of hepatic acetyl-coa carboxylase , a key regulatory enzyme in fatty acid synthesis . there was also no change in the hepatic levels of fatty acyl-coa , an allosteric inhibitor of acetyl-coa carboxylase . however , there was a 71 % increase in hepatic citrate concentrations . citrate is an allosteric activator of acetyl-coa carboxylase , and changes in hepatic citrate concentrations have been shown to mediate changes in the rates of fatty acid synthesis . 
nephropathy in model combining genetic hypertension with experimental diabetes . enalapril versus hydralazine and metoprolol therapy . we compared the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and a conventional antihypertensive regimen ( hydralazine and metoprolol ) on kidney function , albuminuria , and glomerular ultrastructure in hypertensive diabetic and nondiabetic rats . diabetes was induced with streptozocin at 8 wk of age in spontaneously hypertensive ( shr ) rats . antihypertensive drugs were administered in drinking water from the time of induction of diabetes in all groups . blood pressure reduction was equal in the diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats receiving either enalapril or hydralazine plus metoprolol . in diabetic shr rats , there was a rise in serum creatinine after 32 wk , which did not occur in diabetic rats treated with either antihypertensive regimen or in nondiabetic rats . both drug regimens reduced albuminuria in diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats to a similar degree . enalapril and the combination of hydralazine and metoprolol were associated with decreased glomerular basement membrane thickness and glomerular volume in diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats without significant effect on fractional mesangial volume . thus , antihypertensive therapy retards the development of albuminuria , glomerular basement membrane thickening , and glomerular hypertrophy in the rat in the presence or absence of diabetes . no specific benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition was observed in these hypertensive models of nephropathy . human studies comparing the effects of different classes of antihypertensive drugs on kidney function , proteinuria , and glomerular morphology are warranted . 
coupling of beta-cell desensitization by hyperglycemia to excessive stimulation and circulating insulin in glucose-infused rats . nondiabetic rats were infused with glucose for 48 h to maintain moderate or marked hyperglycemia ( mean blood glucose 13.2 + / - 0.7 or 22.8 + / - 0.3 mm , respectively ) . the two levels of hyperglycemia increased plasma insulin levels severalfold but decreased the insulin response to 27 mm glucose by 19 and 95 % , respectively , versus saline infusion . diazoxide ( 5 mg.kg-1 . h-1 ) , when continuously infused during the hyperglycemia protocols , completely inhibited the glucose-induced rise in plasma insulin levels . diazoxide transformed beta-cell insensitivity to stimulation : glucose-induced insulin release was thus increased 318 % after moderate hyperglycemia and 707 % after marked hyperglycemia . these stimulatory effects of diazoxide were reversed by exogenous insulin infusion ( 8 or 2 u/24 h ) in a dose-dependent manner . it is concluded that excessive beta-cell stimulation rather than glucotoxicity underlies hyperglycemia-induced beta-cell insensitivity . effects of hyperinsulinemia can form part of the mechanisms whereby excessive stimulation affects beta-cell secretion . 
hydroquinone-induced localized exogenous ochronosis treated with dermabrasion and co2 laser . exogenous localized ochronosis can result from the repeated use of hydroquinone-containing creams , many of which are available over the counter . we report a case that was managed by dermabrasion and co2 laser . the incidence and proposed etiologies of hydroquinone-induced exogenous ochronosis are reviewed . 
the association of xerostomia and inadequate intake in older adults . recent studies indicate that nearly one in five older adults has xerostomia ( dry mouth ) . salivary gland dysfunction and/or inadequate saliva increases the difficulty of these older adults in obtaining proper nutrition . problems in lubricating , masticating , tolerating , tasting , and swallowing food contribute notably to the complex physiological and psychological manifestations of aging . to our knowledge , the literature has not demonstrated an association between xerostomia and malnutrition in the elderly . we randomly selected 67 older adults from institutionalized and free-living geriatric populations . nutritional intake analysis was performed on both groups of study subjects , who were found to have xerostomia by use of sialometry , and on control subjects matched for age , sex , and physical status . intake of total energy , protein , dietary fiber , total fat , saturated fat , cholesterol , sodium , potassium , vitamin a , vitamin c , thiamin , riboflavin , vitamin b-6 , calcium , iron , and zinc was compared with the 1989 recommended dietary allowances . subjects ' intakes were also compared with that of a control group . medical systemic information and number and types of medications were compared among the groups . statistical analysis of the data indicated significant ( p less than .001 ) inadequacies in the nutritional intake patterns of institutionalized and free-living older adults with xerostomia . subjects with xerostomia ( more than 75 % of the free-living and institutionalized seniors ) had significant deficiencies of fiber , potassium , vitamin b-6 , iron , calcium , and zinc . taste and food perception were significantly reduced in the elders with xerostomia . our study indicates the potential contribution of xerostomia to the high prevalence of geriatric malnutrition in the united states . 
management of hypercholesterolemia in a family practice setting . a study was undertaken to assess physician adherence and patient compliance with the national cholesterol education program guidelines for the management of newly detected hypercholesterolemia . the study site was the department of family medicine , medical university of south carolina , charleston , a university-based family medicine residency program . all serum cholesterol levels measured between july 1 , 1988 , and september 30 , 1988 , were reviewed . patients were classified as normal , borderline , or hypercholesterolemic based on serum cholesterol levels and coronary heart disease risk factors . patients previously recognized to be hypercholesterolemic were excluded . six months later , medical record reviews were performed for the 192 hypercholesterolemic and 107 borderline hypercholesterolemic patients . only 39 of the hypercholesterolemic patients ( 20 % ) had received appropriate dietary therapy and follow-up . patient compliance with physician recommendations was excellent . there was minimal unnecessary testing or treatment of borderline hypercholesterolemia . low rates of appropriate management of hypercholesterolemia may be related to inadequate physician knowledge , low physician-perceived self-efficacy regarding dietary counseling , or time constraints . 
liver disease in alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency : prognostic indicators . we reviewed the clinical presentation , subsequent course , and outcome of 98 patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency seen at our institution during the past 20 years to obtain answers to the following questions : ( 1 ) what prognostic factors aid in determining the course of liver disease in affected patients ? ( 2 ) when is the appropriate time for referral to a liver transplant center ? ( 3 ) does breast-feeding prevent chronic liver disease ? ( 4 ) what is the incidence of severe liver disease in family members ? our analysis revealed that the initial values of alanine aminotransferase , prothrombin time , and trypsin inhibitory capacity may have prognostic value . during clinical follow-up the recurrence or persistence of hyperbilirubinemia along with deteriorating results of coagulation studies indicated the need for liver transplantation because of imminent poor outcome . girls had a worse prognosis than boys . initial breast-feeding versus feeding of commercial formulas did not influence overall overcome . the incidence of significant liver disease among " at risk " siblings was 21 % ( 3/14 ) ; if one assumes mendelian inheritance from heterozygous parents , the overall risk for siblings in our families was 5 % . 
late-onset ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency in male patients [ published erratum appears in j pediatr 1991 feb ; 118 ( 2 ) :326 ] we report on 21 male patients who presented after 28 days of age with ornithine transcarbamylase ( otc ) deficiency , which we define as late-onset otc deficiency . these patients appeared normal at birth , but irritability , vomiting , and lethargy , which were often episodic , later developed . the age at presentation ranged from 2 months to 44 years . biochemical testing revealed hyperammonemia , hyperglutaminemia , hypocitrullinemia , increased urinary orotate excretion , and decreased liver otc activity measured in vitro , which ranged from 0 % to 15 % of normal . male patients who were older at presentation had a somewhat different pattern of presenting symptoms and were more likely to die . these data illustrate the phenotypic variability of otc deficiency . unexplained episodes of repetitive or protracted vomiting in association with progressive alterations in behavior or neurologic findings should suggest the diagnosis of a urea cycle defect ( or another symptomatic inborn error of metabolism ) , regardless of the age or medical history of the patient . 
obesity and vaginal hysterectomy . a retrospective study was done of 471 consecutive vaginal hysterectomies done in a three-year period . three groups of patients -- 239 normal to 9 % overweight , 132 10-24 % overweight and 100 greater than or equal to 25 % overweight -- were compared . surgical difficulties were similar in all three groups . the more obese patient had a slightly greater incidence of febrile morbidity , stayed one day longer in the hospital and had a minimally greater loss of hemoglobin 48 hours postoperatively . however , obesity per se caused few problems during and after vaginal hysterectomy . the vaginal approach is the procedure of choice for hysterectomy in obese women . 
lovastatin decreases coenzyme q levels in humans . lovastatin is clinically used to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia and successfully lowers cholesterol levels . the mechanism of action of lovastatin is inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a reductase , an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of cholesterol from acetyl-coa . inhibition of this enzyme could also inhibit the intrinsic biosynthesis of coenzyme q10 ( coq10 ) , but there have not been definitive data on whether lovastatin reduces levels of coq10 as it does cholesterol . the clinical use of lovastatin is to reduce a risk of cardiac disease , and if lovastatin were to reduce levels of coq10 , this reduction would constitute a new risk of cardiac disease , since it is established that coq10 is indispensable for cardiac function . we have conducted three related protocols to determine whether lovastatin does indeed inhibit the biosynthesis of coq10 . one protocol was done on rats , and is reported in the preceding paper [ willis , r. a. , folkers , k. , tucker , j. l. , ye , c.-q. , xia , l.-j . & tamagawa , h. ( 1990 ) proc . natl. acad . sci . usa 87 , 8928-8930 ] . the other two protocols are reported here . one involved patients in a hospital , and the other involved a volunteer who permitted extraordinary monitoring of coq10 and cholesterol levels and cardiac function . all data from the three protocols revealed that lovastatin does indeed lower levels of coq10 . the five hospitalized patients , 43-72 years old , revealed increased cardiac disease from lovastatin , which was life-threatening for patients having class iv cardiomyopathy before lovastatin or after taking lovastatin . oral administration of coq10 increased blood levels of coq10 and was generally accompanied by an improvement in cardiac function . although a successful drug , lovastatin does have side effects , particularly including liver dysfunction , which presumably can be caused by the lovastatin-induced deficiency of coq10 . 
acylation-stimulatory activity in hyperapobetalipoproteinemic fibroblasts : enhanced cholesterol esterification with another serum basic protein , bp ii . cultured fibroblasts from patients with familial hyperapobetalipoproteinemia ( hyperapob ) were used to determine if a defect in lipid metabolism was present . three basic proteins ( bp i , bp ii , and bp iii ) were isolated from normal human serum by preparative isoelectric focusing , preparative sds/page , and reversed-phase hplc . the mr and pi values of these proteins were 14,000 and 9.10 for bp i , 27,500 and 8.48 for bp ii , and 55,000 and 8.73 for bp iii . these proteins differed significantly in their content of arginine , cysteine , proline , histidine , serine , and methionine . bp i appears to be the same protein as acylation-stimulating protein , but bp ii and bp iii appeared different from acylation-stimulating protein and other lipid carrier proteins . bp i , bp ii , and bp iii stimulated the incorporation of [ 14c ] oleate into lipid esters in normal fibroblasts , an effect that was time and concentration dependent . in hyperapob cells , bp ii markedly increased ( up to 9-fold ) the incorporation of [ 14c ] oleate into cholesteryl ester compared with that in normal cells ; in addition , there was a 50 % decrease in the stimulation of triglyceride acylation and cholesterol esterification with bp i. no difference between normal and hyperapob cells was observed with bp iii . in summary , the identification of another serum basic protein , bp ii , led to the elucidation of another cellular defect in hyperapob fibroblasts , enhanced cholesterol esterification , which may be related to the precocious atherosclerosis and abnormal lipoprotein metabolism seen in hyperapob . 
evaluation of metastatic cardiac calcification in a model of chronic primary hyperparathyroidism . recent reports have fueled an interest in the prevalence and significance of metastatic calcium deposition in patients with chronic hyperparathyroidism . experimental data are limited by the lack of suitable in vivo animal models . we have developed a model of marked hypercalcemia and overproduction of parathyroid hormone using somatic gene transfer . briefly , the process involves infection of cultured rodent fibroblasts ( rat-1 cells ) with a retroviral expression vector that contains the gene encoding human parathyroid hormone . fibroblasts are grown to confluence on collagen-coated dextran microcarrier beads and are injected into the peritoneal cavities of syngeneic fisher rats . human parathyroid hormone production in rat serum is quantified by an immunoradiometric assay for human parathyroid hormone ( 1-84 ) , which does not recognize rat parathyroid hormone . these rats consistently show production of human hormone within a week . levels increase progressively , often to 1 ng/ml within 60 days of injection . serum calcium showed a concomitant rise to an average of 15.5 mg/dl . in this study , 13 rats that had been transplanted with parathyroid hormone-producing fibroblasts were killed 80 days after injection . examination of the skeleton revealed demineralization and histopathologic sequelae of parathyroid hormone excess with extensive osteoclastic bone resorption . examination of the hearts revealed calcification in five of 13 hearts . there was no involvement of major coronary arteries or conducting systems , but there was calcification of cardiac myocytes , primarily in subepicardial region . this model may permit an understanding of the mechanisms for sudden cardiac death in severe hypercalcemia . 
testicular calcifications and neoplasia in patient treated for subfertility . a subfertile male with a history of left cryptorchism underwent scrotal ultrasound that revealed stippled calcifications , without associated mass , in the right testicle . six months later , while on a regimen of clomiphene citrate , a testicular tumor became palpable . this was sonographically confirmed to be surrounding the calcifications . testicular calcifications are most commonly associated with benign conditions . we review the literature regarding their relationship to neoplasms and the significance of the ultrasonic findings . furthermore , this is the sixth reported case of testicular tumor developing during hormonal treatment for oligospermia . although these cases may be circumstantial , closer surveillance and screening ultrasound may be indicated for subfertile males taking clomiphene citrate . 
screening 1140 fifth graders for hypercholesterolemia : family history inadequate to predict results cholesterol screening was performed on 1140 fifth-grade students in scottsdale , az , as part of a school-affiliated , health-education program . the goals were to determine whether family history of heart disease or high cholesterol can predict which children have high cholesterol levels and to examine the feasibility of screening large numbers of elementary school students . among the children studied , the mean cholesterol level was 168.3 mg/dl ( 4.35 mmol/l ) , and 13 percent had cholesterol levels above 200 mg/dl ( 5.20 mmol/l ) . fifty-four percent had a family member with high cholesterol or a heart attack before age 60 years , but 36 percent of the students with cholesterol levels greater than 200 mg/dl ( 5.20 mmol/l ) had a negative family history . family history was neither sensitive nor specific as a predictor of elevated cholesterol levels ( sensitivity 0.64 , specificity 0.47 , and positive predictive value 0.16 for predicting cholesterol levels greater than 200 mg/dl [ 5.20 mmol/l ] ) . large numbers of children were screened safely and efficiently with good student and parental cooperation . results of this study do not support the current recommendations to screen children for hypercholesterolemia based upon their family histories . 
the relation of serum cholesterol to risk of coronary heart disease : implications for the elderly . elevated cholesterol is a known risk factor for coronary heart disease ( chd ) in young and middle-aged persons . because of the high prevalence of chd in a growing elderly population , physicians must decide whether to devote clinical attention to this condition in older patients . longitudinal cohort studies show that while the association between serum cholesterol and chd decreases after age 55 years , it still persists . primary prevention trials performed mostly on middle-aged men have reduced the incidence rate of chd through cholesterol lowering but they have yet to show a reduction in overall mortality . secondary prevention studies of lipid alteration have reported decreased mortality and slowed progression of coronary stenoses , again in predominantly male subjects aged less than 60 years . implications of these findings for care of older patients are discussed along with recommendations for clinical management and future research . 
clinical evaluation of high-frequency ( ultrasonic ) mechanical debridement in the surgical treatment of calcific aortic stenosis . repair of aortic valve stenosis due to calcific degeneration may lead to hemodynamic and clinical improvement without the problems inherent with prosthetic valves . we have evaluated the use of a device capable of debriding calcium , the cavitron ultrasonic aspirator ( cusa ) , as an adjunct to mechanical debridement in the repair of calcific aortic stenosis . ten patients ( five women ) , ages 63 to 83 years , were studied by m-mode , two-dimensional , and doppler echocardiography before and an average of 26 ( range 3 to 124 ) days after this procedure . the degree of calcification of the valve cusps was clearly reduced . the maximal cusp excursion increased from 0.7 + / - 0.1 cm preoperatively to 1.5 + / - 0.4 cm postoperatively ( p = 0.006 ) . the peak aortic gradient fell from 80 + / - 36 mm hg to 28 + / - 10 mm hg ( p = 0.0007 ) . the mean aortic gradient fell from 53 + / - 20 mm hg to 16 + / - 5 mm hg ( p less than 0.0001 ) . aortic valve area calculated by the continuity equation increased from 0.6 + 0.2 cm2 to 1.6 + / - 0.6 cm2 ( p = 0.0009 ) . no patient had more than mild aortic insufficiency preoperatively . postoperatively , color doppler flow mapping revealed severe aortic insufficiency in two patients . seven patients had further echocardiographic evaluation 99 ( range 33 to 196 ) days after the procedure . these studies revealed the development of severe aortic insufficiency in an additional four patients . four patients with severe symptomatic aortic insufficiency eventually underwent aortic valve replacement . pathology revealed scarring and retraction of the aortic cusps . widening of the commissures was responsible for the severe aortic insufficiency . 
effect of delayed captopril therapy on left ventricular mass and myonecrosis during acute coxsackievirus murine myocarditis . the effect of captopril on coxsackievirus b3 murine myocarditis was investigated . thirty-two , 3-week-old mice were infected with coxsackievirus b3 on day 0 of the study , then randomized into a placebo group or a captopril group starting on day 3 of infection . on day 9 of infection , the mice were put to death . hearts were weighed and processed for light microscopic examination . heart weight was 125 + / - 19 mg in the control group versus 102 + / - 14 mg in the captopril group ( p less than 0.0003 ) . amount of necrosis as a percentage of left ventricular section was 3.5 % ( 2.0 % to 7.5 % ) in the placebo group versus 2.0 % ( 0.0 % to 5.0 % ) in the captopril group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the amount of dystrophic calcification was 5.0 % ( 0.0 % to 27.5 % ) in the placebo group versus 1.3 % ( 0.0 % to 20.0 % ) in the captopril group ( p less than 0.01 ) . the extent of the histopathologic involvement by planimetry was 10.2 % in the placebo group versus 5.4 % in the captopril group ( p = 0.052 ) . we conclude that captopril is beneficial in decreasing left ventricular mass and the amount of myocardial necrosis and calcification in the short term in the murine myocarditis model . 
southern blood club symposium : an update on selected aspects of hemochromatosis . genetic epidemiology studies have indicated that hereditary hemochromatosis ( hh ) occurs in caucasians with a frequency of 3 to 13 per thousand . clinical recognition however occurs far less frequently . the disparity is best resolved by defining hh as homozygosity for the hla-linked hemochromatosis allele , regardless of the total body iron burden . variability of clinical expression is explained in part by physiologic iron loss in women but variability in males may be due to environmental factors , gene-gene interactions or polymorphisms in mutated hemochromatosis alleles . although clinical variability is great , the laboratory phenotype of hh is fairly constant and is marked by elevation of the transferrin saturation . the elevated transferrin saturation occurs early in life , before organ iron loading occurs and can be used as a screening tool to detect hh before organ damage occurs . cloning and characterizing the hh gene , which is located within 1 centimorgan of the hla-a locus should resolve some of the issues concerning clinical variability . 
glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency and cataract of patients in northern sardinia . we determined the activity level of glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase in 467 patients with cataract from northern sardinia . of 226 men , 18 ( 8 % ) had glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency . of 241 women , 30 ( 12 % ) were heterozygous and two ( 1 % ) were homozygous for glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency . these prevalences were not significantly different from those expected in the general population . we concluded that patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency do not have a higher risk of developing cataract . 
short stature , mental retardation , and hypoparathyroidism : a new syndrome . eight children ( four boys and four girls ) with extreme failure to thrive , dysmorphic features , developmental delay , hypoparathyroidism , and abnormal skeletal survey were studied . they were the products of seven consanguinous marriages , two of the patients being brothers . in the remaining six families , a further four children had affected siblings who had died in infancy . when assessed the children were aged 0.47-12 .8 years ; sd scores were less than -2 for height , weight , and head circumference in all patients . the children had identical facies with deep set eyes , depressed nasal bridge with beaked nose , long philtrum , thin upper lip , micrognathia , and large floppy earlobes . they were all developmentally retarded . the following abnormalities were found on investigation : hypocalcaemia in all ( of whom six of seven had hypoparathyroidism ) , medullary stenosis and other skeletal survey defects in seven of the eight children , and reduced numbers of t cell subsets in four of four tested . we believe that these children represent a new , as yet undescribed genetically determined syndrome . 
hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia in small for dates babies . blood glucose concentrations were measured prospectively in 27 small for dates infants in the first 48 hours after birth : 10 infants became hypoglycaemic . of these , five had inappropriately raised plasma insulin concentrations . plasma free fatty acids were lower and carbohydrate intake higher in these five infants , further supporting the diagnosis of hyperinsulinism . the hypoglycaemia recurred in four of the five hyperinsulinaemic infants , but in none of those who were not hyperinsulinaemic . hyperinsulinism is common in small for dates babies . it is important to recognise this because hypoglycaemia is likely to recur and appropriate treatment is needed to prevent long term sequelae . 
indomethacin responsive hypercalcaemia associated with a renal sarcoma . an infant presented with a non-metastatic renal spindle cell sarcoma and hypercalcaemia , which resolved after treatment with indomethacin . there was in vivo and in vitro evidence that hypercalcaemia was mediated by circulatory prostaglandins . 
endocrine function and morphological findings in patients with disorders of the hypothalamo-pituitary area : a study with magnetic resonance . evaluation of the sellar area was performed with magnetic resonance imaging in 101 patients ( age range 0.8-27 years ) with hypopituitarism , isolated diabetes insipidus , hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism , and central precocious puberty . the hypopituitary patients ( n = 70 ) included multiple pituitary deficiency ( n = 23 ) , pituitary deficiency with diabetes insipidus ( n = 5 ) , and isolated growth hormone deficiency ( n = 42 ) . the patients with multiple pituitary deficiency showed pathological morphological findings in all cases , with stalk and posterior lobe always involved . the group with associated diabetes insipidus had abnormal stalk in four of five cases and posterior lobe not visible in all cases . only five of 42 ( 12 % ) patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency had abnormalities of the sellar area . in two out of four patients with isolated diabetes insipidus posterior lobe was not seen . all patients with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism ( three with kallmann 's syndrome , one prader-willi syndrome , and two idiopathic hypogonadism ) appeared normal . in precocious puberty ( n = 21 ) the three patients with onset of symptoms before age 2 years exhibited a hypothalamic hamartoma , whereas in the others with onset of puberty between age 2 and 7 the magnetic resonance image was normal in 17 of 18 patients . the probability of finding a pathological magnetic resonance image was considerably high in our patients with multiple pituitary deficiency , isolated diabetes insipidus , and precocious puberty with very early onset of symptoms . on the contrary , purely functional abnormality is suggested in most patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency , hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism , and precocious puberty with later onset of symptoms . 
can prepregnancy care of diabetic women reduce the risk of abnormal babies ? objective -- to see whether a prepregnancy clinic for diabetic women can achieve tight glycaemic control in early pregnancy and so reduce the high incidence of major congenital malformation that occurs in the infants of these women . design -- an analysis of diabetic control in early pregnancy including a record of severe hypoglycaemic episodes in relation to the occurrence of major congenital malformation among the infants . setting -- a diabetic clinic and a combined diabetic and antenatal clinic of a teaching hospital . patients -- 143 insulin dependent women attending a prepregnancy clinic and 96 insulin dependent women managed over the same period who had not received specific prepregnancy care . main outcome measure -- the incidence of major congenital malformation . results -- compared with the women who were not given specific prepregnancy care the group who attended the prepregnancy clinic had a lower haemoglobin ai concentration in the first trimester ( 8.4 % v 10.5 % ) , a higher incidence of hypoglycaemia in early pregnancy ( 38/143 women v 8/96 ) , and fewer infants with congenital abnormalities ( 2/143 v 10/96 ; relative risk among women not given specific prepregnancy care 7.4 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.7 to 33.2 ] . conclusion -- tight control of the maternal blood glucose concentration in the early weeks of pregnancy can be achieved by the prepregnancy clinic approach and is associated with a highly significant reduction in the risk of serious congenital abnormalities in the offspring . hypoglycaemic episodes do not seem to lead to fetal malformation even when they occur during the period of organogenesis . 
mechanisms of impaired growth hormone secretion in genetically obese zucker rats : roles of growth hormone-releasing factor and somatostatin . gh secretion is markedly blunted in obesity ; however , the mechanism ( s ) mediating this response remains to be elucidated . in the present study we examined the involvement of the two hypothalamic gh-regulatory hormones , gh-releasing factor ( grf ) and somatostatin ( srif ) , using the genetically obese male zucker rat . spontaneous gh , insulin , and glucose secretory profiles obtained from free moving , chronically cannulated rats revealed a marked suppression in amplitude and duration of gh pulses in obese zucker rats compared to their lean littermates ( mean 6-h plasma gh level , 3.9 + / - 0.4 vs. 21.5 + / - 3.8 ng/ml ; p less than 0.001 ) . obese rats also exhibited significant hyperinsulinemia in the presence of normoglycemia . the plasma gh response to an iv bolus of 1 microgram rat grf - ( 1-29 ) nh2 , administered during peak and trough periods of the gh rhythm , was significantly attenuated in obese rats at peak ( 137.4 + / - 26.1 vs. 266.9 + / - 40.7 ng/ml ; p less than 0.02 ) , although not at trough , times . passive immunization of obese rats with a specific antiserum to srif failed to restore the amplitude of gh pulses to normal values ; the mean 6-h plasma gh level of obese rats given srif antiserum was not significantly different from that of obese rats administered normal sheep serum . both pituitary wet weight and pituitary gh content and concentration were reduced in the obese group . measurement of hypothalamic grf immunoreactivity revealed a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) reduction in the mediobasal hypothalamic grf content in obese rats ( 503.2 + / - 60.1 pg/fragment ) compared to that in lean controls ( 678.1 + / - 50.2 pg/fragment ) , although no significant difference was observed in hypothalamic srif concentration . peripheral srif immunoreactive levels were significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) elevated in both the pancreas and stomach of obese rats . these results demonstrate that the genetically obese zucker rat exhibits 1 ) marked impairment in both spontaneous and grf-induced gh release , which can not be reversed by srif immunoneutralization , 2 ) significant reduction in pituitary gh concentration , 3 ) depressed hypothalamic grf content , and 4 ) elevated gastric and pancreatic , but not hypothalamic , srif levels . the findings suggest that the defect in pituitary gh secretion observed in the genetically obese zucker rat is due , at least partially , to insufficient stimulation by hypothalamic grf , and that srif does not play a significant role . 
depletion of alcohol ( hexanol ) dehydrogenase activity in the epidermis and jejunal mucosa in sjogren-larsson syndrome . using a histochemical technique , we have demonstrated a consistent deficiency of alcohol ( hexanol ) dehydrogenase activity within the epidermis and jejunal mucosa of patients with sjogren-larsson syndrome . biochemical assay of the fatty alcohol : nad oxidoreductase activity in cultured fibroblasts and leukocytes from these patients showed deficient activities compared with controls . the histochemical and biochemical results are complementary , and the simpler histochemical method can be used reliably for initial screening of patients with ichthyosis in whom a diagnosis of sjogren-larsson syndrome is suspected . 
effacement of glomerular foot processes in kwashiorkor . in a study of the pathogenesis of the oedema of kwashiorkor the ultrastructure of the kidneys from 6 children was examined shortly after they died from oedematous malnutrition . there was a generalised effacement of the glomerular epithelial cells onto the basement membrane . the filtration slits that remained were narrowed . the picture was similar to that seen in minimal-change nephrotic syndrome -- but none of the children had albuminuria . the degree of effacement was statistically related to treatment with gentamicin . the findings suggest that there is a defect in the anionic charge of the glomerular basement membrane in oedematous malnutrition , that the membrane charge is more easily neutralised by cations such as gentamicin , and that , because proteinuria is not a feature of oedematous malnutrition , the proteinuria in other conditions associated with glomerular epithelial cell effacement ( eg , minimal-change nephrotic syndrome ) is due to something more complex than simple loss of charge . 
transfer of diabetes in mice prevented by blockade of adhesion-promoting receptor on macrophages . insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) is a disease with an autoimmune aetiology . the non-obese diabetic mouse is a good spontaneous animal model of the human disease , with iddm developing in 50-80 % of female mice by the age of 6 months . the disease can be transferred by splenic t cells from diabetic donors and is prevented by t-cell depletion . the mechanism ( s ) by which the beta cell is specifically destroyed is not known , but t cells and macrophages have both been implicated , based on the presence of macrophages in the infiltrated islet and the ability of chronic silica treatment to prevent disease . the monoclonal antibody 5c6 is specific for the myelomonocytic adhesion-promoting type-3 complement receptor ( cr3 or cd11b/cd18 ) and does not bind to t cells . here we show that blockade of macrophage cr3 in vivo prevents intra-islet infiltration by both macrophages and t cells and inhibits development of iddm . we conclude that both t cells and macrophages have an essential role in the onset of iddm . 
health of homeless children and housed , poor children . homeless children in families are increasing in numbers across the country and have been noted to have frequent health problems . the health status of homeless children was assessed on multiple dimensions through parental report in a survey conducted with 196 homeless families in 10 shelters in los angeles and 194 housed poor families after march 1987 through january 1988 . during the month before the survey , the homeless and housed poor children experienced high rates of illness symptoms , disability , and bed days . homeless and housed poor children were frequently rated by their parents to be in fair or poor health ( 17 % vs 13 % , p = .14 ) . homeless children , however , were reported to have more behavior problems and school failure [ 30 % vs 18 % , p = .06 ] than housed poor children . homeless children also had high rates of other health problems such as developmental delay ( 9 % ) and overweight ( 13 % ) . the diets of homeless children were frequently imbalanced , dependent on food from " fast-food " restaurants , and characterized by repeated periods of deprivation . family problems were more common among homeless families , especially among single-parent homeless families compared with single-parent housed families ( spousal abuse , 68 % vs 41 % , p less than .01 ; parental drug and alcohol abuse , 60 % vs 39 % , p less than .01 ) . it is concluded that homeless children have significant child behavior and developmental problems and disorders of nutrition and growth , which are associated with multiple risk factors in their environment . 
response to diet and cholestyramine in a patient with sitosterolemia . in this report , an 11-year-old boy with diffuse tendinous and tuberous xanthomatosis and a plasma sterol concentration of 555 mg/dl , consisting primarily of cholesterol , is described . three months after changing from an unrestricted diet to a cholesterol-lowering diet , his plasma sterol concentration decreased to 221 mg/dl . because of the degree and rapidity of his response to diet , sitosterolemia was suspected . according to results of capillary gas-liquid chromatography of his plasma sterols , there was a sitosterol concentration of 31.3 mg/dl ( normal less than 1.0 mg/dl ) , establishing the diagnosis of sitosterolemia . addition of cholestyramine therapy ( 8 g/d ) to a low sterol diet further lowered his plasma sterol concentration to 173 mg/dl and led to complete regression of all tuberous xanthomata . tendinous xanthomata regressed at a slower rate . these findings show that the diagnosis of sitosterolemia should be suspected in severely hypercholesterolemic children ( total cholesterol greater than 400 mg/dl ) whose plasma cholesterol level is highly responsive to dietary manipulation . the rapid and sustained lowering of plasma cholesterol and regression of xanthomata after treatment with diet and cholestyramine suggest that sitosterolemia is a treatable cause of premature atherosclerosis . 
immunological evidence for the accumulation of lipoprotein ( a ) in the atherosclerotic lesion of the hypoascorbemic guinea pig . lipoprotein ( a ) [ lp ( a ) ] is an extremely atherogenic lipoprotein . lp ( a ) has been found in the plasma of humans and other primates , but until now only in a few other species . the mechanism by which it exerts its atherogenicity is still poorly understood . we observed that lp ( a ) has been found in the plasma of several species unable to synthesize ascorbate and not in other species . we have now detected apoprotein ( a ) in the plasma of the guinea pig . we induced atherosclerosis in this animal by dietary ascorbate depletion and , using sds/page and subsequent immunoblotting , we identified lp ( a ) as accumulating in the atherosclerotic plaque . most importantly , adequate amounts of ascorbate ( 40 mg per kg of body weight per day ) prevent the development of atherosclerotic lesions in this animal model and the accumulation of lp ( a ) in the arterial wall . we suggest an analogous mechanism in humans because of the similarity between guinea pigs and humans with respect to both the lack of endogenous ascorbate production and the role of lp ( a ) in human atherosclerosis . 
morbidly obese patients ' perceptions of social discrimination before and after surgery for obesity . morbidly obese patients ' perceptions of obesity-related prejudice and discrimination were assessed before and 14 months after operation for obesity . preoperatively , the 57 consecutive patients perceived overwhelming prejudice and discrimination at work , within the family , and in public places . after a weight loss of more than 45.5 kg ( 100 lb ) , these patients perceived little or no prejudice or discrimination . we examine factors contributing to the change in patients ' perceptions and comment upon patients ' perceptions of the negative attitudes held by health professionals toward obese patients . 
physician documentation of diabetes care : use of a diabetes flow sheet and patient education clinic . we assessed two interventions designed to improve the care of patients with diabetes mellitus by documenting the complications of their disease . these were a flow sheet , included with outpatient medical records , and a weekly patient education clinic , in which a nurse educator provided individualized instruction to patients with diabetes . physician compliance with recommendations of the national diabetes advisory board for diabetes care was measured before ( n = 45 ) and after ( n = 158 ) these interventions . the numbers of referrals to ophthalmologists increased from 22 % to 46 % , urinalyses increased from 58 % to 77 % , and lower extremity examinations increased from 36 % to 61 % . nutrition education documentation increased from 51 % to 69 % , and diabetes education documentation increased from 31 % to 61 % . these results suggest that a significant improvement in physicians ' documentation of care of patients with diabetes can be achieved by using a flow sheet and a diabetes patient education clinic . 
screening for slight albuminuria : a comparison of selected commercially available methods . slight albuminuria predicts clinically significant nephropathy in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) and early death in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . this study compares four commercially available methods for measuring low concentrations of urinary albumin . we tested random spot urine specimens from 50 nondiabetic volunteers and 100 diabetic patients . this specimen was chosen to simplify collection in an outpatient setting . two screening methods were evaluated for their ability to detect urinary albumin in the range of 15 to 200 mg/l . sensitivity and specificity were 100 % and 54.7 % , respectively , for the ames micro-bumintest ; and 95.5 % and 91.5 % , respectively , for the sclavo albumin screen . the high number of false-positive results made the micro-bumintest unacceptable . the albumin screen yielded fewer false-positive results , but also produced some false-negatives . two quantitative methods , a radioimmunoassay ( ria ) and a turbidimetric assay ( the spq microalbumin ) , yielded results that agreed well with each other . 
cigarette smoking , adiposity , non-insulin-dependent diabetes , and coronary heart disease in japanese-american men . purpose : coronary heart disease has been described to be increased with both glucose intolerance and cigarette smoking . all three of these have also been reported to be associated with central adiposity ( disproportionate deposition of fat on the trunk compared to the extremities ) . the purpose of this analysis was to determine the relationship of cigarette smoking to glucose intolerance and coronary heart disease , the relationship of cigarette smoking to risk factors such as adiposity , body fat distribution , and plasma lipoprotein and insulin levels , the relationship of cigarette smoking to these risk factors independent of disease status , and whether these risk factors could account for any of the relationship between cigarette smoking and disease status . patients and methods : the study design was cross-sectional . the study sample contained 219 middle-aged and elderly japanese-american men : 77 with normal and 74 with impaired glucose tolerance and 68 with type ii diabetes . there were 54 men with coronary heart disease . a detailed smoking history was obtained . glucose tolerance status was established by medical history and a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test . coronary heart disease was determined by medical history and a resting electrocardiogram . adiposity and fat distribution measurements were body mass index ( kg/m2 ) , skinfold thicknesses , body circumferences , and cross-sectional fat areas by computed tomography . levels of insulin , c-peptide , cholesterol ( total , low-density lipoprotein [ ldl ] , high-density lipoprotein [ hdl ] , hdl2 , hdl3 , very-low-density lipoprotein [ vldl ] ) , and triglyceride ( total , vldl ) were measured in fasting blood specimens . results : a central pattern of body fat was associated with both non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and coronary heart disease . smoking history was related to both adiposity and body fat distribution , and was strongly related to coronary heart disease but not to diabetes . past smokers who had smoked up to a month ago were the heaviest while present smokers who were currently smoking or had smoked within the past month were the leanest . however , although present smokers had reduced amounts of fat , this was attributable to those present smokers without heart disease . present smokers with heart disease were not as lean and had increased amounts of intra-abdominal fat . past smokers had the greatest amount of central fat and this was attributable to those with heart disease . by two-way ( smoking history and coronary heart disease status ) analysis of covariance , smoking history was significantly related only to subcutaneous fat disposition on the chest and abdomen independent of coronary heart disease , while coronary heart disease status was strongly related to plasma levels of insulin c-peptide , vldl , hdl , hdl2 , and hdl3 cholesterol , and total and vldl triglyceride , independent of smoking history . further analysis showed that none of the body fat variables could account for the risk of coronary heart disease associated with smoking history . higher fasting plasma c-peptide levels in past smokers accounted statistically for part of the risk of coronary heart disease associated with cigarette smoking . however , this effect was not mediated by any of the body fat measurements . conclusions : disproportionately increased intra-abdominal fat is related to coronary heart disease but not to smoking history . smoking history is related to coronary heart disease but not to diabetes . weight gain is associated with smoking cessation and appears to be concentrated in the central subcutaneous regions , especially for those who have coronary heart disease . weight gain associated with cessation of smoking appears to be unrelated to atherogenic changes in lipids , lipoproteins , or insulin . other pathogenic processes must be considered in the association between smoking and coronary heart disease . 
hypoglycemia alters striatal amino acid efflux in perinatal rats : an in vivo microdialysis study . in adult brain , during insulin-induced hypoglycemia , striatal extracellular fluid concentrations of the excitatory amino acids glutamate and aspartate rise markedly ( fourfold to tenfold ) . in this study , we used in vivo microdialysis to determine if insulin-induced hypoglycemia altered striatal amino acid efflux in similar fashion in the immature brain . microdialysis probes were inserted into the right striatum of rats on postnatal day 7 . after a 2-hour recovery period , in each animal a 30-minute baseline sample was obtained . then insulin ( 0.6 mu/kg , intraperitoneal injection ) was administered ( n = 6 ) and dialysate sampling was continued over the next 210 minutes ( terminal blood glucose level less than 5 mg/dl ) . untreated control rats ( n = 6 ) were sampled over the same time interval . after pre-column derivatization with o-phthaldialdehyde , dialysate samples were assayed by high-pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection to measure their amino acid content ; eight amino acids ( glutamate , aspartate , taurine , glutamine , alanine , serine , glycine , and asparagine ) were consistently detected . in controls , amino acid efflux did not change over 4 hours . in hypoglycemic animals , glutamate efflux increased ( peak : 238 + / - 85 % of baseline , p = 0.02 , repeated measures analysis of variance [ anova ] ) , glutamine efflux declined ( to 44 + / - 5 % of baseline , p = 0.002 , anova ) , and taurine efflux increased ( up to 310 + / - 120 % of baseline ; p less than 0.06 , anova ) . in contrast with 9 - to 12-fold increases in aspartate efflux reported in adult striatum , aspartate efflux increased only slightly ( to 174 + / - 69 % of baseline ; not significant ) . 
biomaterial calcification without direct material-cell interaction . this report summarizes 1 ) features of the local redistribution of calcium ions and formation of complexes with calcium ( ca ) in the presence of polymer samples ; 2 ) the adsorption of ca ions and ca containing complexes onto biomaterial surfaces ; 3 ) the character and composition of ca containing deposits ; and 4 ) the role of cellular and humoral factors in calcification . all experiments were done with three types of medical grade polymer material ( from ussr ) : silicone rubber ( sr ) , polyurethane " vitur " ( pu ) , and polyethylene ( pe ) . biochemical , radioisotopic , sem , and edax methods were used in in vitro and in vivo experiments . the diffusion chamber model was used in animal experiments . sr was shown to induce greater changes in complex formation processes and to adsorb more ca containing complexes than pe or pu . in addition to the degree of sr calcification seen after 21 days , implantation accentuated these findings . the possibility of calcification of polymer materials without direct contact of material and cells was observed . combining the in vitro and in vivo experimental data , the authors propose a hypothetical scheme of biomaterial calcification . 
in vivo rheologic effects of lipid apheresis techniques : comparison of dextran sulfate ldl adsorption and heparin induced ldl precipitation . the effects of two different ldl apheresis techniques , heparin-induced ldl precipitation ( help ) and dextran sulfate ldl adsorption ( dsa ) , were compared in six patients with familial hypercholesterolemia . total and ldl cholesterol were effectively lowered with both techniques . the reduction of serum triglycerides was more pronounced with dsa , whereas the reduction of hdl cholesterol was more pronounced with help . single sessions using both techniques immediately reduced whole blood and plasma viscosity , as well as erythrocyte aggregation . serum fibrinogen decreased by 62 % ( help ) and 11 % ( dsa ) . maintenance lipid apheresis administered 1 time per week resulted in a sustained reduction of total and ldl cholesterol and was associated with a sustained improvement in blood flow properties . data suggest that besides serum fibrinogen , serum lipoproteins may adversely effect the rheologic characteristics of blood . 
long-term efficacy of al3 + for prevention of bioprosthetic heart valve calcification . ai3 + preincubation has been shown in 21 and 60 day implants to inhibit calcification of glutaraldehyde preserved bovine pericardium ( gpbp ) in the rat subdermal model . this study was designed to assess the long-term anticalcification efficacy of gpbp ai3 + preincubation . rat ( 50-60 gm , male , cd sprague-dawley ) subdermal implants of gpbp , pretreated with 0.01 m or 0.1 m aici3 , were carried out for 21 , 60 , 90 , and 120 days . each explanted gpbp was analyzed for ca2 + by atomic absorption spectroscopy and for ai3 + by atomic absorption spectroscopy or neutron activation irradiation . results showed profound long-term ( implant duration 120 days ) inhibition of calcification after gpbp preincubation in 0.1 m aici3 ( ca2 + = 21.8 + / - 12.6 micrograms/mg ) , compared to control ( ca2 + = 329.0 + / - 20.3 micrograms/mg ) . after preincubation in 0.1 m aici3 and 21 day rat subdermal implantation , gpbp ai3 + levels declined from 9033 + / - 680 micrograms/g ( control = 6.3 + / - 3.7 micrograms/g ) to 2700 + / - 156 micrograms/g ; however , there was no further significant decline in gpbp ai3 + levels after long-term implantation of 120 days ( 2618.4 + / - 349 micrograms/g ) . the authors conclude that gpbp preincubation in 0.1 m aici3 markedly inhibited pathologic calcification to 7 % of control values in the rat model after long-term ( 120 day ) subdermal implantation . 
a new bioprosthetic cardiac valve with reduced calcification . a bioprosthetic cardiac valve cross-linked with a glycerol polyglycidyl ether polyepoxy compound ( pc ) was developed in order to reduce calcification and degeneration , which often occurs in bioprosthetic cardiac valves . aortic valves harvested from dogs were treated with pc ( pc valve ) . right ventricle ( rv ) - pulmonary artery ( pa ) bypasses were placed in 12 dogs with pc-valved conduits , and the main pa was ligated . x-ray right ventriculography at 36 days ( 1 dog ) and 37 days ( 1 dog ) revealed an excellent open/close performance of the pc valve , and there was no visible thrombus in the valve . in our basic study , pc treated collagen gel disks implanted in the subcutaneous layer of growing rats showed remarkably less calcium deposition than did those treated with glutaraldehyde ( ga ) . biologic materials cross-linked with pc maintain their pliability , and become more hydrophilic and more hydrated than those cross-linked with ga . the hydrophilicity and hydration provide sufficient antithrombogenicity and a suitable environment for metabolism in the tissue fluid which contains oxygen , nutritive substances , and electrolytes , leading to inhibition of material degeneration . therefore , pc valves are expected to show good valve function , sufficient antithrombogenicity , and excellent durability with less calcification , when compared to ga treated valves . 
detailed examination of complete bioprosthetic heart valves . six ( 3 control and 3 explanted ) bioprostheses were examined histologically after embedding the complete valve in " plastic " and sectioning across the valve at 90 degree to the horizontal plane , and then horizontally across a stent post , with a low speed saw . the prostheses , porcine or pericardial , had been in place 52 to 121 months . in addition to cusp changes of degeneration and calcification that have been previously reported , the authors found extensive pannus deposition on the cloth covering the inflow surface of the prostheses , with some extension onto the biologic components ; evidence of insudation of tissue fluid and ingrowth of fibroblasts ; deposition of collagen ; and infiltration of mononuclear cells in the interstices and interfaces . non-biologic components showed changes which may have affected prosthesis function . the synthetic material covering the metal/plastic frame showed interstitial mononuclear cells . two of the three explanted valves showed changes in the polymeric plastic , and one in the metal components , including accentuated notching along the surfaces when compared to unimplanted prostheses . a larger number of prostheses must be examined before definite conclusions can be drawn . 
benefit of bicarbonate dialysis during cavhd . the effect of bicarbonate dialysate ( bd ) on acid-base status in six pediatric cavhd patients was examined during seven episodes of metabolic acidosis . when metabolic acidosis was not corrected with cavhd , a sterile bd was substituted for either acetate - or lactate-based dialysate . pre - and post-bd substitution levels of lactate , hco3 , pco2 , anion gap , and ph were recorded , as well as dose of intravenous ( i.v. ) bicarbonate . improvements in ph and serum hco3 were seen in all seven cases . anion gap decreased in all but one of the patients who were switched from lactate to bicarbonate dialysate , with improvement most marked in those patients with marked elevation of the anion gap . no adverse effect on pco2 was noted . lactate dialysate may be less effective when serum lactate levels are high , and may contribute to further elevation of lactate levels and anion gap . these data suggest that bicarbonate dialysate may be preferable to lactate or acetate dialysate in cavhd patients with persistent metabolic acidosis . 
therapeutic effects of simvastatin on hyperlipidemia in capd patients . a causal link between hypercholesterolemia due to elevated plasma concentrations of ldl and vldl remnants of capd patients has been established . the effects of 24 weeks of treatment with simvastatin , a new hmg coenzyme a-reductase inhibitor ( at 20 and 40 mg/day ) on serum lipid , lipoprotein , and apolipoprotein a-i and b concentrations , as well as safety parameters and subjective side effects , were evaluated in eight patients ( mean duration capd 24.80 + / - 7.50 months , age 54.50 + / - 13.70 years ) . maximal effects on plasma lipoprotein and apolipoprotein concentrations were achieved after 4 weeks , and remained stable thereafter during the study . mean fasting plasma cholesterol concentrations decreased from 280.5 + / - 60.2 mg % to 190.2 + / - 40.4 mg/dl ( p less than 0.005 ) ( -47 % ) ; mean plasma ldl-cholesterol concentrations also decreased from 257.6 + / - 13.4 mg % to 190.5 + / - 15.4 mg/dl ( p less than 0.001 ) ( -35 % ) . apolipoprotein a and b concentrations decreased significantly from 1.78 + / - 0.19 to 1.40 + / - 0.22 g/l ( p less than .005 ) and 1.81 + / - 0.26 to 1.38 + / - 0.20 g/l ( p less than .005 ) . these data substantiate the view that simvastatin is well tolerated and that no serious clinical or adverse laboratory effects have been observed . it appears to be a promising drug for the effective control of hyperlipemia in a large proportion of hypercholesterolemic patients , reducing their cardiovascular morbidity while on capd . 
an efficient method for removing bilirubin . bilirubin is tightly bound to albumin , making hemoperfusion an ineffective treatment for hyperbilirubinemia . by adding a safe unbinding agent to the blood ( solutizer ) , which itself is adsorbed , hemoperfusion can become efficient and practical . canines were made hyperbilirubinemic with an intravenous infusion of a 5 mg/ml solution ( with na2co3 ) for 1 hour . peak concentrations of 14-22 mg/dl were reached in adult dogs ( 25-35 kg ) . hemoperfusion was then initiated with or without ( control ) the solutizer ( sodium benzoate ) . the bilirubin unbinding effect of sodium benzoate was rapid and effective . because of the simultaneous adsorption of sodium benzoate , a small activated carbon section that was presaturated with the solutizer was located proximal to the main hemoperfusion column , in addition to continuous infusion to reach 20 mm in the blood . comparison of the normalized bilirubin concentration for benzoate augmented hemoperfusion with the average for control dogs , shows that benzoate results in a threefold decrease in the normalized bilirubin concentration after 1.5 hr of hemoperfusion . sodium benzoate may also have the advantage of protecting platelets during hemoperfusion . 
effect of beta cell distribution on the performance of a bioartificial pancreas . the insulin response of available prototype hollow fiber bioartificial pancreas devices remains unacceptably slow . although previous experimental and theoretical investigations provide insight into the factors governing the performance of these devices , there are currently no results on the effects of beta cell distribution on insulin response . the authors have developed a detailed theoretical model for insulin response in a hollow fiber bioartificial pancreas . model predictions have been shown to be in good agreement with literature data on the insulin release from an in vitro hollow fiber device . in this study , model simulations were used to evaluate the effects of axial and radial variations in beta cell density on the insulin response . for a device with no convective recirculation ( i.e. , a diffusion controlled device ) , the radical distribution of cells in the matrix and shell plays a critical role in determining device response , but the insulin response is essentially independent of the axial beta cell distribution . in contrast , for a device with substantial recirculation , there is a very strong dependence on the axial beta cell distribution , with a weaker dependence upon the radial distribution . these results clearly demonstrate the potential importance of beta cell distribution in the analysis of in vivo and in vitro experimental data , and in the design of effective clinical devices . 
an implanted peritoneal oxygen tonometer that can be calibrated in situ . oxygen tension in the peritoneum has been continuously measured with a silastic tonometer having an integral oxygen electrode and inlet and outlet tubes for gasequilibrated electrolyte solution . remote kinetic calibration of the system is periodically performed . tonometers were implanted in six rabbits . peritoneal oxygen tension was measured in awake and anesthetized rabbits under various oxygen breathing conditions . 
the effect of established and gestational diabetes on pregnancy outcome . objective -- to study the prevalence and type of glucose intolerance in pregnancy and the effect of different types on perinatal mortality and fetal size . design -- a prospective case-control study with data collected by patient interview and examination of all available records during a 16-months period between 1984 and 1986 . setting -- a large maternity hospital in kuwait where diabetes in pregnancy is common . subjects -- the cases were a consecutive sample of 731 women , delivered during the study period , recorded in the labour ward register as being diabetic or having abnormal glucose tolerance , the control group was formed from the next woman in the register ( provided she was not known to be diabetic ) . main outcome measures -- type of diabetes followed the who classification , with subdivision depending on level of fasting plasma glucose . type of perinatal death was examined in detail and birthweight centile calculated . results -- of the 731 cases , 22 % were established diabetics , most were treated with oral hypoglycaemic drugs before pregnancy and insulin during pregnancy . of those discovered during pregnancy , 43 % were classified as gestational diabetes and the remainder as impaired glucose tolerance . overall , 50 % of cases were treated with insulin . established diabetics had a perinatal mortality rate nearly four times greater than non diabetics ( rr , 3.7 , 95 % ci 2.6 to 6.4 ) and for gestational diabetics rr was 2.0 95 % ci 1.2 to 3.7 ) . unexplained deaths were particularly common , both in established diabetics ( rr , 18.4 , 95 % ci 3.9 to 85.7 ) and in gestational diabetics ( rr , 13.4 , 95 % ( ci 2.9 to 61.6 ) . cases with impaired glucose tolerance had no stillbirths and had a lower perinatal loss than the controls , though this was not statistically significant . heavier babies were seen in all case groups compared with controls , though the impaired glucose tolerance group had lower birthweights than the other two case groups . conclusions -- type 2 diabetes was found to be common , most cases being diagnosed in pregnancy . under the conditions found in kuwait , diabetes , in the sense of a raised fasting glucose , is accompanied by a high rate of perinatal loss from unexplained stillbirth . this applies whether the condition was present before pregnancy or was discovered during pregnancy . fetal macrosomia was also common in both situations . impaired glucose tolerance , where fasting levels remain normal , does not appear to increase fetal loss , but may be associated with fetal macrosomia . as these women age they are likely to develop overt diabetes in the non-pregnant state , and subsequently to develop serious complications of this disease . improving glycaemic control , both during preg . 
famine in southern ethiopia 1985-6 : population structure , nutritional state , and incidence of death among children . objective -- to assess the effects of drought on mortality in children . design -- prospective epidemiological study forming part of nutritional monitoring during famine relief work . setting -- 24 food distribution sites in arero and borana provinces in southern ethiopia . patients -- a monthly average of 14,173 and 5,334 children under 5 were examined in 1985 and 1986 , respectively . altogether 148,966 child months ( 105,872 for 1985 and 43,094 for 1986 ) were available for analysis . intervention -- the families of all children were supplied with food each month . basic medical care was also provided . main outcome measure -- mortality in children under 5 . results -- a 40 % increase in crude mortality was observed among children living in traditional and stable societies . the severe consequences were observed mainly among children living in relief shelters , where a threefold to fourfold increase in crude mortality was recorded among children . increased childhood mortality was also associated with high prevalence of malnutrition , living in the most arid areas , and the dry season . a long period of food aid was needed to normalise the nutritional state , especially for children living in relief shelters . conclusions -- the most severe consequences of the widespread famine that occurred in the arero and borana provinces of southern ethiopia during 1985-6 were seen among children living in relief shelters . early food intervention may decrease the scale of migration and thus also reduce the severe consequences of a famine . 
management of " brittle " diabetes with a preprogrammable implanted insulin pump delivering intraperitoneal insulin . objective -- glycaemic control in a young woman with " brittle " diabetes . design -- use of a preprogrammable fully implanted pump ( infusaid ) to deliver insulin intraperitoneally at variable rates , giving a total dose of about 60 units/24 h. setting -- endocrinology department in a teaching hospital . patient -- thirty year old woman with 15 years ' history of " brittle " diabetes . main outcome measures -- glycated haemoglobin concentration ; plasma glucose concentration . results -- after implantation of the pump there was an immediate and sustained improvement in diabetic control . the patient 's glycated haemoglobin concentration decreased from 15.2 % to 9.2 % over seven months . her daily glucose concentrations were in the range 3.5-12 mmol/l . she has not been admitted to hospital since implantation of the pump , which was eight months before the time of writing . conclusion -- the implanted programmable intraperitoneal insulin pump may be of value in the management of patients with " brittle " diabetes in whom other attempts at glycaemic control have failed . 
anorexia in older patients : its meaning and management . in the elderly , clinically significant weight loss is closely related to malnutrition , the causes of which can proliferate in this age group . clinicians must therefore keep a wide range of possible etiologies in mind when evaluating these patients . these fall into the general categories of social , psychological , medical , and age-related . isolating the cause will direct what is often simple , effective , and , perhaps , life-saving therapy . 
developmental adaptations in cytosolic phosphate content and ph regulation in the sheep heart in vivo . this study examines adaptations in myocardial cytosolic phosphate content and buffering capacity that occur in vivo as a function of development . phosphate metabolites were monitored in an open chest sheep preparation using a 31p magnetic resonance surface coil over the left ventricle . newborn lambs ( aged 4-9 d , n = 5 ) underwent exchange transfusion with adult blood to reduce blood-borne 2,3-diphosphoglycerate contamination of the heart monophosphate and phosphomonoester resonances , thus allowing determination of these phosphate concentrations . the blood-exchanged newborns and mature controls ( aged 30-60 d , n = 5 ) were infused with 0.4 n hydrochloric acid to decrease ph from greater than 7.35 to less than 7.00 . simultaneously , intracellular and extracellular ph were determined from the chemical shifts of the respective phosphate peaks and compared to arterial blood ph. findings were as follows : ( a ) diphosphoglycerate contribution to the cardiac spectrum was found to be negligible , ( b ) significant decreases in cytosolic phosphate ( p less than 0.03 ) and phosphomonoester ( p less than 0.01 ) content occurred with maturation , and ( c ) large decreases in extracellular ph ( greater than 0.5 u ) in both groups were similarly associated with only small changes in intracellular ph ( less than 0.1 u ) . change in cytosolic phosphate content implies that alterations occur in the phosphorylation potential with resulting effects on regulation of myocardial respiration , and cardiac energetics . 
carbohydrate malabsorption . its measurement and its contribution to diarrhea . the major purpose of this research was to gain insight into the effect of carbohydrate malabsorption on fecal water output . to do this we measured daily fecal output of total carbohydrate , reducing sugars , and organic acids ( a product of bacterial fermentation ) . normal subjects were studied in their native state and when diarrhea was induced by mechanisms that did and did not involve carbohydrate malabsorption . patients with malabsorption syndrome were also studied . we concluded that : ( a ) excretion of carbohydrate and its breakdown products can be expressed as a single number by converting organic acids to their monosaccharide equivalents . ( b ) diarrhea per se causes only a trivial increase in fecal carbohydrate excretion . ( c ) the molar output of osmotic moieties in feces due to unabsorbed carbohydrate can be determined by adding fecal reducing sugars to organic acids and their obligated cations . this expression parallels almost exactly the effect of increasing doses of lactulose ( a nonabsorbable sugar ) on fecal water output ; one excreted millimole obligates 3.5 g of stool water . this relationship can be used to predict the effect of carbohydrate malabsorption on stool water output in patients with diarrhea . ( d ) 12 of 19 patients with malabsorption syndrome due to various diseases had excessive fecal excretion of carbohydrate and its breakdown products ; of the diseases that cause malabsorption syndrome , combined small and large bowel resection is most likely to result in excessive fecal excretion of carbohydrate and monosaccharide equivalents . in 6 of these 19 patients carbohydrate malabsorption appeared to be the major cause of diarrhea . 
glucagon , catecholamine and pancreatic polypeptide secretion in type i diabetic recipients of pancreas allografts . successful pancreas transplantation in type i diabetic patients restores normal fasting glucose levels and biphasic insulin responses to glucose . however , virtually no data from pancreas recipients are available relative to other islet hormonal responses or hormonal counterregulation of hypoglycemia . consequently , glucose , glucagon , catecholamine , and pancreatic polypeptide responses to insulin-induced hypoglycemia and to stimulation with arginine and secretin were examined in 38 diabetic pancreas recipients , 54 type i diabetic nonrecipients , and 26 nondiabetic normal control subjects . glucose recovery after insulin-induced hypoglycemia in pancreas recipients was significantly improved . basal glucagon levels were significantly higher in recipients compared with nonrecipients and normal subjects . glucagon responses to insulin-induced hypoglycemia were significantly greater in the pancreas recipients compared with nonrecipients and similar to that observed in control subjects . glucagon responses to intravenous arginine were significantly greater in pancreas recipients than that observed in both the nonrecipients and normal subjects . no differences were observed in epinephrine responses during insulin-induced hypoglycemia . no differences in pancreatic polypeptide responses to hypoglycemia were observed when comparing the recipient and nonrecipient groups , both of which were less than that observed in the control subjects . our data demonstrate significant improvement in glucose recovery after hypoglycemia which was associated with improved glucagon secretion in type i diabetic recipients of pancreas transplantation . 
lack of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase/isomerase in fibroblasts from a child with urinary excretion of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-bile acids . a new inborn error of metabolism . cultured fibroblasts were shown to be capable of catalyzing the conversion of 7 alpha-hydroxy-cholesterol to 7 alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one , an important reaction in bile acid synthesis . the apparent km was approximately 7 mumol/liter and vmax varied between 3 and 9 nmol/mg protein per h under the assay conditions used . the assay was used to investigate fibroblasts from a patient who presented with a familial giant cell hepatitis and who was found to excrete the monosulfates of 3 beta , 7 alpha-dihydroxy-5-cholenoic acid and 3 beta , 7 alpha , 12 alpha-trihydroxy-5-cholenoic acid in urine ( clayton , p. t. , j. v. leonard , a. m. lawson , k. d. r. setchell , s. andersson , b. egestad , and j. sjovall . 1987 . j. clin . invest . 79:1031 -1038 ) . in addition 7 alpha-hydroxy-cholesterol was found to accumulate in the circulation . cultured fibroblasts from this boy were completely devoid of 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase/isomerase activity . fibroblasts from his parents had reduced activity , compatible with a heterozygous genotype . the results provide strong evidence for the suggestion that this patient 's liver disease was caused by a primary defect in the 3 beta-hydroxy-delta 5-c27-steroid dehydrogenase/isomerase involved in bile acid biosynthesis . 
mechanism of increased gluconeogenesis in noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . role of alterations in systemic , hepatic , and muscle lactate and alanine metabolism . to assess the mechanisms responsible for increased gluconeogenesis in noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , we infused [ 3-14c ] lactate , [ 3-13c ] alanine , and [ 6-3h ] glucose in 10 postabsorptive niddm subjects and in 9 age - and weight-matched nondiabetic volunteers and measured systemic appearance of alanine and lactate , their release from forearm tissues , and their conversion into plasma glucose ( corrected for krebs cycle carbon exchange ) . systemic appearance of lactate and alanine were both significantly greater in diabetic subjects ( 18.2 + / - 0.9 and 5.8 + / - 0.4 mumol/kg/min , respectively ) than in the nondiabetic volunteers ( 12.6 + / - 0.7 and 4.2 + / - 0.3 mumol/kg/min , respectively , p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.01 ) . conversions of lactate and alanine to glucose were also both significantly greater in niddm subjects ( 8.6 + / - 0.5 and 2.4 + / - 0.1 mumole/kg/min , respectively ) than in nondiabetic volunteers ( 4.2 + / - 0.4 and 1.8 + / - 0.1 mumol/kg/min , respectively , p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.025 ) . the proportion of systemic alanine appearance converted to glucose was not increased in niddm subjects ( 42.7 + / - 1.9 vs. 44.2 + / - 2.9 % in nondiabetic volunteers ) , whereas the proportion of systemic lactate appearance converted to glucose was increased in niddm subjects ( 48.3 + / - 3.8 vs. 34.2 + / - 3.8 % in nondiabetic volunteers , p less than 0.025 ) ; the latter increased hepatic efficiency accounted for approximately 40 % of the increased lactate conversion to glucose . neither forearm nor total body muscle lactate and alanine release was significantly different in niddm and nondiabetic volunteers . therefore , we conclude that increased substrate delivery to the liver and increased efficiency of intrahepatic substrate conversion to glucose are both important factors for the increased gluconeogenesis of niddm and that tissues other than muscle are responsible for the increased delivery of gluconeogenic precursors to the liver . 
increased hepatic mitochondrial capacity in rats with hydroxy-cobalamin [ c-lactam ] - induced methylmalonic aciduria . treatment of rats with the vitamin b12 analogue hydroxy-cobalamin [ c-lactam ] ( hccl ) impairs methylmalonyl-coa mutase function and leads to methylmalonic aciduria due to intracellular accumulation of propionyl and methylmalonyl-coa . since accumulation of these acyl-coas disrupts normal cellular regulation , the present investigation characterized metabolism in hepatocytes and liver mitochondria from rats treated subcutaneously with hccl or saline ( control ) by osmotic minipump . consistent with decreased methylmalonyl-coa mutase activity , 14co2 production from 1-14c-propionate ( 1 mm ) was decreased by 76 % and 82 % after 2-3 wk and 5-6 wk of hccl treatment , respectively . in contrast , after 5-6 wk of hccl treatment , 14co2 production from 1-14c-pyruvate ( 10 mm ) and 1-14c-palmitate ( 0.8 mm ) were increased by 45 % and 49 % , respectively . in isolated liver mitochondria , state 3 oxidation rates were unchanged or decreased , and activities of the mitochondrial enzymes , citrate synthetase , succinate dehydrogenase , carnitine palmitoyltransferase , and glutamate dehydrogenase ( expressed per milligram mitochondrial protein ) were unaffected by hccl treatment . in contrast , activities of the same enzymes were significantly increased in both liver homogenate ( expressed per gram liver ) and isolated hepatocytes ( expressed per 10 ( 6 ) cells ) from hccl-treated rats . the mitochondrial protein per gram liver , calculated on the basis of the recovery of the mitochondrial enzymes , increased by 39 % in 5-6 wk hccl-treated rats . activities of lactate dehydrogenase , catalase , cyanide-insensitive palmitoyl-coa oxidation , and arylsulfatase a in liver were not affected by hccl treatment . hepatic levels of mitochondrial mrnas were elevated up to 10-fold in hccl-treated animals as assessed by northern blot analysis . thus , hccl treatment is associated with enhanced mitochondrial oxidative capacity and an increased mitochondrial protein content per gram liver . increased mitochondrial oxidative capacity may be a compensatory mechanism in response to the metabolic insult induced by hccl administration . 
familial hypercatabolic hypoproteinemia . a disorder of endogenous catabolism of albumin and immunoglobulin . the metabolism of albumin and igg was investigated in two siblings , products of a first-cousin marriage , a female aged 34 yr and a male aged 17 , who had a marked reduction in their respective serum concentrations of igg ( 1.3 and 3.1 mg/ml ) and albumin ( 19 and 21 mg/ml ) . the metabolism of radioiodinated igg and albumin was studied in the two patients . the total circulating and body pools of igg were less than 28 % of normal . the igg synthetic rates were within the normal range . however , the igg survival was short , with their respective fractional catabolic rates increased fivefold to 31 % and 36 % of the intravenous pool per day ( normal , 6.7 + / - 2 % / d ) . furthermore , the patients had reduced total body pools , normal synthetic rates , and increased fractional catabolic rates for albumin . there was no proteinuria or abnormality of renal or liver function . in addition , the patients did not have circulating antibodies directed toward igg , iga , or albumin . furthermore , both patients had normal fecal 51cr-labeled albumin tests , thus excluding excessive gastrointestinal protein loss . we propose that these siblings have a previously unrecognized familial disorder characterized by reduced serum concentrations of igg and albumin caused by a defect in endogenous catabolism , leading to a short survival of these proteins that is associated in this family with chemical diabetes and a skeletal deformity . 
hyperglycemia-induced b cell toxicity . the fate of pancreatic islets transplanted into diabetic mice is dependent on their genetic background . the role of pancreatic b cell dysfunction in the phase preceding clinical onset of insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus has been much debated . in this investigation , the impact of a prolonged diabetic environment on pancreatic islet b cells transplanted syngeneically under the kidney capsule of c57bl/6 ( b6 ) and c57bl/ks ( bks ) mice was studied . alloxan-diabetic mice bearing a subcapsular islet graft insufficient to normalize the blood glucose level were rendered normoglycemic by a second intrasplenic islet graft after various period of hyperglycemia to examine the reversibility of hyperglycemia-induced b cell dysfunction . using a perfusion technique of the graft-bearing , it was found that both strains of mice exhibited a diminished glucose-induced insulin secretion after 6 wk of hyperglycemia , when compared with normoglycemic mice carrying islet grafts . when normoglycemia was restituted by the splenic graft after 4 or 12 wk , there was a normalization of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in the renal islet grafts in b6 mice , whereas insulin secretion from the grafted bks islets remained impaired . morphometric measurements of the islet grafts demonstrated a 50 % reduction in the graft volume in diabetic bks mice after 12 wk , compared with normoglycemic animals , whereas no such decrease was observed in b6 mice . islet grafts removed from hyperglycemic mice of both strains exhibited diminished insulin mrna contents , and in the bks mice there was also a reduced glucose oxidation rate in the islet grafts in vitro . this metabolic dysfunction can only partly be explained by a reduced graft size . the present findings emphasize the genetic constitution as a decisive factor for the survival and function during a period of sustained stress on a limited b cell mass . 
serum lipoproteins , apolipoproteins and very low density lipoprotein subfractions during 6-month fibrate treatment in primary hypertriglyceridaemia . serum lipoproteins and apolipoproteins were studied in 14 hypertriglyceridaemic ( htg ) patients during a 24-week period of treatment with gemfibrozil , and after a 6-week washout period . a marked decrease in very low density lipoprotein ( vldl ) cholesterol and triglyceride was observed . there was an increase in high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol , particularly the hdl3 component . a slight increase in low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol was observed after 12 weeks , but this had almost disappeared after 24 weeks . the treatment resulted in an increase in serum apolipoprotein a-ii levels and a reduction in serum apo c-iii and apo e. vldl subfractionation by density gradient centrifugation in four subfractions of decreasing size ( a , b , c and d ) showed a predominant reduction of the large subfractions a , b and c , while the decrease in vldl-d was less marked . percentage changes from the baseline level of vldl-a and vldl-d cholesterol were found to be inversely correlated with percentage changes in hdl and ldl cholesterol , respectively . this might reflect a transfer of cholesterol from vldl-a to hdl , and from vldl-d to ldl . the above data suggest fibrate-induced stimulation of lipoprotein lipase , and indicate that the enhanced transfer of cholesterol from vldl to ldl , induced by fibrates in htg patients , is less pronounced after a prolonged period of treatment . 
continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion ( csii ) , multiple injections ( mi ) and conventional insulin therapy ( ct ) in self-selecting insulin-dependent diabetic patients . a comparison of metabolic control , acute complications and patient preferences . continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion ( csii ) and multiple injections ( mi ) have been shown to have metabolic advantages in highly-selected insulin-dependent diabetics ( idds ) , but there have been few comparative studies in self-selected idds . with mi , the optimal insulin preparation for overnight insulin delivery has not been defined . we compared conventional 2-3 injection therapy ( ct ) , csii and mi with human isophane insulin ( mi/human isophane ) and human ultralente insulin ( mi/human ultralente ) , respectively , at bedtime in self-selected idds . of 275 idds who were invited to participate , 52 individuals ( 18.9 % ) entered the study . most indices of glycaemic control showed better values on csii and also on mi compared to ct , but the differences were small . fasting blood glucose was higher on mi/human ultralente than on mi/human isophane . only one subcutaneous abscess and one case of ketoacidosis requiring hospitalization occurred on csii . serious hypoglycaemic episodes were non-significantly increased on intensified therapy . most patients clearly preferred intensified insulin therapy ; approximately one half csii . 
diagnostic applicability of intact and midregion/c-terminal parathyroid hormone assays in calcium metabolic disorders . we compared measurements of parathyroid hormone ( pth ) using two assays , in order to detect intact pth and midregion/c-terminal pth ( m/c-pth ) in a variety of calcium metabolic disorders . the series consisted of a total of 101 patients , including subjects with primary hyperparathyroidism ( n = 24 ) , hypoparathyroidism ( n = 18 ) , hypercalcaemia of malignancy ( n = 10 ) , moderate chronic renal failure ( n = 14 ) , chronic renal failure undergoing haemodialysis ( n = 19 ) , and small bowel disorders ( n = 16 ) . the intact pth assay was superior to the m/c-pth assay in reflecting parathyroid function in primary hyperparathyroidism , hypoparathyroidism and hypercalcaemia of malignancy . in patients with chronic renal failure , both assays were indicators of a comparable number of patients with elevated pth levels . intact pth proved most reliable in detecting changes in parathyroid hormone secretion in response to variations in ionized calcium induced by haemodialysis . in patients with extensive intestinal resection , both assays showed increased levels of pth . it is concluded that measurement of intact pth is a more reliable index of parathyroid function than measurement of midregion/c-terminal pth . thus such an approach should be the one of choice for clinical evaluation of calcium homeostasis . 
coronary artery disease in chinese males without hypercholesterolaemia the aim of this study was to determine the frequency of various metabolic risk factors for coronary artery disease ( cad ) in 246 male patients studied over a 2-year period . cad was diagnosed on the basis of a history indicative of angina pectoris , an electrocardiogram diagnostic of myocardial ischaemia , and a positive coronary angiogram . thirty-eight per cent of this population had diabetes , hypertension or both . of the remaining individuals , 39 % had a plasma cholesterol concentration greater than 5.2 mmol l-1 , whereas 23 % had a cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 . plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels of a non-smoking subset of those subjects with a total cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 were compared with values of a matched group of individuals who did not have significant vessel disease as revealed by angiography . the results of these investigations indicated that patients with cad and a plasma cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 exhibited an increase in plasma triglyceride concentration and a decrease in plasma hdl-cholesterol concentration . since these subjects were not diabetic , hypertensive or hypercholesterolaemic , it is suggested that the observed changes in triglyceride and hdl metabolism made a major contribution to the cad in these individuals . 
elevation of skeletal muscle isoform of serum creatine kinase in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia . serum creatine kinase ( ck ) is an important adjunct in the diagnosis of myocardial infarction or in monitoring for the side-effects of drugs . we report elevation of ck in patients with untreated heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia ( fh ) with no evidence of myocardial infarction . of a group of 30 patients , 60 % had elevated ck values on one occasion . in 40 % of patients elevated ck activity was observed on most occasions . this was not related to exercise or previous lipid-lowering therapy . these observations are of importance in view of the potential for misdiagnosis of myocardial infarction or premature withdrawal of lipid-lowering therapy . 
metabolic control and complications over 3 years in patients with insulin dependent diabetes ( iddm ) : the stockholm diabetes intervention study ( sdis ) . in a planned 5-year study , 97 patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) , non-proliferative retinopathy and unsatisfactory blood glucose control were monitored for 3 years . the patients were randomized to an intensified conventional treatment ( ict , n = 44 ) or a regular treatment ( rt , n = 53 ) group . hba1c ( normal range 3.9-5 .7 % ) was reduced from 9.5 + / - 0.2 ( mean value + / - sem ) to 7.4 + / - 0.1 % in the ict group ( p = 0.0001 ) , and from 9.5 + / - 0.2 to 9.0 + / - 0.2 % in the rt group ( p = 0.004 ) . nerve conduction velocities in the sural and peroneal nerves ( p = 0.01-0 .0001 ) were impaired in the rt group , but not in the ict group . retinopathy increased in both groups . the condition of 22 ict patients ( 50 % , 95 % confidence interval 34-66 % ) and 37 rt patients ( 73 % , 61-84 % ) deteriorated with regard to at least one microvascular complication ( retinopathy , nephropathy , neuropathy ) ( p = 0.024 ) . lower hba1c levels during the study significantly reduced the risk of deterioration ( p = 0.01 ) . in total , 57 % of the ict patients had at least one episode of serious hypoglycaemia , compared with 23 % in the rt group ( p = 0.001 ) . the patients in the ict group also gained weight ( p = 0.0001 ) . improved blood glucose control slowed down the progression of microangiopathy during a 3-year period in patients with non-proliferative retinopathy , but at the price of an increased frequency of serious hypoglycaemic episodes , and some gain in body weight . 
bartter 's syndrome and diabetes mellitus . we here report a case of bartter 's syndrome occurring in association with diabetes mellitus . the patient , an insulin-dependent diabetic , presented with hypokalaemia , inappropriate kaliuresis and metabolic alkalosis . he had high plasma renin activity , relatively low plasma aldosterone , and resistance to infused angiotensin ii . a high potassium diet raised total body potassium and serum potassium , did not affect plasma renin activity , but raised plasma aldosterone significantly and did not alter the resistance to angiotensin ii . indomethacin administered acutely reduced urinary potassium and kallikrein excretion and , on chronic administration , lowered plasma renin activity , urinary chloride excretion , and raised serum potassium . salt restriction resulted in a prompt and significant reduction in urinary sodium and chloride excretion . urinary kallikrein excretion was very high throughout , increased with sodium restriction , and decreased with sodium loading . oral potassium supplementation partially corrected the hypokalaemia , but did not affect blood sugar control . in this patient the primary defect appears to have been primary urinary potassium wasting , rather than sodium or chloride wasting . the striking effects of indomethacin suggest that prostaglandins may play a fundamental role in the genesis of the syndrome . 
serum uric acid correlates in elderly men and women with special reference to body composition and dietary intake ( dutch nutrition surveillance system ) . in 460 apparently healthy dutch elderly , aged 65-79 years , serum uric acid correlates were studied by linear regression analyses , for men and women separately . diuretic therapy , total serum cholesterol ( women only ) and creatinine clearance ( in bivariate analysis only ) were significantly associated with serum uric acid level . positive associations of serum uric acid with body weight , body mass index , body fatness ( men ) and lean body mass ( men ) were observed , with and without adjustment for diuretic therapy , creatinine clearance and age . serum uric acid levels , whether adjusted or not for these variables and for body mass index , were positively associated with alcohol intake ( men ) and consumption of meat and fish ( women ) , and inversely with consumption of bread , margarine and milk products ( women ) . these results indicate that limited medication with diuretics , weight control and restriction of alcohol use may help to prevent hyperuricemia in the elderly . 
an inconsistent relationship between insulin and blood pressure in three pacific island populations . the evidence linking insulin to blood pressure is controversial , and results for groups similarly categorized by body mass , glucose tolerance and hypertensive status are often contradictory . we have investigated the relationship in three population-based samples of micronesian ( nauru ) , polynesian ( western samoa ) and melanesian ( new caledonia ) pacific islanders , who are known to be susceptible to obesity , non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , hyperinsulinaemia and hypertension . after controlling for age and body mass index ( bmi ) , mean fasting and 2-hr ( post 75 g glucose ) insulin levels were not significantly different between hypertensive and non-hypertensive subjects , in any population or glucose tolerance sub-group , excepting 2-hr insulin in new caledonians with normal glucose tolerance . similarly , there were no strong trends for a higher prevalence of hypertension amongst those with insulin levels in the upper quartile of the distribution of each population , although it was apparent in some bmi/glucose tolerance sub-groups of two populations . multiple linear regression analyses also showed an inconsistent and where present , weak , independent association between insulin and blood pressure in models predicting both systolic and diastolic blood pressure . we therefore conclude that the hypothesis implicating insulin as a major determinant of blood pressure and as the pathophysiological link between obesity , niddm and hypertension is not strongly supported either by the literature or the present data . 
hla antigens and nailfold capillary microscopy studies in patients with insulin dependent and noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus and limited joint mobility . we investigated the hla status of patients with diabetes associated with limited joint mobility and microvascular complications . an increased frequency of hla-b8 , dr3 and dr4 in patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) compared to controls and patients with noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) was confirmed . hla antigen dqw1 was detected less frequently in patients with iddm and was negatively associated with limited joint mobility and retinopathy . limited joint mobility was significantly correlated with disease duration in iddm , and was associated with neuropathy in both iddm and niddm and with retinopathy in iddm . no correlation was found between dr3 , dr4 and limited joint mobility or diabetic complications . we also investigated the usefulness of nailfold capillary microscopy in a large group of patients with iddm and niddm . although capillary enlargement and avascular areas were noted in a few patients , nailfold capillary microscopy was not felt to be a useful tool in the evaluation of diabetes . 
unresectable calcified bladder tumor : hemiacidrin irrigation as an adjunct to resection . radiographic calcification of urothelial malignancies is an uncommon finding . to our knowledge , calcification of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder preventing transurethral resection has not been reported previously . we report a case of an initially unresectable radiopaque bladder tumor and discuss the successful , conservative management with continuous bladder irrigation with hemiacidrin followed by complete transurethral resection . 
