changing indications for penetrating keratoplasty in vancouver , 1978-87 . indications for penetrating keratoplasty ( pk ) were assessed by clinicopathological review of 659 corneal buttons submitted from 1978 to 1987 to the ophthalmic pathology service in vancouver . leading indications for pk were bullous keratopathy ( 22.2 % ) , keratoconus ( 17.1 % ) , scarring with or without chronic inflammation ( 13.5 % ) , graft failure ( 12.1 % ) , scarring or active keratitis secondary to virus ( 9.0 % ) and fuchs ' dystrophy ( 8.3 % ) . the principal factors responsible for graft failure were also judged by clinicopathological correlation . the authors compare their findings with those in other series . 
is corneal deposition of antimalarial any indication of retinal toxicity ? ninety-five percent of patients on chloroquine demonstrate corneal deposition of the drug with the pupil dilated ; less than 10 % of patients on hydroxychloroquine show any corneal changes when so examined . i describe one patient on chloroquine and two on hydroxychloroquine who demonstrated large amounts of corneal antimalarial drug , leading to the early diagnosis of definite retinopathy . examination of the cornea with the pupil dilated may reveal the presence of retinal toxicity in some patients . 
the management of chalazion : a survey of ontario ophthalmologists . owing to the variability and lack of standardization of chalazion management , a survey of ontario ophthalmologists was undertaken . the results highlight what ophthalmologists consider to be problems in chalazion management and suggest that a chalazion operation should be treated with the same respect given any other operation . 
sarcoidosis of the eyelid skin . a 64-year-old white woman presented with nodular lesions on the arms and face , including both medial canthi and the left upper eyelid . histopathological examination of the biopsied eyelid lesion and other facial lesions disclosed the presence of noncaseating granulomas strongly suggestive of sarcoidosis . no other evidence of ocular sarcoidosis was present . the patient had clinical , radiologic and laboratory findings consistent with a diagnosis of systemic sarcoidosis . therapy with chloroquine phosphate led to regression of the cutaneous lesions . 
clinical prognostic factors in patients with posterior uveal malignant melanoma . the authors evaluated the prognostic value of clinically assessed variables for predicting length of survival until death from metastatic disease in 237 patient with a primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma . using multivariate cox proportional hazards modeling , the authors identified the largest linear basal tumor diameter ( mm ) , estimated by indirect ophthalmoscopy and fundus drawing , the location of the anterior margin of the tumor relative to the ocular equator and ora serrata , and the age of the patient at the time of treatment as the best combination of the clinically assessed variables for predicting survival . for each patient in this group , the authors computed a prognostic index based on the best multivariate cox model . they showed that patients with low , intermediate , and high values of prognostic index had low , intermediate , and high melanoma-related mortality rates , respectively , during the first 5 to 8 posttreatment years . these results suggest that : ( 1 ) clinically assessed variables evaluated according to a standardized protocol are useful for predicting the survival of treated patients with posterior uveal melanoma and ( 2 ) ophthalmologists who assess potential clinical prognostic variables consistently may identify subgroups of patients with comparable mortality risk on the basis of noninvasive testing . 
thromboxane a2-mimetics are potent microvascular permeability factors in the conjunctiva . these studies demonstrate that the thromboxane ( tx ) a2 mimetics u-46619 , u-44069 and carbocyclic-txa2 elicit a microvascular permeability response in the conjunctiva . u-46619 and u-44069 are among the most potent microvascular permeability factors described to date for the conjunctiva ; their potency is exceeded only by that reported for leukotrienes d4 and e4 . the conjunctival microvascular permeability response to u-46619 was inhibited by the txa2-antagonists daltroban ( bm 13505 ) and sq 29548 . prostaglandin ( pg ) d2 also increased conjunctival microvascular permeability , but was less potent than u-46619 and far less susceptible to pretreatment with daltroban or sq 29548 . pge2 , pgf2 alpha and the prostacyclin analog carbocyclin did not increase conjunctival microvascular permeability . it appears that the conjunctiva exhibits a unique microvascular permeability response to txa2-mimetics : this view is experimentally supported by the absence of a cutaneous microvascular permeability response to u-46619 , u-44069 and carbocyclic-txa2 . 
retinal degeneration in the rd mouse is caused by a defect in the beta subunit of rod cgmp-phosphodiesterase mice homozygous for the rd mutation display hereditary retinal degeneration and the classic rd lines serve as a model for human retinitis pigmentosa . in affected animals the retinal rod photoreceptor cells begin degenerating at about postnatal day 8 , and by four weeks no photoreceptors are left . degeneration is preceded by accumulation of cyclic gmp in the retina and is correlated with deficient activity of the rod photoreceptor cgmp-phosphodiesterase . we have recently isolated a candidate complementary dna for the rd gene from a mouse retinal library and completed the characterization of cdnas encoding all subunits of bovine photoreceptor phosphodiesterase . the candidate cdna shows strong homology with a cdna encoding the bovine phosphodiesterase beta subunit . here we present evidence that the candidate cdna is the murine homologue of bovine phosphodiesterase beta cdna . we conclude that the mouse rd locus encodes the rod photoreceptor cgmp-phosphodiesterase beta subunit . 
phacofragmentation of a hard lens nucleus in the posterior segment . foreign body forceps were used to stabilize a hard lens nucleus during phacofragmentation in the posterior segment . this technique allows removal of the hard lens nucleus with minimal manipulation and without the need for a larger incision . 
haemophilus influenzae : an important cause of maternal and neonatal infections . although haemophilus influenzae is recognized as a major pathogen of infants , its role in maternal and neonatal infections is not as well appreciated . we analyzed the records of all mothers and neonates infected with h influenzae over a 10-year period . twenty-eight mother/neonate sets were identified in which at least one had documented infection with h influenzae . of the 18 mothers with documented infection , 13 had chorioamnionitis , endometritis , or both , and two of these mothers were bacteremic with h influenzae . of the 23 infected neonates , 15 presented with early sepsis and/or pneumonia and nine had conjunctivitis . during the period of the study , only group b streptococci and escherichia coli were more common as causes of early neonatal bacteremia . under the conditions of this retrospective study , maternal infection predicted neonatal infection . however , prospective studies in which asymptomatic patients are cultured will be required to determine how well maternal colonization/infection with h influenzae predicts neonatal infection . 
the glaucoma laser trial ( glt ) . 2 . results of argon laser trabeculoplasty versus topical medicines . the glaucoma laser trial research group the glaucoma laser trial , a multicenter , randomized clinical trial involving 271 patients , was designed to assess the efficacy and safety of argon laser trabeculoplasty ( alt ) as an alternative treatment with topical medication for controlling intraocular pressure ( iop ) in patients with newly diagnosed , previously , untreated primary open-angle glaucoma ( poag ) . each patient had one eye randomly assigned to alt ( the laser first [ lf ] eye ) and the other eye assigned to timolol maleate 0.5 % ( the medication first [ mf ] eye ) . medication was initiated or changed for either eye according to the same stepped regimen if the iop was not controlled . throughout the 2-year follow-up , lf eyes had lower mean iops than mf eyes ( 1-2 mmhg ) , and fewer lf eyes than mf eyes required simultaneous prescription of two or more medications to control iop ( p less than 0.001 ) . after 2 years of follow-up , 44 % of lf eyes were controlled by alt , 70 % were controlled by alt or alt and timolol , and 89 % were controlled within the stepped medication regimen . after 2 years , 30 % of mf eyes remained controlled by timolol , and 66 % were controlled within the stepped regimen . there were no major differences between the two treatment approaches with respect to changes in visual acuity or visual field over the 2 years of follow-up . 
the use of molteno implant and anterior chamber tube shunt to encircling band for the treatment of glaucoma in keratoplasty patients . this retrospective study reviews the results of 35 keratoplasty patients with complex corneal and glaucoma disease , who received molteno-type ( n = 25 ) or anterior chamber tube shunt to encircling band ( actseb ) - type ( n = 10 ) implant for the treatment of difficult glaucomas . the implant was placed before the keratoplasty in 14 eyes , during the keratoplasty procedure in 6 eyes , and subsequent to the corneal surgery in 15 eyes . mean follow-up for the keratoplasty was 25.46 months ( range , 6-58 months ) and 24.74 months ( range , 7-42 months ) for the seton procedure . graft rejection occurred in 12 ( 34 % ) of 35 eyes and was progressive in 9 eyes . nonimmunologic failure was seen in 9 ( 26 % ) of 35 eyes . grafts were repeated in ten eyes with eight of these ( 80 % ) remaining clear at a mean of 14.4 months . considering the results of the repeat grafts , 25 ( 71 % ) of 35 eyes achieved clear transplants . overall , 46 % of patients had final visual acuities of 20/100 or better and 69 % had final visual acuities of 20/400 or better . the mean preoperative intraocular pressure ( iop ) of 34.54 mmhg ( range , 14-68 mmhg ; standard deviation [ sd ] , 11.51 ) was lowered to a mean of 14.65 mmhg ( range , 6-30 mmhg ; sd , 4.49 ) . in the final analysis , 30 ( 86 % ) of 35 eyes were judged successful from a glaucoma standpoint . we conclude that the molteno - and actseb-type implants are viable treatment alternatives in this difficult glaucoma group . 
assessment of cataracts from photographs in the beaver dam eye study . presence and severity of age-related cataract was determined in adults 43 to 84 years of age in beaver dam , wisconsin . duplicate photograph gradings for nuclear sclerosis ( n = 1160 ) , cortical opacities ( n = 1159 ) , and posterior subcapsular cataract ( n = 1137 ) were performed . there are five levels of nuclear sclerosis . exact agreement occurred in 64.7 % of the cases ; agreement within one category in 99.8 % . for cortical opacities , graders estimate involved area in nine segments of the lens . when the continuous scale is divided into 12 categories of severity , exact agreement varied between 73.5 and 82.4 % ; for agreement within one category , rates varied between 84.6 and 89.9 % . for posterior subcapsular cataracts , exact agreement for involvement of the central circle occurred in 95.0 % and agreement within one category occurred in 97.7 % . intraobserver comparisons disclosed similar concordance . these grading schemes are semiquantitative , reproducible , and can be performed for the large numbers of photographs from population-based studies . 
botulinum treatment of childhood strabismus . four hundred thirteen children ranging in age from 2 months to 12 years were treated for strabismus by botulinum injection of extraocular muscles . an average of 1.7 injections per patient was given . follow-up at an average of 26 months after the last injection ( minimum , 6 months ) was available on 362 children ( 88 % ) . the frequency of correction of 10 prism diopters ( pd ) or less in various groups of strabismus cases was : all 362 cases , 61 % ; all esotropia , 66 % ; infantile esotropia , 65 % ; and exotropia , 45 % . smaller deviations ( 10-20 pd ) were more frequently corrected ( 73 % ) than were larger deviations ( 20-110 pd , 54 % ) . the frequency of correction to 10 pd or less of previously operated cases was not different from that of unoperated cases . there was no globe perforation , amblyopia , or visual loss produced by the injection treatment in this series . 
nystagmus in down 's syndrome . the incidence and characteristics of nystagmus in down 's syndrome are unclear . in 188 consecutive patients , 56 had nystagmus . most had no clinically recognizable ocular pathology to account for the nystagmus . twenty-nine had fine rapid horizontal nystagmus , 14 had a dissociated nystagmus which appeared pendular , whereas 9 had a form of latent or manifest latent nystagmus . of the total patients with nystagmus , 41 had esotropia . our findings suggest that fine rapid horizontal nystagmus , sometimes dissociated , occurs frequently in patients with down 's syndrome . 
posterior infectious crystalline keratopathy with staphylococcus epidermidis . two cases of infectious crystalline keratopathy located in the posterior stroma after penetrating keratoplasty are presented . topical steroids and suture removal were risk factors in both cases . in the first case , a moderate anterior chamber reaction was present . crystalline infiltrates persisted on topical and systemic steroid therapy . in the second case , deep corneal ulceration , hypopyon , and vitreitis were noted . a vitreous aspirate showed rare gram-positive cocci in pairs . the corneal ulceration and crystalline keratopathy persisted despite intravitreal and topical antibiotics . therapeutic penetrating keratoplasty was performed in both cases . staphylococcus epidermidis sensitive to vancomycin was isolated from corneal tissue . light microscopy documented aggregates of gram-positive bacteria anterior to descemet 's membrane , with an overlying keratitis . electron microscopy in the second case showed all bacteria within stromal keratocytes . no clinical recurrence was seen using topical vancomycin . as demonstrated in the cases presented , infectious crystalline keratopathy can occur exclusively in the deeper layers of the cornea . isolation of s. epidermidis , associated inflammation , and intraocular spread of organisms are rare findings . 
intraocular lens implantation after penetrating keratoplasty . improved unaided visual acuity , astigmatism , and safety in patients with combined corneal disease and cataract . twenty-two eyes with combined corneal disease and cataract were followed prospectively after nonsimultaneous intraocular lens ( iol ) placement after penetrating keratoplasty ; the majority had a penetrating keratoplasty and planned extracapsular cataract extraction ( ecce ) followed later by the placement of an iol . the mean follow-up after iol placement was 25 months ( range , 3-55 months ) . no graft failures occurred after secondary surgery . all graft sutures were removed in 86 % ( 19/22 ) of eyes before iol surgery . ninety-five percent ( 21/22 ) of the eyes achieved refractive errors within 2 diopters ( d ) of the desired result . corneal astigmatism decreased from 4.88 to 2.92 d after secondary surgery and wound revision . unaided visual acuity was 20/40 or better in 68 % ( 15/22 ) and 20/100 or better in 91 % ( 20/22 ) of the eyes . the advantages of excellent unaided visual acuity , reduced astigmatism , and lack of anisometropia and graft failure outweigh the disadvantage of some delay in final visual rehabilitation ( 11 months ) and increased secondary capsulotomy rate ( 85 % ) in this series with two separate surgeries compared with previously reported triple procedure results . 
ocular rosacea . a histologic and immunopathologic study . acne rosacea is an idiopathic dermatologic disease that frequently produces conjunctival inflammation . the authors studied the histology and immunopathology of epibulbar conjunctival biopsy specimens from eight patients with ocular rosacea and compared the findings with those from conjunctiva from 13 normal individuals . the conjunctival epithelium in ocular rosacea was attenuated and infiltrated by inflammatory cells , mainly t-helper/inducer ( cd4 ) cells , phagocytic cells , and antigen-presenting ( cd14 , mac-1 ) cells . the difference between the normal control group and the rosacea group in the number of mononuclear cells forming these populations was statistically significant ( p less than 0.01 ) . the substantia propria of the rosacea specimens contained large subepithelial infiltrates of chronic inflammatory cells , and in some cases frank granuloma formation was evident . there was an overall mean increase of nearly all cell types , but especially of t-helper cells in the rosacea specimens compared with the controls . interestingly , t-helper/inducer ( cd4 ) cells , which were outnumbered by the t-suppressor ( cd8 ) cells in the normal conjunctival epithelium ( cd4/cd8 = 0.85 ) , outnumbered the cd8-positive cells in the rosacea specimens ( cd4/cd8 = 1.6 ) . there also was a 3.5-fold increase of the cd4/cd8 ratio in the rosacea conjunctival stroma compared with the normal specimens . the mechanism involved in rosacea conjunctival inflammation resembles a type iv hypersensitivity reaction . 
rhabdomyosarcoma of the ciliary body . rhabdomyosarcoma is the most common malignant orbital tumor of childhood . it has twice been reported to arise within the globe from the iris . in addition , teratoid medulloepithelioma , a tumor arising from the ciliary epithelium , can contain a rhabdomyoblastic component , often in combination with other heteroplastic elements . the authors report what may be the first recorded case of an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma of the ciliary body , possibly representing a one-sided differentiation of a malignant teratoid medulloepithelioma . 
cystic adenoma of the pigmented ciliary epithelium . clinical , pathologic , and immunohistopathologic findings . a 51-year-old white man was found to have a deeply pigmented mass in the ciliary body and peripheral choroid of his right eye with an associated vitreous hemorrhage . although the tumor appeared to be a ciliochoroidal melanoma , a melanocytoma and adenoma of the pigment epithelium also were considered in the differential diagnosis . the tumor was removed by a large partial lamellar sclerocyclochoroidectomy . results of histopathologic evaluation showed a cystic adenoma of the pigmented ciliary epithelium . to the authors ' knowledge , this was the first immunohistopathologic study of this tumor . results of the study showed marked immunoreactivity for low molecular weight cytokeratins , vimentin , and s-100 protein . these immunohistochemical studies are consistent with the origin of this tumor from pigment epithelial cells . 
results of blepharoptosis surgery with early postoperative adjustment . the authors reviewed 157 cases ( 207 eyes ) of blepharoptosis corrected by external levator resection . twenty-eight patients ( 29 eyelids ) had unsatisfactory results . the authors adjusted 13 eyelids within 1 week of surgery . eleven eyelids were reoperated 6 or more weeks after surgery . the mean delay between the initial and final surgery in the early group was 2.0 weeks ; and , for the late group , 33.5 weeks . for those having reoperations , there was no difference in the number of procedures required to achieve satisfactory outcomes . four patients ( 5 eyelids ) with unsatisfactory results were offered , but declined , late repair . early or late reoperation is effective in correcting unsatisfactory results after external levator resection . the benefits of early surgery are a reduction in time to final result , the ease with which it is performed , potential cost savings , and the opportunity one has to correct unsatisfactory results . 
orbital complications secondary to endoscopic sinus surgery . eight cases of significant orbital complications associated with endoscopic sinus surgery are described . the anatomic problems generally fall into four categories : nasolacrimal sac or duct injury , extraocular muscle injury , intraorbital hemorrhage/emphysema , or optic nerve injury . the successful management of each complication depends on a thorough knowledge of the anatomy and pathophysiology of the orbital injury . return to normal function of the traumatized orbital structures after medical and/or surgical intervention is anticipated . however , direct optic nerve injury with immediate visual field and/or acuity deficit is usually irreversible . 
retained intraocular foreign bodies and endophthalmitis . retained intraocular foreign bodies ( iofbs ) are associated with endophthalmitis in approximately 7 to 13 % of cases . the role of prompt surgical removal of the foreign body along with the use of intravitreal antibiotics in reducing this figure is uncertain . retained iofbs presenting to the medical college of wisconsin between july 1986 and june 1989 were reviewed . a total of 27 cases were evaluated and surgically treated . none of the 27 cases presented with or developed clinical signs of endophthalmitis , yet bacterial cultures of the removed intraocular material were positive in seven cases ( foreign body in 5 cases , the aqueous fluid and the vitreous fluid in 1 case each ) . all eyes presenting within 24 hours of injury underwent immediate surgery ( average , 4.5 hours after presentation ) . of the seven eyes with positive intraocular cultures , all had pars plana vitrectomy removal of the iofb and three of these eyes received intravitreal antibiotics at the time of surgery over concern of a high risk of infection . two of these eyes eventually grew out the bacillus sp . all eyes received subconjunctival antibiotics and postoperative topical and systemic antibiotics . even after the positive cultures , no signs of clinical infection developed in any of the eyes . all seven eyes retained excellent visual acuity of 20/70 or better at an average of 10 months ' follow-up . follow-up ranged from 1 to 31 months . prompt surgical intervention , the use of intravitreal antibiotics in high-risk-type injuries , and the possible use of vitrectomy surgery may reduce the incidence and severity of endophthalmitis . 
long-term visual outcome in patients with optic nerve pit and serous retinal detachment of the macula serous detachment of the macula is a well-known complication in patients with an optic nerve pit . despite the many descriptions of this condition and possible treatment options , the long-term natural history is not well known . the authors identified 15 eyes of 15 consecutive patients seen over 21 years who were diagnosed with a serous detachment of the macula arising from an optic nerve pit . average length of follow-up was 9 years . twelve eyes lost three or more lines of vision , two eyes remained unchanged , and only one eye improved . all of the 12 eyes losing three or more lines of vision experienced this decrease within the first 6 months of follow-up . although only two patients had a visual acuity of 20/200 or less initially , 12 of 15 patients had a visual acuity of 20/200 or less at the time of their last examination . the appearance of the macula at last examination included cystic changes of the neurosensory retina , full-thickness hole formation , retinal pigment epithelial mottling , and lamellar hole formation in the outer retinal layer . the long-term visual prognosis in patients with optic nerve pit and untreated serous retinal detachment of the macula is poor , and visual loss occurs within 6 months of the serous detachment . 
visual prognosis correlated with the presence of internal-limiting membrane in histopathologic specimens obtained from epiretinal membrane surgery . forty-one patients with a unilateral , macular epiretinal membrane ( erm ) underwent pars plana vitrectomy and membrane peeling to improve the visual acuity . the authors retrospectively reviewed the histopathology of the vitrectomy specimen in each instance to determine whether the presence of internal-limiting membrane ( ilm ) had an adverse effect on visual acuity . eleven specimens contained long segment of ilm , as determined by light microscopy . with a minimum of 6 months of follow-up , none of these 11 eyes achieved a visual acuity of better than 20/60 . of 30 eyes that did not have ilm present , 41 % achieved a visual acuity of 20/60 or better . overall , 29 % of the eyes in the entire series achieved 20/60 or better visual acuity . the difference between the group with ilm versus that without ilm was statistically significant ( p = 0.01 ) . the presence of long segments of ilm within the histopathologic specimen after vitreous surgery for removal of a macular erm appears to indicate a less favorable visual outcome . 
semiconductor diode laser photocoagulation in retinal vascular disease . the authors successfully performed clinical transpupillary retinal photocoagulation in 30 eyes of 26 patients with retinal vascular disease using a gallium-aluminium-arsenide ( gaalas ) diode laser emitting at 805 nm . retinal photocoagulation was performed at treatment powers of 300 to 1300 mw and exposure durations of 0.2 to 0.5 seconds with a 200-microns diameter treatment spot . patients treated with both diode and argon green lasers required 4.5 + / - 1.8 times greater mean laser energy with diode compared with argon to create ophthalmoscopically similar lesions . parallel experimental retinal photocoagulation in chinchilla rabbits required 3.1 + / - 0.9 times more power to create ophthalmoscopically similar lesions with the diode laser than with the argon laser . intraoperative subretinal hemorrhage occurred rarely in patients with an incidence of 4 ( 0.44 % ) of 9021 treatment spots . patients complained of moderate-to-marked pain in 10 ( 43 % ) of 23 treatments initiated under topical anesthesia . a transpupillary diode laser may be used clinically to perform therapeutic retinal photocoagulation . 
the repair of rhegmatogenous retinal detachments . american academy of ophthalmology . current techniques of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment repair allow most retinal detachments to be repaired successfully . the success of repair depends on a careful preoperative examination and choice of an appropriate surgical procedure . the surgical procedure must be tailored to the individual eye based on a detailed preoperative examination of the retina and vitreous . postoperative complications are not infrequent compared to many other ophthalmic surgical procedures such as cataract extraction and strabismus repair . the surgeon must observe the eye carefully in the postoperative period to monitor and treat any complications as they arise . improvements in surgical techniques coupled with a better understanding of the pathophysiology of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment continue to improve the anatomic and functional success of retinal detachment repair . 
neuroophthalmologic effects of intravenous magnesium sulfate . to test the hypothesis that visual disturbances are more common during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration than at 1 to 4 days after discontinuation of the drug , 13 women underwent bedside neuroophthalmologic examinations during intravenous magnesium sulfate tocolysis at 2.0 to 3.0 gm hr and again at 1 to 4 days after cessation of therapy . visual symptoms were common during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration . blurred vision was present in 12 of 13 patients and diplopia was present in 10 of 13 patients . abnormal findings during neuroophthalmologic examination occurred in all patients during intravenous magnesium sulfate administration . findings included ptosis , accommodative and convergence insufficiency , and abnormal pupillary responsiveness to light and near . all patients were symptom-free and had normal examinations after magnesium sulfate was discontinued . these findings suggest that visual disturbances with therapeutic magnesium sulfate are common . 
the pretear characteristics of pigment epithelial detachments . a study of 40 eyes . retinal pigment epithelial tears are a major complication of pigment epithelial detachment ( ped ) in the elderly . we observed the pretear process of ped in 38 patients ( 40 eyes ) to identify characteristic angiographic changes . before the tear occurred , the filling pattern of the ped underwent alterations , including an increase in the size and a modification in the shape of the ped ( 27 eyes ) ; the development of notches ( 14 eyes ) ; and the onset or increase of subretinal fluid , hard exudates , and/or hemorrhages ( 30 eyes ) . the most noteworthy feature was the uneven filling of the ped , with a remarkably hypofluorescent central area that remained dark until the late angiographic frames ( 24 eyes ) . conversely , hyperfluorescence appeared early at the margins of the ped , increased progressively , and sometimes demonstrated a crenated edge . the high risk of tearing indicates that laser treatment of the retina should be considered carefully in the presence of these angiographic features . 
retinal pigment epithelial tears through the fovea with preservation of good visual acuity . we describe two patients with spontaneous retinal pigment epithelial tears through the fovea who have maintained at least 20/40 visual acuity for 1 year and 3 years following the rip . both patients had long-standing serous detachments of the retinal pigment epithelium associated with age-related macular degeneration prior to the development of the tear . each tear was at least five disc areas in size and centered on the fovea . foveal fixation was documented despite the presumed absence of pigment epithelium . this observation suggests either that there may be remaining or redundant pigment epithelium or that pigment epithelium directly beneath the central macula is not required for maintenance of 20/40 visual acuity . 
threshold perimetry in tilted disc syndrome . twelve consecutive patients ( 17 eyes ) with tilted disc syndrome underwent quantified visual field examination with the g1 octopus program ( interzeag ag , schlieren , switzerland ) . visual fields were abnormal in all cases . although field loss was more pronounced in the superotemporal quadrant ( p less than .001 ) , it also involved the other three quadrants , thus demonstrating that optic nerve hypoplasia in tilted disc syndrome is apparently not entirely sectorial . linear regression analysis showed that an increase in mean defect correlated with increase in myopic refractive error ( p less than .05 ) . however , the increase in myopic refractive error was found to be related to a decrease in corrected loss variance ( p less than .05 ) , indicating that in tilted discs with higher myopia , field loss is more homogeneous . with this series of patients , short-term fluctuation was within normal ranges in all visual fields , showing that this may be an additional clue for differential diagnosis from acquired disorders . 
removal of radiation-induced cataracts in patients treated for retinoblastoma . experience with removal of radiation-induced cataract in patients treated for retinoblastoma is limited . we retrospectively reviewed the records of 38 patients with retinoblastoma ( 42 eyes ) who underwent removal of radiation-induced cataract from 1973 to 1989 . nineteen eyes ( 45 % ) without macular tumors or severe radiation complications had final visual acuities in the range of 20/20 to 20/50 . one eye ( 2.4 % ) developed a rhegmatogenous retinal detachment and four eyes ( 9.5 % ) were noted to have amblyopia after cataract removal . three eyes ( 7 % ) developed retinoblastoma recurrence , one with extension of retinoblastoma into the subconjunctival space through the previous sclerotomy . exenteration was performed and the patient was alive after 8 years . cataract removal can be visually beneficial in selected patients with radiation-induced cataracts . 
pars plana vitrectomy for acute retinal detachment in penetrating ocular injuries . we studied 41 eyes with acute retinal detachment after penetrating ocular trauma in a retrospective cohort analysis . pars plana vitrectomy was performed in 28 eyes , while the remaining 13 eyes had only primary repair and closure of the wound . the two groups differed in the type of trauma ( more gunshot wounds in the vitrectomy group and more blunt injuries in the nonvitrectomized group ) . visual success ( visual acuity of 5/200 or better ) was observed in 10 ( 37 % ) of the eyes treated by vitrectomy compared with one ( 8 % ) of the eyes in the nonvitrectomy group . anatomic success was achieved in 21 ( 75 % ) of the eyes in the vitrectomy group but in only one ( 8 % ) of those in the nonvitrectomy group . enucleation or phthisis was observed in seven ( 54 % ) of the eyes in the nonvitrectomy group compared with only five ( 18 % ) in the vitrectomy group . significant prognostic factors for anatomic outcome in the vitrectomy group were the location of the laceration and the presence of the lens . 
topical fibronectin and aprotinin for keratectomy wound healing in rabbits . we evaluated the effect of fibronectin ( an adhesive protein ) and aprotinin ( a protease inhibitor ) as single or combined topical therapies for primary healing and prevention of recurrent corneal epithelial defects in the rabbit keratectomy wound model . the biological activity of the prepared solutions of rabbit plasma fibronectin ( 0.6 g/l ) was suggested by in vitro assays of rabbit corneal epithelial cell adhesion and gelatin-binding affinity . in the first experiment , we compared fibronectin , albumin ( a control nonadhesive protein ) , and saline . in the second and third experiments , fibronectin supplemented with aprotinin , aprotinin alone , and saline were compared ; aprotinin was used at concentrations of 40 and 1000 kallikrein inactivating units ( kiu ) per mililiter . our results suggest that topical fibronectin , 0.6 g/l , as well as aprotinin at 40 - and 1000-kiu/ml concentrations , given alone or in combination , neither promote corneal epithelial wound healing nor prevent recurrent corneal epithelial defects in rabbit keratectomy wounds . 
inflammatory mediators in postoperative aphakic and pseudophakic baboon eyes . we measured prostaglandin e2 and leukotriene b4 in the aqueous humor of baboon eyes , 1 or 8 days after phacoemulsification , with or without posterior chamber lens implantation . we also evaluated the effects of steroid eye drops and cyclooxygenase inhibitor eye drops on the synthesis of these mediators of inflammation . eyes that had undergone phacoemulsification showed significant elevation of prostaglandin e2 at both postoperative periods compared with normal , phakic control eyes . the level of prostaglandin e2 was significantly ( p less than .05 ) higher in eyes with posterior chamber lens implantation than in those without it , and was significantly ( p less than .05 ) higher on the eighth than on the first postoperative day . the amount of leukotriene b4 was below the detection limit , except in the few eyes in which complications developed . cyclooxygenase inhibitor eye drops significantly reduced the amount of prostaglandin e2 on both postoperative days , while steroid eye drops had no such effect . 
a new ophthalmic electronic videoendoscope system for intraocular surgery . a new ophthalmic electronic videoendoscope system has a 20-guage probe for intraocular observation , a standard size for vitreous microsurgical instruments , and both endoscopic and operating microscopic images are displayed on a split-screen monitor system to provide surgeos a simultaneous view of both images . using this endoscope system at any time during surgery , surgeons can examine the intraocular structure such as the ciliary sulcus , pars plana , or vitreous base and obtain valuable but otherwise unobtainable information for completing the surgery . 
the potential for mental status changes associated with systemic absorption of anticholinergic ophthalmic medications : concerns in the elderly . several cases have been reported of anticholinergic toxicity following the administration of commonly used parasympatholytic cycloplegics and mydriatics . cases have been reported in children , adults , and the elderly . the risk of developing mental status changes secondary to anticholinergic ophthalmic medications is of particular concern in the elderly . drug-induced mental status or behavior changes should not be mistaken for exacerbation of an underlying disorder or the onset of a new disease ( e.g. , alzheimer 's disease , dementia ) . clinicians should be aware of these potential complications , monitor for changes in mental status , and take appropriate action . 
pathophysiologic effect of interleukin-1b in the rabbit retina . interleukin-1 is a potent immunomodulator and has been shown to initiate many aspects of the inflammatory response . to determine the effects of il-1b in the central nervous system ( cns ) , the rabbit retina was used , adjacent to which factors can be injected with minimal trauma and both pathologic and physiologic effects can be monitored . intravitreal injection of 300 units of il-1b induced an alteration in the visual evoked potentials ( vep ) that was associated with marked intravascular red blood cell accumulations , hemorrhage , and cellular inflammation of the epiretinal vessels . analysis of these events showed slowing and occasional hyper-excitability of the compound action potential of the optic tract and of the cortical vep that correlate with the maximum inflammatory response . histologic studies show the following : no apparent response occurs within the first 1.5 hours after intraocular challenge ; and between 3 and 6 hours after injection an extensive intravascular red blood cell accumulation and progressive hemorrhage is accompanied by an increase in the number of mononuclear ( mn ) cells and the appearance of polymorphonuclear ( pmn ) cells . polymorphonuclear cells continue to increase with time to give a single wave of inflammation that peaks 24 hours after injection , while the number of mn cells steadily increases . these events are associated with changes in the permeability of the blood-brain barrier and correlate with the electrophysiologic dysfunctions . forty-one hours after injection , mn inflammation , reactive gliosis , and residual pmn inflammation are evident . neutralization with specific antibody inhibited the responses through 6 hours after injection . it is concluded that the rabbit retina provides a valuable model for the in vivo analysis of cns inflammation . 
eyelid movements before and after botulinum therapy in patients with lid spasm . quantitative analysis of lid motility is presented for 4 individuals with hemifacial spasm and 1 with meige 's syndrome . the data were obtained , by means of a magnetic search coil technique , prior to and 1 week after injection of botulinum toxin into the orbicularis oculi muscle . before treatment , the peak velocity of blink-related lid lowering and lid raising was slower than normal , yet lid saccades were normal . after botulinum treatment , significant decreases occurred in ( 1 ) the amplitude of blinks and lid saccades , and ( 2 ) the peak velocity of the blink down-phase . botulinum treatment significantly alters blink lid-lowering kinematics , while saccadic lid-lowering kinematics are normal , providing further evidence that the orbicularis oculi muscle does not play a primary role in downward lid saccades . 
antihistone antibodies in antinuclear antibody-positive juvenile arthritis . the binding of antinuclear antibody-positive juvenile arthritis ( ja ) sera to bovine thymus histones h1 , h2a , h2b , h3 , and h4 was studied by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . seventy-five percent of the ja patients tested positive for at least 1 antibody specificity . antihistone antibodies were predominantly igm , while igg antibodies were less common and were restricted to histones h1 or h3 . in the group of patients with ja of pauciarticular onset , antihistone antibodies were significantly more elevated in patients with past or present uveitis than in patients without a history of uveitis . anti-h1 antibodies in ja patients were found to react mostly with determinants located in the carboxyl-terminal domain of the h1 molecule . sera were also reactive with human histone h1 degree or chicken histone h5 , which are h1 variants found only in nondividing cells . 
basal cell carcinoma arising in pemphigus vulgaris of the lower eyelid . a 59-year-old woman on continuous treatment with corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs for pemphigus vulgaris of 14 year 's duration presented with an enlarging nodular lesion on the right lower eyelid . the neoplasm , diagnosed as basal cell carcinoma , was excised conserving the lid margin , and eyelid reconstruction was done with a rotated cheek flap . wound healing proceeded without complications in spite of immunosuppressive treatment , and the final cosmetic and functional result was satisfactory . 
allergen dose response and late symptoms in a human model of ocular allergy . eleven ryegrass-sensitive patients were challenged weekly for 4 weeks with incremental doses of ryegrass allergen applied topically to one eye ; a buffer was applied to the other eye . a clinical examination and tear-fluid cytology were performed before challenge and at 20 minutes , 1 hour , and 6 hours after challenge . a significant clinical reaction and neutrophil accumulation in the tear film occurred at 20 minutes . at 1 hour , a clinical response and tear cytologic reaction were present only at higher antigen concentrations . six hours after antigen challenge , only the highest allergen concentration ( 320,000 bu/ml ) produced a clinical late-phase reaction ( lpr ) ( p less than 0.01 ) and tear cytologic change ( presence of eosinophils and lymphocytes ) . five nonryegrass-sensitive control subjects were unresponsive to a similar challenge . these results indicate that a conjunctival response to allergen challenge is dose dependent , that is , the higher the dose , the more likely an lpr will occur and that an lpr correlates with significant numbers of inflammatory cells in the tear film . 
elevated serum concentrations of ige antibodies to environmental antigens in hiv-seropositive male homosexuals . forty-five homosexual male subjects with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , who received care during a 4-month period in an ambulatory center for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , were classified according to their principal presentation with characteristic secondary infections ( cdc group iv c , n = 28 ) , cancers ( iv d , n = 10 ) , or limited or no symptoms ( groups ii , iii , iv a , or iv b , n = 7 ) . the incidence of allergic rhinitis and conjunctivitis increased after hiv seroconversion by approximately twofold in patients of groups iv c and iv d. the mean serum concentration of ige was significantly higher for group iv c than for the other hiv-seropositive groups and for a control group of 45 hiv-seronegative homosexual male subjects from the same community who were studied concurrently . more patients in groups iv c and iv d had positive rasts for a panel of environmental antigens than patients in the other hiv-seropositive groups and the hiv-seronegative control group . patients with aids presenting with typical secondary infections thus have a high frequency of some clinical and laboratory manifestations of allergic diseases . 
absence of retroviral sequences in graves ' disease . an earlier report of hiv-1 gene sequences in thyroid cell genomic dna from patients with graves ' disease prompted use of the polymerase chain reaction technique to identify such sequences in graves ' disease thyroid tissue and in white blood-cells from these patients . we were unable to confirm the existence of hiv-1-related dna sequences in graves ' specimens . 
clinical and magnetic resonance imaging in optic neuritis . we found 23 of 48 patients ( 48 % ) with isolated monosymptomatic optic neuritis ( on ) to have 1 to several brain lesions by mri . all the brain lesions were clinically silent and had characteristics consistent with multiple sclerosis ( ms ) . during 4 years of follow-up , 9 patients ( 19 % ) developed definite ms on clinical grounds . six of the converting patients had abnormal mris ; the other 3 had mris that were normal both initially ( when they had on only ) and when repeated after they had developed ms. the other 17 patients with abnormal mris have not developed symptoms or signs of ms during follow-up . thus , an abnormal mri does not auger development of clinical ms within a mean of 4 years , nor does a normal mri protect against development of disseminated disease . it is not prudent to give a patient with isolated monosymptomatic on the diagnosis of ms ( probable or definite ) because of an abnormal mri ( with or without other laboratory abnormalities ) . 
dysgeusia , gustatory sweating , and crocodile tears syndrome induced by a cerebellopontine angle meningioma . facial nerve involvement in cerebellopontine angle tumors , both during their development and after excision , may be expressed in irreversible dysfunction of the parasympathetic pathways . the exact location of the lesion along the efferent nerve fibers can be established through evaluation of the functional level of those organs supplied by the cholinergic motor secretory components . this report deals with a female patient in whom peripheral facial palsy developed shortly after removal of a right cerebellopontine angle meningioma . she had slight facial asymmetry and deafness in the right ear and complained of prandial flush and sweating of the right malar area . occult ipsilateral hyposalivation and hypolacrimation were diagnosed . in patients with seventh and ninth cranial nerve pathoses , evaluation of the end organs that are supplied by their associated autonomous nerve fibers is mandatory to prevent late ocular and oral sequelae . 
radiculomegaly of canines and congenital cataracts -- a syndrome ? radiculomegaly of single teeth is very uncommon . our survey indicates that the canine tooth is most frequently affected . although illustrated in a number of texts of dental anatomy , there is a lack of detailed case reports . 
scientific basis for medical therapy of cataracts by antioxidants . cataract is one of the major causes of age-dependent visual impairment and blindness . the geographic distribution of cataract is known to be associated with the intensity and duration of sunlight -- especially of the ultraviolet frequency -- at particular places . exposure of animals and humans to oxygen has also been known to result in cataract formation . studies described in this communication indicate that the ocular lens is physiologically damaged when exposed to an environment of active species of oxygen , commonly referred to as oxyradicals . several photochemical and nonphotochemical models have been described . the results suggest that an intraocular generation of active oxygen may constitute a significant risk factor in the overall pathogenesis of senile cataracts . the cataractogenic effect of oxyradicals , however , can be thwarted by nutritional and metabolic antioxidants such as ascorbate , vitamin e , and pyruvate . these agents , therefore , may be useful for prophylaxis or therapy against cataracts . 
a possible role for vitamins c and e in cataract prevention . biochemical evidence suggests that oxidative stress caused by accumulation of free radicals is involved in the pathogenesis of senile cataracts . if so , appropriate amounts of the antioxidant vitamins c and e might be expected to prevent or retard the process . such activity has been observed in several in vitro and in vivo studies of experimentally-induced cataracts . a recent epidemiologic study found that cataract patients tended to have lower serum levels of vitamins c , e , or carotenoids than did control subjects . the present investigation , which compared the self-reported consumption of supplementary vitamins by 175 cataract patients with that of 175 individually matched , cataract-free subjects , revealed that the latter group used significantly more supplementary vitamins c and e ( p = 0.01 and 0.004 , respectively ) . because the results suggested a reduction in the risk of cataracts of at least 50 % , a randomized , controlled trial of vitamin supplementation in cataract prevention may be warranted . 
epidemiologic evidence of a role for the antioxidant vitamins and carotenoids in cataract prevention . the relationship between antioxidant nutrient status and senile cataract was examined in 77 subjects with cataracts and 35 control subjects with clear lenses . subjects with low ( below the 20th percentile ) and moderate ( 20th-80th percentiles ) plasma nutrient and nutrient intake levels of vitamin c , vitamin e , and carotenoids were compared with subjects with high levels ( above the 80th percentile ) . the odds ratio ( or ) of cortical ( cx ) cataract among subjects with low plasma carotenoid levels was 7.2 ( p less than 0.05 ) and the or of posterior subcapsular ( psc ) cataract for persons with low plasma vitamin c was 11.3 ( p less than 0.10 ) . low vitamin c intake was associated with an increased risk of cx ( or = 3.7 , p less than 0.10 ) and psc ( or = 11.0 , p less than 0.05 ) cataract . subjects who consumed fewer than 3.5 servings of fruit or vegetables per day had an increased risk of both cx ( or = 5.0 , p less than 0.05 ) and psc cataract ( or = 12.9 , p less than 0.01 ) . 
causes of failure after repeat vitreoretinal surgery for recurrent proliferative vitreoretinopathy . during the last two years , we performed vitreoretinal surgery on 37 eyes with retinal detachments and recurrent severe proliferative vitreoretinopathy in 37 patients who had had previous failed scleral buckling and vitreous surgery for proliferative vitreoretinopathy . anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy was present in 32 of 37 eyes ( 86 % ) ; posterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy of fixed retinal folds in four quadrants of narrow or closed funnel shape occurred in 23 of 37 eyes ( 62 % ) ; and subretinal proliferation was noted in 16 of 37 eyes ( 43 % ) . the retinas in 12 eyes ( 32 % ) redetached from new or recurrent anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy in nine eyes , reopening of pre-existing retinal breaks in two eyes , or recurrent posterior periretinal proliferation in one eye . with additional vitreoretinal procedures in six eyes and after a mean follow-up period of 11 months , 27 of 37 retinas ( 73 % ) were totally reattached , and an additional five eyes ( 13 % ) had retinal reattachment posterior to the scleral buckle . of the 32 patients with posterior retinal reattachment , final visual acuity of 5/200 or better was attained in 19 eyes ( 59 % ) . 
prevalence of lattice degeneration and its relation to axial length in severe myopia . we studied 436 eyes of 218 patients with myopia of -6.00 diopters or more in both eyes . of 218 patients , 72 ( 33.0 % ) had lattice degeneration of the retina . among these 72 patients , lattice lesions were uniocular in 39 ( 54.2 % ) and binocular in 33 ( 45.8 % ) . of 105 males , 33 ( 31.4 % ) had lattice degeneration ; of 113 females , 39 ( 34.5 % ) had lattice degeneration . contrary to previously published data , we found an inverse relationship between axial length and the prevalence of lattice degeneration in severely myopic eyes . the greatest prevalence of lattice degeneration ( 63 of 154 eyes , 40.9 % ) was found in eyes with an axial length of 26.0 to 26.9 mm ( -6.00 to -8.70 diopters ) , and the least prevalence of lattice degeneration ( five of 71 eyes , 7.0 % ) was found in eyes with an axial length of 32.0 mm ( -24.00 diopters ) or greater . this may explain the observation that retinal detachment after cataract surgery has been noted more commonly among patients with moderate than severe myopia . 
signs , complications , and platelet aggregation in familial exudative vitreoretinopathy . between 1979 and 1989 , i examined 106 patients ( 16 pedigrees ) with signs of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy . of these patients , 101 had familial exudative vitreoretinopathy , and five had a sporadic manifestation . the complications of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy , deformation of the posterior retina , vitreous hemorrhage , amblyopia , and retinal detachment , caused diminished visual acuity . of 170 eyes , retinal neovascularization was observed in 18 eyes ( 11 % ) , and retinal exudates were observed in 16 eyes ( 9 % ) . several forms of retinal detachment occurred in 37 of 180 eyes ( 21 % ) , which often took an unfavorable course . a falciform retinal fold was observed in 14 eyes ( 8 % ) . retinal surgery was performed in 14 eyes ; reattachment of the retina was successful in only seven eyes . platelet aggregation studies disclosed no significant differences between seven patients with familial exudative vitreoretinopathy and ten control subjects . the pathogenesis of the disease is based on a premature arrest of the vascular development of the retina . 
photic retinal injury from endoillumination during vitrectomy . we treated a patient who developed a paramacular area of light-induced retinal damage after endoscopic epimacular membrane removal . postoperative color photographs showed complete absence of the membrane , but fluorescein angiography demonstrated a previously absent superior paramacular lesion consistent with a photic injury . operative microscope illumination had been eliminated by corneal shielding , which implicated endoillumination as the source of injury . we recommend the following procedures to avoid this complication : careful planning of vitreous surgery for epimacular membrane removal ; using filters ; minimizing the length of surgery ; keeping the light output low ; maintaining maximal light pipe distance from the retina ; eccentric orientation of the light pipe ; and use of intermittent and variable site illumination techniques . 
light damage in detached retina . we injected homologous fibroblasts over the retinal vascular wing in five rabbits to induce a tractional retinal detachment . eleven days later , a focal area of detachment was exposed to 30 minutes of visible light by an intraocular fiberoptic probe . histologic damage to the detached retina exposed to light was demonstrated . the outer retina was affected most severely . 
correlation between intraocular pressure control and progressive glaucomatous damage in primary open-angle glaucoma . fifty-five patients with primary open-angle glaucoma and early glaucomatous damage who had medical therapy and laser trabeculoplasty were followed up for four to 11 years or until progressive glaucomatous damage was documented . factors associated with the stability or progression of glaucoma were evaluated . eyes with mean intraocular pressure higher than 21 mm hg during the follow-up period uniformly had progressive glaucomatous changes . conversely , eyes with mean intraocular pressure less than 17 mm hg remained stable , and approximately half of the eyes with mean intraocular pressure between 17 and 21 mm hg had progressive glaucomatous changes . patients who remained stable were slightly younger than those with progressive glaucomatous changes ( p less than .05 ) , but initial optic nerve head appearance , initial visual field findings , number of medicines used , medical history , and patient gender or race were not statistically associated with stability or progression of the glaucoma . these findings reinforce the importance of intraocular pressure control in primary open-angle glaucoma and the need to identify other markers that help determine the proper level of intraocular pressure for individual patients . 
a new method for documenting lens opacities . we tested an anterior segment camera and digital analyzer on 32 eyes of 22 patients to determine whether its measurement of lens opacities correlated with measurements obtained by a standardized clinical grading system . the lenses were graded clinically for nuclear opacity , nuclear color , cortical opacity , and posterior subcapsular opacity . the lenses were then photographed and analyzed with this new device , and the results were compared . the camera system showed good reproducibility . its results correlated well with the clinical gradings for nuclear capacity ( p = .001 ) and cortical opacity ( p = .001 ) but less well with posterior subcapsular opacity ( p = .3 ) , although there were only seven eyes with posterior subcapsular opacities . this camera system could help document and follow up lens opacity with more accuracy and reproducibility than has been previously possible . 
surgical management of oculomotor nerve palsy we treated seven patients with unilateral oculomotor nerve palsy by transposition of the insertion of the superior oblique tendon to a point anterior and medial to the insertion of the superior rectus muscle without trochleotomy ( scott procedure ) . additionally , large recessions of the lateral rectus muscle of involved eyes and , occasionally , recess/resect procedures of horizontal recti muscles of non-involved eyes were performed . all patients were followed up between one and eight years . orthophoria in the primary position was achieved and maintained with one operation in four patients . a fifth patient had only a small residual exotropia . in two patients who had aberrant regeneration of the oculomotor nerve , surgery on horizontal recti muscles of the noninvolved eye improved the eyelid position of the involved eye after three operations . 
causes of failure after initial vitreoretinal surgery for severe proliferative vitreoretinopathy . we performed initial vitreoretinal surgery on 81 eyes with rhegmatogenous retinal detachments complicated by severe proliferative vitreoretinopathy . of 81 eyes , 68 ( 84 % ) had undergone previous scleral buckling . we performed vitreous base dissection on all 18 eyes ( 22 % ) that had anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy . with one vitreoretinal operation , 66 of 81 eyes ( 81 % ) remained totally reattached . the main cause of initial anatomic failure and reoperation was either new or recurrent proliferation at the vitreous base . with additional vitreoretinal surgery and after a mean follow-up period of 19 months , 73 of 81 retinas ( 90 % ) were totally reattached . the final causes of anatomic failure were anterior proliferative vitreoretinopathy and proliferation from relaxing retinotomies . of the 73 successfully reattached eyes , 62 ( 85 % ) had postoperative visual acuity of 5/200 or better . 
epidemiologic characteristics , predisposing factors , and etiologic diagnosis of corneal ulceration in nepal . corneal ulceration is one of the most frequent causes of blindness in developing countries . between september 1985 and august 1987 , 405 patients with corneal ulceration were examined at tribhuvan university teaching hospital in kathmandu , nepal . males and females were equally affected . the most common predisposing cause of ulceration was corneal trauma , usually with organic agricultural materials . microorganisms were grown from 324 ( 80 % ) of the ulcers . pure bacterial cultures were obtained from 256 ( 63.2 % ) of the patients , whereas pure fungal cultures were obtained from 27 ( 6.7 % ) of the patients . in 41 patients ( 10.1 % ) , corneal cultures yielded a mixed growth of bacteria and fungi . of a total of 398 bacterial isolates , 124 ( 31.1 % ) were positive for streptococcus pneumoniae , the most commonly isolated organism in the series . other frequently isolated bacteria included staphylococcus epidermidis , s. aureus , and pseudomonas species . of 68 positive fungal isolates obtained , 32 ( 47.0 % ) were identified as aspergillus species . candida species and fusarium species were less commonly seen . 
herpes zoster ophthalmicus and iris cysts . herpes zoster ophthalmicus has been associated with numerous complications such as neuropathy , keratitis , anterior uveitis , and neuralgia . to my knowledge , there have been no reports of secondary iris cyst formation . i hereby report the case of a patient who developed an iris cyst during a herpes zoster ophthalmicus infection . 
blunt ocular trauma secondary to " war games " . " war games " are gaining popularity in the western united states . these recreational contests involve members of one team attempting to shoot their opponents with high-velocity dye or paint pellets fired from air guns . unfortunately , serious eye injuries occur when participants do not use protective eye wear . we report a case of severe blunt ocular trauma resulting in a hyphema , choroidal rupture , and retinal and vitreal hemorrhage secondary to a paint pellet striking an unprotected eye . this injury resulted in a significant visual defect in this patient . 
aphakic visual fields by automated perimetry . accurate testing of the visual field of aphakic patients is demanding due to the optical distortion induced by high plus corrective lenses . this testing procedure can be improved by using an aspheric contact lens instead of a full-aperture loose trial lens . we found that the contact lens enhances the ability of the pattern-deviation printout of the statpac analysis to identify glaucomatous visual field abnormalities in program 30-2 of the humphrey visual field analyzer . 
childhood blindness in peru . a survey of childhood blindness in peruvian children was done . although most causes of blindness were due to congenital and hereditary conditions , measles accounted for almost 10 % of blindness . with widespread measles immunization , this preventable cause of blindness in children can be eliminated or dramatically reduced . 
the predictability of infant visual-evoked response testing on future visual acuity . we reviewed the records of 27 infants with abnormal eye examinations and visual-evoked response ( ver ) testing ( mean age , 10.5 months ) who subsequently underwent a long-term follow-up ophthalmology examination ( mean duration , 41 months ) . the infants were initially diagnosed with various ocular disorders including cortical blindness ( eight ) , optic nerve hypoplasia ( six ) , congenital cataract ( two ) , and retinopathy of prematurity ( one ) . standard optotype visual-acuity determinations were available in the follow-up records of 11 children ( 21 eyes ) , and fixation behavior was obtained in the remaining 16 children ( 32 eyes ) . results revealed that pattern-reversal ver p1 latency was predictive ( 87 % ) of whether visual acuity was equal to ( or better than ) or worse than 20/100 and whether a patient would have good fixation behavior ( fix and follow , ff ) or poor fixation ( no ff ) ( 86 % ) ( p less than .001 ) . although flash ver p1 latency was also predictive of later visual acuity or good fixation ( 73 % ) , it was not statistically significant . pattern ver p1 amplitude and flash ver p1 amplitude were not predictive of later visual function . the predictive power of pattern ver p1 latency for later visual function probably relates to its reflection of macular function and low variability . an analysis of the variability of each of the four ver factors in normal infants ( n = 50 ) indicated that pattern ver p1 latency was the least variable , and consequently most sensitive , ver factor for detecting and quantifying pathology . overall , the results of this retrospective study suggest that pattern ver p1 latency may have important predictive power for later visual function in infants with an initially abnormal ophthalmologic examination . 
clear ultraviolet blocking lenses for use by puva patients . it is well recognized that patients receiving photochemotherapy ( puva ) need to wear uv-blocking sunglasses on the day of ingestion of 8-methoxypsoralen . for many patients the wearing of tinted sun-glasses causes difficulties because they interfere with colour perception , reduce definition in conditions of low background light and often because they are considered ' cosmetically unacceptable ' . in this study the uv-blocking properties of a number of lenses with little or no tint were assessed . the following lenses or lens coatings were found to be suitable for use by puva patients : orcolite uv 400 , orma uvx , rodenstock lambda 400 , sola uv gard 400 and polaroid polarizing lenses . 
multidisciplinary treatment of primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma . a single-institution experience . orbital rhabdomyosarcoma accounts for one-fourth of the primary tumors in the head and neck region . modern treatment modalities have led to a 2-year survival rate of about 90 % in these patients . however , new therapeutic trials are designed to reduce complications and salvage more than 90 % of orbital cases . between 1979 and 1990 , 12 children affected by primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma have been diagnosed and treated at the university of naples . ten of them have been uniformly treated by biopsy , followed by immediate radiation and combined chemotherapy . all 12 patients are alive and free of detectable disease , from a minimum of 7 months to a maximum of 123 months after diagnosis . in all children , ocular structures have been spared and the complications observed until now have been few . the above results suggest that the association of immediate radiation therapy and chemotherapy might represent an optimal tool for treatment of orbital rhabdomyosarcoma . 
heterogeneity of autoantibodies against thyroid peroxidase in autoimmune thyroid disease : evidence against antibodies directly inhibiting peroxidase activity as regulatory factors in thyroid hormone metabolism . the close relationship between thyroid microsomal antigen and thyroid peroxidase ( tpo ) is now well established . the present study evaluates the significance of autoantibodies against tpo ( anti-tpo-abs ) in the various forms and stages of autoimmune thyroid disease with respect to a possible heterogeneous nature and particularly to their influence on tpo activity . when measured by a ria using purified human tpo , anti-tpo-abs were highly correlated with microsomal antibodies determined by enyzme-linked immunosorbant assay ( r = 0.96 ; p less than 0.0001 ) and with the results of a tpo immunoprecipitation assay using crude microsomal preparations ( r = 0.76 ; p less than 0.001 ) . relating the results of these assays to the reactivities of patients ' sera with thyroid microsomes in immunoblot under nonreducing and reducing conditions , discordant results could be observed in a few cases . further analysis of these data indicate a heterogeneous nature of anti-tpo-abs , which react with at least two antigenic domains of the tpo molecule . the comparative analysis of patients with hyperthyroid graves ' disease , patients with graves ' disease in clinical remission , and patients with hypothyroid hashimoto 's thyroiditis revealed no significant differences in the antibody spectrum . when evaluating the direct influence of anti-tpo-abs on the activity of tpo under a rigorous methodological approach , we found no significant inhibition of the enzymatic activity by any of the sera investigated from patients with autoimmune thyroid disease compared to that in sera from normal controls . in conclusion , the data indicate a heterogeneous nature of anti-tpo-abs . the spectrum of antigenic epitopes recognized by anti-tpo-abs seems not to be significantly different in the various forms and stages of autoimmune thyroid disease . the lack of an inhibitory effect of autoantibodies on tpo activity argues against direct binding of autoantibodies to the enzymatic sites of tpo and indicates that they are not important factors in producing thyroid dysfunction in autoimmune thyroid disease . 
ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis associated with sensorineural deafness sensorineural deafness is rarely associated with both ulcerative colitis and giant cell arteritis . a patient is described in whom acute sensorineural deafness occurred in association with episcleritis , ulcerative colitis and clinical features suggesting giant cell arteritis . 
the natural history of non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy . seventy one patients with non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy were studied retrospectively . sixty three ( 89 % ) were followed to the end of the study or death , mean follow up time was 5.3 years . whilst twenty ( 28 % ) had diabetes or hypertension , in thirty nine ( 55 % ) no predisposing condition was identified . in those who had monocular disease at presentation ( 68 ) , subsequent involvement of the second eye occurred in seventeen ( 25 % ) , seven within the first year . nineteen patients died within the study period . of these , nine died from myocardial infarction and four from cerebrovascular disease . this is a significant increase above figures calculated from the office of population census and surveys ( p less than 0.001 for all causes , p less than 0.002 for myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular disease ) . such an increase in mortality has not been previously reported , and implies that this condition carries a more sinister systemic prognosis than is frequently supposed . 
visual evoked potential monitoring of optic nerve function during surgery . a study was made with intra-operative flash -- visual evoked potentials ( vep ) monitored using a fibre-optic/contact lens photo stimulator in 57 patients undergoing intra-orbital surgical procedures with potential risk to the optic nerve . the veps recorded under enflurane and nitrous oxide anaesthesia did not differ significantly in latency or amplitude from the pre-operative recordings . transient abolition of the vep was seen under many circumstances and did not correlate with the outcome of surgery , but absence of a previously normal vep for more than four minutes during surgical manipulation within the orbit did show a correlation with post operative impairment of vision . the technique provides early warning to the surgeon of threats to the integrity of the optic nerve . 
sick building syndrome . " sick building syndrome " ( sbs ) is one of the more colorful terms describing an increasingly common pattern of symptoms found among workers in modern office buildings . core symptoms include lethargy , mucous membrane irritation , headache , eye irritation , and dry skin . to prompt a diagnosis of sbs , these otherwise common symptoms must be " excessively " reported and primarily " work-related . " the world health organization now estimates that 30 % of new or remodeled office buildings show signs of sbs , and that between 10 % and 30 % of the occupants of these buildings are affected by sbs . despite such figures , sbs remains poorly researched and even more poorly understood . the following review provides the clinician an overview of sbs that will allow a more accurate differential diagnosis and will help to prevent the widespread suffering that can accrue when sbs is not quickly recognized . 
orbital inflammatory disease associated with systemic lupus erythematosus . orbital inflammatory disease in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus is rare and presents a diagnostic dilemma as well as a therapeutic challenge . ours appears to be the sixth such case reported in the literature . 
pharmacokinetics of ganciclovir in a patient undergoing hemodialysis . the pharmacokinetics and effect of hemodialysis on the clearance of ganciclovir were evaluated in a patient with cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) retinitis and pneumonitis requiring dialytic support . a dose of 300 mg ganciclovir ( 5 mg/kg ) was administered by intravenous infusion over a 60-minute period . blood samples were obtained over the next 10 hours and used to assess plasma ganciclovir concentrations . the patient underwent hemodialysis the following day during which paired arterial and venous blood samples were obtained to determine dialyzer clearance of this antiviral agent . high-performance liquid chromatography was used to quantify ganciclovir plasma concentrations . ganciclovir levels declined in a monoexponential manner following infusion and prior to dialysis . the patient 's peak ganciclovir concentration was markedly elevated ( 20 micrograms/ml ) compared with previously reported peak concentrations in patients with normal renal function . similarly , the elimination half-life ( t1/2 ) was increased ( 6.3 hours ) in this patient compared with values reported in patients with normal renal function . the volume of distribution ( 0.21 l/kg ) and total body clearance prior to hemodialysis ( 35.5 ml/min ) were diminished in this patient . hemodialysis reduced ganciclovir levels by approximately 62 % with an extraction coefficient of 0.29 resulting in a dialyzer clearance of 48.3 ml/min . this supports supplementation of ganciclovir in patients receiving this antiviral agent when they are undergoing hemodialysis . additionally , close monitoring of ganciclovir concentrations in patients with abnormal renal function is necessary in order to make appropriate dosage adjustments . 
graves ' disease . current concepts . graves ' disease is an organ-specific autoimmune disorder . there is no universal agreement on the mechanism of graves ' disease , but the over-activity of the thyroid is due to an antibody capable of attaching to and activating the tsh receptor of follicular cells . there are other extrathyroidal features that are not caused either by this antibody or by hyperthyroidism . the clinical diagnosis is generally straightforward and can be confirmed by in vitro measurement of thyroid hormones and tsh . a measurement of radioiodine uptake is also valuable . treatment is not specific for the immunologic defect , but its purpose is to lower the thyroid hormone levels to normal . this can be achieved with antithyroid medication , radioiodine iodine-131 , or thyroidectomy . in most clinical situations , a strong argument can be made for iodine-131 therapy , which is safe and definitive , although posttreatment hypothyroidism and the need for lifelong thyroxine are to be expected . 
the ophthalmopathy of graves ' disease . fortunately , most patients with thyroid-related eye disease have mild ocular involvement that spontaneously involutes . less than 5 % of patients with hyperthyroidism will develop sufficiently severe ocular abnormalities that will require surgical intervention . most patients with thyroid eye findings should be symptomatically managed . some will require use of either topical drops or oral steroids to alleviate their eye problems . in approximately one half of those patients who present acutely with severe thyroid orbital finding , nonsurgical therapies will be sufficient to control their eye disease . in the other half , eventually multiple surgical procedures may be required , and as discussed previously , the timing and sequence of those procedures are crucial to achieve optimal results . 
lower eyelid retraction : a minimal incision surgical approach to retractor lysis . lower eyelid retraction associated with prior blepharoplasty , trauma , or other conditions is a challenging problem for the ophthalmic surgeon . we describe a procedure involving tightening the lower eyelid and supraplacing the lateral canthus in combination with in-glove lysis of the lower eyelid retractors and scar tissue . this is accomplished through a small lateral incision . to date , we have treated over 200 eyelids using this technique with excellent results . we recommend this technique for the treatment of mild to moderate degrees of lower eyelid retraction . 
a method for performing full-thickness , orthotopic , penetrating keratoplasty in the mouse . in an attempt to overcome the lack of well characterized , inbred , and congenic strains , as well as a paucity of immunological reagents , in rabbit and rat models , we have developed a procedure for performing full-thickness , penetrating keratoplasty in the mouse . one hundred percent of isografts ( balb/c onto balb/c ) were successful , while 83.3 % of allografts ( c3h onto balb/c ) failed . the use of a mouse model to study corneal graft failure will allow a critical evaluation of the role of a variety of immunological mediators in causing graft failure . 
glaucoma triple procedures : efficacy of intraocular pressure control and visual outcome . sixty-three glaucoma triple surgeries [ combined trabeculectomy , extracapsular cataract extraction ( ecce ) , and posterior-chamber intraocular lens ( pc-iol ) implantation ] were reviewed . intraocular pressure ( iop ) was controlled satisfactorily in all cases ; 25 % required additional glaucoma therapy but fewer glaucoma medications . eighty-six percent achieved 6/12 or better visual acuity . postoperative iop and visual acuity results were similar to those achieved by trabeculectomy or ecce/pc-iol , respectively . cumulative years of preoperative glaucoma therapy had an adverse effect on postoperative iop control . 
cyclocryotherapy in selected cases of congenital glaucoma . we investigated the efficacy of cyclocryotherapy , a procedure which destroys the ciliary epithelium , thereby decreasing the production of aqueous humor , by retrospectively studying 109 eyes with advanced primary congenital glaucoma that had undergone the procedure . the eyes were divided into two groups : group i comprised 75 eyes ( 69 % ) that had undergone conventional surgical procedures for congenital glaucoma prior to cyclocryotherapy ; group ii , 34 eyes ( 31 % ) that had not undergone any such previous procedures . all eyes were followed for at least 12 months after the last cyclocryotherapy . with " success " defined as " having an iop greater than or equal to 8 mmhg , greater than or equal to 19 mmhg with or without medication , " the success rate in all eyes was 30 % , with no significant difference between the success rates in groups i and ii ( p greater than .05 ) . chronic hypotony ( iop less than 8 mmhg ) was found in seven eyes ( 6 % ) . six eyes ( 6 % ) developed cataract during the course of treatment with cyclocryotherapy . cyclocryotherapy appears to be a reasonable addition to the treatment of eyes with advanced , uncontrolled , primary congenital glaucoma . 
pressure-curve variations after trabeculectomy for chronic primary open-angle glaucoma . we report the results of a 5-year study of the influence of trabeculectomy on the maximum intraocular pressure ( iop ) and the amplitude of its diurnal oscillation in 26 eyes ( 14 patients ) with open-angle glaucoma . pressure-curves were recorded before surgery and at 1 year and 5 years after surgery . the latter two pressure-curves demonstrated that trabeculectomy significantly reduced both the maximum iop and the amplitude of the oscillations below preoperative values . 
mycobacterium chelonei keratopathy with visual rehabilitation by a triple procedure . we report a chronic keratouveitis following an eye injury , the etiology of which remained obscure despite repeated corneal scrapings and cultures . eventually , the diagnosis was established by culturing mycobacterium chelonei from a corneal biopsy specimen . topical amikacin resolved active inflammation , but dense corneal scarring and a cataract remained . visual rehabilitation was achieved through a combined penetrating keratoplasty , extracapsular cataract extraction , and intraocular lens implantation . this case illustrates that there should be a high index of suspicion of atypical mycobacteria when faced with any unusual keratitis , particularly following penetrating injuries and corneal grafts . 
aminocaproic acid prophylaxis in traumatic hyphema . oral aminocaproic acid has been shown to be effective in clot stabilization and in the reduction of secondary bleeding rates in cases of traumatic hyphema . in a retrospective study of 105 patients treated during a 1-year period , we found the incidence of rebleeding in patients with traumatic hyphema who received aminocaproic acid prophylaxis was 2 % ; the incidence in those who did not was 25 % . 
factors associated with delay in diagnosis of childhood amblyopia . the prevention of permanent visual impairment from amblyopia is an important goal of pediatric vision screening . unfortunately , many cases of amblyopia are not diagnosed until the child is too old to benefit maximally from treatment . a review of patient records from the practice of a private pediatric ophthalmologist confirmed that late detection is a frequent occurrence among children with amblyopia who have had good access to health care . a case-control study was then used to identify factors associated with delayed diagnosis , in which children with an adverse outcome ( diagnosed at or after 5 years of age ) were compared with those with an optimal outcome ( diagnosed before 5 years of age ) . the chart review identified 161 children with amblyopia who participated in this study ; 75 had late diagnoses ( case patients ) and 86 served as control patients . children with early diagnoses more often had the following characteristics : a positive family history of strabismus , greater degrees of strabismus ( when strabismus was present ) , higher maternal educational level , greater parental suspicion that an eye problem existed , and an increased chance that the parents requested the eye examination that led to the diagnosis . the parents of children with late diagnoses expressed less concern over the seriousness of amblyopia but were more likely to report that their children had suffered adverse consequences of amblyopia . when diagnosed early , amblyopia was more often detected by the child 's primary health care provider . physicians of the children with early diagnoses more often reported compliance with both the american academy of pediatrics guidelines for vision screening in infancy and referral for vision problems . 
differentiation of detached retina and vitreous membrane with color flow doppler . the sonographic criteria for diagnosis of retinal detachment and vitreous membranes are well established , and in most cases a diagnosis can be made . however , in difficult cases , differentiation between the two may be difficult . in this study the use of high-resolution color flow doppler was evaluated for differentiating between retinal detachments and vitreous membranes . sonographic evaluation , including color flow doppler , was performed in 25 symptomatic eyes . seven eyes had areas of retinal detachment , all of which had detectable blood flow within at least a portion of the detached retina . fifteen eyes had vitreous hemorrhages or membranes in which no flow was detected . two diabetic patients with vitreous membranes and no retinal detachment did have flow detectable within the neovascular membranes . another patient , who had a complete choroid detachment after surgery , demonstrated good flow within the area of detachment . it is concluded that in difficult cases high-resolution color flow doppler can enable differentiation of an area of retinal detachment from a vitreous membrane in a patient without diabetes . 
pterygia : single-fraction postoperative beta irradiation . a retrospective evaluation was performed with records of 128 patients with 146 eyes that underwent applications of strontium-90 after pterygium excisions performed between 1982 and 1988 . with a median follow-up of 13 months , 135 eyes were evaluable . most pterygia ( 127 of 135 ) were treated with a single postoperative application of sr-90 that delivered 3,000 cgy of beta radiation in one fraction . the actuarial freedom from relapse was 87 % ; all recurrences occurred within the first 18 months , and 46 % of these within the first 3 months . of the 13 recurrences , 10 have been re-treated with surgery and a second course of beta irradiation with excellent results . all eight eyes for which follow-up was available had no evidence of disease . the ultimate control rate was 96.3 % for the series . correlation of various treatment parameters , including age , bilaterality , prior recurrence , and interval from surgery to irradiation , was performed , and no statistically significant difference was seen . no serious complications have developed . transient conjunctivitis and photophobia were almost universally seen , with five cases lasting beyond 5 months . the authors conclude that a single application of sr-90 after surgery is effective and safe in managing pterygia . 
aspergillus terreus endophthalmitis in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia . a 65-year-old woman with a 7-year history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with acute visual loss , pain , and redness in her right eye . results of stains and cultures of anterior chamber fluid were negative . neurologic problems , bronchopulmonary pneumonia , recurrent skin lesions , and a low-grade fever developed . progressive respiratory distress ensued , and the patient died 1 month after presentation . cultures from antemortem sputum and skin samples were positive for aspergillus terreus . postmortem histologic results showed extensive a terreus invasion of the posterior vitreous , retina , choroid , and anterior optic nerve . this organism was also found in histologic sections from the right adrenal gland , left kidney , thyroid , urinary bladder , right lung , skin , esophagus , sputum , vessels of the myocardium , and brain . to our knowledge , a terreus endophthalmitis has not been reported previously . 
the incidence of ulcerative keratitis among aphakic contact lens wearers in new england . we conducted a population-based incidence study in five new england states to quantify the risk of ulcerative keratitis associated with contact lens use among aphakic persons . all practicing ophthalmologists in the five-state area were surveyed to identify prospectively all new cases of ulcerative keratitis during a 4-month period . the number of aphakic persons using specific types of contact lenses was estimated through a telephone survey of 4178 households identified by random digit dialing . the annualized incidence of ulcerative keratitis among aphakic persons using contact lenses was estimated to be 52 cases per 10,000 aphakic contact lens wearers ( 95 % confidence interval ( ci ) , 31.1 to 86.9 ) . the risk of ulcerative keratitis varied substantially by lens use , with extended wear having an estimated sevenfold greater risk relative to daily wear ( 95 % ci , 1.6 to 30.2 ) . rates of ulcerative keratitis in aphakic persons using contact lenses were much greater than rates among cosmetic wearers of the same lens type : for daily-wear lenses , aphakic persons were estimated to have 6.3 times the risk of cosmetic wearers ( 95 % ci , 1.9 to 21.0 ) , and for extended-wear lenses , aphakic persons were estimated to have 8.7 times the risk of cosmetic wearers ( 95 % ci , 3.5 to 21.9 ) . these risks are useful in assessing the benefits and risks of contact lens wear as an alternative to other methods of aphakic correction . 
limitation of retinal injury by vitreoperfusion initiated after onset of ischemia . we tested whether vitreoperfusion , a new method of perfusing the vitreous cavity with solutions containing nutrients , can limit retinal injury if initiated after the onset of ischemia . severe bilateral ocular ischemia was induced in cats with healed lensectomy-vitrectomy wounds ; 30 , 60 , 90 , or 120 minutes later , one eye from each of 18 cats underwent vitreoperfusion while the ischemia continued for 120 minutes . the other eye simultaneously underwent either continued untreated ischemia or reinstated circulation . the histopathologic abnormalities evident after 8 days depended on the duration of ischemia . reinstated circulation yielded less retinal damage than continued ischemia . nine additional cats underwent bilateral ischemia for at least 210 minutes . vitreoperfusion was initiated in one eye after 30 minutes . in each cat , the vitreoperfused eye fared significantly better as observed histopathologically and electroretinographically . we believe that no other treatment has similarly limited retinal injury in vivo when initiated so long after total ocular ischemia has developed . 
acepromazine . effects on intraocular pressure . we investigated the effects of the topical application of acepromazine maleate on the intraocular pressure ( iop ) in 27 adult rhesus monkeys . the monkeys were divided into two groups : group 1 ( 16 monkeys ) had both eyes normal , and group 2 ( 11 monkeys ) had experimental chronic glaucoma in one eye and a normal fellow eye . one drop of 1 % acepromazine maleate solution was instilled in one eye of monkeys in group 1 and in the glaucomatous eye of monkeys in group 2 ; the other eye served as the control . the iop was measured before drug administration and 1 , 4 , 8 , 24 , and 32 hours after , with detailed slit-lamp examination of the anterior segment . acepromazine produced no change in iop in eyes in group 1 , but it produced a fall in pressure in all eyes with high iop in group 2 , evident 1 hour after instillation , maximal between 4 and 8 hours , and still remaining after 32 hours . the pupil showed no change in size , but a transient ptosis was observed in the treated eye in all monkeys . 
exudative retinal detachment after photodynamic injury . exudative retinal detachments occur in a variety of retinal and choroidal diseases . we created serous retinal detachment in the cat eye by means of photodynamic injury produced by activation of intravascular rose bengal using filtered , focused light ( 550 nm ) . fluorescein angiography later revealed focal retinal and choroidal vascular occlusion surrounded by a larger area of leakage through the pigment epithelium . serous retinal detachments occurred rapidly , gradually enlarged over the next 3 days , and resolved in all eyes after 14 to 21 days . histopathologic and ultrastructural features of early lesions included the accumulation of proteinaceous fluid in the subretinal space , pigment epithelial cell damage , and localized occlusion of retinal vessels and the choriocapillaris . later changes consisted of limited regeneration of the retina and portions of the tapetum . in several respects , these experimental detachments resemble the serous retinal detachments associated with choroidal ischemia in humans , and may serve as a useful model in the study of choroidal microvascular hypoperfusion . 
conjunctival retraction suture for fornix adjustable strabismus surgery . the fornix approach to strabismus surgery is advantageous because the incision is made under the eyelid , there is no need for conjunctival sutures , it is comfortable for the patient , and there is minimal postoperative scarring . the major disadvantage of the fornix approach for the adjustable suture technique has been poor exposure to the muscle-suture apparatus and poor postoperative knot exposure . we describe herein the use of a subconjunctival retraction suture for adjustable suture surgery with the fornix approach . this suture retracts the conjunctiva , exposing the adjustable muscle-suture apparatus while simultaneously fixating the globe . a novel way of tying the noose around the pole sutures and preventing noose slippage is also presented . this technique provides excellent exposure , fixation of the globe , and complete coverage of the knot with conjunctiva after adjustment . 
multiple-dose , dose-response relationship for the topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitor mk-927 . the multiple-dose , dose-response curve of mk-927 was studied in a five-center , double-masked , randomized , placebo-controlled , parallel study of 2 % , 1 % , and 0.5 % mk-927 in 76 patients with bilateral primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension and intraocular pressure greater than 24 mm hg following washout of ocular hypotensive medications . patients received doses at 8 am and 8 pm for 14 days , and parallel 12-hour intraocular pressure curves were performed prestudy and on day 14 , with 4-hour curves on days 1 and 4 . there was a significant dose-response relationship , with 0.5 % mk-927 twice daily being a minimal-effect dose . both 1 % and 2 % mk-927 were active through 12 hours postdose , and peak mean percent decrease in pressure at 2 hours postdose was 18.6 % and 20.6 % , respectively . 
multiple-dose efficacy comparison of the two topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors sezolamide and mk-927 . the multiple-dose twice-daily efficacy of the topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitor mk-927 , a racemic compound , was compared with that of its pharmacologically more active s-enantiomer in a four-center , double-masked , randomized , placebo-controlled , parallel study of 1.8 % sezolamide hydrochloride ( mk-417 ) , 2 % mk-927 , and placebo , given twice daily to 48 patients with bilateral primary open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension and morning intraocular pressure greater than 24 mm hg in both eyes following washout of ocular hypotensive medications . parallel 10-hour modified diurnal curves were performed before the study and on day 14 , with 4-hour curves on days 1 and 4 . both compounds demonstrated significant lowering of intraocular pressure at 8 am , 12 hours following the evening dose , and through 10 and 6 hours following the 8 am dose for sezolamide and mk-927 , respectively . morning trough ( evening ) activity as measured by mean percent change in intraocular pressure from prestudy was -9.2 % for sezolamide and -11.1 % for mk-927 ( -13.5 % and -9.6 % ) ; peak effect occurred 2 hours after dose administration and was -19.4 % and -19.2 % for sezolamide and mk-927 , respectively . from 2 hours after dose administration , sezolamide consistently demonstrated a slightly greater decrease in intraocular pressure than mk-927 ; however , these differences were not statistically significant . 
endophthalmitis from contaminated donor corneas following penetrating keratoplasty . we encountered six ( 0.2 % ) cases of endophthalmitis resulting from contaminated donor corneas between january 1983 and july 1990 following a total of 3000 consecutive penetrating keratoplasties . causative organisms in the three cases of fungal endophthalmitis were torulopsis glabrata , candida albicans , and aspergillus flavus ; the three cases of bacterial endophthalmitis were due to klebsiella pneumoniae , staphylococcus aureus , and enterococcus faecalis . all organisms were resistant to gentamicin in the preservation media . a significantly higher incidence of endophthalmitis was noted in patients receiving corneas from a sri lankan eye bank ( 1.25 % ) than in those receiving us eye bank tissue ( 0.14 % ) . donor rim cultures are important to identify those patients at increased risk of developing endophthalmitis , enabling earlier diagnosis and more specific treatment should endophthalmitis occur . 
chronic postoperative endophthalmitis associated with actinomyces species . actinomyces species , gram-positive , non-spore-forming anaerobic bacilli were isolated from intraocular fluid obtained from four otherwise healthy patients with a delayed onset of postoperative endophthalmitis . one patient had a mixed anaerobic infection with recovery of both actinomyces israelii and propionibacterium acnes . in all four patients , early postoperative visual acuity was good but was eventually markedly reduced by intraocular inflammation that was first observed between 21 days and 4 months following uneventful extracapsular cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation . inflammation was characterized by anterior segment and vitreous cellular debris in all cases . all eyes responded to therapy that included intraocular , topical , and systemic antibiotics as well as pars plana vitrectomy and partial iridectomy . these cases further illustrate the need for microbiologic investigation , including anaerobic cultures , in all cases of chronic postoperative inflammation following extracapsular cataract extraction , regardless of the time of onset . 
penetrating ocular injury from contaminated eating utensils . although the rate of infectious endophthalmitis following penetrating ocular injury is generally less than 10 % , certain settings may carry a greater risk of infection . one such setting is penetrating injury resulting from eating utensils contaminated with oral flora . we reviewed six of these injuries . culture-positive bacterial endophthalmitis developed in four of the six eyes ; only one of the eyes retained reading visual acuity ( greater than 20/50 ) and two eyes lost light perception . the potential for infection and limited visual outcome in this series warrants aggressive prophylaxis and treatment . the unexpected isolation of haemophilus influenzae in two of the four infections suggests that broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment should be considered in all such injuries since less common organisms may be encountered . 
systemic sulfonamides as a cause of bilateral , anterior uveitis . between september 1976 and may 1989 , 12 cases of uveitis attributed to the systemic use of sulfonamide derivatives were reported to the national registry of drug-induced ocular side effects and the us food and drug administration . we evaluated these reports in addition to one case previously reported in the literature and one patient seen at the uveitis clinic , oregon health sciences university , portland . the patients ' median age was 34 years . twelve of 14 patients were treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . all patients for whom the location of the eye disease was specified presented with an iritis . six reports included a description of ocular symmetry , with all patients having bilateral inflammation . of the nine patients for whom data on the duration of drug use was available , seven experienced adverse effects within 8 days of beginning trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole therapy and four showed effects within 24 hours . three patients had histories of rechallenge with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole , and in each case acute iritis recurred within 24 hours of reinstitution of therapy . five patients had additional evidence of an adverse reaction manifested as stevens-johnson syndrome , erythema multiforme , diffuse macular or vesicular rashes , stomatitis , glossitis , conjunctival and scleral injection , and granulomatous hepatitis . the consistent presentation including bilateral , anterior inflammation and the recurrence with rechallenge strongly indicate a cause-effect relationship . although uveitis secondary to sulfonamides is a rarely diagnosed clinical event , recognition of the distinct presentation of this entity is important in the differential diagnosis of uveitis . 
the relationship of visual acuity , refractive error , and pupil size after radial keratotomy . to better define the relationship between residual refractive error , uncorrected visual acuity , and pupil diameter , we compared 42 eyes that had an eight-incision radial keratotomy according to the prospective evaluation of radial keratotomy study protocol with 42 matched control eyes . the parameters measured were best corrected visual acuity , uncorrected visual acuity , and the change in cycloplegic refraction with enlarging pupil diameter . the best corrected visual acuity was 20/16 in both the radial keratotomy and control groups , but the variability ( sd ) was higher in the radial keratotomy group . the average uncorrected visual acuity was 0.35 ( 35 % ) better in the radial keratotomy group , but the variability was 1.77 times higher . change in refraction with dilation occurred in 9 % of the controls and 36 % of the radial keratotomy patients , indicating a significant difference ( p = .002 ) . the change in refraction with dilation in the eyes with radial keratotomy was almost equally split between a hyperopic change ( 17 % ) and a myopic change ( 18 % ) , which was much different than in the control eyes , only 2 % of which changed in a hyperopic direction and 7 % in a myopic direction . the radial keratotomy patients with a myopic change had the best uncorrected visual acuity , indicating that positive spherical aberration yielded the best aspherical surface for uncorrected visual acuity . 
clinically detectable nerve fiber atrophy precedes the onset of glaucomatous field loss . standardized perimetry and nerve fiber layer and color fundus photography were performed annually on 1344 eyes with elevated intraocular pressures . in 83 eyes , glaucomatous field defects developed that met rigid criteria on manual kinetic and suprathreshold static perimetry . individual nerve fiber layer photographs were read by two masked observers . the more sensitive of the two identified nerve fiber layer defects in 88 % of readable photographs at the time field loss first occurred ; 60 % ( 6/10 ) of eyes already had nerve fiber layer defects 6 years before field loss . in contrast , the nerve fiber layer was considered abnormal in only 11 % ( 3/27 ) of normal eyes and 26 % ( 84/327 ) of hypertensive eyes . the location of nerve fiber layer and field defects closely corresponded , but nerve fiber layer loss was generally more widespread . examiner experience and severity of optic nerve damage influenced results . mild focal defects were more readily recognized than more severe diffuse atrophy . nerve fiber layer defects expanded with time , often by the development and coalescence of adjacent areas of damage . 
characteristics of oculomotor disorders of a family with joseph 's disease . the oculomotor abnormalities of 12 patients of a large japanese family with joseph 's disease were investigated and compared with those of 27 patients with olivopontocerebellar atrophy ( opca ) . all 12 patients had limitation of upward gaze , impairment of convergence and horizontal gaze nystagmus . however , none had abnormalities of pupillary shape or light reflexes . impairments of saccadic and pursuit eye movements were frequently present . further , difficulty of eyelid opening , bulging eyes , impairment of optokinetic and caloric responses and square wave jerks were seen in some of the patients . the autopsy examination of 1 patient revealed marked neuronal loss in the oculomotor nucleus with preservation of the edinger-westphal nucleus and neuronal decrease , myelin loss and gliosis of the dorsal midbrain including superior colliculus , pretectum and posterior commissures . disturbance of upward gaze , sparing of pupillary light reflexes and horizontal gaze nystagmus were frequent and early symptoms . the pattern of oculomotor disturbances is different from that of opca and evaluation of the oculomotor system is useful for clinical diagnosis of the disease . 
radiation safety considerations for post-iodine-131 hyperthyroid therapy . the purpose of this study was to develop guidelines based on patient measurements as to when iodine-131 - ( 131i ) treated hyperthyroid patients may resume close personal contact . external exposure rates were measured on 59 patients using an ionization survey meter in the upright position . the initial measurement was recorded within 20 min post-dose administration at one meter . exposure rates were measured 2-11 days post-dose administration at 1 , 0.6 , and 0.3 meters from the patient 's thyroid . in the administered dose range of 3 to less than 12 mci of 131i , all 40 patients measured less than or equal to 2.0 mr/hr at one meter on day 0 , and 25 patients ( 25/29 ) were less than or equal to 2.0 mr/hr at 0.6 meter on days 2-4 . guidelines can be prepared based on the administered dose that are rational and in conformity with existing radiologic health standards . 
treatment of exophthalmos . current procedures for graves ' exophthalmos fail to achieve complete correction . the standard orbital decompressions were therefore modified to maximize the degree of volumetric increase behind the axis of the globe . in 15 orbits , the preoperative exophthalmos averaged 9.5 mm , whereas the postoperative exophthalmos was 4.1 mm . postoperative ct study demonstrated that the remaining posterior orbital wall , combined with the persistently increased intraocular muscle volume , blocked retrodisplacement of the globe , despite adequate total volumetric increase . the increased muscle volume varied from 2 to 5 cc . despite this residual exophthalmos , the modified four-wall expansion provides excellent aesthetic results with visual improvement and resolution of chemosis and exposure keratitis . 
clinical features and natural history of von hippel-lindau disease the clinical features , age at onset and survival of 152 patients with von hippel-lindau disease were studied . mean age at onset was 26.3 years and 97 per cent of patients had presented by aged 60 years . retinal angioma was the first manifestation in 65 patients ( 43 per cent ) , followed by cerebellar haemangioblastoma ( n = 60 , 39 per cent ) and renal cell carcinoma ( n = 15 , 10 per cent ) . overall , 89 patients ( 59 per cent ) developed a cerebellar haemangioblastoma , 89 ( 59 per cent ) a retinal angioma , 43 ( 28 per cent ) renal cell carcinoma , 20 ( 13 per cent ) spinal haemangioblastoma and 11 ( 7 per cent ) a phaeochromocytoma . renal , pancreatic and epididymal cysts were frequent findings but their exact incidence was not accurately assessed . mean age at diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma ( 44.0 + / - 10.9 years ) was significantly older than that for cerebellar haemangioblastoma ( 29.0 + / - 10.0 years ) and retinal angioma ( 25.4 + / - 12.7 years ) . the probability of a patient with von hippel-lindan disease developing a cerebellar haemangioblastoma , retinal angioma or renal cell carcinoma by age 60 years was 0.84 , 0.7 and 0.69 , respectively . a comprehensive screening protocol for affected patients and at-risk relatives is presented , based on detailed analysis of age at onset data for each of the major complications . median actuarial survival was 49 years , with renal cell carcinoma the leading cause of death . 
vision despite tomographic absence of the occipital cortex . a 14-month-old boy with developmental delay showed microcephaly , spastic diplegia , central visual fixation and an esotropia . a head tomographic scan disclosed absence of normal occipital cortex and electroencephalography showed markedly reduced voltages over the occipital region . visual development in this patient may be related to heterotopic occipital cortex of a functioning non-striate system of visual processing . visual function can not be predicted when severe developmental anomalies of the occipital cortex are detected with computerized tomography . 
lyme disease : neurologic and ophthalmic manifestations . lyme disease is tick-borne infection which produces early and late manifestations in many organ systems . prominent symptoms and signs occur in skin , heart , joints and nervous system . many ocular and neuro-ophthalmic abnormalities recently have been attributed to lyme disease , but some cases have not been well established as direct sequelae . this review of the contemporary state of knowledge about lyme disease was undertaken so that more rigorous criteria can be applied in future diagnosis . 
systemic drug interactions with topical glaucoma medications . topically administered ophthalmic medications are capable of attaining clinically important serum concentrations , as evidenced by the variety of systemic side effects they can produce . these drugs are therefore also capable of interacting with other drugs administered orally and intravenously . this is especially important when medications are administered to an elderly population , who are often receiving multiple medications . the physician 's desk reference and the united states pharmacopeia drug information directory contain numerous warnings of potential interactions between topical glaucoma medications and systemically administered drugs . unfortunately , literature supporting such interactions is limited , both in quantity and quality , being anecdotal in many cases . this report summarizes available information regarding the nonocular interactions between topical ophthalmic glaucoma medications and other systemically administered medications . clinical evidence of these interactions is lacking in many cases . 
when do optic disc edema and peripheral neuropathy constitute poetry ? [ clinical conference ] a patient with chronic , bilateral optic disc edema developed multiple systemic manifestations of poems syndrome ( polyneuropathy , organomegaly , endocrinopathy , m-protein , skin changes ) . a serum immunoelectrophoresis showed an abnormal serum igg lambda protein , and urine immunoelectrophoresis revealed a monoclonal lambda protein plus an igg lambda fragment . bone survey and mri scan revealed a sclerotic lesion of the first lumbar vertebra , and lymph node biopsy showed changes consistent with castleman 's disease . thus , his optic disc edema was the presenting feature of the poems syndrome and osteosclerotic myeloma . 
fifty years in ophthalmology . this renowned glaucoma expert began his residency just as gonioscopy came into existence , to be followed shortly by tonography . in this memoir , dr. shaffer shares anecdotes and insights gained over a half century of ophthalmology practice . 
topical vancomycin for the treatment of staphylococcus epidermidis and methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus conjunctivitis . staphylococcus aureus and staphylococcus epidermidis are organisms that frequently cause conjunctivitis or blepharoconjunctivitis . we describe a patient with methicillin-resistant s. aureus and s. epidermidis conjunctivitis who was treated successfully using an extemporaneously prepared topical ophthalmic solution of vancomycin hydrochloride 31 mg/ml . studies describing the preparation , stability , and comfort of this solution , as well as reports pertaining to efficacy , are reviewed . controlled clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of vancomycin ophthalmic solution have not yet been performed . 
when is it safe to stop patching ? prior reports indicate that about half of amblyopia patients successfully treated with occlusion subsequently require maintenance patching . this retrospective study was designed to discover what clinical characteristics might be associated with a stable outcome following primary occlusion . included were 188 patients who : ( 1 ) had amblyopia related to strabismus , anisometropia or media opacity ; and ( 2 ) were followed up for at least one year after successful primary occlusion . patients who did not comply with treatment or who did not achieve equal vision were excluded . their ages ranged from 2 to 119 months ( mean 29 months ) . eighty-eight patients ( 47 % ) who required no further occlusion were designated the clinically stable group ( csg ) . the remaining 100 ( 53 % ) , who subsequently needed patching because of unequal acuities , constituted the maintenance patching group ( mpg ) . csg patients were older at the beginning ( mean 33 months ) and at the end ( mean 40 months ) of primary occlusion than were mpg patients ( means 26 and 31 months ) . primary occlusion was more likely to have been discontinued because of equal recognition acuities in csg patients , while equal fixation behaviour or preferential looking was more likely in mpg patients . distribution of diagnoses , severity of amblyopia at presentation , and length of follow-up were similar in the two groups . visual outcomes at last follow-up were slightly better in the csg ( p = 0.002 ) . we conclude that , in general , patching can be safely discontinued after the third birthday . although follow-up after primary occlusion is important to ensure stable results in all patients , preverbal children are more likely to require maintenance patching . 
peripheral contrast sensitivity in glaucoma and ocular hypertension . contrast sensitivity has been measured in patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension , the latter graded into high , medium , and low risk clinical groups . measurements were made centrally and peripherally at 10 degrees , 15 degrees , 20 degrees , and 25 degrees off-axis at each of the four meridians 45 degrees , 135 degrees , 225 degrees , and 315 degrees . a sine wave grating of 1.9 cycles/degree , reversing at 1 hz was used . it was displayed on a 100-hz refresh rate monitor . normal values were established to compare those from 41 eyes from patients with either primary open angle glaucoma ( poag ) with minimal field loss detectable on a humphrey perimeter , or raised iop and/or disc changes but no field loss ( oh ) . those with poag had normal central contrast sensitivity , but at 20 degrees and 25 degrees eccentricity the values were greater than 2 standard deviations above the normal mean . this was also the case for high risk oh , but not for low risk patients . all the high risk patients except one who had abnormal peripheral contrast sensitivity had possible field defects ( threshold elevation at one or more points more than 5 but less than 10 db above normal mean ) . only one of those with normal peripheral contrast sensitivity had such ' suspect points ' . the results are assessed in terms of screening of glaucoma suspects . 
precapsular film on the aging human lens : precursor of pseudoexfoliation ? in many older patients we observed a layer of subtle opacification on the anterior lens capsule , appearing as a ground glass film biomicroscopically . this precapsular film ( pcf ) could be uniform but often had radial grey lines in the mid zone , holes in the paracentral region , and was occasionally rolled up in strings . lens capsular material obtained at cataract extraction was studied in patients with and without the film . by scanning electron microscopy the pcf appeared as a friable , incomplete fibrillar layer , with rolling of the edges suggesting loose attachment . ultrastructurally its component fibrils were from 3-6 nm in diameter , similar to the finer fibrils in pseudoexfoliation ( psx ) material . life psx material the layer stained positively for the elastic microfibril-associated protein , fibrillin , in a lens with radial striations . these similarities suggested that the two conditions have some relationship and that the pcf may be a precursor of psx . finding patches of the fibrillar network in some control patients implies that the pcf is common in patients of cataract age , though seldom detected clinically . 
pathogenesis of corneal oedema associated with herpetic eye disease . corneal oedema and stromal disease , induced in rabbits by intrastromal injection of herpes simplex virus , type 1 , strain re ( hsv-1 , re ) , reached a peak of 12-15 days after infection . corneal oedema as measured by ultrasonic pachymetry , and stromal disease as measured by a subjective scoring system , were closely related for 30 days after infection . morphometric analysis of wide field specular micrographs showed that no immediate endothelial cell damage occurred in either control or hsv-1 infected corneas . alizarin red s staining of corneas taken during the period of most severe oedema indicated no significant endothelial cell loss ; however , visual inspection indicated numerous staining abnormalities . scanning and transmission electron microscopy provided evidence of an intact endothelial layer possessing integrated infiltrating cells . virus antigen could not be detected on endothelial cells by immunoperoxidase staining at any time during development of corneal oedema . the results indicate that corneal oedema associated with hsv-1 induced disease can occur in the absence of detectable virus replication and cytolysis of corneal endothelial cells . 
randomised single blind trial to compare the toxicity of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime in cataract surgery . comparatively little attention has been paid to the conjunctival toxicity of antibiotics administered at the time of cataract surgery . we have observed the effect of subconjunctival gentamicin and cefuroxime injection , using colour photography in a randomised single blind trial of 121 patients undergoing routine cataract surgery . our results suggest that a hyperaemic eye is likely to occur about twice as often in patients injected with gentamicin ( p less than 0.001 ) . gentamicin is associated with more pain postoperatively ( p less than 0.05 ) . significant manifestations of gentamicin toxicity are conjunctival oedema and capillary closure . cefuroxime has some theoretical advantages over gentamicin in its antibacterial spectrum . 
is thioridazine retinopathy progressive ? relationship of pigmentary changes to visual function . thioridazine toxicity has been described as a ' progressive chorioretinopathy ' , but this designation can be misleading . during the first year after thioridazine exposure retinal pigmentation evolves from a granular to a patchy or nummular appearance . however , visual function and the electroretinogram typically improve during this period . some cases may show chorioretinal atrophy and functional loss many years later , but there is little evidence for ongoing drug-related progression . late atrophy may represent degeneration of cells that were injured subclinically at the time of initial drug exposure . although thioridazine toxicity produces an evolving pigmentary disturbance , functional changes must be monitored independently of fundus appearance . 
diode laser trabeculoplasty ( dlt ) for primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension . a pilot study has been carried out to examine the efficacy of diode laser trabeculoplasty in the treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension . the device used was portable and could be attached to a standard slit-lamp microscope . powers of 0.8-1 .2 w were used , with a spot size of 100 microns and a pulse of 0.20 second . laser trabeculoplasty carried out on 20 eyes for glaucoma resulted in a mean ocular hypotensive effect of 10.2 mmhg at two weeks after treatment and of 9.55 mmhg at 6 months . it is concluded that diode laser trabeculoplasty is an effective mode of treatment for eyes with open-angle glaucoma or with ocular hypertension . 
infectious mononucleosis presenting as bilateral acute dacryocystitis . a case of infectious mononucleosis presenting as bilateral acute dacryocystitis in a 7-year-old girl is reported . acute dacryocystitis is uncommon in this age group , and an underlying systemic illness should be suspected particularly when it is bilateral . 
infestation of extraocular muscle by cysticercus cellulosae . reports of orbital cysticercosis are uncommon despite the high incidence of brain and ocular involvement . infestation of extraocular muscle is exceedingly rare . two cases of cysticercosis of the extraocular muscles are reported here . surgical removal of the encysted parasites successfully resolved the infestation in both cases . 
a century of cerebral achromatopsia . this review is an enquiry into why the early clinical evidence for a colour centre in the cerebral cortex of man was so successfully dismissed for the best part of a century . the imperfection of this evidence can not be the reason , for the same evidence that was rejected earlier is accepted today . instead , it was because the prevalent concepts of vision as a function , and of the role of the cerebral cortex in it , dominated facts and prevented acceptance of evidence showing a specialization for colour in the visual cortex . it was only after those concepts were overthrown by the demonstration of functional specialization in the visual cortex of the primate that the evidence for a colour centre in the human brain became acceptable . today , our new knowledge of the colour areas and pathways in the primate brain allows us to give a more complete account of the pathophysiology of cerebral achromatopsia in man . 
ocular muscle proprioception and visual localization of targets in man . passive deviation of one eye through 18 degrees , 30 degrees and 42 degrees , achieved by force applied to a sucked-on contact lens , caused the direction of visual targets seen by the other eye to be misjudged in the direction of the passive movement by an amount roughly one-sixth of the angle of passive deviation . the result was the same when the perceived direction was indicated by hand , as when the instant at which a moving target seemed straight ahead was signalled . this result is interpreted by considering that muscular efferents were identical in normal and eye-deviated subjects . the main difference between the two target localization conditions results from the proprioceptor output of the deviated eye . our data demonstrate that the assessment of the direction of a target seen by an eye that is free to move depends in part on information received by the brain from proprioceptors in the orbit ( in our case the contralateral orbit ) . it would be surprising if the ipsilateral orbit did not contribute as much or more . we therefore consider that this constitutes clear evidence against the pure outflow theory of visual direction judgement ( helmholz , 1867 ) , additional to that provided by the all-or-nothing situation of complete versus incomplete oculomotor paralysis . two models have previously been proposed to describe the function of the visual localization mechanism . both assume that the necessary information is derived from the coding of the position of the eye in the orbit , either through a copy of the muscular activation or through eye muscle proprioception . we propose an alternative model in which both afferent and efferent signals from all actively contracted or stretched muscles provide the necessary information to the cns . the data gathered so far from normal subjects made strabismic with a suction lens , and from a fair proportion of strabismic patients , support our model describing the mechanism of localization of a single punctate target in darkness . 
serum gastrin and blood glucose levels during halothane-nitrous oxide anaesthesia and strabismus surgery in children . the purpose of this study was to determine whether serum gastrin levels are increased by reflexogenic stimuli applied to the extrinsic muscles of the eye . serum gastrin and blood glucose concentrations were measured in ten normal children aged between 5 and 12 yr during general anaesthesia with halothane and nitrous oxide and during strabismus surgery . fasting basal concentrations of gastrin ( 33.6 + / - 14.8 pg.ml-1 ) and of glucose ( 4.43 + / - 0.72 mmol.l-1 ) were in the normal range of values for children . intravenous atropine ( 0.01 mg.kg-1 ) , general anaesthesia with halothane in nitrous oxide and oxygen by mask for three minutes , tracheal intubation , extraocular muscle stimulation and surgical stress did not cause any variation in the mean serum gastrin concentration . on the contrary , tracheal intubation and surgical stress increased blood glucose concentrations ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was no difference in the serum gastrin levels after extraocular muscle stimulation between children with positive or negative oculocardiac reflexes ( 44.5 + / - 16.7 pg.ml-1 vs 38 + / - 14.7 pg.ml-1 , respectively ) . the incidence of vomiting predischarge was 60 per cent . serum gastrin levels did not differ between children who vomited and children who did not ( 44.3 + / - 18.5 pg.ml-1 vs 47.1 + / - 16.9 pg.ml-1 , respectively ) . vomiting after strabismus surgery can not be attributed to high gastrin serum levels . consequently , it is unlikely that vomiting after strabismus surgery is linked to an " oculogastric reflex " with the vagus nerve as the efferent pathway . 
antiemetic prophylaxis with promethazine or droperidol in paediatric outpatient strabismus surgery . this randomized , double-blind study evaluated the antiemetic efficacy and the side-effects of promethazine pretreatment ( 0.5 mg.kg-1 iv + 0.5 mg.kg-1 im ) versus droperidol + placebo pretreatment ( droperidol , 0.075 mg.kg-1 iv + physiological saline , 0.02 ml.kg-1 im ) . one hundred unpremedicated asa physical status i children ranging from two to ten years , and undergoing outpatient strabismus surgery were studied . all children received inhalational anaesthesia with halothane , nitrous oxide and oxygen . neither opioids nor muscle relaxants were used . the incidence of vomiting and/or retching and the incidence of side-effects were determined in the post-anaesthesia recovery room ( parr ) , in the short-stay surgical unit ( sssu ) , and after discharge from the hospital ( including the journey and the stay at home during the first postoperative day ) . promethazine and droperidol were equally effective in reducing the incidence of vomiting before discharge to two and eight per cent respectively . on the contrary , the incidence of vomiting after discharge and overall were significantly less with promethazine ( ten and ten per cent ) than with droperidol pretreatment ( 54 and 56 per cent ) ( p less than 0.0001 ) . promethazine permitted the time to discharge from the hospital to be reduced to an average of three hours , without increasing the incidence of vomiting postdischarge . promethazine pretreatment is much less expensive than droperidol pretreatment . the incidence of restlessness was significantly less with droperidol ( eight per cent ) than with promethazine ( 36 per cent ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . promethazine pretreatment demands the use of an analgesic like acetaminophen in order to reduce the incidence of postoperative pain and restlessness . 
oculo-bulbar myasthenic symptoms as the sole sign of tumour involving or compressing the brain stem . four patients with tumours involving or compressing the brain stem are described whose initial clinical symptoms of fluctuating paresis of the external ocular muscles and/or the pharyngeal muscles without other neurological deficits led to the primary diagnosis of focal myasthenia . the combination of an unusual clinical pattern , involvement of muscles of only one ocular nerve or severe dysphagia/dysarthria without extension of the myasthenic symptoms , should lead to further investigation to exclude other reasons of a focal myasthenic syndrome such as a brain-stem tumour . 
progressive inflammatory lesions of the brain parenchyma in localized scleroderma of the head . a patient with localized scleroderma of the head , uveitis , and raynaud 's phenomenon presented with generalized seizures , spastic hemiparesis , and local igg production in the cerebrospinal fluid . magnetic resonance imaging revealed progressive cortical and subcortical brain parenchymal lesions mainly adjacent to the cutaneous and bony lesions and probably of inflammatory origin . 
nasolacrimal obstruction after inferior meatus nasal antrostomy . transient epiphora following rhinoplasty or intranasal procedures is a common occurrence . permanent nasolacrimal duct obstruction , however , is rare . this article documents four cases of nasolacrimal duct obstruction following intranasal antrostomy . three patients were cured by dacryocystorhinostomy and a fourth refused surgery . the anatomy of the nasolacrimal duct in the inferior meatus has considerable variation . although the duct typically opens in the inferior meatus immediately under the insertion of the inferior turbinate , the orifice can be a single hole , a slit , multiple holes , or a trough , and can be located anywhere from 30 to 40 mm dorsal to the anterior nares . we review the embryology and anatomy of the nasolacrimal orifice in the nose and make recommendations for safe surgery in the inferior meatus . 
traumatic retinal detachment . seventy-seven patients developed retinal breaks following an episode of ocular contusion , and 65 ( 84.4 % ) of these developed rhegmatogenous retinal detachment . surgical treatment successfully restored or maintained retinal apposition in 74 ( 96.1 % ) of the eyes . thirty-six ( 46.8 % ) eyes recovered visual acuity of 6/9 or better . of the retinal breaks recognised dialysis at the ora serrata was observed in 49 eyes , of which 28 were situated at the lower temporal quadrant . seventeen eyes had irregular breaks arising within necrotic retina at the site of scleral impact . twenty-four ( 31.2 % ) patients had retinal break or retinal detachment diagnosed within 24 hours of injury and 49 ( 63.6 % ) within six weeks . immediate retinal detachment was a feature of necrotic retinal breaks , while inferior oral dialyses led to a slow accumulation of subretinal fluid . delayed diagnosis of retinal detachment was due either to opaque media or to failure to examine the retina after injury . visual prognosis was good when retinal break or detachment were diagnosed within six weeks of injury . however , those patients who escaped initial retinal examination and were lost to follow-up had a less favourable visual outcome . 
course of diabetic retinopathy following cataract surgery five patients with mild to moderate retinopathy to both eyes underwent complication-free cataract surgery in one eye . within three months of surgery deterioration of the retinopathy was observed in the operated eye only . in four patients there was an increase of intraretinal haemorrhages and hard exudates , accompanied by clinically significant macular oedema manifested as retinal thickening and extensive fluorescein leakage from both the macular and the peripapillary capillary networks . of these four patients one also developed retinal ischaemia , evident ophthalmoscopically by flame-shaped haemorrhages and cotton-wool spots and angiographically by areas of capillary non-perfusion . the fifth patient showed proliferation of new blood vessels and vitreous haemorrhage . diabetic patients scheduled for cataract surgery should undergo a thorough preoperative evaluation of any existing retinopathy . postoperatively they should be followed up at close intervals so that any progression of retinopathy can be promptly detected and considered for laser treatment . 
audit of an ophthalmology waiting list . the hospital case notes of 209 ( 98 % ) of the 213 patients placed on an adult ophthalmic surgical waiting list between mid 1984 and mid 1985 were reviewed . information on referral sources , previous eye surgery , outpatient visits , and treatment up to the end of 1987 was recorded . the vital status of patients up to the end of 1988 was also ascertained . waiting list patients ( 123 women , 86 men ) were elderly ( 73 % over 65 years ) and most ( 70 % ) were listed for cataract surgery . by the end of 1987 ( 30-42 months after waiting list entry ) 64 % of all patients ( and 56 % of cataract patients ) had received surgery under the care of the health authority . the remainder had either died ( 12 % ) , received surgery elsewhere ( 7 % ) , were still on the waiting list ( 7 % ) , no longer wanted or were unfit for surgery ( 6 % ) , or had left the district ( 4 % ) . by the end of 1988 ( 42-54 months after waiting list entry ) 28 % of the original waiting list population had died . 
anisocoria in unilateral ophthalmic disease . pupillary diameters in the affected and unaffected eyes of 327 patients with uniocular red eye were assessed during fixation of a distant target . the mean pupillary diameters were similar in the unaffected eyes in each of eight diagnostic groups , but were significantly different ( f = 3.84 , p less than 0.001 ) in the diseased eyes . with corneal abrasions ( p less than 0.001 ) , marginal keratitis ( p less than 0.05 ) , and acute anterior uveitis ( p less than 0.001 ) the mean pupillary diameter for the affected eye was significantly smaller than that of the unaffected eye . the observed differences of pupillary diameter probably reflect the role of neuronal and autocoid mechanisms in the unilateral control of pupillary size . 
long-term efficacy of primary laser trabeculoplasty . sixty glaucomatous eyes of 60 patients treated with laser trabeculoplasty as primary therapy were reviewed retrospectively . there were 42 eyes with capsular glaucoma and 18 with simple glaucoma . the mean prelaser intraocular pressure ( iop ) was 35.2 ( sd = 6.5 ) mmhg . success was defined as iop less than or equal to 22 mmhg without medication . the probability of success was 0.73 at 1 year , 0.66 at 2 years , 0.57 at 3 years , and 0.50 at 4 years . three eyes experienced progressive visual field loss or disc damage in spite of an intraocular pressure below 22 mmhg without medication . high prelaser pressure and the severity of the visual field defects were significant predictors of treatment failure . 
pupil cycle time and early autonomic involvement in ocular leprosy . ocular complications of leprosy patients often develop insidiously and with few if any symptoms . this study involves measurement of the pupil cycle time ( pct ) to evaluate the autonomic nerve system of the iris to determine the presence of subclinical intraocular involvement . the study included 19 lepromatous ( ll ) , 19 borderline lepromatous ( bl ) , and five borderline tuberculoid ( bt ) leprosy patients and involved 25 healthy volunteers , 10 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and eight with duhring disease . the pct was measured in these groups . in all leprosy groups included in the study the pct was higher than in the control groups . moreover , the pct of the leprosy patients without any intraocular involvement was higher than in the controls . these results show that in the ophthalmic examination of leprosy patients without any symptoms the fact that autonomic nerve system of the eye is affected by the leprosy can often be determined by measuring the pct . 
electrophysiology and colour perimetry in dominant infantile optic atrophy . a typical finding in dominant infantile optic atrophy ( dioa ) is the variation of the phenotypic expression of the dioa gene even within one family . it is of special interest for genetic consultation to evaluate an examination method for detecting subclinically involved patients . seven patients of two families were examined . three of them had the typical symptoms of dioa : reduced visual acuity , tritan defect , temporal pallor of both optic discs , and a relative central scotoma for white test spots . in visual evoked cortical potentials ( vecp ) the amplitudes were reduced , and in one patient the latencies were slightly delayed and two patients considerably so . the amplitude of the negative component of the perg was markedly reduced , while the positive component was normal . in the remaining four family members normal retinal and cortical responses were recorded under standard conditions and visual fields and colour vision ( fm 100 hue ) were also normal . however , static perimetry with blue test spots showed in two family members enlarged central scotomas , thus proving that they had subclinical dioa . 
decalcification of a choroidal osteoma . a 56-year-old man presented with a clearly defined orange tumour in the posterior pole of his left eye . a choroidal osteoma was suspected , and ultrasonography confirmed the diagnosis . fluorescein angiography demonstrated subretinal neovascularisation on the nasal edge of the tumour , which was treated with krypton laser photocoagulation twice . recurrent subretinal neovascularisation occurred one year later and was not amenable to treatment . three years after the patient first presented , thinning of the tumour was noted on follow-up examination . during the next 15 months the tumour completely disappeared , leaving an area of retinal pigment epithelial and choroidal atrophy . total decalcification of the choroidal osteoma was demonstrated by ultrasonography . 
care of diabetic patients by optometrists in new york state . objective : this study was undertaken to learn about the involvement of optometrists in the eye care of diabetic patients in new york and to collect baseline data for planning intervention programs in diabetic eye disease . research design and methods : this study was conducted by a mail survey being sent to all optometrists in new york whom we could identify through state sources ( n = 2270 ) . three follow-up mailings were conducted . results : eighty-six percent who received our mailing responded , 87 % of whom reported that they see diabetic patients . analysis was confined to this 87 % . routine retinal examinations were provided by 68 % of the respondents who see diabetic patients , 62 % of whom dilate the pupils . sixty-eight percent who see diabetic patients diagnose retinopathy solely by their own examination , and 60 % of these dilate . follow-up of retinopathy was provided by 15 % of optometrists who see diabetic patients , 90 % of whom dilate the pupils of their diabetic patients . twenty-five percent of respondents who see diabetic patients refer them to an ophthalmologist for diagnosis of retinopathy , and 67 % refer all retinopathy patients to an ophthalmologist for follow-up . although 91 % of respondents recommended eye examinations at least annually for diabetic patients , only 68 % specifically recommended annual examinations through dilated pupils . those who dilate were significantly more likely to recommend annual dilated examinations than those who do not dilate , regardless of practice setting . conclusions : these findings indicate that optometrists as a group see many diabetic patients . intervention strategies should include increased emphasis on the use of dilation when examining diabetic patients and annual dilated retinal examinations . 
the course of biochemical parameters of bone turnover during treatment with corticosteroids . the mechanisms by which glucocorticoids cause osteopenia are incompletely understood . it is generally accepted that bone formation is depressed during corticosteroid treatment , but the cause of the ongoing bone resorption is less clear . secondary hyperparathyroidism and changes in vitamin d metabolism are thought to play a role . this is based mostly on data from cross-sectional studies in heterogeneous patient groups . we , therefore , studied longitudinally the course of biochemical parameters and the hormones influencing bone turnover in a homogeneous group of 10 euthyroid patients with graves ' ophthalmopathy , all euthyroid for at least 1 yr before , during , and after a 12-week course of prednisone . bone formation was depressed as reflected by a fall in serum osteocalcin ( 3.0 + / - 2.1 , 1.7 + / - 1.1 , and 2.4 + / - 1.9 micrograms/l at weeks 0 , 4 , and 12 , respectively ; p = 0.02 ) and in total alkaline phosphatase ( 1.15 + / - 0.33 , 0.83 + / - 0.22 , and 0.88 + / - 0.40 mukat/l ; p = 0.001 ) . parameters of bone resorption ( urinary hydroxyproline/creatinine ratio , serum acid phosphatase ) and the levels of vitamin d metabolites remained unchanged . serum intact pth seemed to decrease slightly . our findings suggest that glucocorticoid induced osteopenia is caused by a depressed bone formation in the presence of an unaltered but ongoing bone resorption . secondary hyperparathyroidism and changes in vitamin d metabolism are apparently not involved . 
mast cell numbers and staining characteristics in the normal and allergic human conjunctiva . in this study we report the numbers and metachromatic dye-staining characteristics of mast cells ( mcs ) in the conjunctiva of normal subjects and patients with seasonal allergic conjunctivitis caused by pollenosis . in addition , we have used a monoclonal antibody to the mc-specific enzyme , tryptase , to enumerate tryptase-positive cells immunohistochemically . tarsal conjunctival mcs were found to be present in increased numbers in the allergic compared to the nonallergic subjects . most of the mcs exhibited staining that was formaldehyde resistant , compatible with their identification as connective tissue mcs or basophils . the high positive staining for tryptase confirmed that the metachromatic cells stained with toluidine blue were mcs and not basophils , both in normal and allergic subjects . 
acetazolamide-associated aplastic anaemia . eleven cases of acetazolamide-associated aplastic anaemia were reported in sweden during a 17-year period . there were six women and five men with a median age of 71 years ( range 63-85 years ) . the median dose of acetazolamide was 500 mg , and the median duration of treatment was 3 months ( range 2-71 months ) . ten of the eleven patients died , all within 8 weeks after detection of their aplastic anaemia . the relative risk of developing aplastic anaemia when taking acetazolamide was 13.3 ( 95 % confidence limits ( cl ) ; 6.8-25 .3 ) . the estimated incidence of reported acetazolamide-associated aplastic anaemia is approximately one in 18,000 patient years . the results strongly indicate that acetazolamide treatment is associated with a substantial increase in the risk of developing aplastic anaemia . 
epidermal nevus syndrome : a neurologic variant with hemimegalencephaly , gyral malformation , mental retardation , seizures , and facial hemihypertrophy . the epidermal nevus syndrome ( ens ) is a sporadic neurocutaneous disorder that consists of epidermal nevi and congenital anomalies involving the brain and other systems . from among over 60 patients with ens presenting with neurologic manifestations , we identified 17 who had hemimegalencephaly based on pathologic or radiologic studies . associated brain and neurologic abnormalities included gyral malformations in 12 of 12 , mental retardation in 13 of 14 , seizures in 16 of 17 ( including 9 with infantile spasms ) , and contralateral hemiparesis in 7 of 12 . all had ipsilateral epidermal nevi of the head , and several had ipsilateral facial hemihypertrophy . we concluded that these abnormalities comprise a recognizable neurologic variant of ens that we believe represents the full expression of primary brain involvement . several patients also had evidence of acquired brain lesions such as infarcts , atrophy , porencephaly , and calcifications , which are best explained by prior ischemia or hemorrhage . given repeated observations of blood vessel anomalies in ens patients , we hypothesize that underlying vascular dysplasia predisposes to these acquired lesions . the same cause may be invoked to explain the wide variety of neurologic symptoms reported in ens patients without hemimegalencephaly . while the cause of ens remains unknown , several observations suggest a somatic mutation . 
photoreceptor peripherin is the normal product of the gene responsible for retinal degeneration in the rds mouse . retinal degeneration slow ( rds ) is a retinal disorder of an inbred strain of mice in which the outer segment of the photoreceptor cell fails to develop . a candidate gene has recently been described for the rds defect [ travis , g. h. , brennan , m. b. , danielson , p. e. , kozak , c. & sutcliffe , j. g. ( 1989 ) nature ( london ) 338 , 70-73 ] . neither the identity of the normal gene product nor its intracellular localization had been determined . we report here that the amino acid sequence of the bovine photoreceptor-cell protein peripherin , which was previously localized to the rim region of the photoreceptor disk membrane , is 92.5 % identical to the sequence of the mouse protein encoded by the normal rds gene . the differences between the two sequences can be attributed to species variation . monoclonal antibodies were used with western blot analysis to localize the wild-type mouse peripherin/rds protein to isolated mouse rod outer segments and to show that it , like bovine peripherin , exists as two subunits linked by one or more disulfide bonds . the relative amounts of peripherin/rds protein and rhodopsin in retinal extracts of normal and rds mutant mice were also compared . identification of peripherin as the protein encoded by the normal rds gene and its localization to membranes of rod outer segments will serve as a basis for studies directed toward defining the role of this protein in the morphogenesis and maintenance of the outer segment and toward understanding the mechanism by which the rds mutation causes retinal degeneration . 
a comparison of penetrating keratoplasty to epikeratoplasty in the surgical management of keratoconus . of 40 patients intolerant to contact lenses , 47 eyes with keratoconus were surgically corrected with either epikeratoplasty ( n = 31 ) or penetrating keratoplasty ( n = 16 ) . the percentage of eyes in both groups that had visual acuity of 20/40 or better with contact lenses at one year were equal ( 14 of 15 eyes [ 93.3 % ] in the penetrating keratoplasty group ; 27 of 29 eyes [ 93.1 % ] in the epikeratoplasty group ) ; however , the penetrating keratoplasty procedure resulted in a higher percentage of eyes that had visual acuity of 20/20 than the epikeratoplasty group ( 11 of 15 eyes [ 73 % ] compared with seven of 29 eyes [ 24.1 % ] , respectively ) . both procedures resulted in significant corneal flattening , with the penetrating keratoplasty group producing an average of 3 diopters more keratometric reduction than the epikeratoplasty group one year postoperatively . although no irreversible graft failures occurred , five of 16 eyes ( 31 % ) in the penetrating keratoplasty group had graft reactions . no serious complications were noted in the eyes of the epikeratoplasty group . both procedures were effective in the surgical management of keratoconus . 
posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation in eyes with inactive and active proliferative diabetic retinopathy . we reviewed the records of 2,100 consecutive eyes that had undergone extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation between january 1981 and december 1989 . of these eyes , 21 had inactive and four had active proliferative diabetic retinopathy at the time of cataract extraction . twenty-one eyes with inactive proliferative diabetic retinopathy received extracapsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation , and four eyes with active proliferative diabetic retinopathy had both extracapsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation and pars plana vitrectomy with endophotocoagulation . the mean follow-up period was 27 months . final visual acuity was 20/40 or better in 12 of 25 eyes ( 48 % ) . of 25 eyes , five ( 20 % ) showed progression of the retinopathy after the operation , and two ( 8 % ) developed macular edema . extracapsular cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation was well tolerated in most eyes . 
delayed-onset pseudophakic endophthalmitis . we reviewed 19 cases of delayed-onset pseudophakic endophthalmitis in which diagnostic cultures were performed at one month or more after cataract extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation . we isolated four different organisms in these 19 cases : 12 propionibacterium species ( 63 % ) , three candida parapsilosis ( 16 % ) , three staphylococcus epidermidis ( 16 % ) , and one corynebacterium species ( 5 % ) . because of the unusual delayed-onset features of these cases and the retrospective nature of this study , a variety of treatment regimens were used . twelve patients had recurrence of marked inflammation despite an apparent initial cure , and ten of these patients had positive culture results on repeat examination of intraocular fluids . nine patients continued to be treated with topical corticosteroids postoperatively to suppress low-grade inflammation . of the 19 patients , 16 had final visual acuity of 20/400 or better . delayed-onset pseudophakic endophthalmitis had a more favorable visual prognosis , compared to acute-onset endophthalmitis . 
extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation after scleral buckling surgery . we reviewed the records of 28 patients who had undergone successful scleral buckling surgery followed by extracapsular cataract extraction with implantation of an intraocular lens . posterior chamber intraocular lenses were inserted in 27 eyes , and anterior chamber intraocular lenses were inserted in two eyes with posterior capsule rupture at the time of surgery . the mean follow-up period was 44 months . final visual acuity was 20/40 or better in 15 of 29 eyes ( 52 % ) . one eye ( 3.4 % ) developed a recurrent retinal detachment 15 months after cataract surgery . two eyes ( 6.9 % ) developed angiographically proven cystoid macular edema . the outcome for extracapsular cataract extraction with intraocular lens implantation in eyes that had previously undergone successful scleral buckling for retinal detachment is favorable . 
quantitative analysis of lens changes after vitrectomy by fluorophotometry . we measured the amount of autofluorescence in the lens to evaluate quantitatively lens changes after vitrectomy . thirteen phakic patients , ranging in age from 12 to 75 years , were studied after unilateral vitrectomy , with a follow-up period of more than two years ( range , 26 to 55 months ) . autofluorescence in the lens was measured at the center along the ocular axis by fluorophotometry . lens autofluorescence in the eyes that underwent vitrectomy was significantly higher than in the contralateral eyes that were not operated on ( p = .0003 ) . the increase of autofluorescence was correlated significantly with the age at time of vitrectomy ( p = .0008 ) . there was no correlation between the increase in autofluorescence and the length of postoperative follow-up or the use of air during vitrectomy . based on these results , we believe that oxidation of lens proteins intraoperatively may be one of the causes of development of nuclear cataract after vitrectomy . 
comparison of a 3 - and 6-mm incision in combined phacoemulsification and trabeculectomy . we studied 216 eyes of 160 patients who underwent combined phacoemulsification and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation with trabeculectomy . the mean follow-up was 18.7 months , with a minimum follow-up of six months . to assess the safety and efficacy of a recently developed 3-mm incision procedure with foldable intraocular lens implantation ( phacotrabeculectomy ) , we compared 104 eyes subjected to this procedure with 112 eyes subjected to a 6-mm procedure at different follow-up periods . intraocular pressure control ( less than 21 mm hg ) was attained in 44 of 46 eyes ( 96 % ) in the 3-mm group and 71 of 76 eyes ( 93 % ) in the 6-mm group at one year postoperatively . visual acuity of 20/40 or better was attained in 40 of 46 eyes ( 87 % ) in the 3-mm group and 66 of 76 eyes ( 87 % ) in the 6-mm group . the incidence of postoperative complication was significantly lower ( p less than .001 ) and visual acuity in the early postoperative period was significantly better ( p less than .01 ) in the 3-mm incision group than in the comparison group . 
visual recovery in patients with optic neuritis and visual loss to no light perception . we reviewed the records of 151 patients with optic neuritis examined over an eight-year period . of these patients , 12 developed visual acuity of no light perception during the first episode of optic neuritis in the affected eye . eight of the 12 patients recovered visual acuity of 20/40 or better . of these , five patients had visual acuity of 20/20 or better , one had visual acuity of 20/25 , one had visual acuity of 20/30 , and one had visual acuity of 20/40 . four of the 12 patients recovered peripheral visual fields but had dense central scotomas and visual acuity of less than 20/400 . dyschromatopsia persisted after visual recovery in 11 of 12 patients . 
reproducibility of topographic measurements of the normal and glaucomatous optic nerve head with the laser tomographic scanner . we acquired five independent topographic images of the optic nerve head of eight normal eyes and eight eyes with primary open-angle glaucoma with a laser tomographic scanner . each image had a field of view of 15 x 15 degrees with a resolution of 256 x 256 pixels . the pixel size was approximately 15 x 15 microns . the value of a pixel of a topographic image represented the height at this position . the mean height and the standard deviation over the five topographic images were calculated for each of the 65,536 pixel positions . the standard deviation of a single height measurement in normal eyes was 38.7 microns ( range , 23.4 to 62.2 microns ) for areas in the peripapillary retina and 42.6 microns ( range , 24.4 to 53.7 microns ) for measurements within the optic nerve head area . in glaucomatous eyes , the standard deviation was 41.2 microns ( range , 23.2 to 59.6 microns ) in the peripapillary retina and 49.4 microns ( range , 28.1 to 72.8 microns ) within the optic nerve head . there was no significant difference between the standard deviation of a single height measurement in normal and glaucomatous eyes ( p = .34 within the optic nerve head area ; p = .57 on peripapillary retina ) . no correlation was found between standard deviation of the measurements and pupil size or age of the subject . 
mucogenic secondary open-angle glaucoma in diffuse epithelial ingrowth treated by block-excision . we treated a 40-year-old man with an acute , unilateral , open-angle glaucoma caused by a gelatinous translucent material in the anterior chamber . a clinical diagnosis of mucogenic secondary open-angle glaucoma caused by diffuse epithelial ingrowth after ocular trauma one year earlier was suspected , but a primary or secondary ciliary body or iris neoplasm could not be ruled out . a curative 9-mm block-excision was performed . six years later , intraocular pressure was normal , and the visual function was unchanged . light and electron microscopy disclosed an island of diffuse columnar epithelium with numerous goblet cells on the iris surface and copious mucinous material extending into the trabecular mesh-work . 
giant cell arteritis . a case with unusual neurologic manifestations and a normal sedimentation rate . giant cell ( temporal ) arteritis is a serious inflammatory condition that can lead to blindness , stroke , or other adverse sequelae if not properly treated . an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate has traditionally been emphasized as a criterion for making this diagnosis . delays in diagnosis and unnecessary testing may occur when a patient presents with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and a clinical history consistent with this condition . we describe a patient with giant cell arteritis who presented with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and who subsequently developed devastating central nervous system complications . 
falls in elderly patients with glaucoma . we analyzed the determinants of serious falls among 489 ambulatory elders aged 65 years and older who received a comprehensive examination at a glaucoma consultation service . for the previous year , at least one fall requiring medical attention or restricted activity was reported by 9.6 % ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 7.0 % to 12.2 % ) of participants . using logistic regression to adjust for potential confounding variables , the greatest single risk factor for falls was the use of nonmiotic topical eye medications ( odds ratio [ or ] , 5.4 ; 95 % cl , 1.8 to 16.4 ) . additional risk factors for falls were female sex ( or , 2.3 ; 95 % cl , 1.1 to 4.7 ) and use of cardiac medications ( or , 2.5 ; 95 % cl , 1.1 to 5.6 ) . three other characteristics were also associated with the risk of falls : use of miotic eye medications ( or , 3.2 ; 95 % cl , 1.0 to 10.1 ) ; visual field impairment of 40 % or greater ( or , 3.0 ; 95 % cl , 0.94 to 9.8 ) ; and use of sedatives ( or , 2.4 ; 95 % cl , 0.89 to 6.7 ) . these findings suggest that ocular and systemic medications are the major predictors of falls even in this elderly population seeking ophthalmologic care for glaucoma . medications appear to pose a greater risk for falls than even major visual impairment . 
loculated fluid . a previously undescribed fluorescein angiographic finding in choroidal neovascularization associated with macular degeneration . macular photocoagulation study reading center . the foveal photocoagulation study , a component of the macular photocoagulation study , is designed to evaluate whether laser treatment can reduce the risk of severe visual loss in eyes with well-defined choroidal neovascular membranes associated with macular degeneration that extend through the foveal center . on one third of the 554 baseline angiograms of study patients enrolled in and whose eyes were graded in the study as of january 31 , 1990 , the reading center staff has noted an unusual pattern of hyperfluorescence in the late-transit frames that has not been described previously . this pattern , which we call " loculated fluid , " consists of a well-demarcated area of hyperfluorescence that appears to represent pooling of fluorescein in a compartmentalized space anterior to the choroidal neovascular leakage . although the loculated fluid may conform to a pattern of typical cystoid macular edema , it can also pool within an area deep to the sensory retina in a shape that does not bear any resemblance to cystoid macular edema . this pattern is important to recognize because it ( 1 ) should not be confused with the angiographic pattern or extent of choroidal neovascularization and ( 2 ) should be differentiated from a serous detachment or tear of the retinal pigment epithelium . 
lipomatous hamartoma of the orbit . proliferations of mature adipose tissue , while common in retroperitoneal and subcutaneous sites , rarely occur in the orbit . we describe the clinical , radiographic , and histopathologic findings of a nonencapsulated lipomatous tissue overgrowth of the right orbit in a 35-year-old man . the mass had caused proptosis since childhood and was apparently present since birth . due to the age at onset , the histologic similarity to normal orbital fat , and the lack of encapsulation or choristomatous elements , we propose the term lipomatous hamartoma for this entity . 
the lens opacities case-control study . risk factors for cataract . the lens opacities case-control study evaluated risk factors for age-related nuclear , cortical , posterior subcapsular , and mixed cataracts . the 1380 participants were ophthalmology outpatients , aged 40 to 79 years , classified into the following groups : posterior subcapsular only , 72 patients ; nuclear only , 137 patients ; cortical only , 290 patients ; mixed cataract , 446 patients ; and controls , 435 patients . in polychotomous logistic regression analyses , low education increased risk ( odds ratio [ or ] = 1.46 ) and regular use of multivitamin supplements decreased risk ( or = 0.63 ) for all cataract types . dietary intake of riboflavin , vitamins c , e , and carotene , which have antioxidant potential , was protective for cortical , nuclear , and mixed cataract ; intake of niacin , thiamine , and iron also decreased risk . similar results were found in analyses that combined the antioxidant vitamins ( or = 0.40 ) or considered the individual nutrients ( or = 0.48 to 0.56 ) . diabetes increased risk of posterior subcapsular , cortical , and mixed cataracts ( or = 1.56 ) . oral steroid therapy increased posterior subcapsular cataract risk ( or = 5.83 ) . females ( or = 1.51 ) and nonwhites ( or = 2.03 ) were at increased risk only for cortical cataract . risk factors for nuclear cataract were a nonprofessional occupation ( or = 1.96 ) , current smoking ( or = 1.68 ) , body mass index ( or = 0.76 ) , and occupational exposure to sunlight ( or = 0.61 ) . gout medications ( or = 2.48 ) , family history ( or = 1.52 ) , and use of eyeglasses by age 20 years , which is an indicator of myopia ( or = 1.44 ) , increased risk of mixed cataract . the results support a role for the nutritional , medical , personal , and other factors in cataractogenesis . the potentially modifiable factors suggested by this study merit further evaluation . 
low-dose aspirin and risks of cataract in a randomized trial of us physicians . observational studies have raised the question of a possible benefit of aspirin on the development of cataract . the physicians ' health study , a randomized double-masked placebo-controlled trial among 22,071 male physicians , aged 40 to 84 years , provided the opportunity to collect information about whether low-dose aspirin therapy ( 325 mg on alternate days ) affects the development or extraction of cataract . there were 173 age-related cataracts among those physicians assigned to aspirin therapy and 180 among those given placebo ( relative risk , 0.95 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.74 to 1.22 ) . cataract extractions were less frequent in the aspirin than in the placebo group , but this difference was not statistically significant ( relative risk , 0.80 ; 95 % confidence interval , 0.56 to 1.15 ) . among younger men ( aged 40 to 59 years ) , the relative risks were 0.62 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.40 to 0.94 ) for cataract development and 0.67 ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.38 to 1.31 ) for cataract extraction . these randomized trial data tend to exclude any large benefit of aspirin . while the overall findings concerning cataract development seem to be null , the data on extraction of age-related cataract , while not statistically significant , can not exclude a possible small to moderate benefit of alternate-day aspirin therapy on the extraction of age-related cataract . 
exposure to phenothiazine drugs and risk of cataract . clinical reports have indicated an increased risk of ocular opacities in users of phenothiazine drugs , and some recent epidemiologic studies have found an association between cataract and a history of tranquilizer use . to examine the effects of major tranquilizers ( phenothiazines and haloperidol ) on the risk of cataract extraction , while controlling for suspected risk factors such as diabetes and steroid use , a matched cohort study was performed using information from a large health maintenance organization in seattle , wash . the use of either antipsychotic or other phenothiazine drugs increased the risk of cataract extraction by roughly 3.5 times in individuals who were both current users and were exposed some time in the 2 to 5 years prior to their extraction . risk was also increased in individuals with prior use of antidiabetic agents , systemic steroids , and benzodiazepines . contrary to some prior reports , there was no elevated risk associated with use of antihypertensives , and there was no protective effect for aspirin , acetaminophen , or ibuprofen . 
detection of herpesvirus dna in vitreous and aqueous specimens by the polymerase chain reaction . members of the herpesvirus family , cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) , epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) , and herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) , have been recognized as causal agents of chorioretinal inflammatory diseases . we investigated the use of the polymerase chain reaction for the detection of cmv , hsv , and ebv genomes in aqueous , subretinal fluid , and vitreous specimens in patients with clinically diagnosed cmv retinitis . cytomegalovirus but not hsv or ebv genomic sequences were detected in all of these clinical specimens . we also investigated 18 normal aqueous and eight normal vitreous specimens obtained from patients undergoing cataract or vitrectomy surgery . cytomegalovirus , hsv , and ebv dna were not detected in any of the normal aqueous specimens . there was one weakly positive cmv normal vitreous , but none was hsv or ebv positive by the polymerase chain reaction . these results indicate that the polymerase chain reaction may be useful as a rapid and sensitive diagnostic technique to aid in the confirmation of clinical observations . 
effects of antiflammins on endotoxin-induced uveitis in rats . antiflammins are phospholipase a2-inhibitory , anti-inflammatory , synthetic oligopeptides derived from the region of the highest amino-acid sequence similarity between uteroglobin and lipocortin i. endotoxin-induced uveitis is a model for anterior uveitis of the eye , which has been suggested to be induced through phospholipase a2 activation . in a preliminary report we demonstrated that topical administration of antiflammins could inhibit endotoxin-induced uveitis in rats . in this study , the anti-inflammatory effects of antiflammins were compared with those of corticosteroids on endotoxin-induced uveitis as measured by phospholipase a2 enzyme activity , inflammatory cell counts in the aqueous humor , and histopathologic features . antiflammins are as effective as corticosteroids in their ability to suppress endotoxin-induced uveitis . 
autogenous fascial grafts for exposed retinal buckles . three patients with exposed scleral buckling elements received autogenous fascial grafts as an alternative to buckle removal . all three patients had successful coverage of their scleral buckles . there were no redetachments or infections . one patient had a postoperative ptosis that required repair . autogenous fascial grafts are useful procedures in patients with exposed retinal buckles who have a significant risk of retinal redetachment with buckle removal . 
hiv infection is not associated with reiter 's syndrome : data from the johns hopkins multicenter aids cohort study . reiter 's syndrome has been reported to occur in up to 10 % of patients with hiv infection . however , no properly controlled epidemiological studies have been conducted to determine whether hiv infection is an independent risk factor or whether the immunodeficiency induced by hiv infection is permissive for infection with other arthritogenic organisms . the prevalence and incidence of reiter 's syndrome were determined in 1133 homosexual/bisexual men enrolled in the johns hopkins multicenter aids cohort study . there was no difference in the prevalence of reiter 's syndrome at entry into the study in 1984 between 357 hiv-positive and 776 hiv-negative men : five per 1000 in both groups . during 5 years ' follow-up , one case of reiter 's syndrome developed among each group of hiv-positive and hiv-negative men . these data fail to support a direct etiological role for hiv infection in the development of reiter 's syndrome . 
retinopathy of prematurity in infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease . we undertook a study of premature infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease to determine whether these infants develop retinopathy of prematurity despite a persistent hypoxemic state . using the computerized registry of the neonatal intensive care unit of vanderbilt university medical center , nashville , tenn , we identified six premature infants ( less than 37 weeks ' gestational age , with birth weights of 1100 to 2050 g ) with cyanotic congenital heart disease who survived the neonatal period and underwent ophthalmologic evaluation . review of their charts revealed that three of six infants developed retinopathy of prematurity ( two had grade 1 and one had grade 3 disease ) , but none required treatment . our data support the findings of other investigators that elevated arterial oxygen tension is not the sole factor leading to the development of retinopathy of prematurity . premature infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease can develop retinopathy of prematurity despite persistent hypoxemia . cyanotic premature infants should be screened for retinopathy of prematurity with the same thoroughness as other premature infants . 
prevalence of angioid streaks and other ocular complications of paget 's disease of bone . seventy randomly selected patients with paget 's disease of bone were examined for ocular complications . the prevalence of macular degeneration and cataract was 24.3 % . only one patient was found to have angioid streaks . eight patients had peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy . these findings suggest that the prevalence of serious ocular complications of paget 's disease is not as high as previously thought . the significance of peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy requires further evaluation . 
how large must an iridotomy be ? four cases of acute angle closure glaucoma in eyes with a small but patent nd-yag laser iridotomy are presented , and similar cases in the literature are reviewed . theoretically a 15 microns diameter iridotomy should be large enough to prevent angle closure glaucoma due to pupil block . mechanisms by which larger iridotomies fail to prevent angle closure glaucoma , and the role of provocation tests following iridotomy , are discussed . an iridotomy should be at least 150-200 microns in diameter if acute angle closure glaucoma is to be reliably prevented . 
a longitudinal study of children with a family history of strabismus : factors determining the incidence of strabismus . a longitudinal study of ocular refraction , position , and fixation was performed in children with a family history of strabismus . the children were examined at regular intervals between 3 months and 4 years of age , and the results are discussed in terms of changes in refraction between different ages and correlations between refraction and development of strabismus and amblyopia . six of 34 children ( 17.6 % ) developed constant or intermittent esotropia . the strabismus was first noted between 18 and 30 months of age except in one case . all esotropic children were 4 dioptres hypermetropic or more at 6 months , and their hypermetropia remained almost unchanged through the years . seven additional children were 4 dioptres or more hypermetropic at 6 months but did not develop a squint . in contrast to the squinting children the hypermetropia in these children changed towards emmetropia . this emmetropisation was most pronounced during the first 2 years of age . the implications of these results for an early diagnosis of strabismus amblyopia are discussed . 
the association of fuchs 's corneal endothelial dystrophy with axial hypermetropia , shallow anterior chamber , and angle closure glaucoma . a series of 24 patients with fuchs 's dystrophy are presented in whom detailed clinical measurement showed an association with axial hypermetropia and shallow anterior chamber . in 14 of these patients one cornea had developed oedema , of which 11 had required penetrating keratoplasty . comparison of these eyes with the fellow eyes without corneal oedema revealed that the anomalies in measurement were not due to the process of decompensation . these 14 patients were then compared with the remaining 10 patients without corneal oedema in either eye , and a similar profile of anomalous measurements was observed . the whole group of 24 patients were then compared with three separate control groups , and in each case a significant trend towards hypermetropia , short axial length , and shallow anterior chamber was noted . the mean spherical equivalent refractive error in the patients with fuchs 's dystrophy was +2.48 d compared with -0.31 d for controls ; corresponding means for axial length were 22.1 mm compared with 23.4 mm ; and for anterior chamber depth were 2.2 mm compared with 2.7 mm . each of these differences was statistically significant , but there was no significant difference for the keratometry measurements between patients and controls . five of 24 ( 21 % ) of the patients had problems related to shallow anterior chambers of whom 3 ( 12 % ) had manifest angle closure glaucoma requiring surgical peripheral iridectomy . the aetiology of fuchs 's dystrophy and of ametropia is discussed and possible modes of association outlined . this previously unrecognised association gives a rational basis for the widely accepted practice of combining penetrating keratoplasty with lens extraction and has several other practical implications which are important in the differential diagnosis and treatment of fuchs 's dystrophy and angle closure glaucoma . 
effect of a beta-blocker on altered body position : induced ocular hypertension . the intraocular pressures ( iop ) were measured in both eyes of 25 healthy volunteers in various body positions . one eye was pretreated with levobunolol 0.5 % or placebo applied in a masked , randomised fashion , while the other served as control . iop changes in response to levobunolol and to changes in position were significant ( p less than 0.0001 ) . however , pressure rises relative to position were not significantly different in eyes treated with drug vs placebo . levobunolol did not alter relative changes in iop from changes in body position . however , the overall lowering effect may offer some protection to patients with glaucoma . 
a functional vagotomy induced by unilateral forced right nostril breathing decreases intraocular pressure in open and closed angle glaucoma . there is evidence of the central regulation of intraocular pressure , and it has been suggested that vagal tone might be increased in glaucoma simplex . the nasal cycle , the simultaneous congestion-decongestion response in the nasal cavities , reflects the dynamic lateralisation of the autonomic nervous system . since this lateralisation presents with sympathetic activity induced by left brain hemisphere stimulation and parasympathetic activity induced by right hemisphere stimulation , it was subsequently demonstrated that forced unilateral nostril breathing induces selective contralateral hemispheric stimulation as measured by relative increases in the electroencephalographic amplitude in the contralateral hemisphere as well as alternating lateralisation of plasma catecholamines . using this functional vagotomy , we report that left hemispheric stimulation by 20 minutes of forced unilateral right nostril breathing led to a significant bilateral decrease of 4.6 mmhg ( 25 % ) in intraocular pressure in 46 patients with open and closed angle glaucoma . however , it significantly increased the iop in three patients with neovascular , one with juvenile onset , and one with closed angle glaucoma . 
choroidal lesions in patients with aids . seven cases of bilateral , scattered , yellow-white choroidal lesions have been seen in aids patients since january 1988 . one resulted from presumed extension of cryptococcal meningitis into the optic nerve and choroid . all the remaining six patients had pneumocystis pneumonia at some time during the course of the disease and were receiving aerosolised pentamidine therapy . none died quickly of disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection , unlike previously reported patients . mycobacterial infection was also present in five of these six patients . the differential diagnosis of this entity in aids patients is discussed . 
a case of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis . ii : the sterol content of a cataractous lens . the cholestanol content of a cataractous lens nucleus from a patient with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis ( ctx ) was quantified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and found to be 0.27 micrograms per mg freeze-dried lens tissue . the cholestanol-cholesterol ratio of 1.7 % in the lens nucleus was similar to that in the serum of the ctx patient . the cholestanol content and cholestanol-cholesterol ratio in the ctx lens were approximately four-fold and six-fold greater respectively than the mean levels found in three senile cataractous lens nuclei analysed simultaneously for comparative purposes . 
injector for highly viscous silicone oil . a syringe device for the injection and evacuation of highly viscous silicone oil was developed . the problem of removing the air interfering with these manoeuvres was solved by providing special outlets in the plunger and handle of a conventional glass syringe . a slightly modified commercial motor perfusor was chosen to power this device , which has proved to be good and fail-safe in more than 100 cases . 
anisometropic and strabismic amblyopia in the age group 2 years and above : a prospective study of the results of treatment . forty-four children aged 2-9 years with strabismic and anisometropic amblyopia were prospectively followed up during amblyopia treatment . the efficacy of optimised treatment in terms of number of cured children , time to achieve cure , and rate of initial improvement of visual acuity was evaluated in relation to age at start of treatment , type and initial degree of amblyopia , and adherence to treatment regimen . compliance with treatment was the most critical factor predicting a successful outcome . among the compliant children 35 out of 36 were cured ( visual acuity difference between amblyopic and non-amblyopic eyes not more than one line ) within five months regardless of age , treatment regimen , and type or initial degree of amblyopia as compared with none in the group with low compliance . most of these compliant children were cured within three months , with shorter treatment times on average for the younger children . the initial improvement of visual acuity was also faster at 2 years than at 4 years of age . anisometropes with moderate amblyopia at the start of treatment were over-represented in the group with low compliance . we conclude that early diagnosis of strabismus in combination with general population screening at the age of 4 to detect amblyopia caused by anisometropia or microstrabismus seems to be efficacious for the cure of most cases . the major factor in treatment failure was found to be inadequate adherence to the treatment regimen . 
corneal sensitivity and correlations between decreased sensitivity and anterior segment pathology in ocular leprosy . leprosy is one of the leading causes of corneal hyposensitivity . in this article the corneal sensitivity of 143 leprosy patients was examined , and correlations between corneal hyposensitivity and anterior segment pathology were detected . twenty four healthy volunteers were examined as controls . various degrees of corneal loss of sensitivity were found in 46.2 % of leprosy patients . lagophthalmos , chronic lepromatous granulomatous uveitis , iris atrophy , and social blindness were found 4.5-16 .6 times more frequently in eyes which developed severe corneal hyposensitivity . 
influence of untreated chronic plastic iridocyclitis on intraocular pressure in leprosy patients . the intraocular pressures of a total of 286 eyes of patients with lepromatous and borderline lepromatous leprosy who never had regular ophthalmological care or local eye treatment were measured . the patients were categorised according to the type of leprosy they had , and the eyes were categorised as without or with chronic plastic iridocyclitis . in patients with lepromatous and borderline lepromatous types of leprosy the intraocular pressure was significantly lower in eyes with chronic plastic iridocylitis 10.1 ( 3.6 ) mmhg than in both unaffected eyes 11.0 ( 3.2 ) mmhg and control eyes 13.5 ( 2.5 ) mmhg . it has been shown that chronic plastic iridocyclitis which remains untreated for years results in a lower intraocular pressure than normal . 
flecked retina associated with ring 17 chromosome . we report the case of a mentally retarded male with a ring 17 chromosome who had subretinal drusen-like deposits in each eye . this is the second report of flecked retina in a patient with ring 17 chromosome , suggesting that there may be a causal relationship between abnormalities of chromosome 17 and retinal pigment epithelial or photoreceptor dysfunction . 
postural studies in pulsatile ocular blood flow : i. ocular hypertension and normotension . measurements of pulsatile ocular blood flow ( pobf ) have been recorded in a group of healthy , ocular normotensive volunteers and ocular hypertensive patients recruited from outpatients . use of a pneumotonometric probe linked to a langham ocular blood flow system enabled readings of intraocular pressure and its variation with heart rate ( ocular pulse ) to be taken in erect and supine positions . pulsatile ocular blood flow was calculated from these values by means of the pressure-volume relationship previously described for living human eyes . assumption of the supine posture was accompanied by a significant rise in intraocular pressure ; in normal eyes ( mean , with sem ) ( 3.1 ( 0.4 ) mmhg , p less than 0.0001 ) and to a greater extent in ocular hypertensive eyes ( 4.7 ( 0.6 ) mmhg , p less than 0.0001 ) . the pobf did not differ significantly between normotensive and ocular hypertensive groups in either the erect or supine postures . in both groups , however , assumption of the supine posture was accompanied by a significant fall in pobf ( normals : -121 ( 21 ) microliters/min , p less than 0.0001 ; ocular hypertensives : -75 ( 16 ) microliters/min , p less than 0.0002 ) . these reductions in pobf represent decrements of 27.5 ( 3.0 ) % and 17.1 ( 3.8 ) % respectively . pulsatile ocular blood flow is reduced in the supine posture , and this may result in tissue hypoxia in subjects at risk of developing glaucoma . a companion paper describes the measurement of pobf in a group of patients with chronic open angle glaucoma treated with topical timolol 0.25 % . 
postural studies in pulsatile ocular blood flow : ii . chronic open angle glaucoma . the pulsatile ocular blood flow ( pobf ) has been recorded in 15 patients with chronic open angle glaucoma . measurements were performed during regular treatment with timolol 0.25 % eyedrops , two weeks after withdrawal of this treatment , and then a further two weeks after its reinstitution . readings were taken with subjects in both the erect and supine positions by means of a pneumotonometric probe to measure intraocular pressure ( iop ) , linked to a langham ocular blood flow system . assumption of the supine posture was associated with a significant increase in iop in all phases of the study . treatment with timolol lowered the mean iop in comparison with the untreated phase ( -4.4 ( sem 0.6 ) mmhg , p less than 0.001 ) but had no effect on the postural change . a significant reduction in pobf was recorded on assumption of the supine posture ( -66 ( sem 18 ) microliters/min , p less than 0.001 ) , representing a mean decrement of 19 % . however , there were no significant differences in pobf between treated and untreated phases of the study . comparison of the values obtained in patients with glaucoma ( coag ) after withdrawal of treatment with those in subjects with ocular hypertension revealed that there was no significant difference in intraocular pressure between the two groups . however , both pobf ( -68 ( sem 29 ) microliters/min ) and the pulse amplitude of the intraocular pressure ( ocular pulse : -0.45 ( sem ) 0.14 mmhg ) were significantly lower in the coag patients . pulsatile ocular blood flow is significantly lower in patients with chronic open angle glaucoma . furthermore , the pobf and the postural response of these patients is not improved by the use of topical timolol therapy . 
seroprevalence of antibodies to htlv-i in patients with ocular disorders . human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-i ) has been shown to spread worldwide and to be responsible for distinct systemic diseases , namely adult t-cell leukaemia and htlv-i-associated myelopathy . immune-mediated , inflammatory lesions in the lungs , joints , and lacrimal glands ( sjogren 's syndrome ) are also suggested to be associated with the retrovirus . we studied seroprevalence of antibodies to htlv-i in patients with various ocular disorders who are residents of south-west japan , one of the endemic areas of htlv-i . of 310 patients with ocular disease 72 ( 23.2 % ) were seropositive . this seroprevalence did not differ significantly from that of the general population of the area . as regards individual ocular diseases , aetiologically undefined nonspecific uveitis showed a significantly high seropositivity for htlv-i . of 44 patients 18 ( 40.9 % ) were seropositive . their clinical features were acute or subacute , transient and sometimes recurrent , and granulomatous changes in the anterior uvea . patients with isolated cotton-wool spot of the retina , non-familial retinitis pigmentosa , or keratoconjunctivitis sicca did not show any significantly high prevalence of htlv-i infection . 
prognostic significance of the pattern visual evoked potential in ocular hypertension . this paper reports a prospective study on 49 ocular hypertensive patients to evaluate the prognostic significance of transient abnormalities in the pattern visual evoked potential ( vep ) in the development of glaucoma . seven of 24 patients with vep abnormalities at diagnosis of ocular hypertension developed glaucomatous field defects in the follow-up period as compared with none of 25 patients with normal veps at diagnosis . we conclude that appropriately designed pattern vep testing is a valuable complement to careful ( preferably computerised , static ) perimetry . in addition , our findings support the contention that , in glaucomatous disease of the optic nerve , rudimentary pattern processing mechanisms -- that is ' y ' - type units of the magnocellular pathways -- may be affected earlier than luminance processing mechanisms . 
ocular defects in infants of extremely low birth weight and low gestational age . the eyes of 49 babies who weighed less than 1,000 g at birth or who were born at or before 28 weeks gestation were examined at the age of 4 years . twenty-one children were normal . the remaining 29 children ( 59 % ) had ocular abnormalities which ranged from mild amblyopia to blindness from retinopathy of prematurity . the need to examine children at risk is stressed . 
laser photocoagulation control of diabetic macular oedema without fluorescein angiography . this study included 40 eyes in 22 diabetic patients with focal macular oedema . laser photocoagulation was directed at decompensated or leaking microvascular lesions clinically detected without using pretreatment fluorescein angiograms . post-treatment fluorescein angiograms performed after adequate clinical control of disease showed complete resolution of the macular oedema in 25 eyes ( 62.5 % ) , whereas persistent leakage from microvascular lesions closer than 500 microns from the centre of the foveola was noted in 15 eyes ( 37.5 % ) . these were clinically detected during the pretreatment examination and were found not to impair or threaten the patient 's vision . our data confirm the clinical impression that fluorescein angiography is not necessary for effective treatment and should be used only if necessary . 
isolation and characterization of a new human microsporidian , encephalitozoon hellem ( n. sp . ) , from three aids patients with keratoconjunctivitis . a new human microsporidian was isolated from cultures of madin-darby canine kidney cells incubated with conjunctival scrapings or corneal tissues from three aids patients with keratoconjunctivitis . the three isolates were morphologically similar to encephalitozoon cuniculi . the spores averaged 1 x 1.5-2 .0 microns , had six to eight polar filament coils , displayed monokaryotic nuclei , and possessed relatively thick endospores with irregularly shaped exospores . organisms developed within a parasitophorous vacuole . by sds-page analysis , the three isolates appeared to be identical but were different from e. cuniculi . identical banding patterns on western blots of the three isolates were expressed by each patient 's serum . by western immunoblotting , murine antisera to e. cuniculi reacted to several antigens of the new aids-related microsporidian , whereas murine antisera bound weakly to nosema corneum . the name encephalitozoon hellem ( n. sp . ) is proposed to identify this new human microsporidian . 
cocaine-induced iritis . the case of a 31-year-old man who presented to the emergency department with iritis from intranasal cocaine use is described . this was the second episode of iritis in this patient after casual cocaine use . the differential diagnosis of iritis and a proposed pathophysiologic mechanism are discussed . 
increased serum beta 2-microglobulin concentrations in hyperthyroid states . serum beta 2-microglobulin concentrations were determined in 21 untreated hyperthyroid patients ( 12 with graves ' disease , and nine with toxic nodular adenoma ) and in 20 healthy controls . all subjects had normal serum creatinine concentrations and urine analysis . both total and free thyroid hormones were significantly higher in the hyperthyroid groups than in controls . beta 2-microglobulin concentrations were significantly increased in both groups of hyperthyroid patients compared with controls . no difference was found in the thyroid hormone and beta 2-microglobulin concentrations between both sets of patients . the beta 2-microglobulin and thyroid hormone concentrations were not correlated . these data show that hyperthyroidism is another cause of increased beta 2-microglobulin production along with viral infections , immunologically mediated diseases , and malignant neoplasms . the increased serum beta 2-microglobulin concentration in thyroid hyperfunction is probably related to metabolic rate , even if autoimmunity might contribute to its overproduction . 
epidemiology of ocular complications of childhood head trauma head trauma is a frequent cause of childhood morbidity and mortality . we have studied 293 children aged zero to 18 years who suffered from head trauma , in order to assess the importance and frequency of ocular complications of head trauma . very significant statistical differences show that children aged zero to 12 years are at risk for ocular complications more frequently than older children . the prompt diagnosis of ocular symptoms and signs and their differentiation can be of value in the early and correct diagnosis of head trauma , thus insuring effective treatment . these data emphasize the importance and prevention of head trauma in children . a pediatric victim of head trauma can surely benefit from the strict cooperation among emergency specialists , pediatricians , ophthalmologists , and neurologists . 
eye infections . this article provides an overview of the diagnosis and treatment of eye infections . the seriousness of eye infections can range from benign and self-limiting to lethal . the primary care physician must determine the seriousness of each particular infection and then , based on that determination , must treat or refer the patient . 
expanded clinical evaluation of lovastatin ( excel ) study results . ii . assessment of the human lens after 48 weeks of treatment with lovastatin . the crystalline lenses of hypercholesterolemic patients were assessed before and after 48 weeks of treatment with lovastatin or placebo to determine the effect of lovastatin on the human lens . patients were given a biomicroscopic ( slit-lamp ) examination of the lens , and a previously validated , standardized classification system was used to describe the findings . a total of 8,245 patients were randomly assigned in equal numbers to treatment with placebo or lovastatin 20 or 40 mg once or twice daily in this double-blind , parallel-group study . statistical analyses of the distribution of cortical , nuclear and subcapsular opacities at 48 weeks , adjusted for age and presence of an opacity at baseline , showed no significant differences ( p less than 0.01 ) between the placebo and lovastatin-treated groups . visual acuity assessments at week 48 were also not found to have significantly different distributions among treatment groups . moreover , no significant differences were found among the groups in the frequencies of greater than or equal to 2-line worsening in visual acuity with concurrent progression in lenticular opacity , cataract extraction , or any spontaneously reported adverse ophthalmologic experience . no evidence was found for an effect of lovastatin on the human lens after 48 weeks of treatment . 
memory-contingent saccades and the substantia nigra postulate for essential blepharospasm . essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia are related focal dystonias of unknown aetiology . blepharospasm induced by acute dopamine depletion in parkinsonism restricts saccade initiation possibly via the substantia nigra pars reticulata ( snpr ) . if essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia similarly restrict saccades , then a selective , somatotopically arranged pathway such as the snpr may be involved . to test this possibility memory-contingent and visually-guided saccades were measured in patients with essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia . the latency of both forms of saccades was either significantly prolonged or excessively variable , while the accuracy and peak velocity of these fast eye movements were similar to age-matched control subjects . essential blepharospasm and cranial dystonia alter the initiation of saccadic eye movements . subcortical brain regions or pathways where eyelid , saccade and cranial/cervical motor control are somatotopically approximated , such as the snpr , may be involved in blepharospasm . 
islet cell antibodies in patients with autoimmune thyroid disease . islet cell antibodies ( icas ) were assayed in 316 patients with autoimmune thyroid disease ( aitd ; 190 with graves ' disease , 126 with hashimoto 's thyroiditis ) , 53 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( iddm ) , and 144 healthy control subjects . icas were measured by an immunohistochemical method with peroxidase-labeled protein a and human pancreatic tissues . the prevalence of icas in patients with aitd was 7.6 % ( 24 of 316 ) , whereas the prevalence in control subjects was 0.7 % ( 1 of 144 ) . among 24 ica + patients , 20 ( 83 % ) had iddm . in these 20 patients , the duration of diabetes from clinical onset was 5.4 + / - 5.1 yr . icas in patients with iddm alone were positive in 90.9 % at 1 yr and 7.7 % at 5 yr after the onset of diabetes . these data have shown that most ica + patients with aitd have iddm and that the prevalence of icas in patients with aitd in japanese is as high as that found among whites , whereas the incidence of iddm in japanese is approximately one-thirtieth or one-fiftieth of that in whites . 
location of port-wine stains and the likelihood of ophthalmic and/or central nervous system complications . of 310 patients with port-wine stains , 68 % had more than one dermatome involved ; 85 % had unilateral and 15 % had a bilateral distribution of their port-wine stain . at the time of examination , 8 % of all patients with trigeminal port-wine stains had evidence of eye and/or central nervous system ( cns ) involvement . extensive involvement , with port-wine stain over the trunk and extremities as well as the head and neck , was observed in 12 % . patients who did not have port-wine stains on the areas served by branches v1 and v2 of the trigeminal nerve had no signs or symptoms of eye and/or cns involvement . port-wine stains of the eyelids , bilateral distribution of the birthmark , and unilateral port-wine stains involving all three branches of the trigeminal nerve were associated with a significantly higher likelihood of having eye and/or cns complications . twenty-four percent of those with bilateral trigeminal nerve port-wine stains had eye and/or cns involvement compared with 6 % of those with unilateral lesions . all those who had eye and/or cns complications had port-wine stain involvement of the eyelids ; in 91 % both upper and lower eyelids were involved , whereas in 9 % only the lower eyelid was involved . none of those with upper eyelid port-wine stains alone had eye and/or cns complications . in addition , 3 ( 75 % ) of the 4 subjects with seizures alone had bilateral port-wine stain involvement . a third group , these with unilateral v1 , v2 , and v3 port-wine stains , had eye and/or cns complications in 3 ( 19 % ) of 16 subjects . 
direct evidence that ganglioside is an integral component of the thyrotropin receptor . gangliosides were extracted from purified human and porcine thyrotropin ( tsh ) receptors ( tsh-r ) and were detected by probing with an 125i-labeled sialic acid-specific lectin , limax flavus agglutinin . gangliosides copurified with human and porcine tsh-r migrated between monosialoganglioside gm1 and disialoganglioside gd1a . ceramide glycanase digestion of the purified human tsh-r-associated glycolipid confirmed its ganglioside nature . it was resistant to vibrio cholerae sialidase , which digests all gangliosides except gm1 , but was sensitive to arthrobacter ureafaciens sialidase , which digests all gangliosides including gm1 . these findings indicate that the human tsh-r contains ganglioside that belongs to the galactosyl ( beta 1 ---- 3 ) - n-acetylgalactosaminyl ( beta 1 ---- 4 ) - [ n-acetylneuraminyl ( alpha 2 ---- 3 ) ] galactosyl ( beta 1 ---- 4 ) glucosyl ( beta 1 ---- 1 ) ceramide ( gm1 ) family . its intimate association with receptor protein implies a key role for ganglioside in the structure and function of the tsh-r . 
profound papilledema due to cryptococcal meningitis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome : successful treatment with fluconazole . although cryptococcal meningitis is a frequent infection in patients with aids , papilledema is rarely reported . we have reported a case of profound papilledema associated with cryptococcal meningitis in a patient with aids . after treatment failure with amphotericin b , the patient was successfully treated with fluconazole , and the papilledema resolved . 
acute oculogyric crisis after administration of prochlorperazine . we report a case of acute oculogyric crisis due to prochlorperazine administration in a young black woman with a concomitant viral infection . neuroleptic medications are the most common cause of drug-induced acute dystonic reactions such as oculogyric crisis . prochlorperazine is an antiemetic agent with a phenothiazine-type chemical structure and is known to cause dystonic reactions . drug-induced acute dystonic reactions are most common in young adults and in men . viral infections may also predispose patients to these adverse reactions . caution is warranted when this drug is used in patients who have other risk factors for an acute dystonic reaction . 
the management of retinal detachments associated with choroidal colobomas by vitreous surgery . we used vitreous surgery to treat seven patients ( eight eyes ) with complicated retinal detachments associated with choroidal colobomas . all eyes had large choroidal colobomas and no evidence of peripheral retinal breaks . small , atrophic breaks were detected in five of the eyes and were located in the base of the coloboma in four of the five eyes . adjunctive surgical techniques were necessary and included cyanoacrylate retinopexy in four eyes , silicone oil tamponade in five eyes , and retinectomy in two eyes . retinal reattachment was ultimately attained in seven of the eight eyes . the number of surgical procedures ranged from one to five , with an average of three . postoperative visual acuity of the eyes that underwent anatomically successful procedures ranged from 20/100 to light perception . proliferative vitreoretinopathy was the most frequent cause of redetachment , occurring in six of the eight eyes . 
in vivo phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy of human uveal melanomas and other intraocular tumors . we studied the feasibility of using the surface coil probe technique for the noninvasive in vivo study of ocular tumors by phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy . the characteristic organophosphate metabolites of suspected uveal melanomas before proton beam irradiation were determined qualitatively by phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy in vivo using a three-turn surface coil . spectra of choroidal hemangioma , osteoma , and metastasis were also obtained in vivo and compared with those of uveal melanomas . analysis of spectra performed at 1.5 t showed significant peaks of phosphomonoesters , inorganic phosphate , phosphodiesters , phosphocreatine , and adenosine 5 ' - triphosphates . the unusually high concentration of phosphodiesters may be considered as a marker for uveal melanomas and other choroidal tumors . by analyzing the ratio of phosphocreatine to phosphodiesters spectral area values , we interpreted qualitatively spectra of intraocular tumors to differentiate malignant tumors from benign lesions . nevertheless , the main limitation of interpreting the spectra was their contamination by signals from surrounding tissues . 
prevalence and association of asteroid hyalosis with systemic diseases . we performed a cross-sectional study of 12,205 patients , which identified 101 patients ( 0.83 % ) with asteroid hyalosis . these patients were examined for associated systemic and ocular conditions . diabetes mellitus was found in 29 of the patients with asteroid hyalosis ( 29 % ) , as compared to ten of 101 ( 10 % ) control subjects ( p = .0007 ) . an increased prevalence of systemic arterial hypertension ( 61 of 101 [ 60 % ] patients with asteroid hyalosis compared with 29 of 101 [ 29 % ] control subjects ; p = .0001 ) and atherosclerotic vascular disease ( 30 of 101 [ 30 % ] patients with asteroid hyalosis compared with 13 of 101 [ 13 % ] control subjects ; p = .006 ) was also discovered in the asteroid hyalosis group . additionally , patients with asteroid hyalosis were found to be more hyperopic than control subjects ( p = .009 ) . 
hereditary hemorrhagic macular dystrophy . we treated two brothers who had a hemorrhagic macular lesion in one eye ; a similar problem affected the fellow eye of both patients within eight months . generalized fine granularity of the retinal pigment epithelium and peripheral iris transillumination defects were observed in both siblings . a study of the family suggested that the disorder was dominantly inherited and probably was sorsby 's pseudoinflammatory macular dystrophy . the macular lesions in one brother were treated by argon green laser photocoagulation and in the other brother by krypton red laser photocoagulation . although the brother treated by krypton red laser photocoagulation attained better final visual function , additional differences in treatment methods also may have contributed to the final outcome . 
a simple transposition procedure for complicated strabismus . we combined a recession or resection of recti muscles with a vertical or horizontal transposition to correct a complicated paralytic ocular deviation in eight patients . the transposed muscles were reattached to the globe parallel to the spiral of tillaux and adjacent to the paralyzed muscle . postoperatively , seven patients demonstrated fusion in the primary position or required a slight head turn to fuse . there were no surgical complications , and no patient developed symptomatic cyclotropia , diplopia , or anterior segment ischemia . 
incidence of prominent corneal nerves in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a . we studied the increased visibility of corneal nerves inside an 8-mm diameter central corneal area in 14 patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a , one patient with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2b , five patients with nonhereditary medullary thyroid carcinoma , ten patients with anterior keratoconus , and ten normal subjects . we used a grading system ( grade 0 through grade 4 ) for nerve visibility based on slit-lamp biomicroscopic examination and photographic documentation . all 20 normal eyes showed either grade 0 or grade 1 , which indicated no pathologic thickening of corneal nerves . sixteen of the 28 eyes ( 57 % ) with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a , however , were evaluated as grade 2 or higher , which indicated thickened corneal nerves . the incidence of high nerve visibility in eyes with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a was significantly greater compared to normal eyes ( p less than .0001 ) , anterior keratoconus ( p less than .0001 ) , and nonhereditary medullary thyroid carcinoma ( p = .0012 ) . furthermore , eight of the 28 eyes ( 29 % ) with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a showed markedly prominent corneal nerves ( grade 3 and 4 ) , a prominence similar to those seen in eyes with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2b . there was no definite relationship among prominent nerve , age of the patient , and occurrence of pheochromocytoma . these findings suggest that over half of all patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a show corneal nerves pathologically thickened to different degrees . 
postoperative complications after molteno implant surgery . we performed molteno implant surgery in one eye each of 41 patients with uncontrolled glaucoma . intraocular pressure was controlled ( intraocular pressure less than or equal to 18 mm hg ) in 32 eyes ( 78 % ) . the mean preoperative intraocular pressure was 40 + / - 13.2 mm hg , whereas the mean postoperative intraocular pressure was 16 + / - 6.6 mm hg . patients were followed up for an average of 16 months after the operation . visual acuity was unchanged in 23 eyes ( 56 % ) , improved in nine eyes ( 22 % ) , and poorer in nine eyes ( 22 % ) . the major complications included shallow anterior chamber and hypotony in six eyes ( 14.6 % ) , vitreous hemorrhage in two eyes ( 4.9 % ) , retinal detachment in one eye ( 2.4 % ) , and malignant glaucoma in two eyes ( 4.9 % ) . less grave complications included hyphema in four eyes ( 9.8 % ) , peripheral choroidal effusion in 15 eyes ( 36.6 % ) , obstruction of the tube in six eyes ( 14.6 % ) , recession of the tube into the angle in two eyes ( 4.9 % ) , erosion of the tube in one eye ( 2.4 % ) , and tenon 's cyst formation in three eyes ( 7.3 % ) . 
a comparison of total and partial tenonectomy with trabeculectomy . we compared the results of two methods of tenonectomy at the time of trabeculectomy . of 49 eyes , 23 were randomly assigned to a partial tenonectomy and 26 to a total tenonectomy . there was no statistically significant difference in the success rate between the two surgical groups using an upper limit of intraocular pressure of either 18 or 21 mm hg as the criterion for success . there was no difference in the need for postoperative medications or further surgical intervention between the two groups . although certain advantages exist with each technique , these findings suggest that equivalent results can be anticipated with either a total or partial tenonectomy . 
therapeutic ultrasound for the treatment of glaucoma [ published erratum appears in am j ophthalmol 1991 jul 15 ; 112 ( 1 ) :105 ] a multicenter clinical trial of therapeutic ultrasound for the treatment of glaucoma included 20 centers in the united states in which 1,117 treatments were performed on 880 eyes . the study was limited to patients with refractory glaucoma who had not benefited from conventional medical and surgical techniques . approximately 782 of 1,117 treatments ( 70 % ) showed an initial decrease in intraocular pressure from a pretreatment mean of 38.1 mm hg to 22 mm hg or less . by kaplan-meier survival analysis , the single treatment success rate ( intraocular pressure between 6 and 22 mm hg ) was 48.7 % at six months posttreatment . when retreatment was used subsequent to failure , the one-year multitreatment success rate was 79.3 % . the most common complications were an immediate posttreatment intraocular pressure increase lasting a few hours and mild iritis . other complications included scleral thinning in 28 of 1,117 treatments ( 2.5 % ) and phthisis bulbi in 12 of 1,117 treatments ( 1.1 % ) . 
the epidemiologic association of fuchs ' heterochromic iridocyclitis and ocular toxoplasmosis . between january 1983 and july 1987 , i examined 25 patients at the department of ophthalmology , west virginia university , who had the anterior segment characteristics of fuchs ' heterochromic iridocyclitis . of these patients , 16 had fundus lesions suggestive of ocular toxoplasmosis . of these 16 patients , 13 had a positive serologic test for toxoplasmosis , two patients were not tested , and one patient had a negative test at 1:16 . the remaining nine patients with fuchs ' heterochromic iridocyclitis had no fundus lesions suggestive of toxoplasmosis . a chart review of 792 consecutive patients at the retinal unit , west virginia university , during a six-month period disclosed that 24 of 590 patients ( 4 % ) had chorioretinal scars suggestive of toxoplasmosis . i concluded from these data that in at least one subgroup of patients with fuchs ' heterochromic iridocyclitis there is a significant association with the chorioretinal scars of toxoplasmosis ( p less than .01 ) , and this is suggestive of a causal relationship . 
histopathologic evidence of fibrovascular ingrowth four weeks after placement of the hydroxyapatite orbital implant . we studied the histopathologic findings after placement of an orbital hydroxyapatite implant in a patient . the implant was placed after enucleation for a choroidal melanoma and was removed four weeks later because histopathologic examination of the enucleated globe disclosed tumor invasion of the optic nerve that necessitated further orbital tissue removal . our histopathologic findings confirm that there is significant ingrowth of fibrovascular tissue in these implants , even within weeks of implantation . 
