hypercalcemia in infants presenting with apnea . to our knowledge apnea in infants has not been associated with hypercalcemia . we describe seven hypercalcemic infants aged 2 days to 3 months who had presented with apnea ; six of the seven were otherwise healthy . the apneic attacks were brief , and normal breathing was restored spontaneously or after tactile stimulation . the attacks stopped and the apnea monitoring was discontinued when the children were 1 month to 2 years of age . the only abnormal finding common to all of the patients was hypercalcemia . idiopathic infantile hypercalcemia was diagnosed in six of the patients and familial benign hypercalcemia in one . our findings suggest that determination of the plasma calcium level be included in the investigation of apnea in infancy . 
cancer chemotherapy after solid organ transplantation . to assess how well chemotherapy is tolerated after solid organ transplantation , we reviewed our experience at the children 's hospital of pittsburgh with five patients aged 1 to 12 years . four patients had a liver transplant , indications for which were hepatoblastoma in two patients , hepatic failure secondary to wilms ' tumor chemoradiotherapy in one patient , and familial intrahepatic cholestasis in one patient . a fifth patient received a cardiac transplant for unresectable angiosarcoma of the right atrium . after transplant , chemotherapy was given for the treatment of the primary malignancy in four of the patients . the patient with familial intrahepatic cholestasis received chemotherapy for secondary lymphoproliferative disease that had not responded to the cessation of immunosuppression . all patients other than this patient were on immunosuppression with prednisone ( 0.5 to 2 mg/kg daily ) and cyclosporine ( to maintain serum levels at 800 to 1000 ng/ml radioimmunoassay ) throughout the duration of chemotherapy . courses of chemotherapy included one or more of the following agents : adriamycin ( adr , 20 mg/m2 daily , three patients ) , cyclophosphamide ( ctx , 1 gm/m2 , one patient ) , cisplatin ( cddp , 90 mg/m2 , one patient ) , vincristine ( vcr , greater than 0.75 to 1.5 mg/m2 , three patients ) , actinomycin d ( act-d , 7.5 micrograms/kg , one patient ) , ifosfamide ( i , 1800 mg/m2 , one patient ) and etoposide ( vp-16 , 100 mg/m2 , one patient ) . all patients received greater than or equal to 3 courses ( range , 3 to 9 ; mean , 5 ) of chemotherapy every 3 to 4 weeks . dose reductions were made because of neutropenia in three patients but none were greater than 50 % . severe rejection was seen in one patient who had , however , manifested evidence of rejection prior to his first postoperative course of chemotherapy . no nephro or cardiac toxicity was seen . this preliminary experience suggests that chemotherapy is well tolerated after solid organ transplantation . 
pulmonary metastases from ameloblastoma of the mandible treated with cisplatin , adriamycin , and cyclophosphamide . a case of delayed pulmonary metastases from an ameloblastoma of the mandible , which occurred 20 years after surgical resection of the primary tumor but with no recurrence at the primary site , is reported . combination chemotherapy using cisplatin , adriamycin , and cyclophosphamide has produced a very good clinical and radiologically documented response in this case . 
in vitro natural killer and lymphokine-activated killer activity in patients with bronchogenic carcinoma . the authors examined peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 45 patients with bronchogenic carcinoma to determine natural killer ( nk ) and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) activity after in vitro incubation with media alone or media plus interferon gamma ( ifn , 200 u/ml ) and/or interleukin-2 ( il-2 , 100 u/ml ) . our results show that lymphocytes from patients with bronchogenic carcinoma can acquire lak activity , but the level of activity acquired was significantly lower compared with lymphocytes from 25 control subjects when il-2 cultures were supplemented with 10 % autologous human serum ( ahs ) ( 15.6 % + / - 2.1 % specific release versus 26.0 % + / - 2.9 % specific release , p = 0.004 ) . the lak activity , defined as cytotoxicity of an nk-resistant cell line , of the patients ' lymphocytes was augmented when cells were cultured with both il-2 and ifn compared with il-2 alone ( p = 0.0001 , paired t-test ) . control subjects were unchanged ( p = 0.09 ) . there was no significant difference between groups of patients with different histologic types of tumor or different stages of disease . the nk activity , defined as killing of nk-sensitive k-562 target cells , of the patients ' lymphocytes was not significantly different from that of the controls ' lymphocytes ( 42.8 % + / - 3.0 % specific release versus 49.3 % + / - 3.3 % specific release , p = 0.16 ) . these studies indicate the feasibility of il-2 and ifn therapy in patients with bronchogenic carcinoma . 
tumor-antigen 4 . its immunohistochemical distribution and tissue and serum concentrations in squamous cell carcinoma of the lung and esophagus . the immunohistochemical distribution and concentrations of tumor-antigen 4 ( ta-4 ) in tissues and serum were determined in patients with benign and malignant diseases , including 27 patients with squamous cell carcinoma ( scc ; 15 in the lung and 12 in the esophagus ) . tumor-antigen 4 immunoreactivity was present in the cytoplasm of many scc tissues , especially in the hyperparakeratotic region , and in the cytoplasm of differentiated squamous cells of the intermediate layer of normal epithelia of various organs , but not in those of other types of lung cancers or benign pulmonary diseases . consistent with the results of immunostaining , the ta-4 concentrations in scc tissues of the lung , esophagus , and normal squamous epithelia were much higher than in those of lung cancer other than scc , benign pulmonary diseases , normal lung , and submandibular gland tissues . the ta-4 concentration in scc tissue tended to increase with increasing grades of differentiation . serum ta-4 was elevated in 15 of 27 patients with scc but in no patients with other types of lung cancer or benign diseases . these results indicate that ta-4 is an antigen related to the differentiation of squamous cells and that tumor cells of scc can release a large amount of ta-4 into circulation whereas normal squamous epithelia can not . 
postoperative active specific immunization in colorectal cancer patients with virus-modified autologous tumor-cell vaccine . first clinical results with tumor-cell vaccines modified with live but avirulent newcastle disease virus [ published erratum appears in cancer 1991 apr 15 ; 67 ( 8 ) :2124 ] sixteen patients with colorectal carcinoma dukes ' stage b2 , c , or d were treated with an autologous virus-modified tumor-cell vaccine after potential curative tumor resection ( r0-resection ) . an inoculum of 1 x 10 ( 7 ) cells incubated with 32 hemagglutination units of nonirradiated newcastle disease virus ( ndv ) was given intracutaneously up to four times at 10-day intervals . the delayed-type hypersensitivity ( dth ) skin reaction was measured . the vaccination was well tolerated . in 11 of 16 patients an increasing reactivity against the vaccine was observed during the vaccination procedure . a challenge test using autologous tumor cells without ndv after the vaccination cycle revealed a specific antitumor sensibilization in 12 patients . the dth response was not due to bacterial contamination or sensibility to the virus . histologic examination of the vaccination site showed a dense infiltration of predominantly helper t-lymphocytes . we conclude that in most of the patients treated active , specific immunization led to a specific antitumor sensitivity . 
flow cytometric dna analysis of parathyroid tumors . implication of aneuploidy for pathologic and biologic classification . the previous cytometric studies on parathyroid tumors have provided conflicting data regarding the relationship between dna content and histopathology , resulting from differences in technical methods and data analysis . this study measured nuclear dna of parathyroid tumors by flow cytometry in fresh material and determined whether dna aneuploidy really assists in making a pathologic diagnosis of carcinoma or not . from may 1987 through april 1989 , 65 consecutive patients operated on for primary hyperparathyroidism had dna analysis of the freshly excised parathyroid tumors . three of the patients had metastatic lesions of parathyroid carcinoma in the lung , cervical lymph nodes , and lung and mediastinal lymph nodes , respectively . pathologic classifications of the lesions from the other 62 patients were 54 adenomas , four carcinomas , and four hyperplasias . in all the latter patients , hyperplasia was associated with a multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome . unequivocal evidence of aneuploidy was found in all of the metastatic lesions and 60 % of the primary lesions of the carcinomas , in 9 % of the adenomas and in 50 % of the hyperplasias . therefore , parathyroid carcinomas were more apt to be aneuploid than were adenomas ( p = 0.0015 , both-sided testing ) . in each of the cases of aneuploid hyperplasia , a small aneuploid peak was found . the high incidence of aneuploidy in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 may indicate the presence of clonal heterogeneity of hyperplastic glands and the presence of an abnormal subset of cells that have malignant potential . cell distribution analysis did not provide any significant information beyond ploidy level . in conclusion , dna flow cytometric analysis of dna ploidy patterns is a valuable adjunct to the histopathologic diagnosis of parathyroid neoplasms . 
posttachycardia t-wave changes . a 25-year-old previously healthy man presented to the emergency department with a tachydysrhythmia . after pharmacological intervention , the patient 's rhythm converted to normal sinus and symmetrically inverted t-wave changes were noted . although asymptomatic after conversion , the patient was admitted to the hospital and monitored for two days to rule out cardiac ischemia correlating with the t-wave changes . the patient was ultimately discharged in good health . a review of the emergency medical literature fails to reveal examples of post-tachycardic t-wave changes that may simulate myocardial ischemia but be of no clinical significance . 
elevated serum levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptors in small cell lung carcinoma . the presence of the soluble form of the interleukin-2 receptors ( sil-2r ) was evaluated in the serum of 21 patients with small cell lung carcinoma ( sclc ) and 37 patients with non-small cell lung carcinoma ( non-sclc ) by means of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . the sil-2r level was measured serially in patients with sclc both during and after therapy . the mean serum level of sil-2r in patients with sclc was 3.8 times higher than that of 47 healthy controls and was 1.9 times higher than in 37 patients with non-sclc . six patients with sclc had very high levels of sil-2r , ranging from five to 52 times the mean level observed in normal controls . tumor cells in the pleural fluid of the patient with highest levels were positive with monoclonal antibodies to il-2r ( cd25 ) , nkh-1 , okdr , and okt9 . a longitudinal study in this patient showed a good correlation between tumor activity and sil-2r levels . also , the sil-2r levels decreased in patients responding to therapy . these results suggest that some sclcs secrete sil-2r and that the serial measurements of the serum sil-2r levels can be used as a noninvasive tumor marker in this disease . 
botulinum toxin treatment of cranial-cervical dystonia , spasmodic dysphonia , other focal dystonias and hemifacial spasm . in the past five years , 477 patients with various focal dystonias and hemifacial spasm received 3,806 injections of botulinum a toxin for relief of involuntary spasms . a definite improvement with a global rating greater than or equal to 2 on a 0-4 scale , was obtained in all 13 patients with spasmodic dysphonia , 94 % of 70 patients with blepharospasm , 92 % of 13 patients with hemifacial spasm , 90 % of 195 patients with cervical dystonia , 77 % of 22 patients with hand dystonia , 73 % of 45 patients with oromandibular dystonia , and in 90 % of 21 patients with other focal dystonia who had adequate follow up . while the average duration of maximum improvement lasted about 11 weeks after an injection ( range seven weeks in patients with hand dystonia to 15 weeks in patients with hemifacial spasm ) , some patients benefited for over a year . only 16 % of the 941 treatment visits with follow up were not successful . except for transient focal weakness , there were very few complications or systemic effects attributed to the injections . this study supports the conclusion that botulinum toxin injections are a safe and effective therapy for patients with focal dystonia and hemifacial spasm . 
stiffman syndrome : a rare paraneoplastic disorder ? an unusual case of the stiffman syndrome , associated with an oat cell carcinoma of the bronchus , is reported . pathological examination showed that it was due to an encephalomyelitis similar to that seen in paraneoplastic disorders . this suggests that atypical cases of the stiffman syndrome may occasionally be paraneoplastic . 
the use of risk factors in medical diagnosis : opportunities and cautions . we discuss in this paper the extent to which disease risk factors may assist in the diagnostic process . we caution that disease risk factors need not be very sensitive or specific . risk factor specificity and sensitivity may be further reduced if , in the former case , the risk factor is related to other illnesses having the same clinical presentation as the disease of interest , or if , in the latter case , the risk factor disappears with the onset of illness . we illustrate these points in a discussion of the utility of smoking as a diagnostic test for malignancy in two clinical situations , the patient with asymptomatic microscopic hematuria and the patient with a solitary pulmonary nodule . risk factors hold great promise as aids to medical diagnosis , as this information is readily available to clinicians at little or no cost . clinicians , however , should exercise caution when using risk factors of unproven diagnostic utility in medical diagnosis , as their presence may have little or no effect on disease probability . 
spirometric findings and mortality in never-smokers . the relation of ventilatory function to overall mortality has been studied in 662 male and 2048 female never-smokers who during the period 1976-1978 participated in the copenhagen city heart study , a prospective community study of more than 14,000 men and women randomly selected from the general population of the city of copenhagen . until the end of 1986 , 195 subjects who said they were never-smokers died . mortality was analyzed using the proportional hazards model of cox . in addition to measures of ventilatory function , the mortality analysis included age , sex , body-mass index , alcohol consumption , school education , diabetes mellitus , heart disease and bronchial asthma as confounding factors . forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( fev1 ) as a percentage of that predicted , forced vital capacity ( fvc ) as a percentage of that predicted and the ratio of fev1 to fvc were significant risk factors for mortality among both sexes . the relative risk of death associated with a 50 % decrease in fev1 and fvc as a percentage of a predicted value was 1.65 and 1.81 , respectively . this study confirms that lowered ventilatory function is a strong risk factor for mortality among never-smokers of both sexes . 
prolonged administration of oral etoposide in patients with relapsed or refractory small-cell lung cancer : a phase ii trial . twenty-two patients with recurrent small-cell lung cancer ( sclc ) were treated with single-agent etoposide 50 mg/m2/d by mouth for 21 consecutive days . eleven patients had received previous chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , and vincristine ( cav ) or etoposide ( cae ) or both ( cave ) . four of the latter patients also received salvage treatment with cisplatin and etoposide ( ep ) . nine patients had been treated with ep as induction therapy , while two patients had received high-dose cyclophosphamide , etoposide and cisplatin ( hdcep ) . altogether , 18 patients had received previous intravenous etoposide . the median time off chemotherapy was 4.5 months ( range , 1 to 28.9 months ) . ten patients ( 45.5 % ; 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , 27 % to 65 % ) achieved a complete or partial response . responses were most common in patients who had responded to previous chemotherapy and who had not received any treatment in the 90 days before initiation of oral etoposide . median response duration was 4 months ( range , 1.5 to 9.5 months ) and median survival was 3.5 + months ( range , 1.0 to 15 + months ) . leukocyte and platelet nadirs were 1,800 / microl and 160,000 / microl , respectively , during cycle 1 of treatment and occurred between days 21 and 28 . overall , total leukocyte count decreased to less than 1,000 / microl during 10 of 56 cycles ( 18 % ) . five patients required six hospitalizations for neutropenia and fever . there were two toxic deaths due to sepsis . platelet counts less than 50,000 / microl occurred in 14 cycles ( 25 % ) . alopecia developed in all patients ; gastrointestinal toxicity was uncommon . this schedule of etoposide administration warrants further study in combination with other active agents in previously untreated patients with sclc . 
interleukin-2 therapy in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma : a phase ii study . forty-seven patients with metastatic malignant melanoma were treated with two 5-day cycles of 100,000 u/kg recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) intravenously ( iv ) every 4 hours separated by 1 week . this dose and schedule of il-2 were identical to those used in a previous combined il-2 and lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell phase ii clinical trial of the il-2 / lak working group . patient eligibility criteria , and clinical management guidelines were similar to those used in the previous trial . forty-six patients were assessable for response . objective responses were observed in 10 of 46 patients ( two complete responses [ crs ] , eight partial responses [ prs ] ) or 22 % with responses occurring in lung and liver as well as lymph nodes and subcutaneous sites . the median response duration was 8 months . toxicity was significant ; three patients developed myocardial infarction , and one patient died during therapy . overall the toxicity and response rate for single-agent il-2 are similar to that observed with il-2 administered in combination with lak cells in the previous trial . these results suggest that single-agent therapy with il-2 when administered in this schedule has significant antimelanoma activity in humans , and that lak cells generated from peripheral blood add little to the antimelanoma activity of this dose and schedule of il-2 . 
adjunctive surgery after chemotherapy for nonseminomatous germ cell tumors : recommendations for patient selection . one hundred eighty-five patients who underwent surgery within 6 months of completing chemotherapy were identified from 360 patients with nonseminomatous germ cell tumors ( nsgct ) treated with memorial hospital front-line cisplatin - or carboplatin-based combination chemotherapy protocols between 1979 and 1988 . clinical , pathologic , and radiologic features were correlated with the pathologic findings at surgery . the size of a residual retroperitoneal mass , the degree of shrinkage that occurred with chemotherapy , and the presence of teratomatous elements in pretreatment pathology specimens were each correlated with the pathologic findings of retroperitoneal resections after chemotherapy . multivariable logistic regression analysis of those undergoing retroperitoneal resections identified the size and shrinkage of the residual mass and the prechemotherapy lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) and alphafetoprotein ( afp ) levels as the best predictors of finding only necrotic debris . no factors could be found , however , that could selectively exclude patients who had residual viable malignancy or teratoma in the retroperitoneum . of 39 patients with residual retroperitoneal masses measuring less than or equal to 1.5 cm in maximal diameter , three had residual malignancy and five had teratoma resected . no factors were identified for residual lung or mediastinal masses that could be used to select a group of patients who could safely avoid surgery . if serum markers have normalized after chemotherapy for nsgct , resection of all residual abnormalities on imaging studies of the retroperitoneum , lungs , and mediastinum is recommended . in addition , retroperitoneal lymph node dissection ( rplnd ) is recommended for all patients with initial bulky metastases ( greater than or equal to 3 cm in diameter ) in the retroperitoneum , irrespective of the findings of postchemotherapy computed tomography ( ct ) . 
spinal cord arteriovenous malformation with an associated lymphatic anomaly . case report . spinal cord arteriovenous malformations ( avm 's ) , like other vascular anomalies of the central nervous system , can be associated with similar vascular lesions of the skin and viscera . a 7-year-old girl , who presented with rapidly progressing paraplegia , was found to have a spinal cord avm , cutaneous angioma , and a chylous malformation of the lymphatic system . she had previously undergone treatment for a posterior thoracic cutaneous angioma . at surgery , upon incision of the paravertebral muscle fascia , viscous pale fluid was encountered emanating from a foramen in the thoracic lamina . the spinal avm was resected in spite of concern that the abnormality represented spinal osteomyelitis . postoperatively , there was full return of function in the lower extremities , along with recurrent episodes of chylothorax , which slowly came under control with dietary manipulation . a review of the anatomy of the thoracic duct and nontraumatic causes of chylothorax is presented , and the association of cutaneous and central angiomas is discussed . finally , the treatment of chylothorax is delineated . 
assessing clinical significance of apnea exceeding fifteen seconds with event recording . using event recording , we determined how often apnea exceeding 15 seconds in duration was associated with bradycardia and how often patients with apnea resumed breathing spontaneously . of 1306 documented apnea events exceeding 15 seconds ( 54 patients ) , 926 lasted 16 to 20 seconds , 262 lasted 21 to 25 seconds , and 118 exceeded 25 seconds . of these episodes , 75.3 % were isolated and 14.9 % were associated with pulse deceleration , 4.4 % with irregular transthoracic impedance , and 5.4 % with bradycardia . event recording provided data supporting discontinuation of monitoring in 50 of 54 patients : 36 spontaneously resumed breathing before the auditory alarm and 14 had a decreased incidence of apnea with maturation . follow-up of 51 patients ( three not located ) showed that none had subsequent apparent life-threatening events or sudden infant death syndrome . our results in these older infants and children ( median age 6.7 months ) provide substantiation that such patients with apnea of less than 20 seconds without bradycardia do not require continued monitoring . further , these data suggest that in selected older infants , longer isolated apnea may be well tolerated ; however , hemoglobin saturation during sleep and the ability to resume breathing after the apnea alarm delay is prolonged should be verified . our patient population had a wide age range and heterogeneity of diagnoses , and was typically free of symptoms , so these results should not be extrapolated uncritically to premature infants , infants with chronic lung disease , and patients with symptomatic apnea . 
the effect of sulindac on the abnormal cough reflex associated with dry cough . in order to determine the possible role of prostaglandins in the abnormal cough reflex in patients with dry cough , the effects of a cyclooxygenase inhibitor on cough symptoms were examined . this was measured by a cough symptom score and by the cough reflex sensitivity to inhaled capsaicin in a double blind , randomized , cross-over study comparing the effects of placebo with sulindac , 200 mg daily for 1 week . we studied six hypertensive patients with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor-associated cough and six patients with an idiopathic , dry , unproductive cough , all of whom had an increase in the sensitivity of the cough reflex . there was no change in blood pressure control in the hypertensive patients during sulindac therapy . the patients with the angiotensin converting enzyme-associated cough had a significant reduction in the cough symptom score and also a significant increase in the dose of capsaicin causing two or more coughs ( threshold sensitivity ) and that causing five or more coughs ( near maximum response ) during sulindac therapy as compared to placebo . in those patients with idiopathic , dry , unproductive cough , sulindac did not alter the symptom of cough or the cough reflex response to capsaicin . these results suggest that prostaglandins may be involved in cough associated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor therapy , but are less likely to be important in the pathogenesis of more common dry coughs of unknown cause . 
predictive value of urethroscopy as compared to urodynamics in the diagnosis of genuine stress incontinence . a retrospective chart review was undertaken of 204 patients who underwent dynamic urethroscopy . ninety-nine patients with a diagnosis of genuine stress incontinence were evaluated urodynamically and urethroscopically to determine the predictive accuracy of the sensitivity and specificity of each of these diagnostic modalities . the urodynamic cough profile was both highly reactive and specific for genuine stress incontinence , with sensitivity and specificity of 95 % and 100 % , respectively , whereas dynamic urethroscopy yielded sensitivity and specificity of 60.2 % and 79.1 % , respectively . dynamic urethroscopy is a relatively insensitive predictor of genuine stress incontinence , with many equivocal findings ( 11 % ) as well . the urodynamic cough urethral pressure profile is recommended for diagnosing this condition . 
pyoderma gangrenosum complicating felty 's syndrome . the case of a 54-year-old woman with felty 's syndrome whose course was complicated by mucocutaneous lesions clinically typical of pyoderma gangrenosum is described . necrotizing sinusitis and saddle nose deformity were distinctive clinical features . lymphocytic vasculitis and rheumatoid nodule formation observed within panniculus at the base of a cutaneous lesion and in a nasal mucosal lesion were unexpected histopathologic findings . 
pulmonary-renal syndrome with " triad " involvement due to small vessel vasculitis . we describe the clinical course and morphologic findings of a 22-year-old woman presenting with a systemic disease that included nasal ulceration , hemoptysis and rapidly progressive renal failure . biopsies of nasal septum and lung revealed small vessel leukocytoclastic angiitis while renal biopsy showed a diffuse crescentic glomerulonephritis . immunosuppressive therapy resulted in remission of clinical symptoms and resolution of glomerulonephritis as documented in a followup biopsy . although her clinical presentation with triad organ involvement strongly suggested wegener 's granulomatosis , this case illustrates that other varieties of vasculitis may mimic wegener 's granulomatosis . 
methionine dependency of malignant tumors : a possible approach for therapy when methionine ( met ) , an essential amino acid , was substituted for by its precursor homocysteine ( hcy ) in the culture medium , normal cells such as fibroblasts proliferated normally . in contrast , many tumor cells failed to grow or grew at a lower rate . met dependency is acquired simultaneously with cell transformation , as observed with hbl 100 , a human mammary epithelial cell line that acquired increased malignancy as a function of in vitro passage number , and nih/3t3 ( j10 ) , a mouse fibroblast line transformed by transfection with the human hras oncogene . a relationship was observed between met dependency and metastatic potential of the rms-21 , rms-s4t , and rms-j1 sublines derived from rms-0 , a rat rhabdomyosarcoma cell line : the higher the metastatic potential of the cell line , the higher the concentration of met required to maintain its proliferation . met-independent cells derived from the rms-0 line , obtained by a progressive decrease of met in the culture medium lost their tumorigenicity when injected into rats fed with met-deprived diets . in addition , the in vitro motility of rms-s4t tumor cells , a marker of metastatic capability , decreased in met-free hcy-complemented ( met - hcy + ) medium . similarly , rms-0 tumor cells , preincubated in a met - hcy + culture medium for 24 hours , evidenced a decreased capacity to form lung colonies when injected into syngeneic rats : the median number of lung colonies was 27 and 3 ( p less than .05 ) for cells cultivated in met + hcy - and met - hcy + media , respectively . an amino acid-defined mixture reproducing casein composition was used as a protein source in the diets fed to rms-j1 tumor-bearing rats . dietary substitution of hcy for met ( i.e. , met deprivation ) resulted in decreased tumor growth ( from 44.4 + / - 1.0 to 40.6 + / - 1.4 ; p less than .05 ) and prevention of metastatic spread ( from 37 to 0 ; p less than .05 ) . in conclusion , exogenous met can be substituted for hcy to maintain the survival of normal cells but is essential for tumor cell growth in vivo as well as in vitro . therefore , this defect of cancerous versus normal cells could be used for a therapeutic purpose . 
the role of antibiotic therapy in the prevention of empyema in patients with an isolated chest injury ( iss 9-10 ) : a prospective study . the purpose of this study was to determine the impact of an antibiotic regimen on the incidence of empyema in patients admitted with isolated chest trauma ( iss 9/10 ) and hemopneumothorax requiring tube thoracostomy . all patients with isolated chest trauma and hemopneumothorax ( estimated iss 9 or 10 ) seen in our trauma center were considered eligible for this study . patients were excluded for the following reasons : age less than 18 years , presence of shock at the time of initial resuscitation , ongoing antibiotic therapy for unrelated disease , documented pre-existing infection or documented abnormal immune status . ninety patients were randomized to two treatment limbs : antibiotics and tube thoracostomy or tube thoracostomy alone . all patients had the procedure performed in the trauma center in a standard fashion . wound care and tube care were identical . antibiotic therapy consisted of a first-generation cephalosporin ( cefazolin ) , one dose given just before the procedure and then q 6 h into the tube removal . injury severity scores were established as described by schwab after the manner of baker . statistical analysis was performed using fisher 's exact test of binary outcome . in this study , antibiotics were able to reduce the incidence of empyema in patients with isolated chest trauma and for such patients antibiotic treatment appears justified . further work is required to determine the effect on patients with more severe injury and multisystem involvement . 
changes in quality of care for five diseases measured by implicit review , 1981 to 1986 we measured quality of care before and after implementation of the prospective payment system . we developed a structured implicit review form and applied it to a sample of 1366 medicare patients with congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction , pneumonia , cerebrovascular accident , or hip fracture who were hospitalized in 1981-1982 or 1985-1986 . very poor quality of care was associated with increased death rates 30 days after admission ( 17 % with very good care died vs 30 % with very poor care ) . the quality of medical care improved between 1981-1982 and 1985-1986 ( from 25 % receiving poor or very poor care to 12 % ) , although more patients were judged to have been discharged too soon and in unstable condition ( 7 % vs 4 % ) . except for discharge planning processes , the quality of hospital care has continued to improve for medicare patients despite , or because of , the introduction of the prospective payment system with its accompanying professional review organization review . 
prospective payment system and impairment at discharge . the ' quicker-and-sicker ' story revisited since the introduction of the prospective payment system ( pps ) , anecdotal evidence has accumulated that patients are leaving the hospital " quicker and sicker . " we developed valid measures of discharge impairment and measured these levels in a nationally representative sample of patients with one of five conditions prior to and following the pps implementation . instability at discharge ( important clinical problems usually first occurring prior to discharge ) predicted the likelihood of postdischarge deaths . at 90 days postdischarge , 16 % of patients discharged unstable were dead vs 10 % of patients discharged stable . after the pps introduction , instability increased primarily among patients discharged home . prior to the pps , 10 % of patients discharged home were unstable ; after the pps was implemented , 15 % were discharged unstable , a 43 % relative change . efforts to monitor the effect of this increase in discharge instability on health should be implemented . 
intrapleural tetracycline for the prevention of recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax . results of a department of veterans affairs cooperative study this prospective , multicenter , randomized , " unblinded , " controlled clinical trial was designed to determine if the intrapleural instillation of 1500 mg of tetracycline hydrochloride would be effective in diminishing the ipsilateral rate of recurrence for spontaneous pneumothorax . during the 4-year enrollment period , 113 patients were assigned to the tetracycline group ; 116 patients were assigned to the control group . during the 5-year study period , the recurrence rate in the tetracycline group ( 25 % ) was significantly less than that in the control group ( 41 % ) . use of tetracycline seemed to reduce the recurrence rates for patients with either primary or secondary spontaneous pneumothorax and for patients with either an initial or a recurrent pneumothorax . we conclude that the intrapleural administration of tetracycline in patients with spontaneous pneumothorax significantly reduces the rate of ipsilateral recurrence but is associated with intense chest pain . intrapleural tetracycline therapy is indicated for patients with a spontaneous pneumothorax who are hospitalized and are treated with tube thoracostomy . 
immune reactivity in bronchogenic carcinoma and its relation to 5-year survival rate . we performed a prospective study on the correlation of various parameters of the immune response with the 5-year survival rate in patients with bronchogenic carcinoma . parameters were initially examined before starting treatment . delayed hypersensitivity skin tests , lymphoblastogenesis , natural killer ( nk ) cell activity , and interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) production were employed to assess immune competence . each reaction was classified into four or five grades in accordance with intensity ; the 5-year survival rate of the patients showing each grade of the immune response was calculated . a correlation between response before treatment and the survival rate was most clearly noted for lymphoblastogenesis . the skin tests and the nk cell activity showed poorer correlations , and no exact correlation was noted between the il-2 production and the immune response . 
symptomatic pericardial effusion in lung cancer patients : the role of fluid cytology . during the years 1975-1988 , twenty lung cancer patients with symptomatic pericardial effusion were treated conservatively at our center . echocardiography demonstrated small pericardial effusion in 2 patients , medium size effusion in 3 patients and large amount of fluid in 15 patients . fifteen patients developed cardiac tamponade ; in three of these patients , this was the presenting manifestation of lung cancer . pericardiocentesis resulted in prompt , though temporary , symptomatic relief in all patients . fluid cytology demonstrated suspected malignant cells in 2 patients and malignant cells in 13 patients . based on cytology , the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma was established in six patients , small cell carcinoma in three patients , and epidermoid carcinoma in one patient . all patients were dead within 9 months from the time of diagnosis of pericardial effusion ; 17 died within less than 3 months . it is concluded that pericardial effusion in lung cancer is indicative of rapid tumor progression and short survival . fluid cytology provides an immediate and accurate means of diagnosis . 
cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide combination as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for locally advanced nonsmall-cell lung cancer : a meta-analytic review . twenty-three patients with marginally resectable and unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer ( stages iiia and iiib ) were treated by neoadjuvant chemotherapy . all patients received three cycles of preoperative chemotherapy with two alkylating agents , cyclophosphamide 2.5 g/m2 intravenously ( i.v. ) and ifosfamide 3.5 g/m2 i.v. , mesna 12 g/m2 was given additionally to prevent drug hematuria . six of 23 patients ( 26 % ) had partial response . of the seven patients who underwent thoracotomy , two were completely resected , but with macroscopic residual disease . mean time to progression for the whole group was 7 months . fifteen patients had progression of disease , with local metastases only in six , and distant metastases in eight . after administering 52 chemotherapy cycles , cyclophosphamide-ifosfamide doses were cut down , as eight of 16 patients required hospitalization for fever during neutropenia nadirs . this two-alkylating ( non-cisplatin ) regimen , unlike cisplatin-based regimens , was ineffective , and further trials are not recommended . 
distinguishing malignant mesothelioma from pulmonary adenocarcinoma : an immuno-histochemical approach using a panel of monoclonal antibodies . a panel of six monoclonal antibodies ( mabs ) was employed to evaluate antigen expression in pulmonary adenocarcinomas and mesotheliomas . monoclonal anti-human milk fat globulin ( hmfg-2 ) , anti-carcinoembryonic antigen ( np-2 ) , anti-epithelial membrane antigen ( ema ) , anti-cytokeratin ( pkk-1 ) , anti-tumor-associated antigen 72 ( b72 .3 ) , and anti-human myelomonocytic antigen ( leu m-1 ) antibodies were used to localize their respective antigens in formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tumors by using the avidin-biotin-complex immunoperoxidase technique . in all , 28 mesotheliomas obtained from ohio state university anatomic pathology files and from a southwest oncology group ( swog ) protocol were compared to 22 pulmonary adenocarcinomas by using this mab panel . none of the mesotheliomas demonstrated positive staining with mabs np-2 ( anti-cea ) or leu m-1 . however , 95 % ( 21/22 ) of adenocarcinomas stained with one of these two antibodies . although neither of these two mabs stained all adenocarcinomas , each antibody demonstrated positive immunostaining in more than 90 % of the adenocarcinomas studied . therefore , mabs np-2 and leu m-1 are , individually , quite useful for distinguishing mesothelioma from adenocarcinoma . however , in our study , no single mab could be used to distinguish these two tumor types in every case . mab b72 .3 stained 91 % ( 20/21 ) adenocarcinomas but also stained 7 % ( 2/28 ) of mesotheliomas . mab hmfg-2 reacted positively with 95 % of adenocarcinomas , but also stained 39 % of the mesotheliomas , usually in a membranous pattern . mabs ema and pkk-1 were not found useful in distinguishing mesothelioma from adenocarcinoma . we conclude that mabs leu m-1 and np-2 were both useful in distinguishing mesothelioma from pulmonary adenocarcinoma in that positive staining was demonstrated in adenocarcinomas and not mesotheliomas . 
development of a new surgical procedure for repairing tracheobronchomalacia . we have developed a new surgical method for repairing tracheobronchomalacia . in experiments on dogs we tried external fixation of marlex mesh ( bard cardiosurgery division , bellerica , mass. ) on the trachea . we first made models of tracheomalacia by making fractures or resections in intrathoracic tracheal cartilages and then made an external fixation of marlex mesh on the malacic segments of the trachea . in 11 dogs marlex mesh was sutured onto the trachea with absorbable thread . the trachea was firmly supported after 2 to 6 months , compared with three controls in which no external fixation was made . however , mucosal defects associated with ischemia caused by the suture developed in four of the 11 . in 13 more dogs marlex mesh was bonded to the trachea with fibrin glue . after 3 to 8 months the supporting strength of the trachea increased up to the level of the normal trachea . there was no evidence of inflammation or of mucosal defects . therefore marlex mesh was applied to a 44-year-old-man who had experienced frequent attacks of cough syncope . after the operation the attacks of cough syncope and collapsing of his airway disappeared completely . 
pleuroperitoneal shunt for persistent pleural drainage after fontan procedure . persistent effusions of chylous fluid may prolong the hospitalization period of many patients who have had a fontan procedure . herein we report the case histories of two patients in whom use of a pleuroperitoneal shunt to control the effusion shortened the hospital stay by several weeks . 
laryngeal mask airway and tracheal tube insertion by unskilled personnel after a short training programme 11 naval medical trainees inserted a laryngeal mask airway ( lma ) and a tracheal tube ( ett ) in random order in a total of 110 anaesthetised patients . they were allowed 40 s for each attempt . success was defined as the detection of expired carbon dioxide within 40 s of guedel airway removal which subsequently rose to an end-tidal value of at least 4 kpa , together with satisfactory lung expansion and ventilation , without other airway intervention by the anaesthetist . 104 lma insertions were successful compared with 56 of etts ( p less than 0.01 ) . all first attempts at lma insertion were successful , whereas satisfactory ett placement was progressive . insertion was also quicker with the lma ( 20 s ) than with the ett ( 35 s ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . further studies are indicated to assess the value of the lma in emergencies . 
surgery for sinusitis and aspirin triad . an 11-year retrospective study was conducted to evaluate the surgical treatment of sinusitis in aspirin-triad patients . twenty-five patients were selected for surgery when their sinus disease and asthma progressed despite intense medical treatment . sixteen patients had radiographic evidence of severe ethmoid disease , and their initial surgical procedures were limited ( i.e. , bilateral intranasal ethmoidectomies ) . of these 16 patients , 6 required subsequent surgery for recurrent sinusitis . nine of the 25 patients had radiographic evidence of severe antral , as well as ethmoid , disease . their initial surgical procedures were radical , i.e. , bilateral caldwell-luc operations with intranasal and transantral sphenoethmoidectomies . none of these 9 patients required further surgical treatment for control . this review indicates that if antral and sphenoid disease are detected in association with ethmoid involvement , a radical surgical approach is the operation of choice . 
olfactory neuroblastoma : clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical characterization of four representative cases . olfactory neuroblastomas are rare tumors whose clinical prognosis is not predictable by assessment of initial stage or grade . the pathologic diagnosis is often difficult because of the wide range of the patient 's age and histologies . in this report , we document that the diagnosis of olfactory neuroblastoma can be clarified by immunohistochemical demonstration of a unique antigenic profile that can be obtained in routinely processed biopsies . we describe four cases of olfactory neuroblastoma diagnosed and treated from 1979 to 1989 , each confirmed by immunohistology . one of our patients was misdiagnosed twice at an outside institution , first as having nasopharyngeal carcinoma and then as having small-cell , undifferentiated " oat cell " carcinoma . despite accurate tumor diagnosis and appropriate therapy , we found that there was no apparent correlation of clinical outcome with kadish clinical stage or histologic grade of tumor . 
a new method of needle-electrode placement in the posterior cricoarytenoid muscle for electromyography . in 1979 the authors developed a new method of needle-electrode placement in the posterior cricoarytenoid muscle ( pca ) for electromyography . the pca muscle is easily reached by inserting a needle electrode through the cricothyroid membrane at the midline and penetrating the lamina of the cricoid cartilage in the subglottic cavity . access to the pca muscle for electrode insertion was best afforded by a percartilaginous approach . this report details the new technique used at our laboratory . to our knowledge , this is the first report of needle-electrode placement in the pca muscle by a percartilaginous approach . this new electrode insertion technique has been applied to more than 100 dogs for research purposes and to 1200 patients with laryngeal motor disorders for clinical diagnosis . this is a simple technique requiring the usual skills . reliable electromyographic recordings have been obtained by this new method . no untoward effects , such as hematoma or infection from repeated placements were observed in approximately 3200 examinations performed to date . it is reasonable to assume that the percartilaginous route for electrode insertion in the pca muscle is feasible in man . techniques of electrode placement in the intrinsic laryngeal muscles are reviewed and compared . 
a randomized controlled trial of a reduced daily dose of zidovudine in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . the aids clinical trials group . background . the initially tested dose of zidovudine for the treatment of patients with advanced disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv ) was 1500 mg . although this dose is effective , it is associated with substantial toxicity . methods . to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a reduced dose , we conducted a randomized controlled trial in 524 subjects who had had a first episode of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . the subjects were assigned to receive zidovudine in either a dose of 250 mg taken orally every four hours ( the standard-treatment group , n = 262 ) or a dose of 200 mg taken orally every four hours for four weeks and thereafter 100 mg taken every four hours ( the low-dose group , n = 262 ) . results . the median length of follow-up was 25.6 months . at 18 months the estimated survival rates were 52 percent for the standard-treatment group and 63 percent for the low-dose group ( p = 0.012 by the log-rank test ) . at 24 months the estimated survival rates were 27 percent for the standard-treatment group and 34 percent for the low-dose group ( p = 0.033 ) . in both groups , 82 percent of the subjects had another opportunistic infection , and the length of time to that infection was similar in the two groups ( p = 0.56 by the log-rank test ) . cd4 t-lymphocyte counts improved transiently in both groups , and serum levels of hiv antigen decreased in the subjects with antigenemia . the hemoglobin level declined to less than 5 mmol per liter ( 80 g per liter ) in 101 subjects in the standard-treatment group and in 77 in the low-dose group ( 39 vs. 29 percent , p = 0.0009 by the log-rank test ) . the neutrophil count declined to less than 0.750 x 10 ( 9 ) per liter in 134 subjects in the standard-treatment group and in 96 in the low-dose group ( 51 vs. 37 percent , p = 0.0001 ) . conclusions . the reduced daily dose of zidovudine used in this study was at least as effective as the standard dose and was less toxic ; however , with the use of a four-week induction period with a high dose followed by low-dose treatment , severe anemia and neutropenia were common complications of treatment with zidovudine . 
response of the lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome to treatment of associated small-cell lung carcinoma . we evaluated the outcome in 16 patients with lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome ( lems ) associated with histologically verified small-cell carcinoma ( scc ) . thirteen patients received specific tumor therapy ( chemotherapy , radiation therapy , or resection ) and most also received pharmacologic and immunologic treatment for lems . seven of 11 patients surviving for more than 2 months after tumor therapy showed substantial neurologic improvement ( 1 patient being in complete remission at 7 years ) ; in 3 of 11 improvement was transient . an emg index of disease severity ( compound muscle action potential amplitude in abductor digiti minimi ) was significantly increased at final follow-up ( p less than 0.01 ; n = 11 ) . a pretreatment amplitude greater than 3.0 mv was a good prognostic sign . we conclude that a combined treatment approach in scc-lems usually results in neurologic improvement . 
aggravation of human and experimental myasthenia gravis by contrast media . after observing a 72-year-old myasthenic patient develop an acute myasthenic exacerbation following the administration of routine diagnostic iv contrast material , an observation rarely described in the literature , we used the experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis model in rabbits injected with a contrast agent to simulate the situation . there was significant worsening of the decremental response to 3 hz repetitive nerve stimulation from 40 + / - 29 % to 55 + / - 27 % following the iv administration of contrast agent at doses similar to those used in humans . iv calcium partially reversed this aggravation . caution is merited when myasthenic patients are administered contrast media . 
angiographic arterial embolization and computed tomography-directed drainage for the management of hemorrhage and infection with abdominal pregnancy . hemorrhage during or after surgery , pelvic abscess , bowel obstruction , and prolonged febrile morbidity can complicate the puerperal course of the gravida after removal of an extrauterine fetus with nondisturbance of the extrauterine placenta . in this report we describe the successful angiographic arterial gelfoam embolization of the placental vascular bed to control heavy postoperative hemorrhage in a mother suffering adult respiratory distress syndrome after removal of the fetal portion of her abdominal pregnancy . six weeks later , computed tomography ( ct ) - directed drainage by catheter of a placental abscess was performed . selective angiographic transcatheter embolization with gelfoam is a useful tool for the control of hemorrhage in the gravida who is an unfavorable operative candidate or who may present technical hemostasis problems peculiar to the placenta with abdominal pregnancy . later use of ct-directed catheter drainage of the infected residual placental mass provided a nonoperative means of treatment . 
the modified superior based pharyngeal flap . part i. surgical technique . the superior based pharyngeal flap operation for the correction of velopharyngeal incompetence is perhaps the most commonly employed operation used today in a majority of cleft palate centers . however , inconsistent results with this operation are commonplace . this is believed by most to be due to poor control of the lateral portals . herein is a report of our approach to improve lateral portal control . 
the modified superior based pharyngeal flap . part iii . a retrospective study . a retrospective study of 31 patients who had diagnosed velopharyngeal incompetence and were surgically managed with the modified superior based pharyngeal flap was completed . the following were analyzed : age at time of operation , gender , physical status , diagnostic protocol , length of operation ( length of total surgery ) and length of superior based pharyngeal flap , length of postoperative hospital stay , length of total hospital stay , length of follow-up , speech results , complications , patient care , and medication . the result showed that the optimal timing for correction of velopharyngeal incompetence was between 3 and 6 years of age . the mean length of total hospital stay was 2.7 days , postoperative complications were minimal , and speech results were generally good . 
open lung biopsy in the critically ill newborn . experience with 17 open lung biopsies in critically ill premature neonates was reviewed . despite their small size , prematurity , and near maximal ventilator requirements , the infants suffered no significant complications . in three cases , an infectious agent was identified . in one case end-stage lung fibrosis associated with persistent ( greater than 3 months ) , severe respiratory failure prompted termination of support . in the remainder of the cases , definitively ruling out infection allowed the confident trial of a course of steroids in an attempt to treat bronchopulmonary dysplasia . unlike older patients , the definitive diagnosis of no infection in the premature neonate is just as informative as the diagnosis of an infection . used judiciously , open lung biopsy can be performed in the premature infant with acceptable morbidity and mortality . 
serial munchausen syndrome by proxy . five cases of munchausen syndrome by proxy ( msbp ) are presented in which more than one child in the family was victimized . there was a high incidence of maternal psychiatric histories , marital difficulties , and munchhausen syndrome in the mothers themselves . seventy-one percent of the children in the families were known to be victims of msbp ; four of these children ( 31 % ) died . multiple-child msbp may reflect more significant maternal psychopathology than found in other cases of msbp , or it may indicate the deteriorating consequences to the mother and other children in the family if this syndrome is not identified with the first child and effective interventions made . 
acute respiratory infections during the first three months of life : clinical , radiologic and physiologic predictors of etiology . the usefulness of clinical , radiologic , and physiologic characteristics to identify pathogens was assessed in 90 infants aged two through 12 weeks , presenting to an outpatient clinic with an acute respiratory infection . eighty-four cases had cultures or rapid diagnostic tests for rsv , of which 25 were positive . eighty-two infants had cultures or rapid diagnostic tests for chlamydia , of which 16 were positive . additional respiratory pathogens identified included parainfluenza ( 6 cases ) , rhinovirus ( 3 cases ) , pertussis ( 2 cases ) , and cmv ( 1 case ) . multiple pathogens were identified in four cases : chlamydia and rsv ( 2 cases ) , chlamydia and parainfluenza ( 1 case ) , and chlamydia and cmv ( 1 case ) . clinical characteristics other than the need for hospitalization were not useful predictors of specific pathogens . x-rays were obtained in 20 ( 80 % ) of the rsv infections , 13 ( 81 % ) of the chlamydia infections , six of the parainfluenza infections , two pertussis infections , and 25 cases without identification of the pathogen . x-ray findings could not distinguish between patients with or without a pathogen or between the pathogens . severe findings were present in 28 % ( 11/40 ) of cases with a pathogen identified , compared to 12 % ( 3/26 ) of cases without a pathogen identified ( ns ) . moderate findings were present in 58 % ( 23/40 ) of cases with a pathogen identified compared to 62 % ( 16/26 ) of cases without a pathogen identified . slight/negative findings were present in 15 % ( 6/40 ) of cases with a pathogen identified , compared to 27 % ( 7/26 ) of cases without a pathogen identified . pulse oximetry was done in 30 cases , 22 of which had a pathogen identified ( rsv 14 , chlamydia 7 , pertussis 1 ) . 
chest pain in teenagers . when is it significant ? chest pain in teenagers often has no obvious organic cause . onset of symptoms with an emotionally stressful situation may indicate psychogenic chest pain . the differential diagnosis also includes cardiac , musculoskeletal , gastrointestinal , and respiratory disorders . routine testing generally does not help to establish a diagnosis and may even do harm by reinforcing a patient 's unspoken fear of serious illness . most teenagers with chest pain have no such illness , and symptoms usually resolve without therapy . an important role for primary care physicians is to provide support during evaluation and follow-up . 
understanding dizziness . how to decipher this nonspecific symptom . dizziness is a common but often nonspecific symptom . through careful history taking and physical examination , primary care physicians can usually determine the type of sensation ( vertigo or light-headedness ) and its source . although most causes of dizziness are benign , disorders of the central nervous system tend to be ominous and require immediate referral to a specialist . 
initial management of trauma . the first 5 minutes . trauma is the leading cause of death in young americans and is responsible for the loss of more productive years of life than heart disease and cancer combined . initial management of trauma consists of the establishment or maintenance of a patent airway , ensurance of adequate breathing , and resuscitation of the circulation . all of these are accomplished simultaneously with a cursory survey to identify immediately life-threatening injuries and to prevent permanent disability . 
a clinicopathological study of the paraneoplastic neuromuscular syndromes associated with lung cancer . the highest incidence of remote neuromuscular disorders in cancer has previously been reported in lung carcinoma . the clinical incidence of neuromuscular disorder was estimated and correlated with muscle histology and the histological type of lung tumour in 100 patients with lung carcinoma who were studied prospectively . thirty-five patients had small cell carcinoma and 65 patients non-small cell lung cancer . clinically , 33 patients had a polymyopathy , of whom 18 had a cachectic myopathy and 15 had a proximal myopathy ( two patients had lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome , one presented with dermatomyositis and one had evidence of ectopic acth production ) . cachexia was more common in non-small cell cancer ; proximal myopathy was more common in small cell cancer . ninety-nine patients had abnormal muscle histology ; 74 had type ii atrophy , 12 had type i and ii atrophy , one had type i atrophy and 12 had necrosis . the majority of patients were affected sub-clinically and the clinical entities of cachectic and proximal myopathy did not correspond to previous pathological classifications . atrophy was not related to the duration of tumour symptoms , ageing , clinical type of myopathy or histological type of lung tumour , and was statistically different from that seen in controls . qualitatively , the presence of weight loss , muscle wasting and metastatic disease were not factors in the development of atrophy . similarly , necrosis was not related to the type of lung tumour , the presence of metastases , ageing , weight loss , muscle wasting , duration of tumour symptoms or the clinical form of myopathy . this study demonstrates that lung carcinoma has a direct effect on the motor unit , including atrophy , a necrobiotic myopathy and lambert-eaton myasthenic syndrome . clinical assessment does not accurately assess the ' remote ' neuromuscular effects of cancer on the motor unit . 
oral findings in hiv-infected patients attending a department of internal medicine : the contribution of intraoral examination towards the clinical management of hiv disease the occurrence of oral mucosal lesions was studied in 70 consecutive human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) - infected patients , including 35 patients with aids , who had been admitted to a department of internal medicine . lesions of the oral mucosa were observed in 52 patients ( 74 per cent ) . oral candidiasis ( 50 per cent ) , hairy leukoplakia ( 14 per cent ) , periodontal disease ( 13 per cent ) , and oral kaposi 's sarcoma ( 4 per cent ) were the most common lesions . oral mucosal lesions suggestive of hiv infection were present in ten of 12 patients of unknown hiv status in whom pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was suspected . close cooperation between the medical and dental professions is recommended since accurate intraoral examination can make a valuable contribution towards the clinical management of hiv-infected patients and may influence the cdc classification of this disease . 
double-blind randomized study of prolonged higher-dose oral amoxycillin in purulent bronchiectasis . thirty-eight patients with bronchiectasis and daily expectoration of purulent sputum despite conventional antibiotic courses were randomly allocated to receive a sachet of amoxycillin ( 3 g ) or matched placebo twice daily for 32 weeks in a double-blind study . nine patients ( four amoxycillin , five placebo ) were withdrawn from the study treatment ; the response of the two patients ( both on amoxycillin ) withdrawn within the first six weeks was not assessed . the pretreatment characteristics of the two groups were similar . independent assessment of overall response based on patients ' diary cards showed that a higher proportion improved in the amoxycillin group ( 11 of 17 ) than in the placebo group ( four of 19 ; p = 0.02 ) . patients in the amoxycillin group spent significantly less time confined to bed and away from work during treatment . the frequency of exacerbations during the study treatment phase was similar in the two groups but they were less severe than before study treatment in the amoxycillin group . there was a greater reduction in purulent sputum volume between exacerbations during the study treatment in the amoxycillin group to 20 per cent of pretreatment volume than in the placebo group ( 88 per cent of pretreatment volume , p = 0.008 ) , although the concentrations of haemophilus spp . in sputum between exacerbations was similar in the two groups . adverse effects experienced were minor except in one patient ( amoxycillin ) withdrawn after developing a rash and in six patients ( three amoxycillin , three placebo ) who had diarrhoea lasting more than one week necessitating withdrawal of two patients ( one amoxycillin , one placebo ) from study treatment . sputum and stool cultures collected regularly during the study showed no important changes in the bacterial flora in either group . prolonged higher-dose antibiotic therapy in these patients with severe purulent bronchiectasis significantly reduced the host ( patient ) inflammatory response to colonizing microorganisms and reduced morbidity . 
pulmonary neoplastic and lymphoproliferative disease in aids : a review . kaposi sarcoma and lymphoma are the most common forms of neoplastic disease encountered in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . pulmonary involvement is fairly common with kaposi sarcoma , while lymphoma only rarely involves the lungs . there has been a significant increase in the number of aids patients who develop kaposi sarcoma , especially male homosexuals . there has also been an increase in the incidence of high-grade ( aggressive ) lymphoma in male homosexuals ( and young men in general ) . lymphoid interstitial pneumonia is a chronic condition that primarily affects adults and is becoming more common in patients with aids . when present in children less than 13 years old , lymphoid interstitial pneumonia is considered to be an indication of aids . bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue and a condition resembling angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy are also being found in children with aids . a review of the literature on neoplastic and lymphoproliferative disease in aids suggests that a variety of lymphoproliferative disorders in aids can be expected in the future . 
hemoptysis : ct-bronchoscopic correlations in 58 cases . computed tomographic ( ct ) and chest radiographic findings were retrospectively correlated with those found at fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( fob ) in 58 patients presenting with hemoptysis . abnormalities involving the airways were depicted by ct in a total of 28 cases ( 48 % ) . in 18 of these ( 31 % of the total group of 58 ) , focal abnormalities involving the central airways were identified ( 17 were subsequently proved to be malignant ) and in 10 ( 17 % of the total ) , ct showed bronchiectasis . focal airway abnormality was shown by fob in 18 cases ( 31 % ) ; all of these were depicted with ct . malignancy was diagnosed in 24 patients , including three in whom results of fob were normal but malignant cells were identified at transbronchial biopsy . ct abnormalities were identified in all cases of malignancy . in 10 of 21 cases ( 48 % ) of non-small cell lung cancer , ct allowed definitive staging by documenting either direct mediastinal invasion and/or metastatic disease , while fob allowed definitive staging in only three cases . ct studies provided no false-negative results . it is concluded that when carefully performed , ct may be an effective modality for evaluating patients presenting with hemoptysis . 
coal worker 's pneumoconiosis : ct assessment in exposed workers and correlation with radiographic findings . to study the signs of coal worker 's pneumoconiosis ( cwp ) at computed tomography ( ct ) , the authors obtained thoracic ct scans in 170 coal-dust-exposed workers who were concomitantly evaluated with conventional posteroanterior and lateral radiography . the profusion and extent of disease was assessed by means of ct in two groups of miners : group 1 ( n = 86 ) , miners with worker 's compensation and radiographic evidence of cwp , and group 2 ( n = 84 ) , miners who had applied for compensation without radiographic evidence of cwp . the ct signs of cwp consisted of micronodules , nodules , and progressive massive fibrosis . the comparative analysis demonstrates the superiority of an optimal ct technique over chest radiography in the evaluation of simple silicosis , with improved sensitivity in the detection of small parenchymal opacities . ct provides additional information on the stage of the disease but also clarifies some ambiguities of the ilo classification of small opacities . ct was equivalent to radiography for complicated silicosis , except in the identification of necrosis . ct evaluations are complementary to plain radiography in the assessment of cwp , and the addition of high-resolution ct is useful in achieving a more accurate evaluation of the small parenchymal opacities . 
hamman-rich syndrome revisited in this article , we retrospectively review 29 cases of hamman-rich syndrome . as in some other recent reports , we have used the term " acute interstitial pneumonia " to emphasize the clinical and pathologic features of these cases and to distinguish them from the more common chronic interstitial pneumonias , particularly idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis . of the 29 patients , 12 survived , some after a long and complicated hospitalization . the histologic features were those of organizing diffuse alveolar damage , and some patients , including survivors , had extensive fibroblastic distortion of lung parenchyma . the overall survival among these patients was not appreciably different from the survival of patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome in general . 
haemophilus influenzae : an important cause of maternal and neonatal infections . although haemophilus influenzae is recognized as a major pathogen of infants , its role in maternal and neonatal infections is not as well appreciated . we analyzed the records of all mothers and neonates infected with h influenzae over a 10-year period . twenty-eight mother/neonate sets were identified in which at least one had documented infection with h influenzae . of the 18 mothers with documented infection , 13 had chorioamnionitis , endometritis , or both , and two of these mothers were bacteremic with h influenzae . of the 23 infected neonates , 15 presented with early sepsis and/or pneumonia and nine had conjunctivitis . during the period of the study , only group b streptococci and escherichia coli were more common as causes of early neonatal bacteremia . under the conditions of this retrospective study , maternal infection predicted neonatal infection . however , prospective studies in which asymptomatic patients are cultured will be required to determine how well maternal colonization/infection with h influenzae predicts neonatal infection . 
cross-sectional physiology of the lung . it is well known that gravity influences the physiology of the lung and thereby affects the intrapulmonary localization of disease processes . less well known are the anatomic and physiologic differences in the axial or cross-sectional plane , which also affect the distribution of disease . physiologic gradients in ventilation , perfusion , and lymph flow and stresses in the lung are present in the axial plane . anatomic difference in branching patterns , interstitial design , and development of the secondary pulmonary lobules are also found . these regional disparities in anatomy and physiology can be applied to an old concept -- the corticomedullary organization of the lung -- and are used to consider why some diseases exhibit a propensity for the central or peripheral portions of the lung . the same analysis is applied to the anatomy and physiology in the secondary pulmonary lobule . 
hepatocellular carcinoma within siderotic regenerative nodules : appearance as a nodule within a nodule on mr images . large regenerative nodules in cirrhotic livers may accumulate iron and develop internal iron-poor foci of hyperplasia or malignancy . magnetic resonance examinations were performed on 23 patients with biopsy-proved cirrhosis . a " nodule-within-nodule " appearance was noted in two patients . this appearance consisted of markedly low intensity of a large nodule on gradient-echo images , with one or two internal foci that were isointense to the liver . each of the large nodules was 2 cm in diameter , and each of the internal foci was less than 1 cm . serum alpha-fetoprotein levels were normal in both patients . aspiration biopsy performed in one patient failed to show malignancy , but histologic confirmation of hepatocellular carcinoma was obtained eventually in both cases . the nodule-within-nodule sign , which reflects the unique histopathology of hepatocellular carcinoma in large siderotic regenerative nodules , is strongly suggestive of early hepatocellular carcinoma , even if serologic markers and biopsy results do not support this diagnosis . 
sphenochoanal polyps : evaluation with ct and mr imaging . a sphenochoanal polyp is a solitary mass of low attenuation on computed tomographic ( ct ) scans that arises from the sphenoid sinus and extends through the sphenoid ostium , across the sphenoethmoid recess , and into the choana ( the boundary between the nasal cavity and nasopharynx ) . more often , however , a choanal polyp is an antrochoanal polyp , which arises from the maxillary antrum , protrudes through the middle meatus , extends into the nasal cavity , and continues back to the choana . contiguous axial or coronal magnetic resonance and ct images help clearly differentiate the rare sphenochoanal polyp from the more common antrochoanal polyp . the sinus of origin is important to identify , as the surgical approach depends on the target sinus . 
inferior hilar window . the authors undertook a study to determine the ability to detect mass or adenopathy in the " inferior hilar window , " a normally avascular region inferior to the shadow of the right pulmonary artery and vein and anterior to the descending left pulmonary artery on lateral chest radiographs . fifty patients with normal results of thoracic computed tomography ( ct ) and 25 with unilateral or bilateral hilar masses or adenopathy ( defined as opacity greater than 10 mm in diameter ) were selected retrospectively . patients with concomitant pulmonary masses or consolidation at ct that might be confused with or obscure an inferior hilar mass or adenopathy were excluded from study . the 75 corresponding lateral chest radiographs were then evaluated blindly . forty-seven of the 50 normal cases were correctly interpreted ( specificity = 94 % ) . the anterior walls of the right and left lower lobe bronchi were seen in 36 % and 84 % of normal cases , respectively ; the average thickness was 2 mm . of the 25 patients with inferior hilar masses , 22 were recognized as having abnormalities ( sensitivity = 88 % ) ; two of the three patients with false-negative results had right hilar masses . overall accuracy was 92 % . for only eight ( 32 % ) of the 25 patients was the laterality of abnormality correctly diagnosed . evaluation of the inferior hilar window on lateral chest radiographs is accurate in assessing the presence or absence of inferior hilar mass or adenopathy . 
mediastinal abnormalities : detection with storage phosphor digital radiography . conventional film radiography ( fr ) and six postprocessing algorithms of isodose storage phosphor digital radiography ( sr ) ( 0.2-mm x 10-bit pixel matrix ) were compared in the evaluation of 40 mediastinal and 30 pulmonary lesions in 60 patients who underwent computed tomography of the chest . the six sr algorithms varied among each other in only one image parameter . one algorithm approximated conventional image characteristics . the other five algorithms were designed to optimize imaging of the mediastinum and tested the effects of gray-scale reversal , adjustment of optical density , a linear instead of a sigmoid gradation curve , and moderate edge enhancement of high and medium spatial frequencies . performance was evaluated by calculating the average area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( az ) of 5,040 observations by six readers . post-processing with high-frequency edge enhancement and density optimization for the mediastinum significantly improved performance of sr over fr in the detection of mediastinal lesions ( az = .80 + / - .02 vs .73 + / - .01 , respectively ) . gray-scale reversal significantly decreased performance ( az = .64 + / - .03 ) . all sr algorithms that were postprocessed to optimize imaging of the mediastinum were significantly inferior to fr in the detection of pulmonary lesions . 
data compression : effect on diagnostic accuracy in digital chest radiography . high-resolution digital images make up very large data sets that are relatively slow to transmit and expensive to store . data compression techniques are being developed to address this problem , but significant image deterioration can occur at high compression ratios . in this study , the authors evaluated a form of adaptive block cosine transform coding , a new compression technique that allows considerable compression of digital radiographs with minimal degradation of image quality . to determine the effect of data compression on diagnostic accuracy , observer tests were performed with 60 digitized chest radiographs ( 2,048 x 2,048 matrix , 1,024 shades of gray ) containing subtle examples of pneumothorax , interstitial infiltrate , nodules , and bone lesions . radiographs with no compression , with 25:1 compression , and with 50:1 compression ratios were presented in randomized order to 12 radiologists . the results suggest that , with this compression scheme , compression ratios as high as 25:1 may be acceptable for primary diagnosis in chest radiology . 
airway evaluation in children with use of ultrafast ct : pitfalls and recommendations . ultrafast computed tomographic ( ct ) evaluation of the airway can be performed with either 50-msec low-resolution images ( cine ct ) or 100-msec high-resolution images ( high-resolution ct ) . to determine the best imaging strategy for ultrafast ct of the pediatric airway , the authors prospectively compared ultrafast ct and endoscopy in 20 children . both studies were performed in 11 patients ; cine ct alone was performed in six and high-resolution ct alone in three . six patients had normal anatomy . six patients had focal tracheal stenoses , four had tracheomalacia or laryngomalacia , one had a laryngoesophageal cleft , one had irregularity and narrowing in the subglottic area , one had laryngeal papillomas , and one had focal stenosis with stoma granuloma . cine ct results agreed with those of endoscopy in 10 of 17 cases . in five cases focal stenosis was misinterpreted with cine ct as tracheomalacia . high-resolution ct results agreed with those of endoscopy in 10 of 14 cases . the results of a technique that combined high-resolution ct for the entire airway and cine ct at selected areas agreed with those of endoscopy in 10 of 11 cases ; only a tracheoesophageal cleft was missed with the combined technique . for the greatest diagnostic accuracy with ultrafast ct in evaluation of the pediatric airway , both cine and high-resolution modes should be used . 
management of post-tuberculous complex aspergilloma of the lung : role of surgical resection . of 14 patients with complex aspergilloma complicating healed tuberculosis , 12 underwent lobectomy or pneumonectomy for recurrent haemoptysis . no deaths occurred , though one patient needed re-exploration for bleeding . there was no postoperative worsening of dyspnoea despite a mean forced vital capacity ( fvc ) of 60 % predicted for the patients undergoing surgery and of 20 % predicted for two patients with severe restrictive defects , perhaps owing to the fact that there was little or no function in the resected part of the lung , as shown by preoperative isotope ventilation-perfusion scanning , and that patients were under the age of 50 and generally fit . there has been no recurrence of haemoptysis during follow up , which has been from 12 to 33 months . surgical resection , provided that cases are carefully selected , offers the best chance of cure with low mortality and morbidity . 
a general practice based survey of bronchial hyperresponsiveness and its relation to symptoms , sex , age , atopy , and smoking . the prevalence and associations of bronchial hyperresponsiveness were investigated in a general practice population . the sample was obtained by using every 12th patient on the practice age-sex register , replacing non-responders with corresponding age and sex matched individuals from up to two further 1 in 12 samples . the response rate was 43 % ; 366 patients were studied . doubling concentrations of methacholine were given to a maximum of 32 mg/ml or until a 20 % fall in forced expiratory volume in one second ( fev1 ) occurred ( provocation concentration , pc20fev1 ) . bronchial hyperresponsiveness was defined arbitrarily as a pc20fev1 of 2 mg/ml or less ( or 11 mumol cumulative dose , pd20fev1 ) . the prevalence of bronchial hyperresponsiveness was 23 % . bronchial hyperresponsiveness was not associated with age but was more prevalent in women than men ( 31 % :13 % ) . it was also more common in those who had ever wheezed ( 39 % ) and in those who had had an attack of rhinitis in the preceding month ( 45 % , p less than 0.1 ) , in atopic individuals ( 30 % ) , and in smokers ( 32 % ) , but it was not associated with cough or dyspnoea . there was a positive correlation between pc20fev1 and resting fev1 ( r = 0.288 ) and a negative correlation between pc20fev1 and mean daily peak flow variability ( r = -0.356 ) . stepwise binary logistic regression analysis showed significant independent effects on pc20fev1 for mean daily peak flow variability , gender , number of positive skin test responses , resting fev1 , and mean histamine skin weal area , but no relation with smoking or mean allergen weal area . the prevalence of bronchial hyperresponsiveness was much higher than the prevalence of diagnosed asthma in the practice in 1984 ( 4.9 % ) . analysis of case notes of 169 individuals showed that those with bronchial hyperresponsiveness had not attended the practice more frequently for respiratory complaints during the previous five years . 
a simple method for correcting single breath total lung capacity for underestimation . the single breath method underestimates total lung capacity by comparison with the multiple breath method ( tlcmb ) because of inhomogeneity of ventilation distribution . this study proposes a simple correction for the single breath tlc ( tlcsb ) , using inert gas phase iii slope to account for the effects of uneven ventilation distribution . a model of a non-uniform lung ventilation was designed , composed of a serial dead space and two alveolar compartments arranged in parallel , whose relative ventilations were determined from the phase iii plateau . before correction tlcsb was 104-44 % of tlcmb in 64 subjects ( 17 with diffuse interstitial disease , 42 with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and five healthy subjects ) . the limit of acceptability for the correction ( tlccorr ) was determined from the 95 % confidence interval of tlcsb/tlcmb in the healthy subjects . the correction resulted in a significant increase in tlcsb ( p less than 0.004 ) . tlccorr remained under the limit of acceptability for only 12 patients with emphysema , and all 12 showed a large improvement in the tlc estimate . the presence of poorly ventilated zones during a single breath in these patients may explain this partial correction . 
lung fibrosis induced by thorotrast . a 63 year old woman developed progressive shortness of breath , pulmonary hypertension , and respiratory failure and died from pulmonary fibrosis 45 years after thoracic fistulography with thorotrast . bouts of acute respiratory failure occurred with features of noncardiogenic pulmonary oedema . lung tissue obtained by biopsy and at necropsy showed abundant radioactive particles of thorium dioxide in the lungs . the particles were congregated in the walls of blood vessels and in perivascular fibrous zones , consistent with a causal role of thorotrast in the development of lung fibrosis . it is suggested that the fibrosis was due to the combined effects of alpha radiation on the interstitial perivascular zones and of recurrent pulmonary oedema due to endothelial damage . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome after limited resection of adenocarcinoma of the lung . two cases of the adult respiratory distress syndrome developed after limited resection for lung carcinoma . no other known precipitants were evident . the adult respiratory distress syndrome is a clinical expression of acute lung injury that may arise from various insults and include air and blood borne factors . tumour related blood borne factors may have contributed to lung injury in these cases . 
diffuse alveolar haemorrhage associated with progressive systemic sclerosis . a 41 year old man with an eight year history of progressive systemic sclerosis developed severe diffuse alveolar haemorrhage and died . the importance of diffuse alveolar haemorrhage as a rare but potentially serious complication of connective tissue disease should not be overlooked . 
eosinophilic granuloma of the lung presenting as a solitary pulmonary nodule . a symptomless 58 year old man had an eosinophilic granuloma of the lung that presented as a solitary pulmonary nodule rather than the usual diffuse reticulonodular shadow on the chest radiograph . only one previous case presenting in this way has been described . 
effect of obesity on safe duration of apnea in anesthetized humans . obese patients have a decreased functional residual capacity and , hence , a reduced oxygen supply during periods of apnea . to determine whether obese patients are at greater risk of developing hypoxemia during induction of anesthesia than patients of normal weight , 24 patients undergoing elective surgical procedures were studied . group 1 ( normal ) were within 20 % of their ideal body weight . group 2 ( obese ) were more than 20 % but less than 45.5 kg over ideal body weight . group 3 ( morbidly obese ) were more than 45.5 kg over ideal body weight . patients were preoxygenated for 5 min or until expired nitrogen was less than 5 % . after induction of anesthesia and muscle relaxation the patients were allowed to remain apneic until arterial saturation as measured by pulse oximetry reached 90 % . the time taken for oxygen saturation to decrease to 90 % was 364 + / - 24 s in group 1 , 247 + / - 21 s in group 2 , and 163 + / - 15 s in group 3 ; these times are significantly different at p less than 0.05 between groups . regression analysis of the data demonstrated a significant negative linear correlation ( r = -0.83 ) between time to desaturation and increasing obesity . these results show that obese patients are at an increased risk of developing hypoxemia when apneic . 
effect of sulfurous ( thermal ) water on t lymphocyte proliferative response . we studied the effect of sulfurous water thermal therapy on the phenotype and the proliferative response of peripheral lymphoid cells from ten subjects affected by chronic upper respiratory disease and from six suffering from articular and periarticular disorders . sulfurous water ( s-h2o ) therapy did not modify the phenotype and function of peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( pbmc ) nor did it modify systemic immunologic reactivity . a different result was obtained by analyzing the response to mitogens of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in cell cultures containing graduated amounts of s-h2o . these " in vitro " studies have shown an important dose-dependent inhibitory effect of s-h2o on mitogen induced t lymphocyte proliferation and on il2 production . h2s present in s-h2o seems to be the primary component responsible for inhibition . our results are consistent with a local immunosuppressive role of s-h2o , which may explain part of the observed therapeutic effect of inhalation therapy on upper respiratory allergic disorders . 
respiratory health of plywood workers occupationally exposed to formaldehyde . this study was undertaken to enlarge our understanding of the adverse health effects of formaldehyde exposure in the workplace and community environment . the respiratory health status of 186 male plywood workers was evaluated by spirometric tests , respiratory questionnaires , and chest x-rays . area concentrations of formaldehyde were measured in the work environment and found to range from 0.28 to 3.48 ppm . the average personal exposure was to 1.13 ppm of formaldehyde . exposure to formaldehyde was associated with decrements in the baseline spirometric values , i.e. , forced expiratory volume in 1 sec ( fev1 .0 ) , forced expiratory volume/forced vital capacity ( fev/fvc ) , and fef25 % -75 % , and with several respiratory symptoms and diseases , including cough , phlegm , asthma , chronic bronchitis , and chest colds . the results of the study support the hypothesis that chronic exposure to formaldehyde induces symptoms and signs of chronic obstructive lung disease . 
involvement of thromboxane and neutrophils in multiple-system organ edema with interleukin-2 . interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) produces toxicity characterized by generalized edema within 24 hours . this study tests whether the rate of il-2 administration modulates the onset of edema and examines thromboxane ( tx ) and neutrophils as possible mediators of this event . recombinant human il-2 , 10 ( 5 ) u ( n = 7 ) , 10 ( 6 ) u ( n = 9 ) , or vehicle ( n = 8 ) were given to anesthetized rats intravenously during a period of 1 hour . at 6 hours edema , as measured by increase in wet to dry weight ( w/d ) ratio , was present in the heart , liver , and kidney , with 10 ( 5 ) u il-2 and in the lung , heart , liver and kidney , with 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 , relative to values with vehicle-infused controls ( all p less than 0.05 ) . with a 1-hour infusion of 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 , there was an increase in plasma thromboxane ( tx ) b2 level to 1290 + / - 245 pg/ml , higher than 481 + / - 93 pg/ml in control rats ( p less than 0.05 ) ; lung polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmn ) sequestration of 53 + / - 7 pmn/10 higher-power fields ( hpf ) relative to 23 + / - 2 pmn/10 hpf in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) ; and increased bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluid protein concentration of 1970 + / - 210 micrograms/ml relative to 460 micrograms/ml in controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . when 10 ( 6 ) u il-2 was given as a 1-minute intravenous bolus ( n = 9 ) , edema was not demonstrated , plasma txb2 levels were similar to controls , there was no leukosequestration , and bal protein levels were normal . these data indicate that a constant infusion but not the rapid bolus administration of il-2 produces in rats multiple-system organ edema , increased plasma txb2 , sequestration of pmns , and microvascular permeability . these findings may explain the early toxicity seen in patients given high-dose il-2 in cancer treatment . 
normalization of ventilation/perfusion relationships after liver transplantation in patients with decompensated cirrhosis : evidence for a hepatopulmonary syndrome . to examine the effect of liver transplantation on the respiratory and cardiovascular functions , ventilation/perfusion relationships were determined by multiple inert gas elimination technique in six patients with end-stage liver disease 1 to 19 mo before and 2 to 6 mo after liver transplantation . cardiac output and pulmonary vascular pressures were measured after catheterization of the pulmonary artery . all patients had normal spirometry and chest x-ray films before transplantation . pao2 before transplantation was 78.8 + / - 7.4 mm hg ( range = 51.8 to 102.8 mm hg ) . all patients had perfusion of poorly ventilated lung regions ( low ventilation/perfusion relationships ) varying from 3 % to 19 % of cardiac output ( mean = 8.5 % + / - 2.4 % of cardiac output ) and two patients had intrapulmonary shunting ( 3 % and 20 % of cardiac output ) . measured and calculated pao2 agreed closely , indicating absence of pulmonary diffusion abnormality , as well as of extrapulmonary shunting . after transplantation , pao2 normalized in all patients , and both shunting and low ventilation/perfusion relationships disappeared . cardiac output decreased from 9.1 + / - 1.4 to 6.6 + / - 0.5 l/min ( p less than 0.05 ) , and the pulmonary vascular resistance increased from 0.69 + / - 0.14 to 1.64 + / - 0.43 mm hg/l/min ( p less than 0.05 ) . the systemic vascular resistance also increased ( before = 8.7 + / - 1.0 ; after = 15.3 + / - 1.1 mm hg/l/min ; p less than 0.001 ) . normalization of respiratory and cardiovascular alterations , after liver transplantation , in patients with end-stage liver disease indicates that these changes have a direct functional relationship to the diseased liver . it is hypothesized that this is part of a " hepatopulmonary syndrome , ' which in similarity to the hepatorenal syndrome disappears with improved liver function . 
role of histamine in natural killer cell-mediated resistance against tumor cells . the formation of lung metastases by i.v.-injected b16 melanoma ( f1 and f10 strain ) cells in swiss albino , c57bl/6 , and balb/c mice was reduced by a single dose of histamine given 24 h before tumor cell inoculation . the antimetastatic effect of histamine was specifically mediated by histamine h2-receptors ( h2r ) : it was blocked by the h2r antagonist ranitidine and mimicked by dimaprit , a specific h2r agonist but not by an h2r-inactive structural analog of this compound , nor-dimaprit , or the h1r agonist 2-thiazolyl-ethylamide . a single dose of any of the h2r antagonists ranitidine , tiotidine , famotidine , or cimetidine drastically augmented metastasis . effects of h2r-interactive compounds on b16 metastasis required intact nk cells , as judged by the inability of histamine or ranitidine to affect b16 metastasis after nk cell depletion in vivo using antibodies to asialo-gm1 . nk-cell-mediated lysis of yac-1 lymphoma cells in vivo was enhanced by histamine and reduced by ranitidine within 4 h after inoculation of tumor cells . the antimetastatic effect of il-2 was potentiated by histamine ; in some experiments , combined treatment with a low dose of il-2 ( 6000 u/kg ) and histamine completely eliminated metastasis , whereas concomitant treatment with ranitidine abrogated antimetastatic effects of il-2 ; animals treated with ranitidine and il-2 displayed the same level of enhanced metastasis as those treated with ranitidine alone . the presented data are suggestive of an earlier unrecognized role for histamine in nk cell-mediated resistance against metastatic tumor cells . 
mediastinitis following coronary artery bypass surgery : a 3-year review . twenty cases of mediastinitis after coronary artery bypass graft operations in 1985-1987 were reviewed to determine risk factors . two distinct clusters with a methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ) strain occurred in 1986 . one resident was exposed to six cases but to only 5 of 24 controls ( p less than .008 ) . cultures of his nares in january and november 1986 revealed the same mrsa strain as that of the cases . an attempt to eradicate the resident 's nasal carriage of mrsa in january 1986 failed ; eradication of his carrier state was achieved only after treatment with mupirocin . in a case-control study examining patients exposed to the resident , a prolonged duration of surgery ( p less than .05 ) and a preoperative albumin level of less than 3.0 g/dl ( p less than .009 ) were associated with mediastinitis with this mrsa . for the other 14 mediastinitis patients , who were not exposed to the resident , a preoperative albumin level of less than 3.0 g/dl was also a risk factor ( 8/14 cases vs. 8/43 controls , p less than .009 ) . thus , this study suggests that it is important to follow mrsa disseminators and to recognize that preoperative serum albumin levels are a risk factor for mediastinitis . 
human serologic response to envelope-associated proteins and adenylate cyclase toxin of bordetella pertussis . the human serologic response to several envelope-associated proteins and adenylate cyclase toxin of bordetella pertussis was examined using immunoblot techniques . antigens recognized by sera from individuals with culture-confirmed pertussis and by sera from infants immunized with three doses of conventional whole-cell pertussis vaccine included a 63,000-da protein that was shown to be antigenically related to a mycobacterial heat-shock protein . a 29,000-da protein reacted with sera from convalescent individuals , whereas a 91,000-da protein reacted with sera from vaccinated individuals . antibodies to adenylate cyclase toxin were common in sera from individuals diagnosed with pertussis . b. pertussis lipooligosaccharide was also recognized by antibodies in some of these sera . these data suggest that some of these antigens may play a role in immunity to pertussis . 
pharmacokinetics of intravenous pentamidine in patients with normal renal function or receiving hemodialysis . the pharmacokinetics of intravenous pentamidine were studied in 10 patients with normal renal function ( group 1 ) , 9 volunteer subjects without pneumocystis carinii pneumonia who were receiving maintenance hemodialysis ( group 2 ) , and 5 patients with normal or mildly abnormal renal function ( group 3 ) after the last dose of therapy . the concentration-time data were best represented by a three-compartment model . the peak plasma concentration , plasma clearance , and elimination half-life ranged from 249 + / - 80 to 227 + / - 110 ng/ml , 268 + / - 70 to 329 + / - 58 l/h , and 29 + / - 25 to 118 + / - 119 h , respectively , in groups 1 and 2 . in group 1 , trough concentration increased progressively ( linear regression : y = 4.4 x ; r = .91 , p = .001 ) without achieving steady state , and the renal clearance-to-plasma clearance ratio was 2.1 % + / - 0.01 % . in group 3 , the elimination half-life after the last dose was 12.0 + / - 2.3 days . the elimination half-life of pentamidine was long and accumulation occurred with daily dosing even in patients with normal renal function . dose adjustment is not recommended for renal impairment as renal clearance accounts for a small fraction ( 2.1 % ) of plasma clearance . 
effects of tromethamine and hyperventilation on brain injury in the cat . the metabolic brain acidosis after trauma has been thought to be harmful and to contribute to neurological deterioration . amelioration of the brain acidosis either by systemic buffering agents or by hyperventilation has been proposed as a method of treatment . the objective of this study was to explore with magnetic resonance ( mr ) spectroscopy the metabolic changes in brain that occur with the use of hyperventilation , tham ( tromethamine ; tris [ hydroxymethyl ] aminomethane ) , and a combination ( tham and hyperventilation ) therapy in experimental fluid-percussion injury . brain lactate , brain ph , inorganic phosphate ( pi ) , and adenosine triphosphate levels were measured by 1h and 31p mr spectroscopy . arterial and cerebrovenous lactate and water content in brain tissue was determined in 29 cats using the specific gravimetric technique . following injury , the phosphocreatine ( pcr ) / pi ratio , which is an index of cerebral energy depletion , decreased to 76 % in four untreated animals , to 79 % in 11 tham-treated animals , to 68 % in seven animals receiving hyperventilation , and to 66 % in seven animals with combination tham and hyperventilation therapy . the pcr/pi ratio returned to a normal level in 8 hours in animals treated with tham and tham in combination with hyperventilation . the brain lactate index increased to 157 % in the hyperventilation group after trauma . in cats receiving tham plus hyperventilation , the brain lactate index was reduced to 142 % , while the minimum rise of 126 % was associated with treatment of tham alone . in the tham-treatment and combination-treatment groups , the water content of the white and gray matter was significantly decreased compared with that in untreated cat brains . prolonged hyperventilation provided relative ischemia in brain tissue and promoted more production of brain lactate , no recovery of the pcr/pi ratio , and no decrease in brain edema . on the other hand , administration of tham decreased production of brain lactate and brain edema and promoted the recovery of cerebral energy dysfunction . it was found that tham ameliorates the deleterious effects of hyperventilation by minimizing energy disturbance and that it also decreases brain edema . the authors conclude that tham may be effective in reducing brain tissue acidosis and helpful as a metabolic stabilizing agent following severe head injury . 
the management of flail chest injury : factors affecting outcome . the records of 57 patients presenting with flail chest injury from 1981 through 1987 were reviewed to determine factors affecting morbidity and mortality . fifteen patients ( 26 % ) had 8 + rib fractures with a unilateral flail and seven ( 12 % ) had multiple rib fractures with a bilateral flail . thirty-two ( 56 % ) had moderate-severe pulmonary contusions and 44 ( 77 % ) required chest tubes for hemo-pneumothorax . ventilatory assistance was used in 36 ( 63 % ) . the major factors determining the need for ventilatory assistance were : an iss greater than or equal to 23 , blood transfusions in the first 24 hours , moderate-severe associated injuries ( fractures , head injuries or truncal organs requiring operation ) , and shock on admission ( p less than 0.001 ) . an adverse outcome occurred in 15 ( 28 % ) ; nine required ventilatory assistance greater than or equal to 14 days and six died of sepsis with pneumonia . the main factors associated with an adverse outcome were : an iss greater than or equal to 31 ( p less than 0.001 ) , moderate-severe associated injuries ( p less than 0.001 ) , and blood transfusions ( p less than 0.005 ) . although the primary determinants of an adverse outcome were the associated injuries and blood loss , a bilateral flail ( p less than 0.01 ) and age greater than or equal to 50 years ( p less than 0.02 ) were contributing factors . 
molecular pathologic study of human papillomavirus infection in inverted papilloma and squamous cell carcinoma of the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses . nasal inverted papilloma is a rare benign tumor occasionally associated with squamous cell carcinoma . to determine the etiological role of human papillomavirus in inverted papilloma , and to clarify the relationship between human papillomavirus and malignant transformation of this benign tumor , we retrospectively analyzed inverted papillomas from 26 patients , 7 of whom had squamous cell carcinoma . we used an immunohistochemical method and molecular pathologic techniques , or dot-blot hybridization of dna extracted from paraffin-embedded tissues , in situ hybridization , and polymerase chain reaction . human papillomavirus was detected in 5 of 26 patients ( 19 % ) , 3 patients with human papillomavirus 11 and 2 patients with human papillomavirus 16 . the latter 2 patients had inverted papillomas associated with squamous cell carcinoma . we speculate that human papillomavirus may be related to the malignant transformation of inverted papillomas . 
esthesioneuroblastoma with intracranial extension . the authors present five cases of olfactory neuroblastoma with intracranial extension operated on in the department of neurosurgery in collaboration with otorhinolaryngologists . this tumor is most frequently reported as growing inside the nasal cavities , and it can extend to the paranasal sinuses . cases presenting initially as intracranial tumors have been infrequently reported . at present , histological diagnosis of this tumor is aided by the use of electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry . total resection combined with radiation therapy remains the most satisfactory treatment . 
surfactant treatment of full-term newborns with respiratory failure . surfactant inactivation has been shown to be a significant factor in animal models of lung injury and may also be important in some forms of respiratory failure in full-term newborns . fourteen full-term newborns with respiratory failure associated with pneumonia ( 7 patients ) and meconium aspiration syndrome ( 7 patients ) were treated with 90 mg/kg of a calf lung surfactant extract , given intratracheally up to every 6 hours for a maximum of four doses . the group mean fraction of inspired oxygen ( fi02 ) before treatment was 0.99 + / - 0.01 sem , and the mean airway pressure ( map ) was 14.6 + / - 1.0 cm h2o . patients showed significant improvement in oxygenation after initial surfactant treatment , with the arterial-alveolar oxygenation ratio ( a/a ratio ) rising from 0.09 + / - 0.01 before surfactant treatment to 0.22 + / - 0.05 by 15 minutes ( p = .03 ) and remaining improved for 6 hours . the oxygenation index , incorporating map as well as oxygen variables , also improved significantly from 26.2 + / - 3.1 to 11.2 + / - 1.7 at 15 minutes ( p less than .001 ) , with improvement sustained for more than 6 hours . chest radiographs were blindly scored from 0 ( normal ) to 5 ( severe opacification ) , and these improved with marginal significance after initial surfactant treatment ( from 2.9 + / - 0.2 to 2.5 + / - 0.2 , p = .05 ) . 
risk of respiratory illness associated with day-care attendance : a nationwide study . the risk of respiratory and other illnesses in children ( age groups : 6 weeks through 17 months , 18 through 35 months , and 36 through 59 months ) in various types of day-care facilities was studied . children considered exposed to day care were those who were enrolled in day care with at least one unrelated child for at least 10 hours per week in each of the 4 weeks before the interview ; unexposed children were not enrolled in any regular child care with unrelated children and did not have siblings younger than 5 years of age receiving regular care with unrelated children . although an increased risk of respiratory illness was associated with attending day care for children in all three age groups , this risk was statistically significant only for children 6 weeks through 17 months of age ( odds ratio = 1.6 ; 95 % confidence interval = 1.1 to 2.4 ) and children 18 through 35 months of age who had no older siblings ( odds ratio = 3.4 ; 95 % confidence interval = 2.0 to 6.0 ) . in contrast , day-care attendance was not associated with an increased risk of respiratory illness in children 18 through 35 months of age with older siblings ( odds ratio = 1.0 ) . for children aged 6 weeks through 17 months , the exposure to older siblings was associated with an increased risk of respiratory illness ; however , for children aged 36 through 59 months , older siblings were protective against respiratory illness . in addition , for the children in each age group currently in day care , increased duration of past exposure to day care was associated with a decreased risk of respiratory illness . 
greenfield filter as primary therapy for deep venous thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism in patients with cancer . in 1985 , as a result of the high complication rate associated with anticoagulants in patients who have cancer and deep venous thrombosis ( dvt ) and/or pulmonary embolism ( pe ) , we established a policy of placing greenfield filters ( gfs ) as primary therapy instead of anticoagulation . since 1985 we have been asked to consult in the treatment of 18 patients with cancer and with dvt and/or pe , and we have placed a gf in each of these patients . this represented 34 % ( 18/53 ) of the filters placed during that same period . over the same 4-year period , 11 patients with cancer and dvt and/or pe underwent anticoagulation therapy . the purpose of this study was to compare the results of anticoagulation versus gf insertion in these two groups of patients . a significantly higher number of major complications ( n = 4 ) occurred in the anticoagulation group ( p less than 0.05 , fisher 's exact test ) than in the gf group ( n = 0 ) . the four complications that occurred in the anticoagulation group included three bleeding episodes ( tumor bleeding , gastrointestinal bleeding , and hip hematoma ) and one pe , despite adequate anticoagulation . two patients died as a direct result of these complications ( pe and gastrointestinal bleeding ) . the three patients with bleeding complications each required a transfusion of more than 3 units of blood . all four of the patients with complications had metastatic disease ( pancreatic carcinoma , chronic lymphocytic leukemia , prostate carcinoma , and uterine carcinoma ) . although this is a small , nonrandomized , nonprospective study , the data seem to indicate that gf placement is safer than anticoagulation for dvt or pe in patients with cancer and particularly in patients with metastatic disease . we conclude that gf insertions may be a better primary treatment than anticoagulation . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome during pregnancy and immediately postpartum . from 1976 to 1983 , the adult respiratory distress syndrome occurred in 14 patients during pregnancy or within a month postpartum . there were 8 survivors , giving a 43 % mortality . all but 2 patients had obstetric-related precipitating events -- labor problems , infections , eclampsia-toxemia , and obstetric hemorrhages . during emergency cesarean sections , 3 patients had respiratory problems that may have caused their respiratory distress syndrome . the average duration of mechanical ventilatory support was 16 days . six patients had barotrauma with 1 patient sustaining an irreversible anoxic central nervous system injury . infections were documented in 8 patients , 6 of whom had obstetric foci . there is a lack of information regarding the adult respiratory distress syndrome in this patient group . though uncommon , it can cause substantial mortality and morbidity . 
intravenous streptomycin . streptomycin is an effective drug for the treatment of tuberculosis . it is currently recommended for use only by the intramuscular route . this method of drug delivery is accompanied by considerable pain which is unacceptable to many patients . with the advent of many improvements in intravenous therapy that have occurred in the past 40 years , reevaluation of the intravenous use of this drug is warranted . we describe the short-term use of intravenous streptomycin in four patients with pulmonary tuberculosis . 
central pulmonary embolism with normal ventilation/perfusion scan-diagnosis by nuclear pulmonary artery flow studies . pulmonary embolism , although uncommon in children , occurs in as many as 104 per 100,000 pediatric patients . undiagnosed and untreated pulmonary embolism has a high mortality rate ; thus , a high index of clinical suspicion and reliable diagnostic modalities are necessary to ensure prompt and accurate diagnosis . we report the case of a patient with severe central pulmonary embolism with a normal ventilation-perfusion scan . the embolus was identified by a nuclear pulmonary flow study using dynamic imaging , which obviated the need for contrast pulmonary angiography . the traditional ventilation-perfusion scan may appear normal despite severe central pulmonary embolism . in this situation , early dynamic imaging is necessary to detect severe obstruction of the central pulmonary arteries . this approach may obviate the need for contrast pulmonary angiography in hemodynamically stable patients . 
oral corticosteroid therapy for patients with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . a meta-analysis purpose : to evaluate the effectiveness of oral corticosteroid therapy in patients with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . data identification : an english-language literature search using medline ( 1966 to 1989 ) and a bibliographic review of all retrieved articles identified 33 original studies of oral corticosteroid use in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease published since 1951 . study selection : we submitted a photocopy of each study 's " methods " section to three nonstudy physician-investigators who used nine explicit criteria to independently assess study quality . ten studies met all criteria and five studies met some of the criteria . data extraction : to compare outcomes across all qualifying studies , we defined response to therapy as a 20 % or greater increase in the baseline forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( fev1 ) ; we defined the treatment effect size for each study as the proportion of patients who responded to corticosteroid therapy minus the proportion of patients who responded to placebo . potential confounding variables as related to eligibility criteria and treatment protocols were also assessed for each study . results of data synthesis : among ten studies that met all nine criteria , we found no significant differences in eligibility criteria , treatment protocol , or study design . no association was found between treatment effect size and publication date , study size , mean patient age , or fev1 . these studies had reported effect sizes ranging from 0 % to 56 % ; we calculated a weighted mean effect size of 10 % ( 95 % ci , 2 % to 18 % ) . when studies meeting only some of the criteria were included in the calculation , the weighted mean effect size was 11 % ( 95 % ci , 4 % to 18 % ) . conclusions : patients with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease receiving oral corticosteroid therapy have a 20 % or greater improvement in baseline fev1 approximately 10 % more often than similar patients receiving placebo . 
respiratory failure and unilateral caudal brainstem infarction . we report clinicotopographic correlations in 2 patients with central hypoventilation and unilateral infarct in the caudal brainstem . one patient had nearly complete loss of ventilation involving both automatic and voluntary components . he showed no ventilator response during a co2 retention test ( paco2 62 mm hg , pao2 82 mm hg ) , while consciousness was preserved until death . the infarct involved the reticular formation , nucleus tractus solitarius , nucleus ambiguus , and nucleus retroambiguus on the right but spared the dorsal motor nucleus of the tenth cranial nerve , and sensory and corticospinal tracts . the second patient showed hypoventilation more selectively involving automatic responses ( ondine 's curse ) . the infarct involved the medullary reticular formation and nucleus ambiguus but spared the nucleus tractus solitarius . we suggest that unilateral involvement of pontomedullary reticular formation and nucleus ambiguus is sufficient for generating loss of automatic respiration , while associated lesion of the nucleus tractus solitarius may lead to more severe respiratory failure involving both automatic and voluntary responses . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia treated with eflornithine in aids patients resistant to conventional therapy . eflornithine ( dfmo ) was used to treat 31 aids patients with confirmed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia who had clinically failed treatment with pentamidine , sulphamethoxazole-trimethoprim or both agents as their first-line therapy . twenty-one of 31 ( 68 % ) responded to second-line treatment with 400mg/kg per day of eflornithine . five patients discontinued treatment because of bone marrow toxicity . eflornithine appears to be a useful salvage therapy in patients failing first-line treatments . 
extrapulmonary and disseminated tuberculosis in hiv-1-seropositive patients presenting to the acute medical services in nairobi . we studied 506 consecutive adult acute medical admissions to hospital in nairobi ; 95 ( 18.8 % ) were seropositive for hiv-1 , and 43 new cases of active tuberculosis ( tb ) were identified . tb was clearly associated with hiv infection , occurring in 17.9 % of seropositive patients compared with 6.3 % of seronegatives [ odds ratio ( or ) 3.2 ; 95 % confidence limits ( cl ) 1.6-6 .5 ] . extrapulmonary disease was more common in seropositive than seronegative tb patients ( nine out of 17 versus five out of 26 ; or 4.7 ; 95 % cl 1.01-23 .6 ) ; this accounted for most of the excess cases of tb seen in seropositive patients . mycobacteraemia was demonstrated in two of eight seropositive tb patients but in none of 11 seronegative tb patients . no atypical mycobacteria were isolated . the world health organization ( who ) clinical case definition for african aids did not discriminate well between seropositive and seronegative tb cases . five out of seven seropositive women with active tuberculosis had delivered children in the preceding 6 months and were lactating , compared with only one out of eight seronegative tuberculous women . an association between recent childbirth , hiv immunosuppression and the development of tb is suggested . 
mechanism of bronchodilator effect in chronic airflow limitation . objective : to examine the mechanisms through which two bronchodilators ( theophylline and salbutamol ) influence dyspnea during daily activities . methods : twenty-four patients with chronic airflow limitation participated in a multiple crossover , randomized , placebo-controlled trial . the effect of theophylline and salbutamol , alone or combined , on pulmonary function and dyspnea during daily activities was examined . correlations of changes in forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( fev1 ) and maximum expiratory pressures ( mips ) ( independent variables ) and changes in dyspnea score during daily activities ( dependent variable ) were also examined . results : the two drugs proved to be beneficial the effects in general were additive rather than synergistic . the drugs improved the fev1 ; theophylline significantly improved the mips . the correlation between the changes in fev1 and those in dyspnea score , after adjustment for the changes in mips , was 0.55 ( p less than 0.001 ) . the correlation between the changes in mips and those in dyspnea score , after adjustment for the changes in fev1 , was 0.39 ( p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions : changes in airway calibre and in respiratory muscle strength play an independent and important role in dyspnea during daily activities in patients with chronic airflow limitation . changes in airway calibre may be of greater importance . 
current status of etoposide in the management of small cell lung cancer . etoposide is a schedule-dependent drug with excellent activity against small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) . single-agent etoposide achieves overall response rates ranging from 15 % to 84 % , depending on the schedule of drug administration and the characteristics of the treated population . the route of etoposide administration ( intravenous versus oral ) has little impact on response rate , provided appropriate dose adjustments are made for oral therapy . in combination with other active agents , etoposide has proven particularly effective in the management of sclc . etoposide can be substituted for doxorubicin or vincristine in the cyclophosphamide , doxorubicin , and vincristine ( cav ) regimen without loss of efficacy . the etoposide and cisplatin ( ep ) combination is thought to be synergistic and has proven to be an effective salvage regimen for cav failures . a regimen that alternates cav and ep has been found by some investigators to be modestly more effective against sclc than cav alone ; however , ep alone may be as useful as an alternating regimen . most studies to date have demonstrated that ep induction is at least as effective as any other standard induction regimen . however , ep has the potential advantage of being more easily integrated with thoracic radiation therapy ( rt ) . this is particularly important in limited-disease patients : two recent pilot studies employing ep induction with hyperfractionated thoracic rt yielded 2-year survival rates of greater than 50 % . these promising results are being evaluated further in an ongoing phase iii trial in the united states . the available data indicate that etoposide is one of the most active agents against sclc and therefore should be included as a component of induction therapy in all patients . new schedules of etoposide administration warrant further study . 
a randomized trial to compare intravenous and oral etoposide in combination with cisplatin for the treatment of small cell lung cancer . in a randomized multi-center study , 83 patients with small cell lung cancer were randomly assigned to treatment with cisplatin 100 mg/m2 intravenously ( iv ) day 1 and etoposide 120 mg/m2 iv days 1 , 2 , and 3 or cisplatin 100 mg/m2 iv day 1 and etoposide 120 mg/m2 iv day 1 and 240 mg/m2 orally days 2 and 3 . both regimens were repeated every 4 weeks . prior to randomization , patients were stratified by extent of disease , performance status , and gender . a total of 41 patients were randomly assigned to the parenteral treatment only regimen , and 42 patients received cisplatin and iv/oral etoposide therapy . both treatment arms were comparable regarding patient characteristics . limited disease ( ld ) patients constituted 52 % and 49 % of the patient population for the oral and iv etoposide regimens , respectively . the overall complete response ( cr ) and partial response ( pr ) rate was 50 % ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 35 % to 65 % ) for the oral etoposide regimen and 59 % ( 95 % ci 44 % to 74 % ) for the iv etoposide regimen ( p = 0.438 ) . for both regimens , 55 % of the ld patients achieved either cr or pr . time to progression and survival were comparable for both treatment arms . hematologic toxicity was comparable in both treatment arms , with 80 % of patients experiencing grade 3 or 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia . moderate to severe anemia and weight loss were more predominant with the iv than with the oral regimen . 
etoposide in the management of non-small cell lung cancer . etoposide is a phase-specific , schedule-dependent derivative of podophyllotoxin that appears to act by inhibiting dna-topoisomerase ii . early preclinical work demonstrated sharp activity in mouse leukemias and possible synergy with cisplatin . as a single agent ( either orally or intravenously ) , it demonstrated limited benefit in non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) , with response rates around 10 % . in combination with cisplatin , it has become a mainstay of chemotherapeutic efforts , either as primary therapy or in conjunction with radiation . response rates in advanced disease average around 30 % , climbing to more than 50 % in patients with stage iiia or iiib disease . more recent work suggests that the issue of the true synergy of etoposide with cisplatin in nsclc needs reassessment . the relative roles of etoposide and cisplatin in the combination are unclear , as several studies conflict . pharmacokinetic data suggest that multiple daily fractions of etoposide are superior to prolonged infusions , warranting several future trials . the current major role for etoposide plus cisplatin would appear to be in multimodality therapy where the combination can be readily combined with radiation and/or surgery . several other agents have been studied with etoposide or etoposide plus cisplatin ( mitomycin , vindesine , doxorubicin , cyclophosphamide , ifosfamide , and carboplatin ) , but it is unclear whether the addition of any of them offers any response or survival advantage . 
recent advances in etoposide therapy for non-small cell lung cancer . non-small cell lung cancer ( nsclc ) continues to be a major health problem in the us . in 1990 , approximately 120,000 new cases will be diagnosed , and the majority of these patients will have either unresectable disease or resected disease that has a relatively low chance of being cured . a variety of chemotherapy treatments have been evaluated in patients with advanced nsclc . the objective of this review is to summarize the results of the chemotherapy trials in stage iii and iv nsclc patients . 
pulmonary metastases and bone sarcomas . surgical removal of lesions appearing after adjuvant chemotherapy . pulmonary metastasis is the leading cause of death in pediatric patients with bone tumors . multiple thoracotomies for surgical removal of individual lesions are performed at many centers . to explore the efficacy of this procedure and establish guidelines for an appropriate choice of patients , the experience with 43 thoracotomies in 24 children was reviewed . the appearance of first metastasis later than one year after diagnosis , presence of fewer than five nodules , and completeness of surgical resection were favorable predictors of postthoractomy survival . early or multiple metastases , unresectable disease , and hilar , nodal , or pleural lesions conferred an unfavorable prognosis . with careful patient selection , pulmonary metastecotomy is a safe procedure that has few operative or long-term complications . it must be emphasized that although surgical removal of pulmonary metastases prolongs survival with good quality of life , the majority of patients with bone sarcomas ultimately succumb to their disease after thoracotomy . follow-up time of greater than eight years is necessary to adequately assess the effectiveness of pulmonary resection in eradicating all disease in these patients . 
pulmonary surveillance using bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage during high-dose antineoplastic therapy . pulmonary failure is a major contributor to morbidity and mortality during marrow aplasia following high-dose antineoplastic therapy . for this reason , we initiated a pulmonary surveillance program for patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy for leukemia or bone marrow transplantation . as part of this program , bronchoscopy with bal was performed prior to therapy and at the onset of granulocytopenia . thirty-three of the first 57 patients managed in this program developed some evidence of pulmonary complications . twelve patients died in aplasia ; all had pulmonary failure . forty patients had clinically significant abnormalities on the bronchoscopy before treatment including 12 of 19 patients who had normal findings on chest x-ray films , physical examination , and pulmonary function testing , and no fever . twenty-seven patients had clinically significant abnormal bronchoscopy or bal at the onset of granulocytopenia . thirteen patients required additional bronchoscopy . no patient required an open lung biopsy . pulmonary surveillance using bronchoscopy with bal is useful in the detection of pulmonary disease prior to the initiation of and following high-dose antineoplastic therapy . 
the chest roentgenogram in pulmonary tuberculosis patients seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 . to determine the impact that co-infection with hiv has on the radiographic presentation of pulmonary tuberculosis , we examined the chest roentgenograms obtained before treatment in 225 hiv-tested adult haitians with bacillary ( smear or culture or both ) positive pulmonary tuberculosis . there were 67 hiv-seropositive and 158 hiv-seronegative patients . intrathoracic adenopathy alone was more common and parenchymal infiltrates less common in hiv-seropositive patients ( p less than 0.05 ) . although a parenchymal infiltrate was less likely to be cavitating in the hiv-seropositive group ( p less than 0.05 ) when cavitary parenchymal disease was present , hiv seropositivity did not affect the number of cavities ( single or multiple ) or the size of the largest cavity . patients with aids were significantly more likely to have a chest radiographic pattern consistent with primary tuberculosis ( 80 percent ) than hiv-seropositive patients without aids ( 30 percent ) , and the latter were significantly more likely to have such a pattern than hiv-seronegative patients ( 11 percent ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . the hiv-seropositive patients were equally infectious , regardless of the pattern of disease ( primary vs postprimary ) . even though pulmonary tuberculosis in an hiv-seropositive adult probably results from reactivation of dormant foci or reinfection , the pattern on the chest roentgenogram often suggests primary disease , especially if the patient has aids . 
target-flow inspiratory muscle training during pulmonary rehabilitation in patients with copd . the effects of additional target-flow inspiratory muscle training ( tf-imt ) on the performance of the inspiratory muscles , on general exercise capacity , and on psychologic parameters during a pulmonary rehabilitation program ( pr ) were studied in 40 patients with copd selected for ventilatory limitation during exercise . the mean age of the patients was 59 years , and the mean fev1 was approximately 50 percent of predicted . all patients participated in a ten-week pr program . they were randomized to receive either additional tf-imt ( pr + imt ) or not ( pr ) . the tf-imt was performed by means of a target-flow resistive device ; the generated mouth pressure and the duration of inspiration and of the respiratory cycle were imposed . after the training period , maximal inspiratory mouth pressure and emg-fatigability of the diaphragm were significantly better in the pr + imt group than in the pr group . maximal work load and psychologic symptoms increased to the same extent in both groups . the 12-minute walking distance also increased in both groups , but it increased significantly more in the pr + imt group than in the pr group . we believe that additional tf-imt during pr in a selected group of patients with copd who have ventilatory limitation has an extra beneficial effect on the performance of the inspiratory muscles and on exercise performance . 
99mtc-anti-cea radioimmunoscintigraphy of lung adenocarcinoma . anti-carcinoembryonic antigen radioimmunoscintigraphy ( anti-cea ris ) in colorectal adenocarcinoma has been reported to allow a better estimation of the local tumor extension than other radiologic methods . this study evaluated the clinical feasibility of a 99mtc-labeled anti-cea monoclonal antibody ( bw 431/26 , behring institute , frg ) in 11 patients for staging of primary adenocarcinoma of the lung . the primary tumor size ranged from 3 to 8 cm with a mean of 4 cm . mediastinal and hilar nodes were present in four patients , intrapulmonary metastases were present in two patients , and pleural and liver metastases were present in one patient each . the cea levels were in the range of 2 to 265 ng/ml and elevated ( greater than 5 ng/ml ) in six patients . planar scintigraphy was performed at 6 h and 24 h post injection ( pi ) . analog and digitized images were interpreted by two observers . one patient was imaged twice and experienced serum sickness due to human anti-mouse antibodies ( hama ) after the second study , which showed marked unspecific tracer uptake in liver , spleen , and bone marrow , but no specific uptake by the tumor and was excluded from further analysis . visual interpretation identified the primary tumor clearly in seven patients . no tumor imaging was observed in two patients . two patients were classified as having questionable imaging due to a poor separation of tumor uptake from mediastinal blood pool . the primary tumor could be clearly delineated in both patients after comparison with the chest radiograph . thus , the overall sensitivity for imaging of the primary tumor was 82 percent . the average target/background ratio was 1.31 + / - 0.17:1 at 6 h pi , and 1.30 + / - 0.16:1 at 24 h pi . hilar and mediastinal nodes were correctly suspected in three patients , but the cardiac blood pool hampered a clear interpretation . intrapulmonary and pleural metastases were diagnosed in all cases . the single liver metastasis was missed because of the high unspecific tracer uptake . planar anti-cea ris with 99mtc bw 431/26 was superior to computed tomography ( ct ) in one case with subtotal tumor resection . we summarize that at present , planar anti-cea ris with 99mtc bw 431/26 can not be advised as a routine staging procedure in adenocarcinoma of the lung , but it may be helpful in the detection of residual or recurrent tumor tissue . 
pulmonary complications of combination therapy with cyclophosphamide and prednisone . oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone are standard treatment for some neoplasms and necrotizing systemic vasculitis and are advocated with increasing frequency for idiopathic interstitial lung disease . during a 15-month period , we observed four cases of acute respiratory failure from pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) in patients treated with oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone . one patient each had polyarteritis nodosa , wegener 's granulomatosis , bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonia , and chronic lymphocytic leukemia with red blood cell aplasia . hypoalbuminemia ( serum albumin level less than 3.0 g/dl ) and daily therapy were associated with increased risk for development of pcp ( p less than 0.05 ) . none of the patients had leukopenia ( less than 3,500 / cu mm ) or neutropenia ( less than 1,000 / cumm ) at diagnosis . all were negative for the human immunodeficiency virus . patients receiving oral cyclophosphamide and prednisone may be at higher or increasing risk for pcp . a high index of suspicion and aggressive evaluation for opportunistic infection are needed in these patients ; consideration for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis and development of more quantitative measures of immunosuppression are needed . 
combined thermodilution and two-dimensional echocardiographic evaluation of right ventricular function during respiratory support with peep . in ten patients requiring respiratory support for an episode of acute respiratory failure ( arf ) , the best therapeutic level of peep was determined by measurement of changes in lung and chest wall compliance ( ct ) during a peep challenge from 0 to 20 cm h2o . during this challenge , hemodynamic monitoring combined with thermodilution measurement of right ventricular ( rv ) ejection fraction ( ef ) and two-dimensional echocardiographic measurement of rv size permitted assessment of the effects of increasing levels of peep on rv function . rv preload , as reflected by rv end-diastolic volume ( edv ) and two-dimensional rv end-diastolic area ( eda ) , remained unchanged and rv diastolic compliance progressively decreased . on the other hand , rv systolic function , as assessed by rvef and two-dimensional rv fractional area contraction ( fac ) , was progressively depressed . substantial deleterious effects of peep were noted at high levels of peep including reduced ct and augmented pulmonary vascular resistance . inadequate increase in rv preload to compensate for increased rv afterload resulted in depressed rv systolic function and contributed to the reduction in cardiac output . finally , two-dimensional echocardiography proved to be more sensitive than fast-response thermodilution to evaluate change in rv function . 
respiratory failure and death following acute inhalation of mercury vapor . a clinical and histologic perspective . a family of four was exposed to toxic levels of mercury vapor while attempting to extract silver from mercury amalgam . all four suffered respiratory failure and subsequent death despite chelation therapy with dimercaprol . histologic findings at autopsy were similar in all four cases demonstrating a progression of acute lung injury that appeared related to postexposure day survival . there were no clinical signs of extrapulmonary manifestations despite toxic serum mercury levels . although serum mercury levels decreased in response to the mercury chelating agent dimercaprol , serum levels remained in the toxic range and no clinical response was observed . acute inhalational exposure to high concentrations of mercury vapor causes pneumonitis that can lead to respiratory failure and death . this continues to be a health hazard in both the workplace and the home environment . 
a longitudinal study of respiratory symptoms in a community population sample . correlations with smoking , allergen skin-test reactivity , and serum ige chronic cough and/or phlegm , wheeze in the absence of colds , and rhinitis attributed to allergies are three of the most common respiratory symptoms encountered in community populations . in this study , we have determined the prevalence of these complaints in a random population sample ( n = 1,109 ) using standardized questionnaires at two points in time , eight years apart . cross-sectional prevalence and changes in symptom occurrence have been correlated with smoking status , allergen skin test reactivity , and total serum ige levels . our objective was to determine the individual and combined influence of these three variables on symptom prevalence . initially , 19.2 percent of the population admitted to wheeze , 17.9 percent to cough , and 44.1 percent to allergic rhinitis . cough and wheeze prevalence changed little over the eight-year period , while rhinitis increased 11 percent by the second survey . the occurrence of chronic cough was strongly correlated with smoking , and was not further influenced by either allergen skin reactivity or ige level . conversely , rhinitis prevalence was related to skin test reactivity with no additional association with smoking or ige level . the occurrence of wheeze in the absence of colds was associated with both smoking and allergen skin reactivity . among smokers , the prevalence was over 30 percent and was similar in both skin test positive ( stp ) and skin test negative ( stn ) individuals . however , on both surveys , stp ex-smokers and nonsmokers had significantly more wheeze than those who were stn . while the prevalence of wheeze in stn nonsmokers was low ( 6.8 percent ) , an ige-wheeze relationship was also suggested on the second survey . in addition to these cross-sectional symptom relationships , changes in either smoking status or allergen skin reactivity during the study period were associated with changes in the prevalence of each symptom . 
natural killer cell activity in a rat model of amiodarone-induced interstitial lung disease . the role of lymphocytes in the pathogenesis of amiodarone-induced lung disease is controversial . increases in the percentages of lymphocytes in bronchoalveolar fluid of both patients and animals with amiodarone pulmonary toxicity have been reported . to assess whether these lymphocytes are functionally activated , we measured natural killer cell activity in the lungs and blood of rats with amiodarone-induced pulmonary toxicity . amiodarone treated rats exhibited pathologic evidence of amiodarone-induced lung disease after one week of treatment and this injury was sustained and more extensive during the remainder of the study period . control rats had histologically normal lungs . blood nk activity was equally present in both amiodarone-treated and control groups and was not significantly different over the course of the study ( 16 + / - 3 percent and 13 + / - 2 percent , respectively ; p greater than 0.05 ) . thus , nk cells were activated only in the lungs of rats treated with amiodarone , suggesting a local immune response in the lung . these data support the concept that lymphocytes play an important role in the pathogenesis of amiodarone-induced lung disease . 
minute squamous cell carcinoma arising in the wall of a congenital lung cyst . a case of minute squamous cell carcinoma arising in a congenital lung cyst is reported . two aspects of this case were notable . first , we were able to make the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma by bronchial lavage at an early stage . second , to our knowledge , this is the first case of probable de novo origin of squamous cell carcinoma in a congenital lung cyst . 
pulmonary reactions caused by welding-induced decomposed trichloroethylene this is the report of a welder who performed argon-shielded electric arc welding in an atmosphere containing trichloroethylene . he developed immediate respiratory symptoms , pulmonary edema 12 hours after exposure , and recurring dyspnea ten days after exposure . these pulmonary reactions might be explained by inhalation of decomposition products of trichloroethylene such as dichloroacetyl chloride and phosgene . 
lightning injury with lung bleeding in a tracheotomized patient . a 68-year-old man , who had undergone laryngectomy six months earlier , was struck by lightning and developed pulmonary hemorrhage . this was attributed to pulmonary barotrauma due to a lightning blast via his tracheostoma . 
obliterative bronchiolitis : virus induced ? this report describes a 28-year-old patient with an acute onset of respiratory symptoms associated with clinical and roentgenographic features of an interstitial lung disease which proved fatal . the entity of bronchiolitis obliterans , which was diagnosed on transbronchial biopsy , is discussed , with particular emphasis on the postinfectious type . 
tension pneumothorax secondary to a gastropleural fistula in a traumatic diaphragmatic hernia . we report a case of tension pneumothorax due to a gastropleural fistula resulting from perforation of the stomach in a traumatic diaphragmatic hernia . awareness of perforation of strangulated stomach or bowel in a diaphragmatic hernia as a cause of pneumothorax , with or without tension physiology , in a patient with a history of trauma is important so that surgical repair can be undertaken without delay . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . rare cause of hemoptysis . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia is a frequent manifestation of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . it commonly presents with nonproductive cough , fever , and dyspnea . we report this case of p carinii pneumonia presenting with hemoptysis , since to the best of our knowledge , hemoptysis has not been reported to be a presenting manifestation of p carinii pneumonia . autopsy revealed multiple lung cavities . 
noncardiogenic pulmonary edema complicating massive diltiazem overdose . non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema has not been previously described in calcium channel blocker overdose . we describe a case of non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema occurring during the course of therapy for massive diltiazem overdose in a young patient with anorexia nervosa . review of the current literature suggests that major and minor pulmonary complications occur with some frequency in the setting of calcium channel blocker overdose although their exact incidence remains unclear . 
cough in hot pepper workers . study objective : to determine whether there is an effect on the prevalence of respiratory symptoms , an alteration in lung function , or an increase in the cough threshold to capsaicin among workers chronically exposed to hot chili ( capsicum ) peppers . design : cross-sectional study of responses to a structured questionnaire , lung function assessed by spirometry and cough threshold to inhalation of capsaicin aerosol in a group of occupationally-exposed capsicum workers as compared to non-exposed employees of the same work site . setting : spice manufacturing facility . participants : twenty-two capsicum-exposed and 19 nonexposed workers . measurements and main results : when evaluated by questionnaire , 13 ( 59 percent ) of the capsicum-exposed workers reported cough as compared to 4 ( 21 percent ) of the nonexposed workers ( p less than 0.05 ) . baseline fev1 and fvc did not differ between the two groups . cough threshold , as assessed by the lowest concentration of inhaled capsaicin eliciting cough , was related to workplace exposure ( p = 0.05 ) , displaying a bimodal pattern of higher and lower cough thresholds among the capsicum workers as compared to a unimodal distribution among the nonexposed workers . within the exposed group , a higher cough threshold was significantly related to male gender ( p = 0.03 ) and was associated to a lesser extent with dietary preference for hot food ( p = 0.09 ) and cumulative cigarette smoking ( p = 0.07 ) . conclusion : chronic occupational exposure to chili peppers is associated with complaints of cough but does not alone lead to decreased responsiveness of capsaicin-sensitive nerves when assessed by cough threshold . the cough response to capsaicin inhalation may be modified by the effects of multiple , potentially interactive factors . 
fiberoptic bronchoscopy for refractory cough . fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( fb ) has a low yield in the diagnosis of chronic cough ( greater than 3 weeks ) in unselected patients . we assessed the yield of fb for cough during a four-year period in patients with nonlocalizing chest roentgenograms who were refractory to diagnostic efforts and empiric bronchodilator or antitussive therapy . seven ( 28 percent ) of 25 patients undergoing fb for cough ( of greater than 1,500 bronchoscopies ) had diagnostic findings ( broncholithiasis , two ; tracheobronchopathia osteochondroplastica , two ; and tuberculous bronchostenosis , laryngeal dyskinesia , and arytenoid polyp , one each ) . no tracheobronchial neoplasms were detected . age greater than 50 years and female sex independently predicted positive results ( p = 0.02 fisher 's exact test ) , while duration of cough ( two to 240 months ) , airflow , and smoking status did not . when patients with prior pulmonary or extrathoracic neoplasms were excluded , seven ( 35 percent ) of 20 studies were diagnostic . diagnoses potentially could have been made by thoracic computed tomographic scanning in four patients and indirect laryngoscopy in two . fiberoptic bronchoscopy has a respectable yield for diagnosis of refractory chronic cough and is a reasonable procedure in carefully selected patients . 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and cough . prevalence in an outpatient medical clinic population . to determine the frequency of ace inhibitor cough in an outpatient medical clinic population , a cross-sectional epidemiologic survey using mailed questionnaires was done . patients were randomly selected from a computerized hospital pharmacy data base . the overall prevalence of cough was 19 percent in the ace inhibitor groups compared with 9 percent in the hydrochlorothiazide-treated group . the observed odds ratio for cough among ace inhibitor users was 2.3 ( 95 percent ci , 1.02 to 5.00 ) . this study is the first systematic investigation of frequency and characteristics of ace inhibitor cough that includes a control group . our results suggest that cough may more frequently accompany treatment with ace inhibitors than has been previously reported . we recommend that physicians specifically inquire about cough in patients taking an ace inhibitor . recognition of this side effect may prevent unnecessary testing and treatment of patients receiving ace inhibitors . 
comparison of incentive spirometry and intermittent positive pressure breathing after coronary artery bypass graft . fifty-two patients were randomized to receive either incentive spirometry ( is ) or intermittent positive pressure breathing ( ippb ) in addition to conventional chest physical therapy following coronary artery bypass grafting . slow vital capacity and peak expiratory flow readings decreased rapidly and to an equal extent in both groups after surgery , and partly recovered by the sixth postoperative day ( pop ) . arterial po2 values were similar for the groups on the first three pops . on the pops 2 , 3 , and 6 , the number of chest films showing atelectases as well as the number of individual patients having atelectases revealed no statistically significant differences between the two groups . based on the three variables studied , we consider both devices equal in efficiency after coronary surgery . 
metered dose inhalers for bronchodilator delivery in intubated , mechanically ventilated patients . we determined the relative efficacy of two bronchodilator aerosol delivery methods in 18 intubated mechanically ventilated patients with airways obstruction . two treatment arms , consisting of albuterol 270 micrograms ( three puffs ) from a metered dose inhaler and albuterol 2.5 mg from a saline solution nebulized with an updraft inhaler , were compared in a single blind , randomized crossover design . pulmonary function was evaluated using an interrupter technique . changes in passive expiratory flow at respiratory system recoil pressures between 6 and 10 cm h2o provided the therapeutic endpoints . paired measurements were made before and 30 minutes after drug delivery . the mdi and neb resulted in similar improvements in iso-recoil flow ( mean increase for both groups = 0.1 l/s ) . treatment sequence , severity of obstruction , and bronchodilator responsiveness had no effect on relative efficacy . albuterol caused a small but significant increase in heart rate that was similar following both delivery methods . we conclude that bronchodilator aerosol delivery with metered dose inhalers provides a viable alternative to nebulizer therapy in intubated mechanically ventilated patients and may result in a cost savings to hospitals and patients . 
complications of general anesthesia for nd : yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors . we studied the incidence and mechanisms of cardiovascular complications and postoperative respiratory insufficiency associated with ga and nd : yag laser endobronchial tumor resection . the records of 73 patients undergoing 87 procedures were reviewed . preoperative status , anesthetic methods and perioperative complications were analyzed by multiple regression to determine predictors of outcome . twenty-three percent of patients had greater than 90 percent mainstem bronchus obstruction . longer serum elimination half-life of relaxant drug was significantly correlated with longer duration of mechanical ventilation after neuromuscular blockade reversal . cardiovascular complications were noted in 24 procedures and often required therapeutic intervention . variables predicting cardiovascular complications included longer duration of ga and increasing age . perioperative respiratory and cardiovascular complications are common after ga for nd : yag laser resection . short-acting neuromuscular relaxants , careful assessment prior to postoperative extubation , limiting duration of ga and cardiovascular monitoring are recommended when implementing ga for nd : yag laser resection of endobronchial tumors . 
acute eosinophilic pulmonary disease associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products . a series of four patients with pulmonary infiltrates , pleural effusions , hypoxemia , peripheral eosinophilia , and symptoms of dyspnea , fatigue , and weakness is reported . lung tissue obtained in three patients revealed interstitial pneumonitis , small-to-medium-vessel mixed-cell vasculitis , and alveolar exudate of histiocytes and eosinophils . all patients reported ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products at a time when an association between l-tryptophan and the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome was established . this clinical pattern of pulmonary involvement may be part of the continuum of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the pathophysiology of this syndrome and the relationship with the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products have not yet been identified . 
the diagnostic utility of the antibody-coated bacteria test in intubated patients . purpose : pilot study to determine if the presence of antibody-coated bacteria ( acb ) in sputum specimens obtained from endotracheal tube suctioning would aid in the diagnosis of lower respiratory tract infection ( lrti ) . patients and methods : all endotracheally intubated and mechanically ventilated patients for a two-month period were recruited for study . the diagnosis of lrti was based on a clinical suspicion sufficient enough to start or change antibiotic therapy . specimens were obtained by blind endotracheal tube suctioning . after processing , sputum smears were stained with fluorescein-labelled antibody to the fc portion of igg , igm , and iga . more than five fluorescein-labelled bacteria per oil immersion field were considered positive smears . results : seventy-one specimens were obtained from 36 patients . eighteen specimens were positive in 12 patients , all of whom had lrti . no specimen was positive in patients not diagnosed as having lrti . the acb test was positive in 12 of 25 patients with lrti . patients with lrti but negative acb were more likely to have received prior antibiotic therapy ( p less than 0.001 ) . acb was positive prior to the clinical diagnosis of lrti in seven of nine patients ( av 4.1 days , range 2-6 days ) and converted to negative in three specimens obtained seven or more days after starting appropriate antibiotics , while in three specimens it remained positive three-six days post treatment initiation . conclusions : the acb test appears to be highly specific for the presence of lrti in intubated patients . sensitivity of the test may be adversely affected by prior antibiotic therapy . a positive acb test may predict the subsequent development of lrti . further study is warranted . 
proximal esophageal ph-metry in patients with ' reflux laryngitis ' . fiberoptic laryngoscopic examinations were performed on 40 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease , 25 of whom had persistent laryngeal symptoms ( dysphonia , cough , globus sensation , frequent throat clearing , or sore throat ) and 15 without laryngeal symptoms who served as disease controls . ten patients with laryngeal symptoms but none of the controls had laryngoscopic findings consistent with reflux laryngitis . dual-site ambulatory ph recordings were obtained with the ph electrodes spaced 15 cm apart and with the proximal sensor positioned just distal to the upper esophageal sphincter . patients in the three groups ( disease controls : group 1 ; patients with symptoms but without laryngoscopic findings : group 2 ; and patients with both laryngeal symptoms and findings : group 3 ) were comparable in terms of age , smoking habit , the presence of esophagitis , and distal esophageal acid exposure . proximal esophageal acid exposure was , however , significantly increased in groups 2 and 3 , and nocturnal proximal esophageal acidification occurred in over half of these patients but in none of the group 1 patients . we conclude that the subset of reflux patients who experience laryngeal symptoms show significantly more proximal esophageal acid exposure ( especially nocturnally ) and often have laryngoscopic findings of posterior laryngitis not observed in control reflux patients . 
managing lung disease in late life : a new approach . advanced pulmonary disease ( apd ) , a progressive , incurable condition , ultimately leading to death , is associated with significant , distressing symptoms . this paper reviews how the hospice approach to care , with its emphasis on treating those symptoms causing the patient the most distress , might be used by physicians in the outpatient setting to improve the patient 's quality of life . important aspects of care include management of hypoxia , malnutrition , osteoporosis , adverse drug reactions , and , especially , the symptomatic relief of dyspnea . relief of emotional symptoms ( depression , anxiety , panic ) is also discussed . 
effects of changes in level and pattern of breathing on the sensation of dyspnea . breathing during hypercapnia is determined by reflex mechanisms but may also be influenced by respiratory sensations . the present study examined the effects of voluntary changes in level and pattern of breathing on the sensation of dyspnea at a constant level of chemical drive . studies were carried out in 15 normal male subjects during steady-state hypercapnia at an end-tidal pco2 of 50 torr . the intensity of dyspnea was rated on a borg category scale . in one experiment ( n = 8 ) , the level of ventilation was increased or decreased from the spontaneously adopted level ( vspont ) . in another experiment ( n = 9 ) , the minute ventilation was maintained at the level spontaneously adopted at pco2 of 50 torr and breathing frequency was increased or decreased from the spontaneously adopted level ( fspont ) with reciprocal changes in tidal volume . the intensity of dyspnea ( expressed as percentage of the spontaneous breathing level ) correlated with ventilation ( % vspont ) negatively at levels below vspont ( r = -0.70 , p less than 0.001 ) and positively above vspont ( r = 0.80 , p less than 0.001 ) . at a constant level of ventilation , the intensity of dyspnea correlated with breathing frequency ( % fspont ) negatively at levels below fspont ( r = -0.69 , p less than 0.001 ) and positively at levels above fspont ( r = 0.75 , p less than 0.001 ) . these results indicate that dyspnea intensifies when the level or pattern of breathing is voluntarily changed from the spontaneously adopted level . this is consistent with the possibility that ventilatory responses to changes in chemical drive may be regulated in part to minimize the sensations of respiratory effort and discomfort . 
compensation of respiratory alkalosis induced after acclimation to simulated altitude . conscious intact rats previously acclimated for 3 wk to barometric pressure of 370-380 torr ( 3whx ) were made alkalotic for 3 h by a decrease in inspired o2 fraction from 0.10 to 0.075 at ambient barometric pressure ( 730-740 torr ) . controls were normoxic littermates ( nx ) in which inspired o2 fraction was lowered from approximately 0.21 to 0.10 for 3 h. arterial pco2 decreased progressively and similarly in both groups ( 65-70 % of control at 15 min ) . initially , arterial ph increased less in 3whx ( 0.09 + / - 0.004 vs. 0.15 + / - 0.008 ) . as hypocapnia continued , delta [ hco3 - ] / delta ph ( mmol.l-1 . ph ) became more negative in nx , from -15.2 + / - 2.5 at 15 min to -37.0 + / - 2.9 at 3 h , indicating nonrespiratory compensation of alkalosis . in 3whx , delta [ hco3 - ] / delta ph did not change during alkalosis . cumulative renal excretion of base ( mueq/100 g ) during alkalosis increased by 73.2 + / - 11.1 in nx and 25.4 + / - 7.3 in 3whx . this difference was mainly due to a larger increase in hco3 - excretion in nx . the data suggest that the smaller compensation of hypocapnic alkalosis in 3whx is partly due to the smaller increase in renal base excretion . because base availability limits renal base excretion , the smaller renal response of 3whx may be secondary to the low plasma hco3 - concentration that accompanies altitude acclimation . 
role of dopamine and arterial chemoreceptors in thermal tachypnea in conscious cats . in mammals submitted to a warm environment , intracerebral injection of dopamine ( da ) produces no change or an increase in body temperature accompanied by an increase in metabolic heat production , but its effect on heat loss mechanisms such as vasodilation and tachypnea is not clear . because the principal mechanism of heat loss in the conscious cat is thermal tachypnea , we studied the influence of da on thermal tachypnea in response to heat stress ( ambient temperature = 33-36 degrees c ) in five conscious cats . we first studied the steady-state response to a da agonist , apomorphine , which crosses the blood-brain barrier . intravenous injection of apomorphine greatly reduced thermal tachypnea by decreasing respiratory frequency ( from 94.9 to 52.5 breaths/min ) and increasing tidal volume ( from 13.2 to 20.4 ml ) . the subsequent injection of the da antagonist haloperidol , which also crosses the blood-brain barrier , restored the initial tachypnea . to further investigate the mechanism involved in thermal tachypnea , we studied the influence of peripheral chemoreceptors by transiently stimulating or inhibiting carotid body ( cb ) activity during tachypneic breathing . cb stimulation by intravenous injection of nacn or domperidone reduced thermal tachypnea mainly by decreasing the respiratory frequency , whereas cb inhibition by da tended to increase frequency and thus tachypnea . it is concluded that 1 ) in a warm environment , central da receptors are also greatly involved in heat loss mechanisms , 2 ) arterial chemoreceptor input appears to counteract this tachypneic breathing , and 3 ) thermal and hypoxic tachypnea may be controlled by the same mechanism in which a da-like system has a key role . 
effects of ligation and embolization on kf and multiple tracer measurements in dog lungs . in isolated blood-perfused dog lungs , the capillary filtration coefficient ( kf ) and the permeability-surface area product of urea ( ps ) were measured to determine their responses to two different methods of altering filtration area : lobe ligation ( ll , n = 5 ) and glass bead embolization ( gbe , n = 4 ) during constant perfusion rates ( 700 + / - 45 ml/min ) . when two of three lobes were ligated , kf decreased ( 1.36 + / - 0.13 to 0.58 + / - 0.23 g.min-1 . cmh2o-1 ; p less than 0.05 ) , but ps did not change ( 2.02 + / - 0.4 to 1.71 + / - 0.3 ml/s ) . kf per gram of perfused blood-free dry lung weight was unchanged by ll ( 0.051 + / - 0.17 to 0.052 + / - 0.18 g.min-1 . cmh2o-1 ) , indicating that surface area per gram measured by kf remained the same . however , ps per gram dry lung doubled ( 0.07 + / - 0.016 to 0.146 + / - 0.06 ml/s ; p less than 0.05 ) after ll , suggesting that recruitment occurred in the remaining lobe . when three lobes were embolized with 200-microns glass beads ( 0.48 + / - 0.01 g beads/kg body wt ) , ps decreased ( 2.1 + / - 0.22 to 0.94 + / - 0.09 ml/s ; p less than 0.05 ) , but kf was not altered ( 1.01 + / - 0.17 to 1.04 + / - 0.18 g.min-1 . cmh2o-1 ) . the constancy of kf after gbe implies that the vascular pressure increase during the kf measurement was transmitted to both blocked and flowing vessels and thereby measured the same filtration area before and after gbe . ps decreased significantly after gbe because of a loss of perfused surface area by the beads blocking flow in small arterial vessels . 
airflow obstruction after substance p aerosol : contribution of airway and pulmonary edema . we have studied the effects of aerosolized substance p ( sp ) in guinea pigs with reference to lung resistance and dynamic compliance changes and their recovery after hyperinflation . in addition , we have examined the concomitant formation of airway microvascular leakage and lung edema . increasing breaths of sp ( 1.5 mg/ml , 1.1 mm ) , methacholine ( 0.15 mg/ml , 0.76 mm ) , or 0.9 % saline were administered to tracheostomized and mechanically ventilated guinea pigs . lung resistance ( rl ) increased dose dependently with a maximum effect of 963 + / - 85 % of baseline values ( mean + / - se ) after sp ( 60 breaths ) and 1,388 + / - 357 % after methacholine ( 60 breaths ) . after repeated hyperinflations , methacholine-treated animals returned to baseline , but after sp , mean rl was still raised ( 292 + / - 37 % ; p less than 0.005 ) . airway microvascular leakage , measured by extravasation of evans blue dye , occurred in the brain bronchi and intrapulmonary airways after sp but not after methacholine . there was a significant correlation between rl after hyperinflation and evans blue dye extravasation in intrapulmonary airways ( distal : r = 0.89 , p less than 0.005 ; proximal : r = 0.85 , p less than 0.01 ) . examination of frozen sections for peribronchial and perivascular cuffs of edema and for alveolar flooding showed significant degrees of pulmonary edema for animals treated with sp compared with those treated with methacholine or saline . we conclude that the inability of hyperinflation to fully reverse changes in rl after sp may be due to the formation of both airway and pulmonary edema , which may also contribute to the deterioration in rl . 
effect of acute hypercapnia on limb muscle contractility in humans . the effect of acute hypercapnia on skeletal muscle contractility and relaxation rate was investigated . the contractile force of fresh and fatigued quadriceps femoris ( qf ) and adductor pollicis ( ap ) was studied in normal humans by use of electrical stimulation . maximum relaxation rate from stimulated contractions was measured for both muscles . acute hypercapnia led to a rapid substantial reduction of contraction force . the respiratory acidosis after 9 % co2 was breathed for 20 min [ mean venous blood ph 7.26 and end-tidal pco2 ( petco2 ) 65.1 torr ] reduced 20 - and 100-hz stimulated contractions of qf to 72.8 + / - 4.4 and 80.0 + / - 5.1 % of control values , respectively . after 8 and 9 % co2 were breathed for 12 min , ap forces at 20 - and 50-hz stimulation were also reduced . twitch tension of ap was reduced by a mean of 25.5 % when subjects breathed 9 % co2 for 12 min [ mean arterialized venous blood ph ( phav ) 7.25 and petco2 66 torr ] . over the range of 5 % ( phav 7.38 and petco2 47 torr ) to 9 % co2 , there was a linear relationship between twitch tension loss and phav , arterialized venous blood pco2 , and petco2 . acute respiratory acidosis ( mean petco2 61 torr ) increased the severity of low-frequency fatigue after intermittent voluntary contractions of ap . at 20 min of recovery , twitch tension was 63.2 + / - 13.4 and 46.8 + / - 16.4 % of control value after exercise breathing air and 8 % co2 , respectively . acute hypercapnia ( mean petco2 65.1 and 60.5 torr ) did not alter the maximum relaxation rate from tetanic contractions of fresh qf and from twitch tensions of ap . 
effect of synchronous increase in intrathoracic pressure on cardiac performance during acute endotoxemia . in the anesthetized closed-chest canine model of gram-negative endotoxemia ( n = 10 ) , we tested the hypothesis that the effect of cardiac cycle-specific intrathoracic pressure pulses delivered by a heart rate - ( hr ) synchronized high-frequency jet ventilator ( sync hfjv ) on systolic ventricular performance is dependent on the level of preload . to control for hfjv frequency , hemodynamic responses were also measured at fixed frequency within 15 % of hr ( async hfjv ) . biventricular stroke volumes ( sv ) were measured by electromagnetic flow probes . measurements were made before ( baseline ) and 30 min after infusion of 1 mg/kg escherichia coli endotoxin ( serotype 055 : b5 ) and then after 2 mg/kg propranolol at both low ( less than 10 mmhg ) left ventricular filling pressure ( lvfp ) and high ( greater than 10 mmhg ) lvfp . ventricular function curves , aortic pressure-flow ( p-q ) relationships , and venous return ( vr ) curves were analyzed . we found that endotoxin did not alter vr curves but shifted the aortic p-q curves to the left with pressure on the x-axis ( p less than 0.05 ) . volume loading increased sv ( p less than 0.01 ) because of a rightward shift of the vr curve . no specific differences occurred with either sync or async hfjv during endotoxin , presumably because of preserved vr and shifted aortic p-q . the lack of cardiac cycle-specific effects of itp appears to be due to the selective endotoxin-induced changes in peripheral vasomotor tone that counterbalance any depressed myocardial contractility . 
time course of changes in lung permeability and edema in the rat exposed to 100 % oxygen . rats were exposed to 100 % oxygen for up to 60 h to determine early changes in lung permeability leading to the development of pulmonary edema . the time course of development of increased solute flux was assessed by the clearance of 99mtc-labeled diethylenetriamine pentaacetate ( 99mtc-dtpa ) from the lung and the accumulation of 125i-labeled albumin ( 125i-albumin ) in the lung . these end points were related to the development of pulmonary edema by the measurement of the wet-to-dry weight ratio of the lung and the weight of fluid in the pleural cavity . no significant changes occurred until 48 h of hyperoxia , when sharp increases in both indexes of lung permeability and wet-to-dry weight ratio occurred . by 60 h of exposure , pleural effusions had developed . the volume of this effusion was significantly correlated to both 99mtc-dtpa clearance and 125i-albumin flux . 
stimulation of rat endothelial cell transforming growth factor-beta production by bleomycin . this study examines the hypothesis that mediators from lung endothelial cells could promote lung collagen synthesis in pulmonary fibrosis . since bleomycin induces pulmonary fibrosis in humans and animals , the effects of this drug on endothelial cells were examined . endothelial cell conditioned media were prepared in the presence of various doses of bleomycin , and tested for their ability to stimulate lung fibroblast collagen synthesis . the results show a dose-dependent stimulation of endothelial cell secretion of collagen synthesis stimulatory activity by bleomycin , which peaked at a dose greater than or equal to 100 ng/ml . stimulation was selective for collagenous protein synthesis . gel filtration analysis showed most of the activity to reside in fractions with an estimated molecular mass range of 10-27 kd . the activity was inhibited by anti-transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) antibody , but not by nonimmune control igg . the presence of tgf-beta was confirmed using the mink lung epithelial cell assay . northern blotting revealed significant increases in tgf-beta mrna in bleomycin-stimulated endothelial cells . thus in vitro stimulation of endothelial cells by bleomycin upregulates tgf-beta production , presumably by increased transcription . in view of the chemotactic and matrix synthesis stimulatory properties of this cytokine , such an increase in tgf-beta production may play an important role in bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis . 
purification and characterization of a major human pneumocystis carinii surface antigen . previous studies of pneumocystis carinii have identified the major surface antigen of rat and human isolates as proteins of 116,000 and 95,000 mol wt , respectively , that are antigenically not identical . in this study both rat and human p. carinii proteins were purified by solubilization with zymolyase followed by molecular sieve and ion exchange chromatography . the native proteins had an apparent mol wt of 290,000 or greater , based on molecular sieve studies as well as cross-linking studies . both proteins were glycoproteins ; treatment with endoglycosidase h resulted in a 9 % decrease in mol wt . the carbohydrate composition of the rat p. carinii glycoprotein was distinct from the human isolate ; glucose , mannose , galactose , and glucosamine occurred in approximately equimolar ratios in the human p. carinii protein , whereas glucose and mannose were the predominant sugars of the rat p. carinii protein . to evaluate humoral immune responses to the human p. carinii protein , an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using purified protein was developed . some , but not all , patients who subsequently developed p. carinii pneumonia demonstrated a serum antibody response to the surface antigen . nearly all subjects without a history of p. carinii pneumonia had no detectable antibodies . purified p. carinii proteins will greatly facilitate the investigation of host-p . carinii interactions . 
mohs micrographic surgery fixed-tissue technique for melanoma of the nose . mohs micrographic surgery , fixed-tissue technique , for excision of nasal melanoma provides three important benefits : 1 ) assurance of eradication of the main mass along with its " silent " contiguous outgrowths , 2 ) safe management of non-contiguous satellites too small to be visible initially , and 3 ) safe sparing of maximal amounts of surrounding normal tissues . these benefits are achieved because all incisions are through chemically fixed ( killed ) tissue , eliminating the danger of disseminating the highly transplantable melanoma cells and permitting the excision of successive layers for microscopic scanning of their undersurfaces by the systematic use of frozen sections . the process is continued to the termination of each ramification . there is no need to remove a wide margin of normal tissue as is customary with conventional surgery . clinically invisible satellites are not moved or disturbed and can be removed safely by the same method if they appear . the reliability of the method is manifested by the 62.5 % 5-year cure in a series of 10 consecutive patients , all of whom had no local recurrence after micrographic surgery . 
elevated serum concentrations of ige antibodies to environmental antigens in hiv-seropositive male homosexuals . forty-five homosexual male subjects with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection , who received care during a 4-month period in an ambulatory center for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) , were classified according to their principal presentation with characteristic secondary infections ( cdc group iv c , n = 28 ) , cancers ( iv d , n = 10 ) , or limited or no symptoms ( groups ii , iii , iv a , or iv b , n = 7 ) . the incidence of allergic rhinitis and conjunctivitis increased after hiv seroconversion by approximately twofold in patients of groups iv c and iv d. the mean serum concentration of ige was significantly higher for group iv c than for the other hiv-seropositive groups and for a control group of 45 hiv-seronegative homosexual male subjects from the same community who were studied concurrently . more patients in groups iv c and iv d had positive rasts for a panel of environmental antigens than patients in the other hiv-seropositive groups and the hiv-seronegative control group . patients with aids presenting with typical secondary infections thus have a high frequency of some clinical and laboratory manifestations of allergic diseases . 
comparison of the effects of inhaled corticosteroids on the airway response to histamine , methacholine , hyperventilation , and sulfur dioxide in subjects with asthma . to investigate whether inhaled steroids modulate the airway response to different bronchoconstrictive stimuli , we studied 25 subjects with mild asthma with a double-blind , noncrossover design to compare the effect of a 3-week treatment with salbutamol ( 0.2 mg , four times a day [ q.i.d. ] ) and placebo ( n = 11 ) to the effect of salbutamol ( 0.2 mg q.i.d. ) and inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate ( bdp , 0.5 mg q.i.d. ) ( n = 14 ) . airway response to histamine and methacholine was assessed as the provocative concentration ( in milligrams per milliliter ) necessary to increase the specific airway resistance ( sraw ) ( in centimeters of h2o times second ) by 100 % ( pc100 sraw ) . airway response to hyperventilation of air and to hyperventilation of 0.75 ppm of sulfur dioxide ( so2 ) was determined as the provocative ventilation ( in liters per minute ) necessary to increase sraw by 75 % ( pv75 sraw ) . challenges were performed on separate days before and after treatment , and salbutamol inhalation was withheld at least 6 hours before each challenge . salbutamol and placebo did not change perchallenge baseline sraw nor did they have any significant effect on the airway response to the stimuli . salbutamol and bdp decreased the mean prechallenge baseline sraw ( sem ) from 7.7 ( 0.37 ) to 5.9 ( 0.28 ) ( p less than 0.01 ) and significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) increased geometric mean ( sem ) pc100 sraw for histamine from 0.5 ( 1.42 ) to 0.9 ( 1.53 ) mg/ml ; for methacholine , from 0.2 ( 1.47 ) to 0.5 ( 1.51 ) mg/ml ; and mean ( sem ) pv75 sraw for hyperventilation of air from 51.8 ( 2.32 ) to 58.4 ( 1.86 ) l/min . in contrast , the change of pv75 sraw during hyperventilation of so2 from 26.2 ( 2.29 ) to 31.4 ( 3.30 ) l/min was not significant . 
physiologic responses to intranasal dose-response challenges with histamine , methacholine , bradykinin , and prostaglandin in adult volunteers with and without nasal allergy . the dose-response ( dose , 0.01 , 0.05 , 0.1 , 0.5 , 1 , and 5 mg ) profiles of 10 atopic and 10 nonatopic subjects were determined for nasal patency , secretion weight , pulmonary function , eustachian tube function , middle-ear function , and symptoms after intranasal inhalation challenges with histamine , bradykinin , methacholine , prostaglandin d2 , and prostaglandin f2 alpha ( pgf2 alpha ) . results demonstrated that challenge with pgf2 alpha increased nasal patency , whereas challenge with all other substances decreased patency . the relationship between substances in eliciting a nasal congestive response was prostaglandin d2 greater than histamine greater than bradykinin greater than methacholine . a similar effect ordering was noted for the postchallenge development of eustachian tube dysfunction . secretion weights were significantly greater after challenge with histamine compared to all other substances . a decrease in pulmonary function was observed only after challenge with pgf2 alpha , although the effect was not statistically significant . no changes in middle-ear pressure were observed for challenges with any of the substances . only histamine challenge provoked sneezing , whereas challenge with either of the prostaglandins provoked cough . with the exception of methacholine , all substances caused symptoms of rhinorrhea , congestion , and sore throat . bradykinin was particularly effective in provoking " pain/pressure " - related symptoms . with the exception of secretion weight , the differences between responses of atopic and nonatopic subjects were not statistically significant . these results document mediator specificity in the physiologic and symptomatic responses to intranasal challenge . 
a double-blind comparison of intranasal budesonide with placebo for nasal polyposis . intranasal budesonide , 400 micrograms two times a day , was evaluated in 36 patients referred for treatment of nasal polyposis . the age range was 20 to 68 years . polypectomy was done 5.6 ( mean ) times previously . after a 5-week , treatment-free , baseline period , patients were treated in a double-blind fashion with either budesonide or placebo during 4 weeks . after this treatment period , placebo-treated patients started receiving budesonide in an open trial for an additional 4 weeks . the patients rated their nasal symptoms daily . nasal examinations and nasal inspiratory flow rate ( ifr ) measurements were done at clinic visits . after 3 and 4 weeks of treatment , the response to budesonide was significantly greater than response to placebo . the greater reduction in nasal blockage caused by polyps , observed on physical examination , p = 0.005 , was mirrored by an increase in nasal ifr ( p = 0.0001 ) . patient rating of the severity and frequency of nasal blockage were reduced more by budesonide than by placebo ( p less than or equal to 0.0005 ) . switching placebo-treated patients to budesonide treatment resulted in a reduction of nasal blockage ( p less than 0.001 ) and an increase in nasal ifr ( p less than 0.001 ) . the results demonstrate that topical nasal budesonide , 400 micrograms two times a day , is an effective treatment of nasal polyps . 
cytotoxic chemotherapy induces cell differentiation in small-cell lung carcinoma . despite the high response rates resulting from chemotherapy , the majority of small-cell lung cancer ( sclc ) patients relapse with chemoresistant tumors . to analyze the phenotypic changes that are precursors of chemoresistant status , and to investigate the role of chemotherapy in these changes , tumor samples from 20 patients , taken before chemotherapy ( etoposide , doxorubicin , and cyclophosphamide ) and again at the onset of chemoresistance ( after at least three courses of chemotherapy ) , were compared . the histologic changes were minor in 10 of 20 patients , as shown by an increase in cell size ; they were major in 10 of 20 patients , with the appearance of mixed composite tumors in which neuroendocrine ( ne ) , epidermoid , and glandular components were mixed . major changes correlated with a good response to chemotherapy ( p = .001 ) . ultrastructural studies showed an increase in neurosecretory granules and desmosomes , and a high frequency of multidirectional differentiation ( 45 % ) when comparison was made with pretherapy samples ( 10 % ) ( p less than .01 ) . immunohistochemical ( ih ) analysis showed an increase in cytokeratin ( ck ) expression in treated patients , with a different labeling pattern and the expression of higher molecular weight ck . the expression of ne lineage markers ( leu 19 , sy 38 , sl 11-14 ) remained stable , while that of ne differentiation markers ( leu 7 , chromogranin ) increased in the treated patients . the neuron-specific enolase ( nse ) activity remained stable in treated sclc . large cells with a more differentiated phenotype and proliferative capacity ( as shown by ki 67 labeling ) , appeared to be characteristic of treated and secondary chemoresistant sclc . the acquisition of a more complex phenotype , which correlates with primary response to therapy , implies a drug-induced differentiation in sclc . 
nosocomial pneumonia in adult patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation : a 9-year study . two hundred seventy-five consecutive patients treated with bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) during a 9-year interval were analyzed for the incidence and etiology of nosocomial pneumonia . cases included adults who acquired pneumonia during the first hospitalization period within 100 days of the transplant . fifty-five ( 20 % ) of the 275 patients developed nosocomial pneumonia , and the crude mortality during the hospitalization period was 74.5 % . an etiology was established in 67.3 % ( 37 of 55 ) of episodes . thirty-six percent ( 20 of 55 ) of the cases were caused by aspergillus species , either as the sole agent ( 15 patients ) or in association with others . the crude mortality for patients with aspergillus pneumonia was 95 % . elimination of 90 % of aspergillus cases in our unit would have the effect of reducing the overall attack rate of nosocomial pneumonia to 13.4 % and the associated crude mortality to 43.4 % . 
effect of dietary alpha-linolenic acid on growth , metastasis , fatty acid profile and prostaglandin production of two murine mammary adenocarcinomas . the purpose of this study was to determine whether dietary ( n-3 ) fatty acids would affect mammary tumor growth and metastasis . weanling female balb/c mice were fed diets that contained 10 % corn oil ( co ) , linseed oil ( lo ) or a fish oil-corn oil mix ( fo ) for 3-8 wk prior to receiving subcutaneous injections of one of two syngeneic mammary tumor cell types ( 410 and 410.4 ) . tumor growth was assessed by monitoring mean tumor diameter and tumor weight upon removal . feeding lo , but not fo , reduced the growth ( p less than 0.05 ) of 410.4 mammary tumors compared with growth in those fed co . metastasis data paralleled the tumor growth rate . feeding lo and fo enhanced ( p less than 0.005 ) incorporation of ( n-3 ) fatty acids into tumors . tumor prostaglandin e ( pge ) production was reduced ( p less than 0.005 ) by lo and fo , compared with co . fo feeding reduced 410.4 tumor pge synthesis more ( p less than 0.05 ) than lo feeding , yet tumor growth was only inhibited by lo . these data suggest an inhibitory effect of dietary linolenic acid [ i.e. , 18:3 ( n-3 ) ] on mammary tumor growth and metastasis . however , this effect did not directly correlate with diet-induced changes in pge synthesis . 
the cholecystokinin receptor antagonist devazepide enhances morphine-induced analgesia but not morphine-induced respiratory depression in the squirrel monkey . the effects of the cholecystokinin antagonist devazepide on analgesia and respiratory depression induced by morphine in squirrel monkeys were examined . pain thresholds were determined using the tail withdrawal procedure , in which monkeys restrained in chairs kept their tails in cool ( 35 degrees c ) water for at least 20 sec , but withdrew them from warm ( 55 degrees c ) water in less than 4 sec . morphine produced a dose-related increase in tail withdrawal latencies from warm water . devazepide ( injected i.p. or p.o. ) had no effect on tail withdrawal latencies when given alone but enhanced the analgesic effects of morphine . the devazepide dose-response curve for morphine enhancement was bell-shaped with doses of 3 , 10 , 30 and 100 micrograms/kg injected i.p. increasing morphine analgesia whereas higher and lower dose did not . in a separate group of monkeys , morphine produced dose-dependent decreases in respiratory rate and oxygen tension and increases in carbon dioxide tension . in contrast to its effects on morphine analgesia , devazepide had no effect on the various indices of morphine-induced respiratory depression . these data suggest that devazepide may have therapeutic utility as an adjuvant to morphine analgesia allowing lower dose of the opiate to be used to relieve pain and reducing the risk of opiate-induced respiratory depression . 
phase ii trial of whole-cell pertussis vaccine vs an acellular vaccine containing agglutinogens . an acellular pertussis vaccine containing agglutinogens 2 and 3 , pertussis toxin , and filamentous haemagglutinin was developed by the centre for applied microbiology and research in the uk . 188 infants were entered into a randomised blind trial and received either the acellular or a whole-cell vaccine , combined with diphtheria and tetanus toxoids , in a 3 , 5 , and 8-10 month schedule . local reactions were similar in the two groups but significantly fewer infants had systemic symptoms after the acellular vaccine . mean log-antibody titres to the agglutinogen and toxin components were higher with the acellular than with the whole-cell vaccine . persistence of antibodies one year after the third dose was also better in the acellular group . 
dexamethasone as an adjunct in oropharyngeal obstruction in a patient with leukemia . incipient airway obstruction due to fulminating bacterial infection of pharyngeal tissues requires prompt and definitive intervention . a case is presented in which dexamethasone was a key adjunct to antibiotic therapy in averting this problem in a severely neutropenic patient with acute leukemia . 
short course chemotherapy for childhood tuberculosis a prospective study , with an attempted 24-month-post-treatment follow-up , of children with tuberculosis ( tb ) treated with short course chemotherapy ( scc ) for 6 months was carried out because published experience of scc in childhood tb was limited . all children in port moresby diagnosed as having tb between november , 1984 , and november , 1986 , entered the trial . of the 639 children 165 ( 26 % ) were younger than 2 years old . of these , 227 ( 35 % ) had extrapulmonary tb ( peripheral lymph node , 110 ; central nervous system , 43 ; abdominal , 27 ; miliary , 16 ; bone and joint , 11 ; pleural , 11 ; polyserositis , 9 ) . clinical response to scc was rapid . adverse drug reactions occurred in 15 ( 2 % ) , mainly to streptomycin . twelve ( 2 % ) died , 38 ( 6 % ) transferred out and 145 ( 28 % of the 518 who did not die , transfer or live too far from a treatment centre ) defaulted . three hundred seventy-three ( 58 % ) completed a 2-month course of daily rifampin , isoniazid , pyrazinamide and streptomycin followed by a 4-month course of twice weekly rifampin and isoniazid . a further 71 ( 11 % ) had their treatment modified because of their distance from a treatment center . only 70 ( 19 % ) of the 373 children available for post-treatment follow-up attended the every-3-month follow-up visits for 24 months , although 223 ( 60 % ) attended one or more of the follow-up visits . seven of the 373 children relapsed , mostly within 3 months . five of these children had been irregular with their treatment . scc for childhood tb is safe and effective for pulmonary and extrapulmonary disease . 
a randomized trial of fully intermittent vs. daily followed by intermittent short course chemotherapy for childhood tuberculosis fully intermittent short course chemotherapy regimens have been used successfully in adults but not in children . we report the results on 76 children with tuberculosis , excluding central nervous system tuberculosis and primary pulmonary complex . isoniazid , rifampin and pyrazinamide were used for treatment . they were randomly allocated to regimen a ( 52 doses ) and regimen b ( 94 doses ) . overall efficacy of both schedules was greater than 95 % in 27 children with lymphatic , 43 with pulmonary and 6 with disseminated tuberculosis . compliance in 10 children after 2 to 4 months of therapy was poor because rapid improvement was mistaken by parents for cure . two children died , probably of underlying lung disease . follow-up for up to 2 years did not reveal any case of relapse or recurrence of the disease . therapy for 6 months involving administration of only 52 or 94 doses of drugs was found to be economical , effective and safe for treating children with tuberculosis . 
spontaneous pneumomediastinum . an unusual cause of a sore throat . sore throat , usually related to pharyngitis , is a common presenting symptom in the primary care setting . drs frenkel and lyons describe a case showing that physicians need to be aware of another , puzzling cause -- spontaneous pneumo-mediastinum . 
expression of neurophysin-related precursor in cell membranes of a small-cell lung carcinoma . a monoclonal antibody ( mab l6 ) to a small-cell lung carcinoma surface antigen recognizes a common epitope of vasopressin-neurophysin and oxytocin-neurophysin in hypothalamic nuclei . we now report on the identification of a neurophysin-like precursor in human lung carcinoma ( lx-1 ) cell membrane . mab l6 immunoaffinity chromatography of solubilized membranes resulted in a single band of approximately 45 kda . western blot analysis demonstrated immunoreactivity of this band with mab l6 , anti-vasopressin , and an antibody to the vasopressin precursor , pro-pressophysin . n-terminal sequencing of this band demonstrated a 21-amino acid homology with the n terminus of human pro-pressophysin , and substitution of a cys33 residue in the tumor antigen with arg33 . absence of immunoreactivity with the antibodies described above in cytosolic extracts and culture medium suggests nonsecretion of processed or intact pro-pressophysin-like peptide . northern analysis of lx-1 mrna with a 30-mer to the c terminus of rat pro-pressophysin resulted in a band of approximately 1000 base pairs , 250 base pairs larger than hypothalamic message . in situ hybridization of lx-1 tumor-bearing nude rat brain with the same probe demonstrated specific hybridization in rat hypothalamus and xenografted tumor . these findings suggest expression of a pro-pressophysin-like protein in this tumor cell line that is preferentially targeted to the cell membrane . 
efficacy of doxazosin in specific hypertensive patient groups . in practice , some of the major problems for the physician who treats hypertension are patients who are resistant to treatment or who have other complicating risk syndromes . therefore the overall efficacy of an antihypertensive agent must include an assessment of effect in patients with serious ancillary problems . in this article , doxazosin is reviewed for its efficacy in the treatment of severe essential hypertension and specific complications or conditions of mild or moderate essential hypertension , namely , left ventricular hypertrophy , hyperlipidemia , noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , renal insufficiency , pheochromocytoma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , peripheral vascular disease , and smoking . doxazosin is particularly efficacious in many specific subgroups of patients with hypertension , and the results of relevant studies are discussed . 
beta-carotene and cancer prevention : the basel study . in 1971-1973 at the third examination of the basel study started in 1959 , the major antioxidant vitamins and carotene were measured in the plasma of 2974 men . a subsample and their families were reinvestigated in 1977-79 . during the 12-y observation period ( 1973-85 ) 553 men died , 204 of cancer ( lung cancer 68 , stomach cancer 20 ; colon cancer 17 , all other malignancies 99 ) . we found significantly lower mean carotene levels for all cancer , bronchus cancer , and stomach cancer ( all p less than 0.01 ) compared with the 2421 survivors . the relative risk of subjects with low carotene ( less than 0.23 mumol/l ) was significantly elevated ( p less than 0.05 ) for lung cancer ( cox 's model ) . higher risks were noted for all cancer ( p less than 0.01 ) if both carotene and retinol were low . low plasma carotene which is known to reflect carotene intake is in our study associated with increased cancer risk . 
studies evaluating antioxidants and beta-carotene as chemopreventives . cancer chemoprevention research takes leads from epidemiologic and laboratory research and develops them through in vitro and in vivo preclinical research and initial human studies into randomized controlled clinical trials . at present , the chemoprevention program is sponsoring 21 human efficacy studies . these trials are testing the potential of agents ( beta-carotene , folic acid , 13-cis retinoic acid , 4-hydroxyphenyl retinamide , vitamins c and e , and minerals ) as inhibitors of a variety of cancers in humans ( colon , lung , esophagus , cervix , bladder , and skin ) . endpoints in these studies include overall incidence of cancer , incidence of specific cancers , rate of regression or progression of preneoplastic changes , and changes in cellular or biochemical parameters . study participants include volunteers from the general population ; populations at high risk for cancer because of occupation , lifestyle , or place of residence ; persons with previously treated cancers ; and persons with preneoplastic lesions . study designs include single agent randomization , combination of agents and complete factorial designs . 
surfactant replacement therapy in respiratory distress syndrome . meta-analysis of clinical trials of single-dose surfactant extracts . replacement therapy with surfactant extracts in premature infants with respiratory distress syndrome has been evaluated in several clinical trials . the results of individual trials do not provide conclusive evidence that administration of a single dose of surfactant improves morbidity or mortality . meta-analysis is a statistical method to combine the results of such clinical trials , and combined analysis provides a means to overcome the problem of not being able to detect significant small differences in individual trials due to these small sample sizes . seven clinical trials ( 277 patients treated with nonhuman surfactant extract and 263 controls ) met the criteria for analysis ; five outcome measurements ( mortality , patent ductus arteriosus , pneumothorax , intraventricular hemorrhage , and bronchopulmonary dysplasia ) were selected to estimate the treatment effect . the meta-analysis showed that a single dose of surfactant administered before the first breath or within 15 hours of birth significantly decreased the mortality rate ( 95 % confidence interval = -0.19 to -0.03 ) and the risk of developing pneumothorax ( 95 % confidence interval = -0.28 to 0.14 ) in infants with respiratory distress syndrome . further clinical trials are needed to evaluate other aspects of surfactant replacement therapy in premature infants because inconsistent results were observed among the seven analyzed studies . 
differences in expression of cystic fibrosis in blacks and whites . the recent identification of the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene confirms that genetic heterogeneity occurs in cf. a three-base-pair deletion in exon 10 resulting in a loss of the phenylalanine residue at amino acid position 508 of the gene product , termed the cf conductance regulator protein , accounts for 70 % of cases of cf in white subjects . however , this gene defect occurs in only 37 % of affected blacks . analysis of cf genes from american blacks has revealed a number of mutations , most of which are unique to that population . we therefore searched for potential differences in expression of cf between 24 black and 48 white patients with cf matched for birth date and gender . black patients more frequently presented with only respiratory symptoms ( 38 % vs 10 % ) . black patients had fewer hospitalizations for pulmonary exacerbations ( 2 vs 6.9 ) , a better mean forced vital capacity ( 77 % vs 62 % of predicted ) , and higher chest roentgenogram scores ( 18.2 vs 14.4 ) than white patients . complication rates were similar except for a higher incidence of hyponatremic dehydration ( 21 % vs 2 % ) and peptic ulcer disease ( 13 % vs 0 % ) in blacks . survival time appeared to be longer in blacks , but the difference was not statistically significant . we conclude that phenotypic differences exist between black and white patients with cf , which may be due to the genetic heterogeneity between these two populations . 
recurrent laryngeal nerve avulsion for treatment of spastic dysphonia . treatment of spastic dysphonia by recurrent laryngeal nerve section has resulted in reproducibly good results in the early postoperative period in most patients . however , critical long-term follow-up has shown a high recurrence rate of adductor spasms by the third year after initial nerve section . a patient who developed recurring adductor spasms 1 year after nerve section was reexplored , with identification of neural regrowth into the distal segment of the recurrent laryngeal nerve . the technique of neural avulsion removing the distal nerve up to its insertion into the laryngeal muscles is described . neural regrowth , which is just one of the possible mechanisms for recurrence of spastic dysphonia , should be prevented by this surgical modification . twelve patients who have undergone neural avulsion primarily for spastic dysphonia are being followed up without recurrence of symptoms thus far . although these results appear promising , this short follow-up that averages 1.5 years must be extended to firmly support these concepts . 
laryngeal changes during exercise and exercise-induced asthma . exercise-induced asthma is defined as bronchospasm within the distal airways initiated by exercise . whether the larynx responds to produce an exacerbation or alleviation of symptoms during an attack has never been evaluated . thirty subjects were tested , including 15 normals and 15 with exercise-induced asthma . laryngeal response to exercise was determined by measuring the area of the glottic aperture before , during , and after exercise . the glottis was visualized with a flexible laryngoscope and video images were recorded during monitoring of respirations . asthma was induced in subjects by having them exercise on an ergometer for 10 minutes while breathing dry air at 10 degrees c. measurements were subsequently made from recorded images and relative glottic areas were compared between groups . our data quantify the normal physiologic response of the larynx to exercise and demonstrate a substantial laryngeal contribution to asthma induced by exercise . 
congenital tracheal stenosis with unilateral pulmonary agenesis . cogenital tracheal stenosis with unilateral pulmonary agenesis is a rate and frequent fetal combination . in an 8-year period , 5 infants ( ages 2 to 6 months ) with these anomalies were treated . the presenting signs and symptoms consisted of wheezing , stridor , and tachypnea and included frank respiratory failure requiring emergency therapy in several patients . the operative repair consisted of segmental resection and anastomosis in one patient , and rib-cartilage tracheoplasty in the other four . two infants died , one of cerebral hypoxia , and the other of aortotracheal fistula . long-term follow-up in the three survivors is satisfactory . 
rupture of a benign mediastinal teratoma into the right pleural cavity . a 27-year-old woman with a ruptured mediastinal cystic teratoma had high levels of amylase and carcinoembryonic antigen in cystic fluid . the activity of the amylase is thought to be the most likely cause of the rupture . high levels of carcinoembryonic antigen in pleural fluid are not necessarily indicative of a malignant lesion but may suggest the presence of a ruptured teratoma in patients with mediastinal tumors . 
tracheoesophageal anastomosis for intractable aspiration pneumonia . permanent tracheostomy and tracheoesophageal anastomosis were performed as a means of surgical intervention for the treatment of intractable aspiration pneumonia . conventional methods of tracheoesophageal anastomosis have entailed various problems . the improved method devised by us uses the special histological features and enables safe and reliable anastomosis . by this method , the tracheal perichondrium is retained and the strength of the anastomosed portion of the trachea is maintained , the failure of sutures due to tension on the anastomotic site being prevented . also , reanastomosis can be performed after the cure of primary disease . 
multiple primary bronchogenic carcinomas : treatment and follow-up . a second primary bronchogenic carcinoma subsequently developed 8 to 156 months later in 19 patients who underwent curative resection of primary bronchogenic carcinomas . the second primary tumor was treated by surgical resection in 9 patients , 3 patients ' tumors were considered unresectable , and the remaining 7 patients , despite having potentially resectable tumors , did not undergo resection because of insufficient pulmonary reserve or unwillingness to undergo resection . actuarial life-table analysis of survival for the 9 patients who underwent resection showed a median survival time of 110.3 months compared with 19 months for the group with unresected but resectable tumors and 10.5 months for the group with unresectable tumors . there was no operative mortality in the group with resected tumors . we conclude that in patients in whom a second primary carcinoma of the lung develops , surgical resection prolongs survival and can be performed with a low operative mortality . 
altered cellular immune function in the atelectatic lung . pulmonary atelectasis is common and may predispose the lung to infection . we have previously shown that atelectasis impairs alveolar macrophage antibacterial function . this study examines the effect of atelectasis on the cytotoxic function of lymphocytes harvested from the bronchoalveolar space of atelectatic lung segments by bronchoalveolar lavage . specifically , we studied natural killer and lectin-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity in peripheral blood and bronchoalveolar lavage lymphocytes from the atelectatic lower lobes and contralateral normal lobes in a group of 8 dogs . we observed a decline of natural killer and lectin-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity to 62.7 % and 61.5 % , respectively , of preatelectasis control values in the affected lung lobes ( p less than 0.01 ) . simultaneous measurements of cytotoxic activity of bronchoalveolar lavage lymphocytes harvested from the unaffected contralateral normal lungs were comparable with control values . on the other hand , natural killer and lectin-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity activities in peripheral blood lymphocytes were significantly increased in animals having right lower lobe atelectasis ( 166.7 % and 154.7 % of pretreated normal control , respectively , p less than 0.01 ) . atelectasis was also associated with an influx of polymorphonuclear leukocytes into the bronchoalveolar compartment . these findings confirm the presence of natural killer cells and cytotoxic lymphocytes in the bronchoalveolar compartment and demonstrate an atelectasis-induced impairment of local bronchoalveolar lymphocyte function . such a dysfunction of local lung cellular host defenses may render the atelectatic lung susceptible to infection . 
risk stratification of ambulatory patients suspected of pneumocystis pneumonia . to determine whether aspects of clinical history , physical examination , and laboratory studies improve the diagnostic accuracy of the chest roentgenogram in the diagnosis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) , we followed up 302 consecutive patients with respiratory symptoms and risk factors for human immunodeficiency virus . of the 279 patients ( 92 % ) with follow-up information available , 31 ( 11 % ) were diagnosed with pcp . only 68 % of patients with pcp had typical chest roentgenograms . regression analysis identified four independent predictors of pcp : diffuse or perihilar infiltrates , presence of mouth lesions , lactate dehydrogenase level more than 220 u/l , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate 50 mm/h or more . using these four predictors , patients could be stratified into low - , intermediate - , and high-risk groups for pcp . we suggest that examination of the mouth , chest roentgenogram , lactate dehydrogenase level , and erythrocyte sedimentation rate be part of the evaluation of ambulatory patients with respiratory symptoms at risk for human immunodeficiency virus . 
hemoptysis . indications for bronchoscopy . indications for bronchoscopy in patients with hemoptysis and a normal or nonlocalizing chest roentgenogram continue to be controversial . we reviewed the records for 119 bronchoscopies performed for hemoptysis in patients with a normal ( n = 75 ) or nonlocalizing ( n = 44 ) chest roentgenogram . bronchogenic carcinoma was identified in 2.5 % of the bronchoscopies . additional neoplasms were found in another 2.5 % . the presence of nonlocalizing abnormalities was not associated with an increase in either the rate of bronchogenic carcinoma or in the diagnostic yield ( specific anatomic diagnosis or bleeding site identified ) at bronchoscopy when compared with patients with normal chest roentgenograms . the factors of male sex , age more than 40 years , and a more than 40 pack-year smoking history appear useful in identifying patients in whom the yield of bronchoscopy is likely to be high . 
the ventilator-dependent child : issues in diagnosis and management . infants , children , and adolescents with chronic respiratory failure are surviving in increasing numbers and , thereby , producing a significant population of ventilator-dependent pediatric patients . chronic respiratory failure can occur as a complication of a wide variety of disease states ; in pathophysiologic terms , it generally results from either decreased central nervous system output or inadequate force generated by the respiratory pump . its laboratory hallmark is hypercapnia with or without hypoxemia . stabilization of the patient with mechanical ventilatory support may permit long-term survival . management of the ventilator-dependent pediatric patient is a complex task that must begin with an accurate prognostication of each patient 's survival and quality of life . once a decision is made concerning the practicality and appropriateness of long-term ventilatory support , informed choices must be made with respect to need for an artificial airway , mode of ventilation , and location of care . many younger patients , especially those with intrinsic lung disease ( like bronchopulmonary dysplasia ) , may require a hospital setting for long-term care , whereas others with neuromuscular or central disorders may benefit from being discharged to home . the patient 's family must be thoroughly educated in the child 's care , and they must be involved in decision-making . a multidisciplinary team of physicians , therapists , nurses , and other professionals is required to deliver optimal care . outcome is good for most patients who are carefully selected . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome from organophosphate poisoning . a 46-year-old man after an accidental exposure to organophosphates developed florid adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) . a markedly suppressed level of pseudocholinesterase and red blood cell cholinesterase with profuse salivation and sweating confirmed the diagnosis of organophosphate poisoning . within 48 hours , patient developed respiratory distress needing intubation . despite maximum ventilatory support and positive end-expiratory pressure , hypoxia persisted , swan ganz ( baxter healthcare inc , irvine , ca ) pressures showed low pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and patient died on the third hospital day . an autopsy confirmed the picture of ards . other potential causes of ards were excluded . although rare , organophosphate poisoning should be added to the list of toxins causing ards . 
mediastinitis following nasal intubation in the emergency department . a patient who developed a retropharyngeal abscess and fatal mediastinitis following emergent nasal intubation is described . despite aggressive surgical therapy the patient died of mediastinitis . although mediastinitis as a complication of oral intubation has been described , mediastinitis following nasal intubation has not previously been reported . 
ultrasound assessment of the position of the tongue during induction of anaesthesia . tongue position was assessed in 15 female patients at induction of anaesthesia with either thiopentone or propofol . a video recording of a midline sagittal section of the tongue was made using an ultrasound transducer placed below the chin , and representative figures analysed by an observer who was not aware of the patient 's state . in 11 satisfactory recordings , the tongue movement was inconsistent in direction and not more than 8 mm in the anterior tongue and 6 mm in the posterior tongue . the movements detected did not suggest that the tongue is likely to be an important cause of airway obstruction on induction of anaesthesia . 
factor analysis in difficult tracheal intubation : laryngoscopy-induced airway obstruction . we have studied eight patients with a history of difficult tracheal intubation , using x-ray laryngoscopy and local anaesthesia , a curved macintosh blade and a standard intubating position . the view obtained was better than recorded previously during general anaesthesia in two patients , and in a third the x-ray showed that positioning the blade tip beneath the epiglottis would have improved vision , suggesting that reproducibility of the assessment may not be consistent . the " ease of intubation " and " complementary " angles may be helpful in the assessment of such patients . a " peardrop " effect is described whereby during laryngoscopy , the epiglottis became pressed against the posterior pharyngeal wall as a result of tongue compression . in the absence of muscle paralysis , removal of the blade caused immediate correction . however , during anaesthesia with neuromuscular block it is suggested that this not only occurs more readily but , may not correct when the blade is removed . iatrogenic airway obstruction during moderately difficult tracheal intubation may be common and should be anticipated . 
the cancer experience in the framingham heart study cohort . the almost 40-year records of the framingham heart study ( fhs ) cohort were reviewed to establish the cancer experience of this noninstitutionalized group of white subjects . diagnoses were confirmed from pathology and laboratory reports and clinical notes . age-specific incidence rates were compared with connecticut surveillance , epidemiology , and end results ( seer ) data . among the 5209 subjects , 1201 malignancies were confirmed . median age at diagnosis was 69 for men and 65 for women . lung , prostate , skin , and colon accounted for more than half of men 's cancers ; breast , colon , and skin made up half of the women 's . fhs and connecticut seer rates matched closely , with the same primary tumor sites appearing commonly in both groups . thus , the fhs cohort should provide a fair database for analysis of risk factors in cancer incidence , as it has done in cardiovascular diseases . 
evaluation of serum ca 125 as a tumor marker in non-small cell lung cancer . serum ca 125 levels were evaluated in 130 healthy subjects and 133 patients with untreated pulmonary lesions . these were 33 patients with benign pulmonary conditions and 100 with lung cancer . the mean concentration of ca 125 was higher in patients with lung cancer ( 37 + / - 81 u/ml ) than in those with nonmalignant disease ( 4.2 + / - 5.7 u/ml ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . in the healthy control group ca 125 concentrations were significantly lower ( 0.63 + / - 1.5 u/ml ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . in patients with lung cancer the concentration of this tumor marker was related to the tumor-node-metastasis ( tnm ) stage . at a cut-off value of 15 u/ml , ca 125 had a sensitivity of 44 % , specificity of 100 % , positive predictive value of 100 % , and negative predictive value of 65 % with respect to healthy subjects ; in patients with benign pulmonary conditions , these values were 44 % , 94 % , 94 % , and 31 % , respectively . at this cut-off value , a correlation between the respectability prognosis and the likelihood of survival 24 months posttreatment was observed . these findings suggest that ca 125 can be used as an adjunctive test in the management of patients with lung cancer patients . 
diagnostic sensitivity of different techniques in the diagnosis of lung tumors with the flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope . comparison of brush biopsy , imprint cytology of forceps biopsy , and histology of forceps biopsy . brush and forceps biopsies were done consecutively in 186 cases of pulmonary neoplasia with a flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope guided by x-ray television fluoroscopy . imprint and histologic sections were prepared from all forceps biopsy specimens . the three techniques were compared for their diagnostic sensitivity . as a result 84.9 % of all imprints , 80.6 % of brush biopsy specimens , and 62.9 % of histologic sections were positive for malignancy . the sensitivity of brush biopsy specimens was independent of the location and morphology of the tumors , but the sensitivity of forceps biopsy specimens was lower in neoplasms unidentified by bronchoscopy . the sensitivity of the diagnostic accuracy when all three methods were used jointly was 97.3 % , and the specificity was 100 % . agreement in the final morphologic tumor type was found in 130 of 150 cases ( 86.7 % ) by positive brush biopsy specimens , in 136 of 158 cases ( 86.1 % ) by positive imprint cytology , and in 104 of 117 cases ( 88.9 % ) by positive histology from forceps biopsy specimens . for routine bronchoscopy , all three methods should be used in combination to obtain the highest diagnostic yield . 
surgical management of pericardial effusion in patients with malignancies . comparison of subxiphoid window versus pericardiectomy . there is a lack of consensus regarding optimal surgical management of symptomatic pericardial effusions in patients with malignancies . subxiphoid pericardial window formation ( subxiphoid pericardial drainage ) has been considered a safe and effective method for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes . to ensure adequate drainage , many surgeons prefer the formation of a larger pericardial window by performing either an anterior thoracotomy or a partial/total pericardiectomy . to evaluate the efficacy of these methods for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy , 28 consecutive pericardial surgery cases involving patients with malignancy were retrospectively analyzed . ten patients ( group 1 ) had subxiphoid window formation , whereas 18 patients ( group 2 ) had partial or total pericardiectomy or pericardial window formation by anterior thoracotomy . there was no statistically significant difference ( p = 0.22 ) in the survival rates between these two groups . a median survival time of 2.67 months ( range , 0.43 to 26.6 months ) was observed in group 1 versus 1.23 months ( range , 0.03 to 10.83 months ) in group 2 . however , a statistically significant difference ( p less than or equal to 0.02 ) in postoperative morbidity was observed between the two groups : 67 % in group 2 versus 10 % in group 1 . because of lower morbidity , subxiphoid pericardial window formation is recommended by this study as the preferred surgical method for palliation of symptomatic pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy . 
prolonged venous infusion of cisplatin and concurrent radiation therapy for lung carcinoma . a feasibility study . fifty patients with non resectable and/or inoperable bronchogenic carcinoma were entered into a feasibility study of cisplatin ( cddp ) given in continuous infusion with concurrent radiation therapy . the radiation therapy regimen consisted of 2 gy given 5 days a week in the first 3 and last 2 weeks of a 7-week split course ( 50 gy of total dose ) . the cddp ( daily dose of 4 to 6 mg/m2 ) was administered to cover the days of radiation treatment by means of a central venous catheter and a portable pump . less than 1 % of predicted duration of infusion was lost due to complications related to venous access and pump . toxicity was moderate . the overall probability of a locoregional major response ( complete + partial ) within 1 month after treatment completion was 86 % . twenty-three patients underwent resection . the 1-year actuarial probability of survival was 64 % . the high response and survival rates warrant further studies on concurrent cddp continuous infusion and radiation therapy in inoperable lung carcinoma . 
malignant fibrous histiocytoma of soft tissue . a population-based epidemiologic and prognostic study of 137 patients . epidemiology and prognosis were analyzed in a consecutive , population-based series of 137 patients with malignant fibrous histiocytoma of soft tissue in the extremities and trunk wall , with a complete follow-up of minimum 3 years . all but one patient were treated by surgery in 28 cases combined with adjuvant radiotherapy or chemotherapy . the annual incidence was 0.42 / 10 ( 5 ) . the ratio men to women was 1.1 . the median age was 64 years ( range , 22 to 87 years ) . the thigh was the most common location . the median size was 6 cm . superficial tumors constituted 43 % and were smaller than deep-seated tumors . eighty-three tumors were storiform-pleomorphic , 53 were myxoid , and one was of inflammatory type . the myxoid tumors were smaller and more often superficial . the cumulative 5-year survival rate for all patients was 0.7 , but differed markedly between the histologic types ; it was 1.0 in patients with myxoid tumors and 0.5 in patients with storiform-pleomorphic tumors . in the 77 patients with storiform-pleomorphic tumors without metastases at presentation , only tumor size larger than 10 cm and tumor necrosis independently impaired survival . the 23 patients who had none of these risk factors had a 5-year survival rate of 0.8 . 
life-threatening airway obstruction at the presentation of hodgkin 's disease . mediastinal involvement from hodgkin 's disease is common . significant symptoms resulting from disease at this site are less common and only rarely does severe airway obstruction occur . the authors report six cases of hodgkin 's disease in which life-threatening airway obstruction was a major feature of the clinical presentation and early clinical course . the literature describing this complication is reviewed . general anesthesia with endobronchial intubation should be avoided if at all possible in patients with airway obstruction and alternative methods of diagnosis and management are discussed . 
a pilot study of intermediate-dose methotrexate and cytosine arabinoside , " spread-out " or " up-front , " in continuation therapy for childhood non-t , non-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia . a pediatric oncology group study . one hundred six children with newly diagnosed non-t - , non-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) were treated in a pediatric oncology group ( pog ) pilot study in which six courses of intermediate-dose methotrexate ( mtx ) and cytosine arabinoside ( ara-c ) ( 1 g/m2 each ) were added to a " backbone " of standard continuation therapy . the dose and sequence of mtx/ara-c administration were based on a preclinical model that demonstrated synergism between mtx and ara-c . poor-risk patients ( n = 49 ) were assigned to " up-front " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were administered during the initial 15 weeks of remission . standard-risk patients ( n = 57 ) were assigned to " spread-out " therapy , in which the mtx/ara-c courses were interspersed at 12-week intervals within continuation treatment . toxicity after intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c , principally neutropenia and fever , was judged significant but manageable . unexpectedly , the incidence of fever and neutropenia less than 500/mm3 was greater after " spread-out " therapy ( 38 % ) than after " up-front " therapy ( 6 % ) . at 4 years , the kaplan-meier estimate of event-free survival ( efs ) is 71 % ( + / - 7 % ) for standard-risk patients and 53 % ( + / - 8 % ) for poor-risk patients . the results of this pilot study support the use of intermediate-dose mtx/ara-c in additional studies . 
clinical characteristics of high-grade lymphomas with immune genes in germline configuration . in a prospective study of 42 high-grade lymphomas which were categorized according to the kiel classification , the clinical significance of immune genotyping was studied . immunoglobulin ( ig ) and t-cell receptor ( tcr ) gene rearrangements were investigated . in 33 cases the immune genotype confirmed the phenotype . in one case with equivocal phenotype a tcr beta-chain rearrangement proved the t-cell origin of the lymphoma . none of the cases showed a bigenotype . there were eight lymphomas with immunoglobulin and tcr beta-chain and gamma-chain genes in germline configuration , which were divided into a group of immature lymphomas and a group of lymphomas with a more mature phenotype . the immature lymphomas had widespread disease , rapid progression , and favorable prognosis after intensive chemotherapy . the group of t-cell and ki-1 lymphomas with null-cell genotype was clinically heterogeneous . three of four cases were secondary lymphomas after lymphomatoid papulosis , lymphomatoid granulomatosis , or hodgkin 's disease . all cases presented with extranodal involvement . only one of these patients is in continuous remission . in conclusion , the lack of immunoglobulin and tcr beta-chain and gamma-chain gene rearrangements does not exclude the diagnosis of high-grade malignant lymphoma , especially in cases with unusual extranodal involvement . however , the dna analysis identifies a null-cell genotype subset of high-grade lymphomas which may have clinical significance . 
immunosuppressive acidic protein in malignant diseases . clinical relevance ? the immunosuppressive acidic protein ( iap ) has been described as a tumor associated marker in some solid tumors and hematologic diseases . to define the clinical relevance the authors determined the serum iap levels in 194 patients with malignancies before initiation of therapy , 14 patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ( itp ) , 28 patients with bacterial pneumonia , and 23 healthy volunteers . immunosuppressive acidic protein was measured by radial immunodiffusion . the mean value of our controls was 405 + / - 48 micrograms/ml . this is consistent with published data . the mean values for patients with malignancies varied from 554 micrograms/ml to 698 micrograms/ml . these are only marginally higher than those observed for the controls . in contrast patients with bacterial pneumonia demonstrated significantly elevated values ( 1038 + / - 261 micrograms/ml ) . the authors conclude that iap can not be used as a diagnostic marker for the malignant diseases examined in this study . 
novel antigens characteristic of neuroendocrine malignancies . the authors describe the immunochemical detection , biochemical characterization , and tissue distribution of neuroendocrine antigens recognized by three newly developed monoclonal antibodies ( moab ) obtained after immunization of mice with the variant small cell lung cancer ( sclc ) cell line nci-h82 . rnl-1 was reactive with neuroendocrine tissues similar to the sclc cluster-1 moab , known to recognize n-cam . antibodies rnl-2 and rnl-3 are directed against different epitopes on the same proteinaceous complex . both moab recognize an intracellularly located , water-soluble antigen which has a subunit composition with a protein triplet ranging in molecular weight between 44 and 45 kilodaltons ( kd ) next to a component of approximately 30 kd . the antibodies rnl-2 and rnl-3 reacted with a subset of neuroendocrine tissues and neuroendocrine neoplasms . in lung cancer both antibodies reacted only with some sclc and carcinoids and not with nonneuroendocrine lung carcinomas . the potential diagnostic applicability of antibodies rnl-1 , rnl-2 , and rnl-3 is discussed . 
clinicopathologic characteristics of adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung . fifty-six cases of surgically resected adenosquamous carcinoma of the lung were studied clinicopathologically , and their outcome was compared with that of adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas of the lung . the frequency rate of adenosquamous carcinoma was 2.6 % of 2160 primary lung cancers resected in the national cancer center hospital ( tokyo , japan ) . the survival curves of patients with adenosquamous carcinomas , adenocarcinomas , and squamous cell carcinomas indicated that the outcome of adenosquamous carcinoma was poorer than that of adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas , particularly in stages i and ii . the amount of adenocarcinoma component did not affect the survival rate , although the histologic features of metastatic lymph nodes was somewhat influenced by the histologic type of the primary tumors . the histologic subtype of adenosquamous carcinoma was one of the independent prognostic determinants . 
immunohistochemical evaluation of seven monoclonal antibodies for differentiation of pleural mesothelioma from lung adenocarcinoma . a panel of seven monoclonal antibodies including anti-vimentin , anti-keratin markers ae1/ae3 and eab902 , human milk fat globule ( hmfg-2 ) , b72 .3 , anti-carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) , and anti-leu-m1 were used for an immunoperoxidase staining assay to determine their value in the differentiation of pleural mesothelioma from lung adenocarcinoma . anti-vimentin positively identified 86 % of the mesotheliomas and none of the adenocarcinomas . ae1/ae3 , eab902 , and b72 .3 reacted with a high percentage of both mesothelioma and adenocarcinoma specimens . with hmfg-2 , both membrane and cytoplasmic staining was observed in 92 % of the adenocarcinomas and in 14 % of the mesotheliomas , whereas 26 % of the mesotheliomas only exhibited membrane staining . eighty percent of the adenocarcinomas and 8 % of the mesothelioma tissues stained with anti-leu-m1 . anti-cea did not react with any of the 50 mesotheliomas tested but did react with 95 % of the lung adenocarcinomas tested . from this study , it was concluded that anti-cea and anti-leu-m1 were the most effective of the seven tumor markers evaluated ; and that 100 % of the pleural mesothelioma tissues could be correctly differentiated from lung adenocarcinomas using a panel consisting of anti-vimentin , hmfg-2 , anti-cea and anti-leu-m1 monoclonal antibodies . 
nonseminomatous germ cell tumor with very high serum human chorionic gonadotropin . most patients with disseminated nonseminomatous germ cell tumor ( nsgct ) have an excellent prognosis with modern chemotherapy , although certain subgroups with a worse prognosis have been described . one such subgroup includes patients with high serum levels of the tumor marker , human chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) . sixteen patients of 104 treated for nsgct at the crc wessex medical oncology unit ( southampton , uk ) presented with serum hcg greater than 25,000 . most of these patients exhibited features of the " choriocarcinoma syndrome " with bulky , rapidly progressive disease ; frequent pulmonary , hepatic , and central nervous system complications ; and a generally poorer response to standard nsgct chemotherapy . histologic identification of trophoblastic tumor was not made in all patients and is not essential for the diagnosis of the syndrome ; indeed , closed biopsy may be contradicted in some circumstances because of the risk of hemorrhage . the nsgct patients with poor prognosis , including patients with the choriocarcinoma syndrome , must be clearly identified in order to improve management and , eventually , cure rates . 
recurrent renal cell carcinoma arising in wilms ' tumor . a 19-month-old black girl had a radical nephrectomy for a wilms ' tumor that contained areas of epithelium indistinguishable from renal cell carcinoma . she was treated with chemotherapy but subsequently had pulmonary metastases develop and massive abdominal recurrence . the recurrent tumor was histologically renal cell carcinoma with no identifiable wilms ' tumor elements . the child died with recurrent and metastatic tumor 13 months after nephrectomy . pathologic , immunoperoxidase , and flow cytometric studies of this unusual case are presented . 
acute respiratory failure and pulmonary thrombosis in leukemic children . acute respiratory failure ( arf ) in an 11-year-old child with pre-t acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) at the beginning of induction therapy was observed , connected with a pulmonary thrombosis and not with an infective origin . a systematic search for this pathology identified six other children with the same pulmonary complication , five of whom where in the early phase of acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia ( anll ) and one in induction therapy for all in marrow relapse . at the beginning of the symptomatology , all children presented severe hypoxia and hypercapnia , with no or minimal chest radiograph abnormalities and no clear hemodynamic involvement . in all patients the arteriography and nuclear imaging studies confirmed the diagnosis . the causes of the thrombi could be connected with neoplastic emboli after cell lysis and/or with the vascular damage resulting from antiblastic therapy . intravenous urokinase treatment and respiratory assistance had been successfully carried out in six of seven children . 
comparative epidemiology of cancer between the united states and japan . a second look . vital statistics were examined for the years 1955 through 1985 for japanese natives and united states whites to elucidate changes in cancer mortality and related antecedent patterns of life-style in these two populations . results show that lung cancer rates are rapidly accelerating among japanese males as a consequence of their prior history of heavy cigarette smoking . oropharyngeal cancer rates are also rising in japan paralleling increases in alcohol and tobacco utilization . as the japanese life-style and diet continue to become more " westernized , " the rates of malignancies of the breast , ovary , corpus uteri , prostate , pancreas , and colon also continue to rise . nevertheless , the mortality patterns of certain malignancies , viz. , laryngeal , esophageal , and urinary bladder cancer , are discrepant with their established risk factor associations , suggesting the existence of other differences in risk factor exposure between the two countries . epidemiologists and health educators need to develop innovative international programs of investigation and health promotion with preventive impact on common malignancies associated with risk factors of life-style . 
once-daily intramuscular ceftriaxone in the outpatient treatment of severe community-acquired pneumonia in children [ published erratum appears in clin pediatr ( phila ) 1991 may ; 30 ( 5 ) :326 ] ceftriaxone , a broad spectrum third-generation cephalosporin with a half-life of six to eight hours , was evaluated prospectively in 147 children with severe community-acquired bacterial pneumonia during the period 11/15/88 -5 / 15/89 . thirty-nine of the children had been unsuccessfully treated with vanous oral antibiotics prior to admission [ corrected ] . all the patients were initially hospitalized and started on once a day intramuscular ceftriaxone . mean duration of ceftriaxone therapy was five days . pathogens were recovered from blood cultures of 17 ( 11.6 % ) patients and included s. pneumoniae ( 13 patients ) , h. influenzae ( three , all resistant to ampicillin ) and s. viridans ( 1 ) [ corrected ] . all isolates were sensitive to ceftriaxone . an additional patient had l. pneumophila diagnosed by serology . cure was achieved in 142 ( 96.6 % ) patients ; improvement was usually observed within 24-48 hours . after 48 hours , 121 ( 82.2 % ) children could be discharged and continued the therapy on ambulatory basis . based on previous experience we estimated that 383 hospitalization days were saved . no serious side effects were observed . five patients were considered therapeutic failures ; two of them developed empyema and one of them required repeated drainage procedures . a third patient experienced a relapse of pneumonia shortly after completion of therapy . the other two remained febrile for more than seven days ; their subsequent improvement was unrelated to the antibiotic therapy , suggesting a viral or mycoplasmal syndrome . our data suggest that once daily intramuscular ceftriaxone can be successfully used for the outpatient treatment of most community-acquired severe bacterial pneumonias in children . in our opinion it represents the treatment of choice for patients who failed treatment with other antimicrobials and are clinically stable enough not to require hospitalization . 
bronchopulmonary involvement in ulcerative colitis . we report two cases of pulmonary involvement in ulcerative colitis . the first patient , a 37-year-old woman , had bilateral basal bronchiectasis full of mucopurulent secretion , with a marked improvement of pulmonary function and roentgenographic appearance after a conservative approach . the second patient had severe pulmonary fibrosis of autoimmune nature and died owing to a pulmonary infection . in the second patient , a sulfasalazine reaction as an etiologic factor was excluded , while in the first this possibility seemed unlikely . therefore , we take these two cases as examples of the extraintestinal manifestations of ulcerative colitis . 
vocal fold sulcus . vocal fold sulcus is a cause of dysphonia which has not been recognized until recently . awareness of its existence combined with use of laryngostroboscopy would enhance the management of this group of patients . five such cases were treated initially by voice therapy and subsequently combined with microlaryngeal teflon injections of the vocal cord . representative photomicrographs and the end results of treatment are presented . a good voice , subjectively and objectively , was obtained in three patients , with satisfactory improvement in the other two . 
tracheostomy closure in restrictive respiratory insufficiency . a retrospective study is presented of 31 patients who required ventilatory support via a tracheostomy for periods of one month to 27 years whilst in a tertiary referral centre for the care of patients with restrictive respiratory insufficiency . all patients underwent closure of a long-standing tracheostomy . post-operative follow-up periods of up to 16 years are documented . the indications for and the complications of tracheostomy closure in patients with severe chronic restrictive respiratory insufficiency requiring long-term respiratory support are discussed . it is concluded that the benefits of operative tracheostomy closure outweigh the disadvantages in this unusual type of patient . 
cartilaginous metaplasia of the epiglottis . metaplastic elastic cartilaginous tissue has been described in the vocal cord , vestibular fold and ventricle of the larynx . this report documents a case in which cartilaginous metaplasia developed in the soft tissue of the epiglottis following an episode of epiglottitis . 
fulminant monophasic multiple sclerosis , marburg 's type . the clinical , neuroradiological and necropsy findings are described in a 49 year old woman with long-standing idiopathic pulmonary haemosiderosis and acute monophasic multiple sclerosis ( marburg 's type ) . progression of the demyelinating process produced blindness and paraplegia over three weeks . at five weeks , magnetic reasonance imaging ( mri ) studies showed lesions in the pons and left occipital lobe . the patient died 10 weeks after onset of symptoms . necropsy examination revealed acute plaques in the optic chiasm , and the white matter around the lateral and fourth ventricle and spinal cord . similarities between this and previously described cases of marburg 's disease are discussed . 
clustering of cancer in families of patients with primary lung cancer . we have previously shown that patients with a positive family history of lung cancer did not exhibit characteristics expected if the familial association was a surrogate for a genetic mechanism which was absent in those without such a history . in this study , we examine the incidence of cancer ( all sites ) in two groups of families : ( a ) those ascertained through a patient with primary lung cancer ( n = 359 families ) and ( b ) through a community control subject ( n = 234 ) . the index subjects were excluded from all incidence data analyses . most families ( 62 vs 57 % ) reported at least one member with a history of neoplastic disease . patients ' families were more likely to have 2 or more affected members ( p less than 0.05 ) , to exhibit a multigenerational pattern ( 33 vs 24 % ) and to have a higher risk of multiple tumours ( or = 1.5 ) in the same individual . however , most of the sites with the highest odds ratios ( males , vocal cord/esophagus 8.3 ; colon/rectum 2.3 ; lung 1.96 ; females , pancreas 4.8 ; vocal/cord esophagus 4.1 ; lung 1.8 ) are smoking associated although these were not necessarily the most frequently affected sites . in conclusion , these data support an ecogenetic etiology of cancer within families . 
differential diagnosis of lung tumor with positron emission tomography : a prospective study . to predict the nature of non-calcifying lung tumors , we performed a prospective study of 46 cases with l - [ methyl 11c ] methionine ( met , 24 cases ) and 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg , 22 cases ) using positron emission tomography ( pet ) . mean tumor/muscle radioactivity ratios are 5.3 + / - 2.0 ( n = 14 ) for malignant and 1.9 + / - 0.9 ( n = 10 ) for benign with met ( p less than 0.001 ) , and 4.4 + / - 2.2 ( n = 12 ) and 1.5 + / - 0.3 ( n = 10 ) , respectively , with fdg ( p less than 0.001 ) . the ratios indicate that malignant tumors have higher metabolic demand than benign lesions . tumors less than 1 cm in diameter were difficult to accurately evaluate due to pet resolution . compared to the diagnosis at pathology , the met study showed a sensitivity of 93 % ( 13/14 ) , a specificity of 60 % ( 6/10 ) , and an accuracy of 79 % ( 19/24 ) . the fdg study showed 83 % ( 10/12 ) , 90 % ( 9/10 ) , 86 % ( 19/22 ) , respectively . no significant differences were observed between the two tracers . this study suggests that pet studies using either met or fdg may be very useful for the differential diagnosis of lung tumors . 
spect quantitation of iodine-131 concentration in phantoms and human tumors . the validity of spect measurement of iodine-131 ( 131i ) concentration was tested in vitro in phantoms and in vivo by measuring bladder urine concentrations . phantom studies comparing known and spect measured concentrations showed a good correlation for 131i ( r = 0.98 , s.e.e. = 20.94 counts/voxel ) for phantoms of 25 to 127 cc and concentrations of 0.13 to 9.5 microci/cc . the in vivo , in vitro correlation of 131i concentrations in the urine was also good ( r = 0.98 , s.e.e. = 0.677 microci/cc ) . quantitative spect was used to calculate the effective half-life and dosimetry of radioiodine in 12 sites of thyroid carcinoma in seven patients . spect was also used to determine the dosimetry of [ 131i ] mibg ( metaiodobenzylguanidine ) in two patients with carcinoid , two with neuroblastoma , and one with pheochromocytoma . the radiation dose for thyroid carcinoma metastases varied between 6.3 and 276.9 rad/mci . the dose from mibg varied between 13.4 and 57.8 rad/mci . these results indicate the validity of quantitative spect for in vivo measurement of 131i and the need to measure the concentration of 131i in individual human tumor sites . 
effectiveness of an antihistamine-decongestant combination for young children with the common cold : a randomized , controlled clinical trial . we tested the hypothesis that antihistamine-decongestant combinations cause no clinically significant relief of the symptoms of upper respiratory tract infections in young children by randomly assigning 96 children to one of three treatment groups : antihistamine-decongestant , placebo , and no treatment . there were no differences among the three study groups in the proportion of children considered " better " overall by the parent 48 hours after the initial assessment ( drug , 67 % ; placebo , 71 % ; no treatment , 57 % ; p = 0.53 ) . there were no differences among groups in individual or composite symptom score changes . two thirds of parents whose children were eligible for the drug trial believed that their child needed medicine for cold symptoms . in the proportion of parents believing that their child needed medicine , there was no difference between those who consented to participate and those who refused . parents who wanted medicine at the initial visit reported more improvement at follow-up , regardless of whether the child received drug , placebo , or no treatment . we conclude that there is no clinically significant improvement in symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection , including no significant placebo effect , in young children for whom an antihistamine-decongestant is prescribed . 
treatment of childhood angiomatous diseases with recombinant interferon alfa-2a . a heterogeneous group of five patients with progressive , invasive angiomatous diseases including pulmonary hemangiomatosis , angiosarcoma , or massive hemangioma with associated consumptive coagulopathy were treated with interferon alfa-2a for periods of 17 to 33 months . one patient with a large thoracic hemangioma , cardiorespiratory failure , and consumptive coagulopathy died after less than 2 months of treatment . the remaining four patients have shown beneficial responses , including ( 1 ) regression of abnormal vessels on pulmonary angiogram and improved exercise tolerance in pulmonary hemangiomatosis ( two patients ) , ( 2 ) decreased corticosteroid and/or platelet transfusion requirements in consumptive coagulopathy ( two patients ) , and ( 3 ) decreased size and number of tumor nodules in the one patient with angiosarcoma arising in preexisting angiomatous lesions . responses occurred during periods of 2 to 20 months of treatment . there was no measurable progression of angiomatous lesions in any patient receiving interferon at the therapeutic dose , except possibly in the one who died . each of the four surviving patients had improved linear growth and weight gain during interferon treatment . 
postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer : prognostic value of dna ploidy and post-recurrent survival . eighty-six patients with non-small cell lung cancer who underwent curative operations were postoperatively randomized to control and adjuvant chemotherapy groups . in the adjuvant chemotherapy group , patients received cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy 3 or 4 weeks after operation and the average cycle of chemotherapy was 2.3 ( from 1 to 6 cycles ) . in this trial , no evidence of improved survival or delayed recurrence was seen in the treated patients . in multivariate analysis of prognostic variables , the most important factor was the pathological stage of the disease and , second , dna ploidy of the primary tumor . although histology ( squamous vs. non-squamous cell carcinoma ) had a trend to influence the survival , it was not a significant factor . a total of 33 patients had recurrences : 17 and 16 patients were in control and adjuvant chemotherapy groups , respectively . postrecurrent survival in the adjuvant chemotherapy group was significantly shorter than that in the control group , as determined by the generalized wilcoxon and log rank tests . median survival time after recurrence in the control and adjuvant therapy groups was 18.5 and 7.5 months , respectively . these results suggest that dna ploidy of primary tumors should be considered as a prognostic factor in future trials of adjuvant therapy . furthermore , analysis of postrecurrent survival in the adjuvant chemotherapy trial , as well as that of overall and disease-free survivals should be done . 
adjuvant , specific , active immunotherapy for resectable squamous cell lung carcinoma : a 5-year survival analysis . in 1976 stewart et al . ( annals of the new york academy of sciences 277:436 -466 ) reported the effectiveness of adjuvant specific active immunotherapy of lung carcinoma in improving the postoperative survival of stage i lung carcinoma patients in a phase ii study using lung carcinoma-associated antigen ( taa ) and complete freund 's adjuvant ( cfa ) . a phase iii study was then designed by the authors to see the effects of specific active immunotherapy compared to the conventional management ( no treatment ) and to nonspecific immunotherapy . from 1976 to 1981 , 85 patients with resectable ( stages i and ii ) squamous cell lung carcinoma were entered into a randomized study : 1 ) control group ; 2 ) specific immunotherapy group -- three monthly doses of 500 micrograms of taa emulsified with cfa ; 3 ) nonspecific immunotherapy group -- three monthly doses of cfa emulsified in saline . all the patients in the study received skin tests with 100 micrograms of the same taa used for the immunotherapy . recently , a 5-year follow-up of all the patients became available : the life table 5-year survival of group 1 was 34 % , of group 2 was 75 % , and of group 3 was 53 % . the median survivals for the three groups were group 1 , 38 months ; group 2 , 106 months ; and group 3 , 71 months . the difference was significant at p = .007 ( cox-mantel test ) . 
antimicrobial resistance of pneumococci in children with acute lower respiratory tract infection in pakistan 87 strains of streptococcus pneumoniae isolated during three winter seasons ( 1986-89 ) from the blood of children with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) in pakistan were serotyped and tested for susceptibility to a range of antimicrobial agents . 97 % of isolates were resistant to at least one antimicrobial drug . 62 % had decreased susceptibility to co-trimoxazole ( trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole ) ( 31 % were fully resistant ) and 39 % were resistant to chloramphenicol . all isolates were susceptible to erythromycin , cefaclor , cephalothin , ceftriaxone , cefuroxime , rifampicin , vancomycin , and clindamycin . 29 % of isolates were neither vaccine types nor vaccine-related types . serotype distribution and antimicrobial susceptibility varied significantly during the three winter seasons . no single serotype was found in all three winters . the findings highlight the need for surveillance of antimicrobial resistance and serotype distribution of s pneumoniae in developing countries as a guide both to the choice of agent for treatment of pneumococcal infections , especially alri , and to the formulation of new pneumococcal conjugate vaccines for use in young children . 
measurement of d-dimer in plasma as diagnostic aid in suspected pulmonary embolism the potential of plasma measurement of d-dimer ( dd ) , a specific derivative of crosslinked fibrin , for diagnosis or exclusion of pulmonary embolism was investigated in a prospective series of 171 consecutive patients who attended an emergency department with suspected pulmonary embolism . the diagnosis was made or excluded by means of a clinical decision-making process which included clinical evaluation , ventilation-perfusion ( vq ) lung scan , and , as indicated , pulmonary angiography , venography , or non-invasive examination of the leg veins . pulmonary embolism was diagnosed by this process in 55 ( 32 % ) of 170 patients with sufficient data . all but 1 of these 55 patients had a dd concentration of 500 micrograms/l or above . the sensitivity and specificity of this cutoff concentration for the presence of pulmonary embolism were 98 % and 39 % , respectively , which give positive and negative predictive values of 44 % and 98 % . among the 115 patients ( 68 % ) who had inconclusive vq scans , 31 were diagnosed as having pulmonary embolism . 29 of the remaining 84 patients without pulmonary embolism had dd concentrations below 500 micrograms/l , which means that further diagnostic procedures could have been avoided in a quarter of the patients with inconclusive vq scans . the sensitivity of the plasma measurement of dd remained high even 3 and 7 days after presentation ( 96 % and 93 % ) . plasma measurement of dd therefore has a definite place in the diagnostic procedure for suspected acute pulmonary embolism in attenders at emergency departments : a concentration below 500 micrograms/l rules out the diagnosis . 
respiratory arrest in near-fatal asthma background and methods . the majority of asthma-related deaths occur outside the hospital , and therefore the exact factors leading to the terminal event are difficult to ascertain . to examine the mechanisms by which patients might die during acute exacerbations of asthma , we studied 10 such patients who arrived at the hospital in respiratory arrest or in whom it developed soon ( within 20 minutes ) after admission . results . the characteristics of the group were similar to those associated in the literature with a high risk of death from asthma , including a long history of the disease in young to middle-aged patients , previous life-threatening attacks or hospitalizations , delay in obtaining medical aid , and sudden onset of a rapidly progressive crisis . extreme hypercapnia ( mean [ + / - sd ] partial pressure of arterial carbon dioxide , 97.1 + / - 31.1 mm hg ) and acidosis ( mean [ + / - sd ] ph , 7.01 + / - 0.11 ) were found before mechanical ventilation was begun , and four patients had hypokalemia on admission . despite the severe respiratory acidosis , no patient had a serious cardiac arrhythmia during the resuscitation maneuvers or during hospitalization . we observed systemic hypertension and sinus tachycardia in eight patients , atrial fibrillation in one , and sinus bradycardia in another . in both patients with arrhythmia the heart reverted to sinus rhythm immediately after manual ventilation with 100 percent oxygen was begun . the median duration of mechanical ventilation was 12 hours , and all patients had normocapnia on discharge from the hospital . conclusions . we conclude that at least in this group of patients , the near-fatal nature of the exacerbations was the result of severe asphyxia rather than cardiac arrhythmias . these results suggest that undertreatment rather than overtreatment may contribute to an increase in mortality from asthma . 
polymyositis , pulmonary fibrosis and autoantibodies to aminoacyl-trna synthetase enzymes . the clinical and laboratory features of 29 patients who had one of three anti-aminoacyl-trna synthetase autoantibodies , anti-jo1 ( histidyl-trna synthetase ) , anti-pl12 ( alanyl-trna synthetase ) or anti-pl7 ( threonyl-trna synthetase ) were analysed and compared with the findings of other published reports . these autoantibodies were found to be associated with a syndrome delineated by inflammatory myositis ( 24 patients ) and pulmonary fibrosis ( 23 of 29 ) , but also including inflammatory arthritis ( 26/29 ) , keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( 17/29 ) , sclerodactyly ( 21/29 ) , raynaud 's phenomenon ( 27/29 ) , hepatitis ( 8/29 ) and subcutaneous calcinosis ( 7/29 ) . the most important clinical determinant of outcome in this group of patients was the severity of the interstitial pulmonary disease . no patient fulfilled the classification criteria for systemic lupus erythematosus , although 10 had autoantibodies to extractable nuclear antigens including ro , la , rnp , and sm , and two patients had anti-dsdna antibodies . although it seems unlikely that anti-aminoacyl-trna synthetase antibodies are directly responsible for causing disease , they may provide an important clue to the aetiology of this unusual syndrome . 
mycobacterial infection after renal transplantation -- report of 14 cases and review of the literature . during a nine-year period , 14 cases of mycobacterial infection ( tuberculosis ) developed in 403 renal transplant recipients at the king faisal specialist hospital and research centre in riyadh , saudi arabia , an incidence of 3.5 per cent . the annual incidence of tuberculosis was about 50 times higher than that in the general population . infection was disseminated in nine ( 64.3 per cent ) , pulmonary in four ( 28.6 per cent ) , and genitourinary in 1 ( 7.1 per cent ) . in one patient tuberculosis was transmitted by the donor 's kidney . the clinical manifestations were often ill-defined and not different from that in the normal host . cultures from all patients grew mycobacterium tuberculosis ; concomitant infection with other organisms was present in five patients ( 35.7 per cent ) . two of 18 patients ( group 1 ) with positive pretransplant tuberculin skin test developed tuberculosis after transplantation ( 11 per cent ) , and neither received isoniazid prophylaxis ; three of 70 patients ( group 2 ) with negative skin tests developed tuberculosis after transplantation ( 4.3 per cent ) . the difference between the two groups was not statistically significant . review of all published cases of mycobacterial infections in renal transplant recipients revealed 130 cases . tuberculosis was disseminated in 38.7 per cent , pulmonary in 40.2 per cent , cutaneous in 12 per cent , and miscellaneous in 9.4 per cent . atypical mycobacteria were responsible for 29 per cent of disseminated infections , 8 per cent of pulmonary infections and all cases of cutaneous and articular tuberculosis . invasive procedures were needed to establish the diagnosis in 21 of 33 disseminated cases but in only three of 47 cases of pulmonary tuberculosis ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the mortality rate from disseminated disease was 37 per cent and from all other forms of tuberculosis was 11 per cent ( p less than 0.005 ) . these findings ( 1 ) confirm the higher incidence of tuberculosis in renal transplant recipients , compared to the general population ; ( 2 ) suggest that pretransplant skin testing probably has little value in identifying patients at risk ; ( 3 ) show that disseminated tuberculosis is common after renal transplantation and requires invasive procedures for diagnosis ; ( 4 ) confirm that the donor kidney may be an important source of infection ; and ( 5 ) indicate that concomitant infection with other organisms is common . 
nosocomial infections due to xanthomonas maltophilia ( pseudomonas maltophilia ) in patients with cancer . from december 1985 to may 1986 , xanthomonas maltophilia ( formerly known as pseudomonas maltophilia ) was isolated at an increased rate at our institution ; 52 isolates of x. maltophilia were obtained in cultures of clinical specimens from 38 patients during that time . the records of 35 of these patients form the basis of this study . twelve ( 71 % ) of the 17 infected and nine ( 50 % ) of the 18 colonized patients had received or were receiving antimicrobial therapy . eleven of 17 patients ( three of seven with septicemia , three of five with pneumonia , three with urinary tract infection , and two with wound infection ) responded to antimicrobial therapy . microbiologic studies of the potential environmental sources revealed growth of x. maltophilia in two water faucets and in one water sample from the medical intensive care unit . x. maltophilia is emerging as an important nosocomial pathogen in immunocompromised patients , especially those receiving broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy . 
eosinophilic pneumonia associated with reaction to radiographic contrast medium . we have described what we believe to be the first published case of a reaction to radiographic contrast medium followed by a diffuse eosinophilic pneumonia . this association seems to confirm what is know about the immunologic mechanisms of such reactions , and though further verification of causation is needed , we found it to be the most plausible explanation . 
rheumatoid arthritis of the larynx : the importance of early diagnosis and corticosteroid therapy . rheumatoid arthritis is a destructive systemic disorder characterized by remissions and exacerbations . the larynx is involved in approximately 25 % of these patients . the importance of early detection of laryngeal involvement by this disease and treatment with corticosteroids has not been adequately addressed in the literature . we have described five patients who had early diagnosis and successful treatment with systemic corticosteroids and/or corticosteroid injection of the cricoarytenoid joint . 
ultrasonographic findings of testicular microlithiasis associated with intratubular germ cell neoplasia . testicular microlithiasis is an uncommon condition in which calcified concretions fill the lumina of seminiferous tubules . we report the case of a twenty-three-year-old white man with a metastatic germ cell tumor and normal findings on testicular physical examination , but abnormal ultrasonography of the right testis . orchiectomy revealed intratubular germ cell neoplasia with testicular microlithiasis . multiple circular echogenic foci on ultrasound correlated with the histologic finding of testicular microlithiasis . further studies are indicated for assessing ultrasonography as an adjunct for screening the population at risk for intratubular germ cell neoplasia . 
perinatal transmission of human papillomavirus . human papillomavirus infection is probably the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease in the united states . in adults , it is associated with condylomata acuminata and with neoplastic changes ranging from dysplasia to carcinoma . infected mothers may transmit human papillomavirus during the perinatal period ; affected children face prolonged , difficult treatment for respiratory papillomatosis . prevention of infection remains the best approach , since diagnostic and therapeutic methods are suboptimal . 
chronic upper lobe cavitary lung disease . chronic upper lobe cavitary lung disease may be caused by infections , emphysema , cystic fibrosis , lung cancer , sarcoidosis and rheumatologic syndromes . the diagnostic evaluation includes a complete history , a physical examination , a chest radiograph , and sputum examination and culture . in some cases , computed tomographic scanning and biopsy are required . 
prevalence of unsuspected mitral regurgitation and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction in patients with coronary artery disease and acute pulmonary edema associated with normal or depressed left ventricular systolic function . to define the prevalence and role of left ventricular ( lv ) systolic dysfunction , lv diastolic dysfunction and mitral regurgitation ( mr ) in patients with acute pulmonary edema , 40 patients with coronary artery disease and acute pulmonary edema were prospectively evaluated within 36 hours of presentation . lv ejection fraction and 3 parameters of lv diastolic function were measured with radionuclide ventriculography , whereas mr was assessed with doppler echocardiography . lv ejection fraction was normal in 11 ( 27 % ) and depressed in 29 ( 73 % ) patients . moderate or severe mr without lv diastolic dysfunction was common and equally prevalent in patients with and without lv systolic dysfunction ( 33 vs 38 % ; difference not significant ) . diastolic dysfunction without mr was less frequent but equally prevalent in patients with and without systolic dysfunction ( 17 vs 27 % ; difference not significant ) . two ( 18 % ) of 11 patients without and 12 ( 33 % ) of 36 patients with lv systolic dysfunction had both mr and lv diastolic dysfunction . furthermore , mr was clinically silent and unsuspected in two-thirds of all patients with mr , regardless of a normal or depressed systolic function . these data show that there is a high prevalence of unrecognized moderate to severe mr in patients with acute pulmonary edema , regardless of the presence or absence of lv systolic dysfunction . furthermore , the prevalence of lv diastolic dysfunction without mr is relatively low even in patients with normal lv systolic function and pulmonary edema . thus , unrecognized mr may be an important contributor to the syndrome of acute pulmonary edema in patients with normal or depressed lv systolic function . 
disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection with hepatic involvement in a patient with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome . extrapulmonary infection with pneumocystis carinii ( p. carinii ) in aids patients is uncommon , and is often described only at postmortem examination . although most antemortem cases involve spread to the bone marrow or spleen , p. carinii involvement of other organs has only recently been described . despite the frequency of liver enzyme abnormalities in aids patients with a history of p. carinii pneumonia , p. carinii has been observed only rarely in the liver . we present a well-documented case of p. carinii involving the liver in an aids patient with p. carinii pneumonia and progressive liver enzyme abnormalities . we suggest that p. carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of aids-related liver disease . 
pharmacokinetics of ganciclovir in a patient undergoing hemodialysis . the pharmacokinetics and effect of hemodialysis on the clearance of ganciclovir were evaluated in a patient with cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) retinitis and pneumonitis requiring dialytic support . a dose of 300 mg ganciclovir ( 5 mg/kg ) was administered by intravenous infusion over a 60-minute period . blood samples were obtained over the next 10 hours and used to assess plasma ganciclovir concentrations . the patient underwent hemodialysis the following day during which paired arterial and venous blood samples were obtained to determine dialyzer clearance of this antiviral agent . high-performance liquid chromatography was used to quantify ganciclovir plasma concentrations . ganciclovir levels declined in a monoexponential manner following infusion and prior to dialysis . the patient 's peak ganciclovir concentration was markedly elevated ( 20 micrograms/ml ) compared with previously reported peak concentrations in patients with normal renal function . similarly , the elimination half-life ( t1/2 ) was increased ( 6.3 hours ) in this patient compared with values reported in patients with normal renal function . the volume of distribution ( 0.21 l/kg ) and total body clearance prior to hemodialysis ( 35.5 ml/min ) were diminished in this patient . hemodialysis reduced ganciclovir levels by approximately 62 % with an extraction coefficient of 0.29 resulting in a dialyzer clearance of 48.3 ml/min . this supports supplementation of ganciclovir in patients receiving this antiviral agent when they are undergoing hemodialysis . additionally , close monitoring of ganciclovir concentrations in patients with abnormal renal function is necessary in order to make appropriate dosage adjustments . 
body position changes redistribute lung computed-tomographic density in patients with acute respiratory failure . ten patients with parenchymal acute respiratory failure ( arf ) underwent computed tomography ( ct ) scans while in the supine and prone positions . at equal levels of positive end-expiratory pressure , the authors measured the changes of ct density in dorsal and ventral basilar lung regions induced by the change of position as well as alterations of gas exchange . the level of venous admixture did not change with body position . the ct scan image of each lung was fractionated into ten levels from dorsal to ventral , each constituting 10 % of the lung height . after measuring each lung fraction , the volume , the average ct number , its frequency distribution , and the expected normal value , we computed the lung tissue mass , the excess tissue mass , and the fraction of normally inflated tissue ( excess tissue mass = amount of " tissue , " which includes edema , cells , and blood in excess of the expected normal value ) . we also estimated the superimposed hydrostatic pressure on each lung region . we found that the excess lung tissue mass is independent of position . however , in patients in the supine position , lung ct density increased and regional inflation decreased from ventral to dorsal , suggesting progressive deflation of gas-containing alveoli along the gravity gradient . a similar ventral-dorsal deflation pattern occurred within 10 min in patients in the prone position . we conclude that the lung in patients with arf behaves like an elastic body with a diffusely increased mass ; dependent lung regions are compressed by the pressure of overlying structures . 
bronchial responsiveness is not increased by bronchoalveolar and bronchial lavage performed after allergen challenge . nonspecific bronchial responsiveness was studied in 23 allergic patients with a history of rhinitis and/or bronchial asthma who underwent fiberoptic bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar and bronchial lavage ( bal-bl ) 4h ( group a ) or 24 h ( group b ) after an allergen inhalation challenge . in all patients , the dose of methacholine causing an fev1 fall of 15 % ( pd15 ) was determined at baseline , 24 h before allergen challenge . methacholine bronchial challenge was repeated 1 h before bal-bl in patients of both groups and again 12 to 14 h after bal-bl in group a and 24 h after bal-bl in group b. in patients of group a , the values of methacholine pd15 after bal-bl were not significantly different from those determined before bal-bl . this was also the case in patients in whom bronchial responsiveness was increased after allergen challenge . in patients of group b , methacholine pd15 was significantly decreased after allergen challenge , and this decrease was correlated with the occurrence and the severity of the late asthmatic reaction . even in patients who showed dual asthmatic reactions and an increased responsiveness after allergen challenge , methacholine pd15 was not further decreased after bal-bl . these data support the safety of a procedure combining bronchial allergen challenge with bal-bl , which can be used for studies on the pathophysiology of bronchial asthma . 
bronchiolar inflammation and fibrosis associated with smoking . a morphologic cross-sectional population analysis . the lungs of 42 smokers and 13 nonsmoking males of various ages who died suddenly and unexpectedly were examined grossly using gough-wentworth whole-lung sections and by microscopic planimetry to assess the severity and prevalence of emphysema . the bronchioles in representative histologic sections were evaluated for inflammation and epithelial metaplasia as well as for fibrosis and muscular hypertrophy . postmortem interviews with next of kin established a history of cigarette smoking and excluded possible occupational exposures to toxic or particulate inhalants . emphysematous changes were not prominent in members of the study group , but they tended to be more severe in smokers ( p = 0.059 ) and increased in severity with age ( p less than 0.001 ) . inflammatory changes ( so-called smoker 's bronchiolitis ) were evident in smokers of all ages , although they were significantly less prominent in the lungs of older smokers . on the other hand , respiratory and membranous bronchiolar wall fibrosis was increasingly evident in older smokers ( p less than 0.05 ) . muscular hypertrophy in the bronchiolar walls was significantly greater in smokers , but a change with age was not observed . these findings strongly suggest that bronchiolar fibrosis is associated with chronic cigarette use . these lesions occur independently of emphysema and may account for some of the subtle physiologic alterations observed in smokers . 
a positron emission tomographic comparison of pulmonary vascular permeability during the adult respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia . we measured extravascular density ( evd ) and the pulmonary transcapillary escape rate ( ptcer ) for 68ga-transferrin using positron emission tomography in 14 normal volunteers and 29 patients with radiographic infiltrates , including six patients with congestive heart failure ( chf ) , eight patients with the adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) , and 15 patients with focal pneumonia . contralateral , radiographically normal regions were also evaluated in the patients with focal pneumonia . mean evd was elevated in the patients with chf , ards , and pneumonia in regions of radiographic infiltrate compared with values from normal subjects ( p less than 0.05 ) , but it was not significantly different among the three patient groups . ptcer in normal subjects and in patients with chf was not significantly different ( 21 + / - 11 versus 44 + / - 16 x 10 ( -4 ) min-1 , respectively , p = ns ) . ptcer was elevated in regions of infiltrate because of either pneumonia ( 173 + / - 99 ) or ards ( 170 + / - 79 ) . ptcer was also elevated in regions contralateral to those with focal infiltrate during pneumonia , even though these regions were radiographically normal and had normal evd values . these results suggest that ptcer is a sensitive but nonspecific index of abnormal pulmonary vascular permeability , which may be useful for classifying patients in clinical studies of pulmonary edema . 
sepsis-induced lung injury and the effects of ibuprofen pretreatment . analysis of early alveolar events via repetitive bronchoalveolar lavage . current knowledge of alveolar pathophysiology during early sepsis-induced acute lung injury ( ali ) and the role of resident alveolar macrophages ( am ) in mediating alveolar inflammatory events during sepsis is limited . further , the effects of ibuprofen pretreatment upon alveolar pathophysiology and am function during early sepsis-induced ali is unclear . utilizing repetitive bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) in a porcine model of sepsis-induced ali , we studied changes in alveolar cellular constituents , bal protein content and molecular composition , and am superoxide anion ( o2 - . ) generation during early sepsis . the neutrophil percentage of recovered alveolar cells ( 17 + / - 8 % , t = 300 min versus 2 + / - 1 % , t = 0 ; p = 0.06 ) and the bronchoalveolar lavage total protein content ( 493 + / - 110 micrograms/ml , t = 300 min versus 109 + / - 18 micrograms/ml , t = 0 ; p less than 0.05 ) increased in septic animals . increases in bal fluid total protein were primarily due to low-molecular-weight plasma protein , indicating relative preservation of alveolar-capillary membrane size selectivity . alveolar macrophages harvested following 300 min of sepsis generated significantly less o2 - . following phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) stimulation compared to am harvested at baseline . ibuprofen pretreatment of septic animals completely blocked leakage of plasma proteins into the alveoli and attenuated neutrophil migration but did not prevent downregulation of am o2 - . generation . increased alveolar-capillary membrane permeability , neutrophil migration into the alveoli , and downregulation of am oxidant generation occur within hours of the onset of sepsis . ibuprofen pretreatment significantly attenuates early sepsis-induced ali without altering sepsis-induced am dysfunction . 
sweet 's syndrome with lung involvement . severe dyspnea and pulmonary infiltrates were associated with recurrent episodes of sweet 's syndrome ( acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis ) in a 54-yr-old woman with myelodysplasia . lung and skin biopsies revealed a sterile infiltration of the interstitial tissues by mature neutrophils . corticosteroid therapy resulted in rapid clinical improvement ; however , recurrent episodes were increasingly resistant to therapy , and she ultimately died from respiratory failure . sweet 's syndrome involving the lung is rare , with only two previously reported cases documented by lung biopsy . prompt recognition of sweet 's syndrome with lung involvement is important because of the potential for severe respiratory compromise . 
prognosis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis in patients with mucous hypersecretion . in order to determine the prognosis of patients with chronic idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) , we evaluated clinical , laboratory , and bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) data at the onset of ipf in 25 patients who survived beyond 1 yr ( nine women and 16 men , 59 + / - 3 yr of age , mean + / - se ) . when the patients were divided into two groups according to whether they had or did not have mucous hypersecretion , 11 patients with hypersecretion ( group a ) had a poorer survival rate ( 6 yr ) than did 14 patients without hypersecretion ( group b ) ( 10 yr ) ( p less than 0.01 ) . further , there was a significant negative correlation between sputum volume and the duration of survival in 25 patients ( r = -0.55 , p less than 0.01 ) . before glucocorticoid treatment , we also found significantly larger numbers of neutrophils ( 17 % ) and eosinophils ( 5 % ) in differential cell counts of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( balf ) in group a than in group b ( neutrophils , 1 % ; eosinophils , 0.6 % ) ( p less than 0.05 each ) . chest radiographic findings and other laboratory data including pulmonary function tests did not correlate with the survival rate . these findings suggest that mucous hypersecretion as well as neutrophils and eosinophils in balf are among the determinants of prognosis in patients with chronic ipf . 
the influence of human immunodeficiency virus infection on tuberculosis in kampala , uganda . the clinical , radiographic , and microbiologic features of 59 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis in kampala , uganda were studied and correlated with the serologic reactivity to the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) of these patients . two-thirds of the patients with tuberculosis were hiv-seropositive . histories of fever and weight loss were more prominent in hiv-seropositive patients , and perihilar and basilar infiltrative diseases were more frequently seen in hiv-seropositive patients . although all patients responded similarly to drug therapy , cutaneous drug reactions were seen in nearly one-third of hiv-seropositive patients receiving thiacetazone . 
serum and lavage lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes in pulmonary alveolar proteinosis . pulmonary alveolar proteinosis ( pap ) is a rare disease characterized by the accumulation of lipoproteinaceous material in the alveolar space . serum lactate dehydrogenase ( ldh ) has been noted to be elevated in patients with pap in previous studies . we sought to extend this observation in a series of patients with pap by looking at total serum ldh concentrations and ldh isoenzyme fractions measured before and after whole lung lavage . total ldh and ldh isoenzymes were also determined in the lavage effluent . total serum ldh was elevated before lavage in 10 of 16 patients . prelavage serum ldh and prelavage alveolar-arterial o2 gradient showed a significant correlation ( r = 0.62 , p less than 0.05 ) . a decrease in serum ldh was found after lavage in all patients in whom postlavage data was available ( paired t test , p less than 0.01 , n = 11 ) , although the magnitude of this decrease varied considerably . the isoenzyme pattern before lavage was isomorphic , and this pattern was unchanged after whole lung lavage . this was in marked contrast to the ldh isoenzyme pattern observed in the lavage effluent , which showed a lower percent ldh1 and ldh2 and a higher percent ldh3 , ldh4 , and ldh5 when compared with the corresponding prelavage isoenzyme percentages for serum ( unpaired t test , p less than 0.001 ) . there was no correlation between the total serum ldh concentration and the total lavage ldh concentration . these data confirm that elevated serum ldh is a common finding in pap . furthermore , the ldh elevation found consistently in the alveolar fluid points to this as the source of the serum ldh . 
lung health consequences of reported accidental chlorine gas exposures among pulpmill workers . the long-term consequences of accidental chlorine gas exposure have been investigated , mainly in the community setting , among persons exposed as a result of a nearby chlorine spill . this circumstance is not analogous to the more frequent chlorine or chlorine dioxide gas overexposures that occur commonly in pulpmills over a background of a low level of gas exposure . to investigate the respiratory health consequences of these accidental exposures ( " chlorine gassing " ) in the industrial setting , we carried out a cross-sectional respiratory health survey among workers at a british columbia coastal pulpmill and a nearby rail maintenance yard . a greater proportion of pulpmill workers were unavailable for study because of illness ( 10.5 % versus 2.4 % in the railyard , p less than 0.01 ) . procedures involved simple spirometry , respiratory symptom assessment , and measurement of average levels of air contaminants . average chlorine levels in the pulpmill were below 1 ppm ; however , 60 % of the pulpmill workers reported one or more accidental " chlorine gassing " incidents . pulpmill workers who reported being " gassed " were significantly more likely to report wheezing on occasion than were other pulpmill workers and railyard workers ( rate for these three groups : nonsmokers : 8 , 2 , 1 % ; ex-smokers : 17 , 11 , 7 % ; current smokers : 42 , 21 , 19 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . no significant lung function differences were found between the overall pulpmill group and the railyard workers ; however , nonsmoking and formerly smoking pulpmill workers who reported being " gassed " had significantly lower average midmaximal flow rate and fev1/fvc ratio than did their counterparts in the remainder of the pulpmill population ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
silicosis , chronic airflow limitation , and chronic bronchitis in south african gold miners . in a cross-sectional study of a working population of black south african gold miners , 1,197 men were studied with respiratory and occupational questionnaires , lung function tests , and chest radiographs . the study was designed to examine the effects of silicosis on respiratory symptoms and lung function . a total of 857 men with chronic , simple silicosis and 340 men without silicosis were included in the sample . other determinants of lung disease including the duration and intensity of underground dust exposure and tobacco smoking were also examined . three distinct pulmonary disorders could be discerned : silicosis-associated pulmonary dysfunction with dyspnea on effort ; chronic airflow limitation , which was related to the duration of underground exposure ; and a chronic bronchitic symptom complex , which reflected the intensity of dust exposure in the workplace . chronic , uncomplicated silicosis was found to be associated with significant loss of lung function , and all of the measured indices , fvc , fev1 , fev1/fvc % , maximal midexpiratory flow rate ( mmef ) , and lung diffusion for carbon monoxide measured by the single-breath method ( dlco ) were reduced . when comparing men with category 3/3 nodule profusion with men without silicosis , reductions of fvc of 351 ml , fev1 of 447 ml , mmef of 1.04 l/s , and dlco of 4.7 ml/min/mm hg ( p = 0.0001 ) were detected after controlling for age , height , the direct effects of the underground environment , and tobacco smoking . dyspnea on effort was more common in the men with silicosis ( p less than 0.001 ) . 
reductions in exercise lactic acidosis and ventilation as a result of exercise training in patients with obstructive lung disease . though exercise training is part of most pulmonary rehabilitation programs , whether there is a physiologic basis for increased exercise tolerance is unclear . we sought to determine whether patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) are capable of obtaining a physiologic training effect , as manifested by a reduction in blood lactate and ventilation ( ve ) at a given level of exercise . we also sought to determine whether training work rate determines the size of the training effect . nineteen participants with copd of predominantly moderate severity in an inpatient rehabilitation program performed two cycle ergometer exercise tests at a low and a high work rate for 15 min or to tolerance and also an incremental exercise test to tolerance . arterial blood was sampled for blood gas and lactate analyses . identical tests were performed before and after 5-day-per-week cycle ergometer training for 8 wk either for 45 min/day at a high work rate ( average , 71 w ) or for a proportionally longer time at a low work rate ( average , 30 w ) . average fev1 was 56 + / - 12 % predicted and did not change with training . peak exercise lactate ( average , 6.5 meq/l ) was not correlated with fev1 . for the high work rate training group , identical work rates engendered less lactate ( 4.5 versus 7.2 meq/l ) and less ve ( 48 versus 55 l/min ) after training ; the low work rate training group had significantly less lactate and ve decrease ( p less than 0.01 ) . further , endurance time for the high constant work rate increased 73 % in the high work rate training group but only 9 % in the low work rate training group . at identical work rates , ve decrease average 2.5 l/min per meq/l decrease in lactate ( r = 0.75 ) . we conclude that most copd subjects studied increased blood lactate at low work rates . many of these patients were able to achieve a physiologic training effect . though total work was the same , training at a high work rate was more effective than was training at a low work rate . the lower ve requirement to perform exercise was in proportion to the lower lactate level , but the ve decrease for a given decrease in lactate was smaller than that seen in normal subjects ( 7.2 l/min/meq / l ) , apparently because patients with copd fall to hyperventilate in response to lactic acidosis ( paco2 does not drop ) . these findings provide a physiologic rationale for exercise training of patients with copd . 
endoscopic ethmoidectomy and maxillary antrostomy in immunodeficient patients . the efficacy of endoscopic sinus surgery was evaluated in 11 patients with diverse types of primary immunodeficiency disease and symptoms of chronic sinusitis . the postoperative symptoms and ability to eliminate antibiotics were used as outcome parameters . in two patients , the follow-up time was too short to assess therapeutic effectiveness . five of the remaining nine patients had total or significant resolution of symptoms . patients with transient immunodeficiency had the best resolution of symptoms . eight of the total 11 patients were treated with intravenous immunoglobulin preoperatively , and in five patients , the treatment was continued postoperatively . the ability to terminate gamma-globulin reflects not the success of the surgery , but the transient nature of some of the immunodeficiencies . 
hyponatremia and hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism in a critically ill patient : combination of insensitivity to angiotensin ii and tubular unresponsiveness to mineralocorticoid . a 62-year-old man with pneumonia and left flank pain had a clinical syndrome of hyponatremia , hypotension , dehydration , and high urinary sodium excretion in the presence of a normal glomerular filtration rate . the plasma level of antidiuretic hormone was relatively high despite decreased serum osmolality . thyroid function and excretion of glucocorticoid and sex steroids were normal . the serum aldosterone level was very low despite elevated plasma renin activity . angiotensin ii failed to stimulate any secretion of aldosterone , despite the occurrence of a progressive rise in blood pressure . on the other hand , rapid acth administration increased both serum aldosterone and cortisol . the patient showed no effective response to increased salt intake , but large doses of mineralocorticoid resulted in a normal serum sodium level without dehydration . subsequently , he suffered cardiac arrest secondary to ventricular tachycardia . postmortem examination showed well differentiated adenocarcinoma in the left pleura and an intact , histologically normal adrenal zona glomerulosa and kidney . this is the first reported case of a critically ill patient with hyponatremia caused by hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism possibly due to angiotensin ii insensitivity and tubular unresponsiveness to mineralocorticoid . 
increased extravascular lung water in patients with low pulmonary artery occlusion pressure after acute myocardial infarction . objective : to evaluate the clinical characteristics of increased extravascular lung water ( evlw ) in patients with low pulmonary artery occlusion pressure ( paop ) in the early phase of acute myocardial infarction . design : consecutive sample for descriptions of the clinical features of medical disorders . setting : a general medicine group practice in a university hospital . patients : sixteen patients with low paop ( less than 18 mm hg ) on the initial measurement obtained within 12 hr of chest pain onset . measurements and main results : evlw was measured by the thermal indocyanine green dye double-indicator dilution method . qrs score was obtained on hospital day 7 from the selvester 's qrs scoring system . eleven ( 69 % ) patients had increased evlw greater than 7 ml/kg despite low paop . evlw had no significant correlation with paop and the difference between plasma colloid osmotic pressure and paop , but did have a significant correlation with pulmonary vascular resistance index ( r2 = .31 , p less than .05 ) , and qrs score ( r2 = .45 , p less than .005 ) . conclusions : larger infarcts led to increased evlw even with low paop , and the accumulation of increased evlw around the small arterioles might have led to increased pulmonary vascular resistance . 
breathing circuit respiratory work in infants recovering from respiratory failure . objective : to compare cardiopulmonary function during spontaneous breathing with three continuous-flow breathing circuits . the major difference between these circuits was the degree of flow resistance offered by the exhalation valve . design : randomized crossover trial . patients : twelve infants less than 12 months of age recovering from respiratory failure of variable etiology . only patients weighing 3 to 10 kg were studied . interventions : the patients were connected to each respiratory circuit in a random sequence , with 15 min allowed for equilibration before assessment of cardiopulmonary function . airway pressure ( paw ) and fio2 were maintained unchanged . measurements and main results : ventilation , gas exchange , or circulatory function were not altered significantly by changing the breathing circuit . however , paw and esophageal pressure fluctuations were altered and were largest during breathing with the circuit that had an exhalation valve with high-flow resistance . the paw fluctuation recorded while the patient was breathing with the flow-resistor circuit increased with weight and exceeded 2 cm h2o in all patients weighing greater than 4.5 kg . paw fluctuation could be decreased by greater than 2 cm h2o in ten of 12 patients by using the threshold-resistor circuit . conclusions : the results indicate a need for evaluating the characteristics of respiratory circuits used for spontaneous breathing in infants and children , to avoid unnecessary equipment-related increase in respiratory work . 
single versus double indicator dilution measurements of extravascular lung water . objective : to compare a simplified method of measuring extravascular lung water ( evlw ) using only a single indicator ( evlw-si ) with the standard double indicator dilution technique ( evlw-di ) . design : direct comparison of evlw-si with evlw-di in 18 critically ill patients . setting : a general medical icu in a university-affiliated hospital . patients : nine men and nine women , ages 19 to 80 yr . six patients were in shock ( four from septic shock ) , and 11 were in respiratory failure . interventions : evlw-di and cardiac output were measured in triplicate during injection of cold indocyanine green dye . cardiac output was calculated both from pulmonary artery ( copa ) and femoral artery ( cofem-di ) thermal dilution signals . evlw-si and cofem-si were also measured during three additional injections of cold saline using only thermal signals from the pulmonary and femoral arteries . order of measurements was random . evlw-si was measured in ten patients while blood was withdrawn through the femoral catheter and in ten patients without blood drawn through the femoral catheter . measurements and main results : a total of 84 comparisons were made . although the overall correlations were good ( r2 = .86 ) , evlw-si systematically overestimated evlw-di ( p less than .05 ) . this difference was greater when evlw-si was measured without blood withdrawal through the femoral catheter . in this subgroup , mean values for evlw by the two methods were within 20 % of one another in only two of ten patients , in contrast to the results in six of eight patients in which blood was withdrawn through the catheter . cofem-si and cofem-di also overestimated copa . conclusions : theoretically , neither injection of green dye nor blood withdrawal should be necessary during measurements of evlw-si , making it a simpler technique for bedside use than evlw-di . however , significant discrepancies exist between the two techniques . some of this difference is apparently due to technical factors related to catheter design . in any case , we can not recommend use of the single indicator dilution technique at present to estimate evlw . 
young 's syndrome ( obstructive azoospermia and chronic sinobronchial infection ) : a quantitative study of axonemal ultrastructure and function . the ultrastructure and function of nasal cilia and sperm tails were examined in 23 men with young 's syndrome and compared with data previously collected from 10 normal subjects . quantitative electron microscopic assessment showed that sperm tails from patients with young 's syndrome contained significantly fewer central pair microtubules , radial spokes , and inner dynein arms , and their cilia contained less inner dynein arms than normal subjects . the young 's syndrome patients had normal in vitro ciliary beat frequency ( 11.4 + / - 0.9 hz ) , and 12 of the 23 had normal nasal mucociliary clearance ( 15.0 + / - 5.0 minutes ) . however , the remaining 11 had markedly abnormal nasal mucociliary clearance in vivo . in these patients , the deficiency of ciliary inner dynein arms did not appear to affect ciliary function in vitro but may under mucus loading lead to abnormal in vivo ciliary function . the consistent abnormalities shown in cilia and sperm tails , though apparently minor , constitute a common factor in both the reproductive and respiratory tracts which may , in combination with abnormalities in the in vivo environment , lead to the features of young 's syndrome . 
exposure to an aeroallergen as a possible precipitating factor in respiratory arrest in young patients with asthma background . exposure to airborne spores of the common mold alternaria alternata has been implicated in asthma attacks . such exposure is particularly frequent in the midwest during the summer and fall months . to determine the role of a. alternata in triggering severe asthma attacks , we investigated the cases of 11 patients with asthma who had sudden respiratory arrest and determined the frequency of sensitivity to this allergen in these patients . methods . the 11 patients ( age range , 11 to 25 years ) with initial episodes of respiratory arrest , which was fatal in 2 patients , were identified in the course of their care in our pediatric and adult clinical allergy practice and by a retrospective review of all mayo clinic records of patients with severe asthma cared for between 1980 and 1989 . skin-test reactivity to a. alternata and levels of ige antibody against this mold in the 11 patients were compared with those in 99 matched controls with asthma who had no history of respiratory arrest . results . all the patients came from the upper midwest , and the episodes of respiratory arrest occurred in the summer or early fall . ten of the 11 patients with asthma who had respiratory arrest ( 91 percent ) had positive skin-puncture tests for sensitivity to alternaria , as compared with 31 percent of the controls ( p less than 0.001 ) , and the serum levels of ige antibodies to alternaria were elevated in all 9 patients tested . among the covariates we examined ( age , sex , and distance from the mayo clinic ) , only age was a significant confounder . after adjustment for age , alternaria skin-test reactivity was found to be associated with an increase of approximately 200-fold in the risk of respiratory arrest ( adjusted odds ratio , 189.5 ; 95 percent confidence interval , 6.5 to 5535.8 ) . conclusions . exposure to the aeroallergen a. alternata is a risk factor for respiratory arrest in children and young adults with asthma . 
pneumocystis carinii infections in hiv-infected children . since 1981 , 1200 children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome have been reported to the centers for disease control . among these children , pneumocystis carinii has been the leading cause of serious morbidity and mortality . this review discusses the epidemiology , diagnosis , and treatment of p. carinii . 
lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia . lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia is at present a pathologic diagnosis . in the setting of a chronic interstitial pneumonia in a child with lymphocytosis , hyperglobulinemia , and lymphadenopathy or parotid enlargement , the diagnosis is often clinically presumed . at present the diagnosis can be established firmly only by lung biopsy . models of pathogenesis include nonspecific stimulation of the immune system , hiv-specific stimulation , or synergy between ebv and hiv . treatment includes oxygen and bronchodilators as needed . the role of zidovudine and of steroids in the management of lip remains to be determined . 
upper respiratory tract infections in young children : duration of and frequency of complications . this study was performed to determine the usual duration of community-acquired viral upper respiratory tract infections and the incidence of complications ( otitis media/sinusitis ) of these respiratory tract infections in infancy and early childhood . children in various forms of child-care arrangements ( home care , group care , and day care ) were enrolled at birth and observed for 3 years . families were telephoned every 2 weeks to record on a standardized form the type and severity of illnesses experienced during the previous interval . only children remaining in their original child-care group for the entire study period were compared . the mean duration of an upper respiratory tract infection varied between 6.6 days ( for 1 - to 2-year-old children in home care ) and 8.9 days ( for children younger than 1 year in day care ) . the percentage of apparently simple upper respiratory tract infections that lasted more than 15 days ranged from 6.5 % ( for 1 - to 3-year-old children in home care ) to 13.1 % ( for 2 - to 3-year-old children in day care ) . children in day care were more likely than children in home care to have protracted respiratory symptoms . of 2741 respiratory tract infections recorded for the 3-year period , 801 ( 29.2 % ) were complicated by otitis media . during the first 2 years of life , children in any type of day care were more likely than children in home care to have otitis media as a complication of upper respiratory tract infection . in year 3 , the risk of otitis media was similar in all types of child care . 
sudden infant death syndrome and small airway occlusion : facts and a hypothesis . respiratory failure is almost certainly the cause of death in the majority of cases of sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) , but the mechanisms leading to it have not been elucidated . sids shares many environmental and socioeconomic risk factors with severe forms of bronchiolitis , and the age distribution of incident cases is similar . present knowledge of lung and airway development during infancy , determinants of peripheral airway patency , changes in lung surface activity in infants with sids , and fluid film dynamics in small airways are reviewed . it is hypothesized that many cases of sids may be due to a final episode of progressive peripheral bronchial occlusion in infants with preceding critically diminished conductance of the smaller airways . 
the reliability of magnitude estimation for dyspnea measurement . the reliability of magnitude estimation with an open scale was evaluated in a physiologically stable population of adults with chronic respiratory disease who experienced chronic dyspnea . magnitude estimation was used to measure one dimension of dyspnea , perceptual sensitivity . the relationship between external inspiratory resistive loads ( stimuli ) and numbers that reflected the perceived intensity of the breathing effort ( response ) as expressed by a power function was measured on three visits 3 to 5 days apart . the correlations of the exponent of the power function between visits were high and stable . 
lung abscess : ct-guided drainage . lung abscesses were drained by means of catheters guided by computed tomography ( ct ) in 19 patients who still had sepsis despite standard medical therapy ; all patients had received antibiotics for at least 5 days , and 11 of the 19 patients had undergone bronchoscopy . the abscess was cured ( by clinical and radiographic criteria ) in all 19 patients ( 100 % ) , and surgery was avoided in 16 of the 19 patients ( 84 % ) . three patients underwent surgery for removal of organized tissue or decortication after the lung abscess was evacuated . complications included a hemothorax that required a chest tube in one patient and three minor complications ( a clogged catheter in two patients and transient elevation of intracerebral pressure in one patient ) . the hemothorax occurred in one of two patients in whom the catheter traversed normal lung . the percutaneous drainage catheters traversed juxtaposed abnormal pleura on route to the abscess in 17 of the patients . ct-guided drainage of lung abscess is an effective method to treat lung abscesses that are refractory to conventional therapy ; the procedure should obviate major operation in most patients . a catheter route through abscess-pleural syndesis is preferable , and ct is useful for planning this route . 
malignancy associated with chronic empyema : radiologic assessment . radiologic findings of six cases of malignancy associated with chronic empyema 5-39 years in duration were reviewed . pathologic examination confirmed three b-cell non-hodgkin lymphomas , one round-cell sarcoma , one mesothelioma , and one adenocarcinoma . retrospective findings on plain chest radiographs suggested the occurrence of malignancy : increased radiopacity in the thoracic cavity , soft-tissue bulgings and/or unsharpness of fat planes in the chest walls , destruction of bone near the empyema , and extensive medial deviation of the calcified pleurae . computed tomography delineated masses with soft-tissue attenuation more clearly than radiography in all cases . magnetic resonance images of three cases were informative because empyema cavities were surrounded by low-intensity rims , and two of them showed a signal intensity different from that of necrotic tumors . scintigraphy revealed increased uptake of gallium in all cases . ultrasonography was useful for biopsy guidance . every radiologist should know this entity in observation of chest radiographs obtained in patients with chronic empyema , and further radiologic assessment and aggressive biopsy are recommended if malignancy is suspected . 
detection of streptococcus pneumoniae and haemophilus influenzae type b antigens in the serum and urine of patients with pneumonia in papua new guinea : comparison of latex agglutination and counterimmunoelectrophoresis . latex agglutination ( la ) was compared with counterimmunoelectrophoresis ( cie ) for the diagnosis of pneumonia due to streptococcus pneumoniae or haemophilus influenzae type b in children less than 6 years old in papua new guinea . neither la nor cie was sufficiently sensitive for the detection of pneumococcal antigens . cie was superior to la but had a sensitivity of only 60 % ( six of 10 ) in concentrated urine and a specificity of 90 % ( 54 of 60 ) . la for the detection of h. influenzae type b had a sensitivity of 100 % ( eight of eight ) relative to that of blood culture and a specificity of 99 % ( 112 of 113 ) when urine diluted fivefold was tested , as compared with a sensitivity of 100 % ( nine of nine ) and a specificity of 92 % ( 56 of 61 ) in undiluted urine . undiluted and concentrated urine specimens were unsuitable for la because of the many false-positive reactions that resulted from nasal carriage of h. influenzae type b and nasal carriage of the cross-reactive s. pneumoniae type 6 . cie for the detection of h. influenzae type b had a sensitivity of only 44 % ( four of nine ) in concentrated urine . 
bacterial colonization of the upper respiratory tract and its association with acute lower respiratory tract infections in highland children of papua new guinea . acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) is the major cause of death among children in papua new guinea . this longitudinal study reports the bacteriologic findings for children observed in their hamlets . a total of 1,449 nasal swab specimens from 158 children less than 5 years of age who were studied intensively for 18 months were examined . non-serotypable strains of haemophilus influenzae were isolated from 91 % of specimens , and serotypable strains were isolated from 35 % ( 8 % h. influenzae type b ) of specimens . all children had acquired streptococcus pneumoniae by the age of 3 months . the most frequently occurring serotypes of s. pneumoniae were 6 , 19 , and 23 . children more frequently carried invasive pneumococci during an episode of alri than when they were healthy . also , children more frequently carried serotypable strains of h. influenzae during the 2 weeks preceding an episode of alri than when they were healthy . between-children analyses showed that children who were susceptible to attacks of alri and those who were not susceptible had similar rates of carriage of bacteria . 
diversity of outer membrane protein profiles of nontypable haemophilus influenzae from children from papua new guinea and the philippines . we determined capsular serotypes and , with use of sds-page , patterns of outer membrane proteins ( omp ) of haemophilus influenzae isolates from specimens of blood , lung , or csf from children with acute respiratory tract infections or meningitis who were hospitalized in papua new guinea or the philippines . among 72 isolates from papua new guinea , 72 % were type b , 14 % were other encapsulated serotypes , and 14 % were nontypable . the respective frequencies among 43 isolates from the philippines were 56 % , 7 % , and 37 % . the type b isolates could be subdivided into at least eight outer membrane subtypes , most of which have been described previously . in contrast , omp profiles of the nontypable h. influenzae isolates from children in both countries were highly heterogeneous . these results differ markedly from those previously found for isolates from children with acute respiratory tract infections in pakistan , for which encapsulated h. influenzae strains other than serotype b were not observed ; 95 % of type b isolates were of a single omp subtype ; and nontypable isolates showed evidence of clonal restriction . candidate vaccines for use in developing countries as protection against disease caused by h. influenzae will need to include both capsular and noncapsular antigens and investigators must take into consideration regional differences among strains . 
epidemiologic risk factors for children with acute lower respiratory tract infection in buenos aires , argentina : a matched case-control study . the risk factors that predisposed 516 hospitalized and 154 ambulatory patients to acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) are examined in a matched case-control study . the control group was selected from children attending immunization and well-baby clinics at the same institution that was treating the children with alri . sex , age , nutritional status , socioeconomic level , as well as season and place of residence were used as matching criteria . because of their distinct profiles , hospitalized and outpatient groups were analyzed separately . however , the four variables with the highest odds ratios ( incidence ratios or relative risk ) were found to be the same for both groups . these variables were related to the host 's condition ( bronchial hyperreactivity , presence of persistent symptoms of the upper respiratory tract ) , family ( presence of acute respiratory tract disease in household members ) , and environment ( indoor contaminants ) . 
epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infections among guatemalan ambulatory preschool children . acute respiratory tract infections ( ari ) were studied during a 2-year period in 521 preschool children living in a marginal area of guatemala city . there were 3,646 episodes of ari detected during 26,329 child-weeks at risk , for an incidence of 14 per 100 child-weeks or 7.2 episodes per child per year . the median duration of ari episodes was 11 days . the highest incidence of ari was observed in children 6-23 months old . boys had more respiratory tract illnesses than did girls ; the presence of a cigarette smoker in the household was associated with higher morbidity . acute lower respiratory tract illnesses ( alri ) were more common among younger infants 0-5 months old , with nutritional status having no apparent effect . parental formal education and crowding in households were found to be directly related to the incidence of alri . in general , ari morbidity interfered with appropriate physical growth . 
epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infections among young children in kenya . the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) was investigated in a rural community 80 km north of nairobi , kenya . this research was conducted prospectively on 250 families with 470 children less than 5 years of age who were contacted every 8 days during the 3-year study . the yearly incidence of respiratory tract infections decreased from 5.2 to 3.4 during the study ; less than 5 % of these infections involved the lower respiratory tract . the incidence was inversely related to age , and the illnesses were generally mild and brief in length . fifteen children died during the study period . the precise causes of death are unknown , but respiratory infections possibly played a role in most cases . this study emphasizes the importance of determining the risk factors responsible for unusually severe morbidity and high mortality in children with ari in developing countries . 
child care practices with respect to acute respiratory tract infection in a poor , urban community in nigeria . a longitudinal study conducted over a 3-year period in a poor , urban community in nigeria , a developing country , found that acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) was common , in particular among infants and boys . between 81 % and 95 % of the children treated for ari over the 3-year period were brought to the clinic by their mothers . about 32 % of these children had been treated with cough medicines , 42 % with antipyretics , 5 % with antibiotics , and 10 % with hematinics before they were brought to the clinic . the source of such medications included medicines left over from previous prescriptions and those bought from chemists ' shops and street vendors . up to 64 % of the children treated for ari had been force-fed local herbal teas by their mothers ; herbal teas were used for both preventive and curative purposes . 
acute respiratory tract infection in children in idikan community , ibadan , nigeria : severity , risk factors , and frequency of occurrence . a longitudinal , community-based study of the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) in children less than 5 years old was carried out in a community of low socioeconomic level in ibadan , nigeria . the annual incidence of ari ranged from 6.1 to 8.1 episodes per child per year . the incidence was highest in the first 2 years of life and decreased with increasing age . the incidence was higher in boys than in girls . ari occurred in all seasons of the year . the most common symptoms were cough , nasal discharge , and fever , while the most common signs referable to the respiratory tract were abnormal breathing sounds , tachypnea , and chest retraction . 
malnutrition and acute respiratory tract infections in filipino children . the impact of malnutrition on morbidity and mortality associated with acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) was studied in filipino children less than 5 years old . malnutrition measured by weight-for-age z-scores of less than -3 sd and less than -2 sd from the national center for health statistics median reference population was associated with the following significant relative risks of morbidity : 1.24 ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] = 1.14 , 1.34 ) and 1.14 ( 95 % ci = 1.08 , 1.19 ) , respectively , for ari ; and 1.9 ( 95 % ci = 1.46 , 2.39 ) and 1.2 ( 95 % ci = 1.03 , 1.47 ) , respectively , for acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) . these risk ratios remained significant when adjusted for age , crowding , and parental smoking . malnourished children with severe alri also had a mortality risk two to three times higher than that of healthy children . this risk remained significant even when adjusted for significant predictors of mortality , including clinical complications , concurrent measles , severe infections , and female gender ; and for clinical factors , including extent of pneumonic infiltrates , dehydration , and hepatic enlargement . these findings underscore the importance of nutritional intervention in the control of morbidity and mortality among patients with ari . 
clinicopathologic studies of children who die of acute lower respiratory tract infections : mechanisms of death . clinicopathologic correlations for 71 cases of fatal pneumonia in children were determined . the mechanism of death for these patients was multifactorial . severe pneumonia alone accounted for 11 deaths ( 15.5 % ) . pneumonia associated with sepsis occurred in 42 children ( 59.2 % ) . heart failure ( 8.5 % ) , hypovolemia ( 4.2 % ) , and nosocomial infection ( 12.6 % ) were also seen in children with fatal acute lower respiratory tract infection . extensive consolidation , squamous metaplasia , and hyaline membranes were present in the lungs of these children . patients with severe disease must receive , in addition to antibiotics for acute episodes , individualized intensive respiratory and supportive care . since these types of care are not available in poor communities , vaccination against measles and vitamin a supplementation for malnourished children may ameliorate the conditions that appear to predispose these children to severe or fatal disease . 
etiologic , clinical , and pathologic analysis of 31 fatal cases of acute respiratory tract infection in argentinian children under 5 years of age . during a 3-year survey of 805 children with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) who were admitted to three hospitals in buenos aires , 31 fatal cases were recorded -- a fatality rate of 3.8 % . of the 31 children who died , 77 % were less than 1 year of age , 48 % were boys , 58 % were malnourished , 29 % had previous respiratory disease , and 22 % had previous congenital disease . all children who died had clinical diagnoses of pneumonia ( 71 % ) or bronchiolitis ( 29 % ) . autopsies were performed in 14 of the cases . viral etiology was determined by both cell culture and indirect immunofluorescence ( iif ) assay of either nasopharyngeal aspirates ( npa ) or lung tissue and bacterial etiology was determined by isolation of organisms from blood , lung tissue , and/or pleural fluid . npa was examined for bordetella pertussis by iif . pathogens were identified in 65 % of fatal cases . seven cases were bacterial ; seven cases were viral ; and six cases resulted from mixed infections . lung tissue yielded positive etiologic results in 10 of 13 cases . histopathologic examination performed on specimens from the 14 autopsied children revealed necrotizing bronchiolitis with intranuclear inclusions ( n = 5 ) and multifocal pneumonia ( n = 9 ) . 
respiratory rate greater than 50 per minute as a clinical indicator of pneumonia in filipino children with cough . the diagnosis and epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) in 199 children less than 5 years old were investigated in manila . as part of this study , children who were treated at one of two outpatient clinics for cough of less than 3 weeks ' duration were studied to test the validity of the use of a respiratory rate ( rr ) of greater than 50/minute for identifying ari of a severity necessitating treatment with antibiotics . in the first population , in which 69 % of the children had radiologically confirmed pneumonia , the sensitivity of a rr of greater than 50/minute was 54 % , the specificity was 84 % , the false-positive rate was 16 % , and the false-negative rate was 46 % . in the second population , in which 29 % of the children had pneumonia , the sensitivity and positive predictive values were low . the validity of a rr of greater than 50/minute may vary in populations with different prevalences of ari . 
the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection in young children : comparison of findings from several developing countries . coordinated data group of bostid researchers . investigators from 10 countries studied the epidemiology of acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) among children 0-59 months old . data on incidence rates , by age , gender , and season ; on pathogenic agents ; on case-fatality rates ; and on selected risk factor findings are presented . incidence rates from six of the community-based studies ranged from 12.7 to 16.8 new episodes of ari per 100 child-weeks at risk , and rates of lower respiratory tract infection ( lri ) ranged from 0.2 to 3.4 new episodes per 100 child-weeks at risk . children spend from 21.7 % to 40.1 % of observed weeks with ari and from 1 % to 14.4 % of observed weeks with lri . the incidence rates for ari are highest in younger children . viruses , especially respiratory syncytial virus , are isolated more frequently than bacteria from children with episodes of lri . risk factors exhibited different patterns of association with ari in different studies . interventions could have great impact on high-risk levels common in the study populations . these studies provide interesting and useful data on the epidemiologic dynamics of ari . 
etiologic and clinical evaluation of acute lower respiratory tract infections in young argentinian children : an overview . this paper summarizes the first study on clinical , etiologic , and epidemiologic features of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) in children in argentina . a total of 1,003 children less than 5 years of age ( 805 inpatients and 198 outpatients ) presenting with alri were studied during a 40-month period . nasopharyngeal aspirate ( npa ) , blood , urine , and throat-swab samples were collected when each child was first seen for care . virologic studies were performed on the npa by means of indirect immunofluorescence and isolation of virus in cell culture . bacteriologic studies primarily were done by means of culture of blood or pleural fluid ( when available ) ; bordetella pertussis and mycoplasma pneumoniae , however , were searched for by the use of immunofluorescence and complement-fixation testing , respectively , in paired sera . respiratory syncytial virus was the most commonly isolated virus , followed by adenovirus , parainfluenza virus , and influenza virus . streptococcus pneumoniae was the most frequently isolated bacterium , followed by b. pertussis and haemophilus influenzae type b. overall , the patient fatality rate was 3.8 % among inpatients with pneumonia or bronchiolitis . 
acute lower respiratory tract infections in hospitalized patients with diarrhea in dhaka , bangladesh . this study focused on 401 children less than 5 years old who were hospitalized with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) and diarrhea in dhaka , bangladesh , and who were investigated for the presence of both bacterial and viral respiratory tract pathogens as well as for selected diarrheal pathogens . the most common manifestations of alri were pneumonia ( 374 cases ) , bronchiolitis ( 12 cases ) , and tracheobronchitis ( 11 cases ) . the majority ( 77 % ) of the illnesses were in children less than 2 years of age , and 88 % of the children were malnourished . a respiratory tract pathogen was identified in 30 % of the patients , and a diarrheal pathogen was identified in 34 % . the overall case-fatality rate in children with alri and diarrhea was 8 % . the case-fatality rate was 14 % in children with bacterial pneumonia and diarrhea , 3 % in those with viral pneumonia and diarrhea , and 14 % in malnourished children with shigellosis and alri . the most common respiratory tract pathogens were respiratory syncytial virus , streptococcus pneumoniae , influenza viruses , and haemophilus influenzae type b. 
diagnoses of acute lower respiratory tract infections in children in rawalpindi and islamabad , pakistan . a hospital-based inpatient and outpatient study of 1,492 cases of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) was conducted from november 1986 to march 1988 in two hospitals in rawalpindi and islamabad , pakistan . specimens of nasopharyngeal aspirate were processed for viral studies in all cases ; blood cultures were performed in 1,331 cases ; and urine was obtained for detection of bacterial antigen in 378 cases , but 227 of these samples had bacterial contamination and were discarded . respiratory syncytial virus was identified in 33 % of cases , and haemophilus influenzae and streptococcus pneumoniae were identified in 9.6 % and 9.9 % of cases , respectively . nonencapsulated h. influenzae accounted for 32 % of the haemophilus isolates , and type b was the only encapsulated h. influenzae strain identified . of the s. pneumoniae serotypes isolated , 31 % are not included in the currently available polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine . no clinical characteristic was demonstrated to be a reliable indicator for bacterial alri . 
microbial agents associated with pneumonia in children from uruguay . the etiology of severe pneumonia , not frequently encountered in a community-based study , was determined in 204 hospitalized children less than 5 years of age . potential pathogens were identified in 41 % of episodes . viruses were isolated or antigen was detected in 36.3 % of cases ; 82.4 % of these cases were due to respiratory syncytial virus . bacteria or bacterial antigens were identified in 13.2 % of cases ; streptococcus pneumoniae and haemophilus influenzae were the most frequently identified bacterial pathogens isolated from blood and/or pleural effusions . mixed infections were identified in 4.9 % of the episodes . among the 17 patients with pleural effusion whose pleural space was drained , the etiology was suggested for 10 ( 58.8 % ) . a clear-cut seasonal variation was seen , with the highest prevalence between may and october . viral infections were more common in the first 6 months of life , although viral and bacterial infections were distributed throughout the first 5 years of life . 
etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection in children from alabang , metro manila . the etiology of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) was identified in 235 ( 43.8 % ) of 537 hospitalized children less than 5 years of age . clinical evidence of measles was found in 258 ( 48.0 % ) patients , of whom 59 had a second viral infection . a viral agent was identified in an additional 121 patients , so that a total of 379 ( 70.6 % ) had viral infections . after measles , respiratory syncytial virus was the most common respiratory virus . bacteremia was noted in 72 children ( 13.4 % ) , occurring as frequently in children with measles ( 14.8 % ) as in those without ( 12.1 % ) ; haemophilus influenzae and salmonella typhi were predominant in the former , and h. influenzae , staphylococcus aureus , and streptococcus pneumoniae were prominent in the latter . the presence of bacterial antigen in urine was not helpful in identifying bacterial infection . extrapulmonary and intrapleural complications , concomitant measles , complicated alri , female gender , and malnutrition were associated with increased mortality among children with alri . the importance of measles immunization , vitamin a supplementation for alleviation of defects associated with malnutrition , and timely antimicrobial therapy is emphasized . 
patterns of acute respiratory tract infection in children : a longitudinal study in a depressed community in metro manila . the incidences of acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) and acute lower respiratory infection ( alri ) were 6.1 and 0.5 per child-year , respectively , in children less than 5 years old in a depressed urban community in manila . the peak age-specific incidence occurred in those children 6-23 months old for ari and 6-11 months old for alri . age less than 2 years , malnutrition , household crowding , and parental smoking were associated with a statistically significant , though modest , increase in ari morbidity . the crude mortality rate was 14.3 per 1,000 children 0-4 years old , with a corresponding ari-specific mortality rate of 8.9 per 1,000 . the prevalence of viral infection was 32.8 and that of bacteremic alri was 6.7 per 1,000 children with moderate alri . respiratory syncytial virus was the predominant viral pathogen , while streptococcus pneumoniae , haemophilus influenzae , and staphylococcus aureus were the most frequently isolated bacterial pathogens . transmission of respiratory pathogens in depressed communities , facilitated by inadequate housing , inaccessible health services , and prevalent malnutrition , will continue unless meaningful socioeconomic improvement is realized . 
acute respiratory tract infections among a birth cohort of children from cali , colombia , who were studied through 17 months of age . for this study , 340 children less than 18 months old from a low-income , urban neighborhood in cali , colombia , were observed from birth by means of weekly home visits to detect cases of acute respiratory tract infection . all suspected cases were confirmed by trained doctors in a special clinic . information on symptoms , signs , and potential risk factors was documented prospectively . etiologic agents were identified in cases of lower respiratory tract infection ( lri ) . the overall incidence of acute respiratory tract infection was 6.6 cases per child-year at risk . the incidence of upper respiratory tract infection was 4.9 cases per child-year at risk and that of lri was 1.7 cases per child-year at risk . crowding in the home was found to be significantly associated with an increased incidence of lri . respiratory syncytial virus was the viral agent most frequently isolated from cultures of nasopharyngeal aspirates of children with lri . staphylococcus aureus was the bacterial agent most frequently isolated from the blood of patients with lri . 
a community-based study of acute respiratory tract infection in thai children . a 2-year longitudinal study was conducted among the population of a socioeconomically depressed urban community in bangkok , thailand , from january 1986 through december 1987 to determine the incidence , etiologic agents , and risk factors associated with acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) in children less than 5 years of age . data were obtained for a total of 674 children , who were visited twice weekly for detection of signs and symptoms of ari . during the first year of the study , throat-swab specimens were obtained for bacterial culture from both ill and healthy children and a nasal wash was performed on mildly ill children for detection of virus . during both years of the study , nasopharyngeal aspiration for identification of virus was performed for children with more severe infection . the overall incidence of ari was 11.2 episodes per child-year . the highest ( 14.9 ) and lowest ( 8.8 ) rates per child-year occurred in age groups 6-11 months and 48-59 months , respectively . respiratory syncytial virus , parainfluenza virus , adenovirus , streptococcus pneumoniae , and haemophilus influenzae were the prevalent pathogenic agents identified . factors associated with higher risk of ari were low family income , working mothers , mothers with allergies , chronic malnutrition , and crowding in the home . 
a community-based study of acute respiratory tract infections in children in uruguay . acute respiratory tract infection ( ari ) was investigated in children less than 5 years old in a longitudinal community-based study of 166 families living in a socioeconomically depressed area in montevideo , uruguay . pediatricians made home visits every 10 days from may 1985 to december 1987 , and symptoms and signs of ari were recorded . the incidence of ari was 5.8 episodes per child-year during the first 12 months of life and decreased with increasing age of the index children ; the rate was highest in children 1-5 months old . children observed from birth were ill during 21 % of the visits . according to the definitions of the study , the incidence of lower respiratory tract infection was 11.6 % higher than the incidence of upper respiratory tract infections . the rates of ari were higher during the colder months . most risk factors for ari were only marginally statistically significant . 
isolation and identification of viral agents in argentinian children with acute lower respiratory tract infection . from a total population of 1,002 children with acute lower respiratory infection ( alri ) , identification of virus was achieved in 304 cases . in this survey , 1,000 nasopharyngeal aspirate and 13 lung tissue samples were tested in four cell lines ( hep-2 , mrc-5 , mdck , and llc-mk2 ) and by indirect immunofluorescence ( iif ) , while 242 paired sera were studied by complement fixation . respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) was the most frequently detected agent ( n = 183 ) , followed by adenovirus ( n = 28 ) , parainfluenza ( n = 5 ) and 3 ( n = 16 ) viruses , and influenza a ( n = 10 ) and b ( n = 4 ) viruses . the sensitivity and specificity of iif identification vs. isolation in cell culture were high for rsv ( 91.5 % and 94.9 % , respectively ) . however , iif proved poorly sensitive for detection of adenovirus ( sensitivity , 23.8 % ; specificity , 100 % ) . the complement-fixation test proved the least effective , with a sensitivity of only 41.5 % . therefore , on the basis of our experience , it appears that the yield for positive diagnosis of virus is increased if both isolation in multiple cell lines and identification by means of iif are used . our survey provides for the first time reliable data on the viral etiology of alri in argentina , as determined by three different methods . 
acute lower respiratory tract infection due to virus among hospitalized children in dhaka , bangladesh . the nature of acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) in hospitalized children and of the associated viral agents was assessed in a study of 601 children less than 5 years old over a 24-month period . of these children , 80 % were less than 24 months of age and the ratio of boys to girls was 1.7:1 . pneumonia ( 86.5 % of cases ) was the most frequently observed clinical manifestation . shedding of virus was detected in 21.1 % of the children ; the highest rate occurred in infants 0-5 months old ( 27 % ) as compared with a rate of only 12.5 % in children 25-60 months old . virus was detected in 33.3 % , 32.8 % , 21.2 % , and 20 % of the cases of tracheobronchitis , bronchiolitis , pneumonia , and croup , respectively . among the viruses detected , 78 % were respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) ( 91 % of infections with this virus occurred in children less than 2 years old ) and 14.4 % were influenza virus types a and b. of the rsv infections , 61 % occurred in infants less than 1 year old . the case-fatality rate was 6.8 % overall and was 4.8 % in virus-associated cases . no consistent pattern of seasonal occurrence of viral infections was discerned . rsv was detected throughout the year , with increased prevalence from january to april . 
a hospital-based study of acute viral infections of the respiratory tract in thai children , with emphasis on laboratory diagnosis . the hospital-based study described here examined the viruses found in 738 children less than 5 years old who presented at ramathibodi hospital , bangkok , thailand , from january 1986 to december 1987 with acute respiratory tract infections . three methods for detection of viral infection are compared : direct examination of epithelial cells of the respiratory tract with the use of fluorescent antibody staining , isolation of virus , and measurement of antibody in acute - and convalescent-phase sera . viral infections were found in 44.7 % of the study population . diagnosis by the examination of epithelial cells with the fluorescent antibody staining procedure was found to have several deficiencies ; however , this technique was the most sensitive for diagnosis of infection due to respiratory syncytial virus . isolation of virus was the best method for identification of adenoviruses , parainfluenza 1 and 3 viruses , and influenza b virus . problems associated with serodiagnosis included failure to obtain specimens of convalescent-phase blood in 24.5 % of cases and insensitivity of serodiagnosis for young children except for the identification of antibody to influenza a virus . the combination of all three tests yielded the best rate of detection of virus . 
identification of viruses in a study of acute respiratory tract infection in children from uruguay . for the purpose of identifying viral agents associated with acute respiratory tract infections ( ari ) in children less than 5 years old , a longitudinal community study was undertaken in montevideo , uruguay , from may 1985 to december 1987 . this report includes results obtained by cell culture and immunofluorescence techniques for detection of respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) , influenza a and b viruses , parainfluenza 1 and 3 viruses , and adenovirus . two populations were studied : children visited at home by pediatricians ( group 1 ) and children with an ari episode who attended an outpatient clinic ( group 2 ) . nasopharyngeal aspirates were obtained at the time of an ari episode : 858 from group 1 and 488 from group 2 . viruses were identified in 15.3 % of group 1 specimens and in 17.6 % of group 2 specimens . rsv was the most frequently recovered agent , accounting for 67.9 % and 58.1 % , respectively , of all viruses detected . the sensitivity and specificity of rsv isolation by cell culture are compared with detection by indirect immunofluorescence . 
aspiration pneumonitis : risk factors and management of the critically ill patient . pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents is a significant source of patient morbidity , mortality , and increased healthcare costs . prevention by identifying patients at risk for aspiration and initiating prophylaxis is the most effective method of reducing complications associated with aspiration pneumonitis . h2-receptor antagonists are among the best prophylactic agents because of their efficacy in reducing gastric acidity and their convenience of administration . 
pathophysiology , monitoring , and management of the ventilator-dependent patient : considerations for drug therapy , emphasis on stress ulcer prophylaxis . adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) , or noncardiac pulmonary edema , is a form of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure . the goals of treatment for patients with ards are to provide supportive therapy , to reverse the underlying etiology or pathology , and to prevent subsequent complications . supportive therapy consists of supplemental oxygen , positive end-expiratory pressure , and , often , mechanical ventilation . the reversal of the underlying pathology varies according to the etiologic origin of ards . complications from ards include stress ulcers , which occur when gastric aggressive and defensive functions become unbalanced . antacids and cytoprotective agents are used for stress ulcer prophylaxis , but histamine h2-receptor antagonists are now regarded as the standard of care . because all the marketed h2-receptor antagonists are efficacious , choice of the agent is based on the adverse effect profile and drug interactions . no definitive data currently exist linking stress ulcer prophylaxis regimens that raise intragastric ph to a significant risk for nosocomial pneumonia . 
diagnostic value of dna analysis in effusions by flow cytometry and image analysis . a prospective study on 102 patients as compared with cytologic examination one hundred twenty-six effusion samples from 102 patients were examined by cytology and flow cytometry ( fcm ) . overall , there was an 84 % correlation between cytologic and fcm results . of the 36 malignant cases determined by cytologic examination , fcm revealed an aneuploid peak in 20 ( 56 % ) . image analysis ( ia ) performed on the malignant cytologic cases with a diploid flow pattern detected two additional aneuploid peaks . in addition , fcm indicated three aneuploid cases in which cytologic characteristics were initially interpreted as benign ( false negative ) . aneuploidy was therefore detected in 64 % of the malignant effusion specimens by fcm and ia . twenty-three of the total of 24 aneuploid cases detected by fcm were associated with malignancy ( predictive value = 96 % ) . the one nonmalignant case was that of hemorrhagic pancreatitis with infected pseudocyst . fcm is an excellent tool when moderate to large numbers of tumor cells are present , whereas use of ia is advantageous for specimens containing smaller numbers of malignant cells because these can be directly analyzed . when an aneuploid peak is present , a diagnosis of malignancy must be suspected , and , if the initial cytologic screen is negative , a critical review of the cytology slides is justified . in those cases with an equivocal atypical cytology report and an abnormal cytometric histogram , additional investigation is warranted . in some malignancies the tumor cells will be diploid ( in this study 36 % ) and neither fcm nor ia will add to tumor detection , leaving cytologic examination as the definitive technique . 
widespread dissemination of pneumocystis carinii infection in a patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome receiving long-term treatment with aerosolized pentamidine . patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) may be infected with many opportunistic pathogens , the most common of which is pneumocystis carinii . p. carinii infection typically presents as a subacute pneumonia . however , rare cases of localized , extrapulmonary , and disseminated disease have been described . standard therapy for p. carinii is systemically administered trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or pentamidine . these agents , however , frequently are associated with serious adverse effects . more recently , aerosolized pentamidine has been proposed as an alternative treatment for those who can not tolerate standard therapy and as primary and secondary prophylaxis . inhaled pentamidine is effective , but it is not without hazards . the authors describe a patient with aids who received long-term treatment with aerosolized pentamidine and yet died as a result of widely disseminated p. carinii infection . 
assessment of nasal patency by rhinoscopic measurement of cross sectional nasal airway area : correlation with subjective nasal symptoms . assessment of nasal patency by the recording of nasal symptom scores was compared with an objective method of determining nasal airway area using a fiberoptic rhinoscope . sixty patients with active allergic rhinitis and nasal congestion requiring treatment were studied . nasal symptoms were recorded and nasal airway area was measured before and at fixed time intervals after administration of either pseudoephedrine or oxymetazoline . both methods detected a decongestant response to both drugs , and the symptom of congestion correlated with the measured nasal airway area . rhinoscopic measurement of cross sectional nasal airway area is an objective method that may be used to complement other methods for evaluation of nasal patency . 
thoracoscopy for the diagnosis of pleural disease . objective : to assess the accuracy and safety of thoracoscopy for the evaluation of pleural disease . design : prospective evaluation of patients referred for thoracoscopy . setting : university hospital specializing in chest diseases . patients : we studied 102 patients with pleural disease , the cause of which had not been determined after initial investigation , including thoracentesis and needle biopsy . eighty-six patients had pleural effusion , 11 had pleural mass , and 5 had pleural effusion in association with a known primary lung carcinoma . intervention : all patients had thoracoscopy under local anesthesia with mild sedation . visually directed biopsies were done of parietal pleura . measurements : we recorded clinical characteristics , laboratory data , findings and duration of thoracoscopy , and any complications associated with the procedure . hospital and clinic follow-up records were reviewed , and patients were contacted by telephone 12 and 24 months after thoracoscopy to assess their health status . main results : one hundred and four thoracoscopies were done in 102 patients . a definitive diagnosis was established in 95 patients : 42 had malignant pleural disease and 53 had benign pleural disease . a diagnosis of benign pleural disease using thoracoscopy could not be confirmed in the remaining 7 patients because of insufficient follow-up information . overall , thoracoscopy was 96 % accurate with a sensitivity of 91 % , a specificity of 100 % and a negative predictive value of 93 % for the diagnosis of pleural malignancy . thoracoscopy was well tolerated under local anesthesia and entailed hospitalization for less than 24 hours in most cases . no deaths occurred , although 1.9 % of patients had major complications , and 5.5 % had minor complications . conclusions : among patients with pleural disease remaining undiagnosed after usual initial investigation , thoracoscopy done under local anesthesia is a rapid , safe , and well-tolerated procedure with an excellent diagnostic yield that is equivalent to that of thoracotomy . 
diagnosing pulmonary embolism : new facts and strategies purpose : to provide a clinical approach to the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism . data identification : an english-language literature search using medline ( 1982 to 1990 ) and bibliographic reviews of textbooks and review articles . study selection : in addition to several reviews , studies that evaluated the diagnostic technology of pulmonary embolism were selected . preference was given to studies with a prospective design , particularly those done within the past decade . data extraction : studies were assessed independently by three unblinded observers . data were chosen to describe the efficacy of diagnostic technology on the basis of disease prevalence , sensitivity and specificity , and predictive value . results of data analysis : a normal lung scan or pulmonary angiogram rules out the diagnosis of clinically important pulmonary embolism with at least 95 % certainty . lung scan interpretations indicating high or low probability have approximately a 15 % error in diagnosing or ruling out pulmonary embolism . the accuracy of either scan result improves when the clinical suspicion of pulmonary embolism matches the lung scan result . serial impedance plethysmography of the lower extremities may exclude thromboembolism with 95 % certainty in patients without high-probability lung scan results or cardiopulmonary disease . conclusions : the combination of clinical suspicion and the results of the lung scan and impedance plethysmography appear to offer acceptable diagnostic accuracy in evaluating many patients suspected of having pulmonary embolism . the usefulness of this approach for patients with cardiopulmonary disease is still unknown . 
increasing asthma prevalence in a rural new zealand adolescent population : 1975-89 . a survey of asthma symptoms and spirometry in 435 adolescent schoolchildren was undertaken in 1989 in a rural , largely maori population . the survey questionnaires were identical to those used in a 1975 survey at the same school . the prevalence of reported asthma or wheeze significantly increased from 26.2 % to 34.0 % . this increase occurred in groups reporting asthma , and also those reporting wheeze unassociated with colds , but without a previous diagnosis of asthma . there was a tendency for a rise in reported wheeze in europeans ( 24.3 % to 27.4 % ) and a significant rise in maoris ( 27.1 % to 36.2 % ) . the reclassification of other respiratory problems did not account for the increase . data from this study provides evidence that there has been a rise in the prevalence of asthma in this new zealand population over a time period of 14 years . 
diagnosis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia from non-invasive sampling of respiratory secretions . an infant infected with hiv presented with fever , tachypnoea , hypoxia , and radiological evidence of bilateral pneumonitis . fluorescent antibody technique identified pneumocystis carinii within 24 hours from secretions obtained by nasopharyngeal aspiration . this rapid , non-invasive method should be the first line investigation of suspected p carinii pneumonia in immunocompromised patients . 
air pollution and fatal lung disease in three utah counties . a unique situation found in two utah counties has made it possible to estimate the fraction of respiratory cancer and nonmalignant respiratory disease ( nmrd ) deaths , which are attributable to community air pollution ( cap ) in one county . the two counties were very similar in many ways , including low smoking rates , until a steel mill constructed during ww ii caused substantial cap in one of them . subsequent differences in mortality rates from both respiratory cancer and nmrd are striking . a third county , similar to many counties outside utah , was included in the analysis for comparison . in one county , 30-40 % of the respiratory cancer and nmrd deaths were attributable to cap . in this county , nmrd deaths ( but not respiratory cancer deaths ) were slightly more frequent than in salt lake county where smoking rates were twice as high . 
health effects of volcanic ash : a repeat study . the mount sakurajima volcano in kyushu , japan , is proximal to a large residential area , and it emits an enormous amount of volcanic ash during frequent eruptions . in our previous study , we investigated , for the first time , respiratory effects of chronic exposure to volcanic ash . the study demonstrated a low prevalence of respiratory symptoms , even in the area of highest exposure ; only a slight excess prevalence of symptoms appeared to be associated with exposure to volcanic ash . to confirm the findings of our previous study , the prevalence study of chronic respiratory symptoms for residents was repeated in kanoya and tashiro , which are located 25 and 50 km , respectively , from the crater of mt. sakurajima . the concentration of suspended particulate matter in kanoya frequently exceeded the national environmental quality standards and , during summer and winter , was 2-3 times higher than that found in tashiro . women who were 30-59 y of age and who had resided in kanoya or tashiro for more than 3 y completed a modified ats-dld questionnaire . the prevalence of nonspecific respiratory disease was low , i.e. , 6.5 % in kanoya and 6.2 % in tashiro ; similar prevalences were found in women who had never smoked . when we restricted the analysis to individuals without a history of occupational exposure to dusts and who had no exposure to passive smoking , there was a slightly higher prevalence of nonspecific respiratory disease in kanoya than tashiro , but the difference was not significant . eye symptoms were equally prevalent in the two areas . 
expression of blood group antigens by normal bronchopulmonary tissues and common forms of pulmonary carcinomas . the expression of abh and lewis antigens has been studied in a series of pulmonary carcinomas , in areas of squamous metaplasia , and in normal adjacent bronchopulmonary tissues by means of a panel of lectins and monoclonal antibodies . all respiratory epithelial cells can express antigens , with the exception of glandular serous cells . the expression of ab antigens is rather homogeneous , while lewis antigens are expressed in a more irregular pattern , alternating positively stained cells with negatively stained cells in the same microscopic field . the expression of blood group antigens allows the identification of residual pneumocytes inside the tumor and the proper classification of some neoplasms . metaplastic areas show a variation in the staining profile when compared with normal tissues and pulmonary carcinomas . the most significant findings are the deletion of a antigen and the strong expression of le antigen . pulmonary carcinomas are composed by a heterogeneous population and tend to express antigens in the more differentiated cases or areas . the most important findings are the deletion of ab antigens and the strong expression of le ( y ) antigen . 
regurgitation of fat and marrow emboli into coronary veins during resuscitation . three groups of patients were examined at autopsy for the presence of fat and marrow emboli in the lungs , heart , and other organs . group 1 was composed of patients with massive pulmonary thromboembolism and attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation ; group 2 , patients with pulmonary thromboembolism and without attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation ; and group 3 , patients without pulmonary thromboembolism and with attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation . the results confirm that pulmonary fat and marrow emboli are frequent in those patients who are resuscitated . a novel observation is the finding of multiple coexistent cardiac venous emboli in those resuscitated patients who have pulmonary artery obstruction with pulmonary thromboemboli . these findings suggest that these emboli regurgitate from the right side of the heart to the coronary sinus and cardiac veins in cases of pulmonary artery hypertension . 
fatal embolization of intestinal contents through a duodenocaval fistula . embolization of intestinal contents to the lung is an exceedingly rare event , which to our knowledge , has never been reported as a cause of death . equally rare is duodenocaval fistula resulting from a penetrating duodenal peptic ulcer . we present the case of a 51-year-old man whose duodenal ulcer led to a fistulous tract with the inferior vena cava and subsequently to progressive pulmonary embolization of intestinal contents , ultimately resulting in death from respiratory failure . 
acute pulmonary oedema on the ruwenzori mountain range . a 40 year old man had an episode of severe pulmonary oedema at 4000-5000 m during the ascent of the margherita peak ( 5109 m ) of mount stanley on the ruwenzori . he had taken acetazolamide and high dose dexamethasone to treat symptoms of acute mountain sickness . six years before he had been studied by right heart catheterisation as a healthy volunteer during hypoxic breathing at sea level . his pulmonary vascular reactivity had been within the normal range for 32 healthy subjects . this man had high altitude pulmonary oedema despite currently recommended treatments for acute mountain sickness and normal pulmonary vascular reactivity to hypoxia at sea level . 
interaction of chemical and high vascular pressure injury in isolated canine lung [ published erratum appears in j appl physiol 1991 mar ; 70 ( 3 ) :964 ] because both chemical and mechanical insults to the lung may occur concomitantly with trauma , we hypothesized that the pressure threshold for vascular pressure-induced ( mechanical ) injury would be decreased after a chemical insult to the lung . normal isolated canine lung lobes ( n , n = 14 ) and those injured with either airway acid instillation ( aai , n = 18 ) or intravascular oleic acid ( oa , n = 25 ) were exposed to short ( 5-min ) periods of elevated venous pressure ( hipv ) ranging from 19 to 130 cmh2o . before the hipv stress , the capillary filtration coefficient ( kf , c ) was 0.12 + / - 0.01 , 0.27 + / - 0.03 , and 0.31 + / - 0.02 ml.min-1 . cmh2o-1 x 100 g-1 and the isogravimetric capillary pressure ( pc , i ) was 9.2 + / - 0.3 , 6.8 + / - 0.5 , and 6.5 + / - 0.3 cmh2o in n , aai , and oa lungs , respectively . however , the pattern of response to hipv was similar in all groups : kf , c was no different from the pre-hipv value when the peak venous pressure ( pv ) remained less than 55 cmh2o , but it increased reversibly when peak pv exceeded 55 cmh2o ( p less than 0.05 ) . the reflection coefficient ( sigma ) for total proteins measured after pressure exposure averaged 0.60 + / - 0.03 , 0.32 + / - 0.04 , and 0.37 + / - 0.09 for n , aai , and oa lobes respectively . however , in contrast to the result expected if pore stretching had occurred at high pressure , in all groups the sigma measured during the hipv stress when pv exceeded 55 cmh2o was significantly larger than that measured during the recovery period . 
cough-enhanced mucus clearance in the normal lung . we studied the effectiveness of cough for clearing mucus in 12 nonsmoking subjects with normal lung function . on 2 separate study days , each subject breathed 6-microns mass median aerodynamic diameter 99mtc-labeled iron oxide particles under controlled breathing conditions while they were seated in front of a gamma camera . retention ( r ) of lung activity was measured over the initial 2 h and again at 24 h after particle inhalation . on the control day the subject sat quietly in front of the camera , while on the cough day each subject performed 60 controlled coughs during the 1st h of retention measurements . by paired analysis , retentions at both 1 and 2 h ( r1 and r2 , respectively ) for the cough measurements were significantly less than control ( mean control r1 = 85 % vs. mean cough r1 = 72 % , p less than 0.002 ; mean control r2 = 75 % vs. mean cough r2 = 65 % , p less than 0.02 ) . retention at 24 h ( r24 ) was not significantly different between cough and control measurements ( mean cough r24 = 35 % and mean control r24 = 32 % ) . thus coughing increased the rate at which the radiolabeled particles were cleared from the bronchial airways in these individuals . follow-up experiments with subjects performing rapid inhalations rather than cough showed similar enhanced particle clearance to that seen with cough . these results suggest that the observed enhancement of mucus clearance by cough ( and rapid inhalation ) in the normal lung may be due to a stimulation of the mucociliary apparatus rather than via a two-phase gas-liquid flow mechanism . 
atelectasis affects the rate of arterial desaturation during obstructive apnea . chronic hemodynamic disturbances are more profound in patients with obstructive sleep apnea when underlying lung disease with abnormal gas exchange ( low arterial po2 ) is present . previous studies suggest that pulmonary gas exchange could influence the rate of fall of arterial oxygen saturation ( dsao2/dt ) in obstructive sleep apnea . we postulated that abnormal gas exchange in the form of atelectasis would steepen dsao2/dt and thereby lower nadir arterial oxyhemoglobin saturation ( sao2 ) for the same duration of apnea . apneas were created by clamping an indwelling cuffed endotracheal tube at end expiration in eight spontaneously breathing adult baboons . apneas of the same duration were then repeated during temporary endobronchial occlusion of one lobe of the lung . sao2 and mixed venous o2 saturation were continuously monitored , and cardiac output was calculated . worsening of pulmonary gas exchange during atelectasis was documented by an increase in calculated venous admixture from 10.5 + / - 0.8 to 25.0 + / - 0.7 % ( p less than 0.001 ) . the dsao2/dt was independent of apnea duration at 30 , 45 , and 60 s. during endobronchial occlusion , apnea dsao2/dt increased 20 % , and nadir sao2 was significantly lower . possible mechanisms for steepening of dsao2/dt during atelectasis are discussed . 
failure of therapy with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to modify the course of sepsis-induced lung injury . oxidant-induced injury of the pulmonary microvasculature reportedly contributes to an increase in microvascular permeability and pulmonary hypertension , both of which are principal features of acute lung injury ( ali ) . we tested the hypothesis that antioxidant therapy with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( dhb ) , initiated in awake sheep after the development of sepsis-induced ali , would ameliorate the progression of these lesions . dhb has many actions that suggested to us the potential for demonstrating benefit in ali complicating sepsis ; it is a nontoxic hydroxyl-radical scavenger that also inhibits the cyclooxygenase pathway and acts as a weak iron chelator . in preliminary experiments , we demonstrated that pretreatment with dhb prevented an increase in mean pulmonary arterial pressure , plasma thromboxane a2 , measured as its metabolite thromboxane b2 , and lymph total protein clearance that otherwise followed an infusion of zymosan-activated plasma ( zap ) in sheep . in subsequent experiments , 12 additional sheep were rendered septic by cecal ligation and perforation . twenty-four to 36 h after cecal ligation and perforation , an increase in lung microvascular permeability was confirmed , because pulmonary lymph flow had increased by 82 % while the mean lymph-to-plasma total protein ratio was unchanged from baseline . at this point , six sheep were then treated with parenteral dhb and six with dhb vehicle for the subsequent 24 h. in contrast to the demonstrated benefit of dhb pretreatment in preventing ali secondary to an infusion of zap , the progressive increase in lymph total protein clearance that complicated septic lung injury in the dhb vehicle group throughout this 24-h study period was not ameliorated in the dhb treatment group . however , dhb did prevent a modest increase in mean pulmonary arterial pressures that was demonstrated in the dhb vehicle group throughout this 24-h treatment period . although pretreatment prevented ali after a zap infusion , we conclude that dhb only incompletely modified disease progression when administered after the onset of sepsis-induced ali because it ameliorated the pulmonary hypertensive response without concurrently modifying an increase in lung microvascular fluid flux . 
modulation of bordetella pertussis infection with monoclonal antibodies to pertussis toxin . three monoclonal antibodies to pertussis toxin were characterized and used to investigate its role in immunity . antibody affinity correlated with toxin neutralization in in vivo and in vitro assays but was not the only determinant of protection against bordetella pertussis infection . b9 , a high-affinity anti-s3 antibody , was the most effective in neutralizing toxin-induced cho cell clustering and hemagglutination in vitro and lymphocytosis and histamine sensitization in vivo . a4 , a similar-affinity anti-s1 antibody , was less active in the toxin neutralization assays but more protective in the mouse infection model . a12 , a low-affinity anti-s1 antibody , was least active in the assays of toxin neutralization but as effective as b9 in the infection model . these data suggest that epitopes on the a protomer and b oligomer may induce protective immunity . measurement of pertussis toxin neutralization by monoclonal antibodies in in vitro and in vivo assays may not accurately predict protection against infection with b. pertussis . 
influence of chemotherapy administration on monocyte activation by liposomal muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine in children with osteosarcoma . the purpose of these studies was to determine whether chemotherapy interfered with the ability of peripheral blood monocytes from patients with osteosarcoma to respond to the liposome-encapsulated activating agent muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine ( l-mtp-pe ) . this was done in preparation of designing an adjuvant therapy protocol that includes l-mtp-pe combined with chemotherapy postoperatively for the treatment of primary osteosarcoma . the majority of patients who fail current adjuvant chemotherapy do so while on chemotherapy . therefore , we believe it is important to combine l-mtp-pe with chemotherapy early in the treatment course rather than waiting until all chemotherapy cycles are completed . the tumoricidal properties of monocytes from patients with osteosarcoma could be activated by l-mtp-pe to levels equal to or greater than those expressed by normal control monocytes . no intrinsic monocyte defect could be demonstrated . single-agent chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin ( cpd ) , high-dose methotrexate ( mtx ) , cytoxan ( ctx , cyclophosphamide ; bristol-myers co , evansville , in ) , or adriamycin ( adr , doxorubicin ; adria laboratories , columbus , oh ) did not interfere with this activation process . there was even a suggestion of enhanced activation potential following the administration of adr . however , when both adr and ctx were administered together on the same day , profound suppression in monocyte activation was observed . this suppressed function returned to normal by 3 weeks postcombination therapy . we therefore conclude that l-mtp-pe can be combined with adr , cpd , mtx , or ctx as single agents but recommend that adr plus l-mtp-pe is the most effective combination . by contrast , we discourage the use of l-mtp-pe when adr and ctx are given together . 
intensive weekly chemotherapy for good-prognosis patients with small-cell lung cancer . a weekly , intensive chemotherapy regimen has been used to treat 70 patients with small-cell lung cancer ( sclc ) . forty-five patients had limited disease ( ld ) and 25 extensive disease ( ed ) with good prognostic features . the regimen consisted of cisplatin 50 mg/m2 intravenously ( iv ) day 1 and etoposide 75 mg/m2 iv days 1 and 2 , alternating weekly with ifosfamide 2 g/m2 iv day 8 and doxorubicin 25 mg/m2 iv day 8 , for a total of 12 weeks . dose modifications were made according to defined hematologic criteria . responding patients with limited disease subsequently received mediastinal radiotherapy . overall response to chemotherapy was 91 % with a complete response ( cr ) rate of 50 % . forty-five patients with limited disease ( ld ) achieved an overall response rate of 91 % with a cr rate of 51 % , and 25 patients with extensive disease ( ed ) achieved an overall response rate of 92 % with a cr rate of 48 % . median survival for the whole group was 54 weeks ( ld , 58 weeks ; ed , 42 weeks ) . hematologic toxicity was predictable , without the wide fluctuations in wbc count seen in conventional 3-weekly regimens . in all , one quarter of treatment courses were delayed , most frequently because of leukopenia . dose reductions were required in 63 % of cases . the average delivered dose intensity was calculated and shown to be 73 % of projected . nonhematologic toxicity was mild with nausea and vomiting being the most common . this weekly schedule of chemotherapy has proved to be active and well tolerated and is currently being compared with conventional 3-weekly chemotherapy in a randomized study . 
eosinophilic myositis an expression of l-tryptophan toxicity ? eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome possibly due to l-tryptophan is a new clinical entity that has been recently reported . we describe the clinical presentation of eosinophilia , eosinophilic pustular folliculitis , myalgia , and eosinophilic myositis , that led to respiratory failure in a young man taking an l-tryptophan containing compound . 
effect of interleukin-1-beta on metastasis formation in different tumor systems . experiments were done to determine the effect of interleukin-1-beta ( il-1 beta ) on metastasis formation in different tumor systems . intravenous administration of 1 microgram of human recombinant il-1 beta given 1 hour before tumor cell injection augmented lung colony formation ( experimental metastases ) by the human a375 melanoma variants , the human ht-29m colon carcinoma , the sn12-k1 renal carcinoma in nude mice , the murine b16 melanoma variants , and the murine uv-2237m fibrosarcoma in syngeneic recipients . the same treatment did not induce lung colony formation by a human rectal carcinoma ( hcc-p2988 ) or by a murine reticulum cell sarcoma ( m5076 ) , both of which are not metastatic to the lung . spontaneous metastases were studied in c57bl/6 mice bearing the b16-bl6 melanoma ( metastatic to the lung ) in their footpad and the m5076 reticulum cell sarcoma ( metastatic to the liver ) subcutaneously . daily intraperitoneal treatment with 1 microgram of il-1 beta increased lung and liver metastases . these findings indicate that treatment of mice with il-1 beta can increase the number of artificial or spontaneous metastases and that this effect is not limited to a single tumor type or to a specific organ . 
phase i and imaging trial of indium 111-labeled anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody 225 in patients with squamous cell lung carcinoma murine monoclonal antibody ( mab ) 225 ( igg1 ) against the epidermal growth factor ( egf ) receptor competitively blocks egf binding and inhibits egf-induced activation of receptor tyrosine kinase and cell proliferation . the effect of mab 225 was studied in a phase i trial in patients with inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of the lung , which invariably expresses high levels of egf receptors . groups of three patients received total doses of mab 225 ranging from 1 mg to 300 mg . except at the lowest dose , each infusion included 4 mg of indium 111 ( 111in ) - labeled mab 225 . no toxicity was observed . tumors were imaged in all patients who received doses of 20 mg or greater . presumed metastases greater than or equal to 1 cm in diameter were imaged with doses of 40 mg or greater . single-photon-emission-computed tomography could be carried out at the 120-mg and 300-mg doses and significantly improved tumor visualization . all patients produced anti-murine antibodies . we conclude that treatment with an mab that inhibits egf receptor function is safe at the doses and schedule studied . 111in-labeled mab images squamous cell lung carcinoma ; tumor uptake of the labeled mab is dose dependent . further studies are warranted to explore the potential therapeutic efficacy of anti-egf receptor mabs and other agents that act in a comparable manner . 
brief intensive chemotherapy for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer : a phase ii study of the weekly code regimen . fifty-three patients , 17 with stage iiib and 36 with stage iv non-small-cell lung cancer , were given code ( cisplatin , vincristine , doxorubicin , and etoposide ) plus antibiotic prophylaxis and an antiemetic regimen in an intensive chemotherapy program emphasizing weekly treatment and a planned brief duration ( 9-12 weeks ) ; for 45 of these patients , the code program also included antifungal prophylaxis and supportive corticosteroids . of the total study population , 33 patients ( 62 % ) responded to treatment , including five ( 9 % ) with complete response . the median survival for the entire group was 42 weeks ( 55 weeks for those with stage iiib and 39 weeks for those with stage iv ) . more than 40 % were alive at 1 year . comparison of granulocyte counts of patients receiving prednisone with those of the subgroup to whom no corticosteroids were given showed less granulocytopenia for those receiving prednisone . use of prednisone thus allowed improved delivery of myelosuppressive drugs . code was halted in nine patients because of disease progression . although more constitutional side effects are associated with weekly chemotherapy than with standard chemotherapy , only 12 of the remaining 44 patients ( 27 % ) failed to receive at least 9 weeks of treatment . serious toxicity was uncommon : there were no treatment-related deaths and only three episodes of neutropenia with fever . code is a novel treatment for non-small-cell lung cancer that this pilot study provided entirely in an outpatient setting over a 9-12 week period with an acceptable incidence of toxicity and a promising level of efficacy . additional testing and comparison with other regimens or supportive care alone are warranted . 
management of primary nonrenal parenchymal malignancies with vena caval thrombus . we report our experience with the management of 7 primary nonrenal parenchymal malignancies with vena caval tumor thrombus . included are 3 cases of adrenal cortical carcinoma and 1 each of transitional cell carcinoma , embryonal cell testicular carcinoma , pheochromocytoma and primary small cell carcinoma of the lung with metastases to the kidney . surgical treatment and followup are presented , as well as a review of the literature . an aggressive surgical approach is warranted because prolonged survivals free of disease are possible . 
roentgenologic features of pulmonary blastomycosis . in 35 cases of pulmonary blastomycosis , the roentgenologic features were as follows : consolidation 26 % , mass 31 % , intermediate-sized nodules 6 % , miliary pattern 11 % , solitary cavity 9 % , fibrotic and cavitary changes 6 % , interstitial pattern 6 % , diffuse alveolar involvement 3 % , and mixed alveolar and interstitial infiltrate 3 % . all symptomatic cases of consolidation were acute ( symptoms for less than 1 month ) , and most were in young patients ( mean age , 34 years ) . consolidation constituted 58 % of the acute cases in this series . two of the nine cases of consolidation were asymptomatic epidemic cases detected by screening . a pulmonary mass was the most common initial manifestation in this series ; it tended to occur in patients with chronic symptoms ( more than 1 month ) . the mass was considered suggestive enough of bronchogenic carcinoma to necessitate resection in 55 % of cases . the military form of pulmonary blastomycosis occurred in older patients with disseminated disease . fibrotic and cavitary disease was chronic in nature . the presence of intermediate-sized nodules elsewhere in the lung proved to be a helpful diagnostic finding in several patients with consolidation , mass , or cavitary disease . hilar adenopathy , postinfectious calcification , chest wall invasion , and pleural effusion occurred infrequently or not at all in this series . 
fungal tracheobronchitis . report of 9 cases and review of the literature . clinical , roentgenographic and pathologic findings are described in 9 patients with fungal tracheobronchitis and comparison is made with 25 additional cases in the literature . two morphologic patterns were identified : the first appears as a pseudomembrane of necrotic tissue , exudate , and fungal hyphae involving more-or-less the entire circumference of the bronchial wall or as mucus/fungus plugs completely occluding the airway lumen ; the second consists of single or multiple discrete plaques on the airway wall , sometimes associated with invasion of the adjacent lung parenchyma or pulmonary artery . as with more invasive forms of fungal infection , a compromise in host defenses is probably the most important factor leading to fungal colonization and subsequent local invasion . malignancies of the hematologic and lymphoreticular systems , solid neoplasms , granulocytopenia , and a history of a protracted course of broad-spectrum antibiotics , corticosteroids , and chemotherapy were present in most of our patients and in those reported in the literature . despite this , there is some evidence that tracheobronchitis may occur in individuals with a relatively lesser degree of host defense impairment . local damage to the airway wall such as occurs with prolonged mechanical ventilatory support , neoplastic infiltration , or nonfungal infection may also be a factor predisposing to fungal colonization and invasion . in 4 of our patients , the fungal infection of the tracheobronchial tree probably contributed significantly to the development of terminal respiratory failure . although recognition of the infection may not have altered the course of the underlying disease in some of our patients , in others identification and early treatment might have been life-saving . thus , culture and histologic examination of bronchoscopically identified tracheobronchial mucus plugs and necrotic material should be performed in all immunocompromised individuals . 
at the water 's edge : where obstetrics and anesthesia meet conflict exists between satisfying the parturient 's desire for oral intake and traditional restrictive standards of obstetric and anesthesia departments . surveys of institutions providing obstetric services reveal greatly varying oral intake policy . there is neither evidence of benefit in withholding fluids nor evidence of risk in allowing them . prolonged fasting has potential liabilities . maternal mortality is rare , and anesthesia-related causes are not among the common etiologies . aspiration is not a significant factor in the modern era . higher risk for anesthesia morbidity is associated with general anesthesia , particularly difficult intubation . instead of implicating oral intake as a risk factor for pulmonary aspiration , the literature consistently emphasizes the critical role of properly trained and dedicated obstetric anesthesia personnel . unless parturients are not candidates for regional anesthesia , a nonparticulate diet should be allowed . liberal use of regional anesthesia as well as antacid prophylaxis is recommended . 
lung scanning for pulmonary embolism : clinical and pulmonary angiographic correlations . a group of 78 patients with suspected pulmonary embolism was studied by both ventilation perfusion lung scanning and pulmonary angiography . symptoms and clinical signs were analysed using bayesian techniques to produce pre-test odds for pulmonary embolism in individual patients . while , as a group , those with embolism could be discriminated from those without on this basis , major overlap existed between the groups , invalidating the use of this approach for individual patients . strict diagnostic criteria for interpretation of lung scans were accurate using pulmonary angiography as the ' gold standard ' , but at the expense of a significant number of patients ( 38 per cent ) in the indeterminate ( non-diagnostic ) group . in the 48 patients in whom the test yielded a diagnostic result , there was a sensitivity of 100 per cent ( 15/15 ) and a specificity of 97 per cent ( 32/33 ) . in the series as a whole , the likelihood of lung scanning correctly diagnosing pulmonary embolism was 55 per cent ( 15/27 ) and of correctly excluding embolism , 63 per cent ( 32/51 ) . by the use of strict criteria for interpretation of lung scanning , reliable information can be obtained on the presence or absence of pulmonary embolism in a large proportion of patients suspected of having the condition . such information is more discriminating than clinical signs and symptoms . 
risk for postoperative congestive heart failure . to identify predictors of postoperative congestive heart failure ( chf ) , a high-risk population , mainly hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective general operations , was studied . of the 254 patients , 6 per cent had postoperative chf . among patients with preoperative cardiac disease ( that is , previous myocardial infarction , valvular disease or chf ) , 17 per cent had postoperative chf ; in contrast with less than 1 per cent of those without cardiac disease ( p less than 0.001 ) . patients with diabetes were also at high risk ( 12 versus 2 per cent , p less than 0.005 ) , particularly those with cardiac disease . patients who had equal to or greater than 40 millimeters of mercury increases or decreases intraoperatively in mean arterial pressure in relation to preoperative baseline had increased postoperative failure rates ( p less than 0.02 ) . of note , postoperative failure rates were highest among patients with less than 500 milliliters per hour of net intake ( input and output ) ( p less than 0.03 ) . risk for postoperative chf was restricted to patients with preoperative symptomatic cardiac disease and was especially high if patients also had diabetes . intraoperative fluctuations in mean arterial pressure increased the probability of postoperative failure , while the intraoperative administration of higher net volumes of fluid was associated with decreased risk . 
the " natural history " of the transplanted lung : rates of pulmonary functional change in long-term survivors of heart-lung transplantation . long-term pulmonary function in hlt is well preserved with no evidence of functional decline as a result of transplant " aging , " providing the allografts remain free of complications . long-term survivors with ob appear to be able to maintain adequate oxygenation despite the marked alterations of pulmonary function . the ability to preserve gas exchange at reasonable levels of oxygenation may be the factors permitting extended survival with ob for mean periods of 36.0 months or greater . preliminary studies suggest that a declining fef50/fvc , at a time when pulmonary function is normal , may be an index of impending airway disease . physiologically , from a long-term point of view , hlt remains a viable option for selected patients with end-stage cardiopulmonary disease . 
single-lung transplantation for pulmonary vascular disease . six patients with end-stage pulmonary vascular disease received right slts . though patients generally had difficult early postoperative courses , four of the six have survived from 3 to 23 months and have achieved good recovery of right ventricular function and good functional results . slt is a viable option in selected patients with severe pulmonary hypertension even when right ventricular function is severely impaired . 
gastroesophageal reflux and respiratory symptoms : is there an association ? proposed mechanisms and treatment . gastroesophageal reflux ( ger ) is a dysfunction of the distal esophagus causing movement of stomach contents into the esophagus . patients may develop heartburn , regurgitation , dysphagia , odynophagia , and hemorrhage . respiratory symptoms occur in 10-60 percent of patients with ger or hiatal hernia . although there is evidence associating pulmonary symptoms and ger , causality has not been proven . the appropriate use of antireflux therapy or surgery to treat ger may consequently alleviate respiratory symptoms . 
hypertension with concomitant conditions : the changing role of beta-adrenoceptor blockade . hypertension often is associated with concomitant conditions such as chronic obstructive lung disease , diabetes mellitus , ischemic heart disease , and peripheral vascular disease . moreover , other cardiovascular risk factors , including dyslipidemias and abnormalities of glucose and insulin metabolism , are common in patients with hypertension . conventional beta-blockers used for antihypertensive therapy can have adverse effects in patients with airway disease , diabetes , and peripheral vascular disease , and can exaggerate the other risk factors . newer beta-blockers such as celiprolol , which have selective partial agonist activity expressed at beta 2-receptors , appear to avoid these problems . celiprolol exhibits antianginal and antihypertensive efficacy without adversely effecting left ventricular systolic function or exercise performance . it also may cause regression of left ventricular hypertrophy . the stimulatory action of celiprolol on vascular beta 2-receptors enhances regional flow and may increase walking distance in patients with claudication . the reduction in renal vascular resistance demonstrated by this drug is associated with preservation of renal blood flow and function . spirometric measurements of airway function are unchanged during celiprolol treatment . similarly , there are no adverse effects on lipid or glucose concentrations . these new developments in beta-blocker pharmacology indicate that this class of agents could be used in patients with hypertension with concomitant diseases or risk factors other than high blood pressure . 
body composition by bioelectrical-impedance analysis compared with deuterium dilution and skinfold anthropometry in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . body composition is an important measure of nutritional status in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) . we generated a regression model for bioelectrical impedance ( bi ) by using deuterium dilution ( 2h2o ) as a reference method in 32 copd patients , aged 63 + / - 9 y ( mean + / - sd ) , in stable pulmonary and cardiac condition . height squared divided by resistance ( ht2/res ) correlated well with total body water ( tbw ) as measured by 2h2o ( r = 0.93 , p less than 0.001 , see = 1.9 l ) . the best-fitting regression equation to predict tbw comprised ht2/res and body weight ( r2 = 0.89 , see = 1.8 l , p less than 0.001 ) . bi-predicted tbw was used to estimate bi-fat-free mass ( ffm ) that was compared with skinfold-thickness-based ffm predictions ( anthr-ffm ) . relative to bi-ffm a significant overestimation of 4.4 + / - 0.8 kg was found by anthr-ffm . our results suggest that bi is a useful measure of body composition in patients with severe copd . 
chest wall involvement by lung cancer : computed tomographic detection and results of operation . the aim of this prospective study was to evaluate : ( 1 ) the role of computed tomographic scanning in predicting chest wall invasion by peripheral lung cancer and ( 2 ) the results of operation according to the depth of chest wall involvement and other potential indicators of long-term survival . one hundred twelve patients with non-small cell lung cancer adjacent to the pleural surface who underwent computed tomographic scanning and subsequent thoracotomy were entered into this study . tumor invasion was confined to the visceral pleura in 53 patients , to the parietal pleura in 18 patients , and to intercostal muscles in 25 patients ; invasion extended beyond this layer in 16 patients . the computed tomographic criteria for chest wall invasion were ( 1 ) obliteration of the extrapleural fat plane , ( 2 ) the length of the tumor-pleura contact , ( 3 ) the ratio between the tumor-pleura contact and the tumor diameter , ( 4 ) the angle of the tumor with the pleura , ( 5 ) a mass involving the chest wall , and ( 6 ) rib destruction . the computed tomographic criteria 1 and 3 were significantly related to pathologic findings . sensitivity was 85 % for criterion 1 and 83 % for criterion 3 , specificity being 87 % and 80 % , respectively . long-term survival of patients with t3 disease critically depended on the lymph node state and completeness of resection . the adenocarcinoma cell type and the t4 category were unfavorable prognostic factors . the depth of chest wall invasion did not affect survival , except for extensive rib and soft tissue infiltration . en bloc resection yielded better results than discontinuous resection . 
risk factors for nosocomial pneumonia after coronary artery bypass graft operations we attempted to determine risk factors for nosocomial pneumonia in patients undergoing a coronary artery bypass graft operation . we reviewed the microbiology and medical records for any patient with a sputum culture who had undergone a coronary artery bypass graft operation in 1988 to identify patients with pneumonia according to a standard clinical definition . we found 19 cases of pneumonia through our initial review ; complete medical records were found on 15 cases . gram-negative bacilli predominated as the most common etiologic agent causing pneumonia in this cohort . there were no clusters noted . mortality was 26.6 % . pneumonia occurred approximately 4 days after the operation . thirty-six controls were randomly selected from patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft operations in 1988 . logistic regression analysis revealed that a history of chronic obstructive lung disease , duration of more than 2 days of mechanical ventilation after operation but before diagnosis of pneumonia , and receipt of gastric acid inhibitors ( antacids or h2-blockers ) were independent risk factors for nosocomial pneumonia . only the last risk factor was amenable to intervention at the time of operation . 
response to chemotherapy does not predict survival after resection of sarcomatous pulmonary metastases . between 1979 and 1988 , 26 patients with pulmonary metastases from adult soft-tissue sarcomas were treated with adriamycin ( doxorubicin hydrochloride ) , cytoxan ( cyclophosphamide ) , and dtic before metastasectomy . thirty-eight thoracotomies were performed with postoperative complications in 5 patients ( 5/38 , 13.2 % ) and one postoperative death ( 1/38 , 2.6 % ) . two patients had benign lesions at thoracotomy and were excluded from further survival analysis . the median survival of the remaining 24 patients after thoracotomy was 18.5 + / - 5.9 months , and the actuarial 5-year survival was 22 % . five patients ( 5/24 , 21 % ) achieved a clinically complete response with preoperative chemotherapy , but all had recurrence in the lung and underwent resection of pulmonary metastases . seven patients ( 7/24 , 29 % ) achieved a partial response and had residual disease resected at thoracotomy . twelve patients ( 12/24 , 50 % ) showed either no change or disease progression while receiving chemotherapy and were referred for resection . postthoracotomy disease-free survival and postthoracotomy overall survival did not differ significantly between the three groups . one patient in the group showing no change or progression of disease while receiving chemotherapy is alive without recurrence 57 months after initial pulmonary metastasectomy . chemotherapy can be used for the initial treatment of pulmonary metastases from adult soft-tissue sarcomas . however , survival after resection of pulmonary metastases can not be accurately predicted based on the clinical response to preoperative chemotherapy . 
pulmonary embolectomy : a 20-year experience at one center between 1968 and 1988 , 96 consecutive patients with acute massive pulmonary embolism underwent pulmonary embolectomy under cardiopulmonary bypass . the operative mortality rate was 37.5 % . we analyzed 12 clinical and hemodynamic variables by univariate and multivariate analyses to assess the predictive factors of postoperative outcome . multivariate analysis disclosed that cardiac arrest and associated cardiopulmonary disease were independent predictors of operative death . long-term follow-up ( range , 2 to 144 months ; mean , 56 months ) information was available for 55 of the 60 discharged patients : 6 had died , and 5 complained of persistent mild or severe exertional dyspnea ( new york heart association class ii ) . these results help assess the preoperative risk in patients undergoing pulmonary embolectomy . they also show that , in the few patients who do not benefit from optimal medical therapy , pulmonary embolectomy remains an acceptable procedure in view of the long-term results . 
intrathoracic fibrin glue for postoperative pleuropulmonary fistula . twenty cases of persistent pleuropulmonary fistula after a thoracic surgical procedure were successfully treated with fibrin glue injection into the thoracic cavity through a drainage tube . a new technique , the overlying method , which is a modification of the conventional technique of fibrin glue injection , was devised . each patient received one to four injections ( mean number , 1.6 ) . this method resulted in closure of the pleuropulmonary fistula in all but 1 patient . minor complications included pain in 1 patient and fever in 3 patients . a control study involving 24 patients with pleuropulmonary fistula was performed . autoblood , ok-432 , and tetracycline were used instead of fibrin glue . the fistula resolved in 12 patients . complications after injection included pain in 15 patients , fever in 10 , and occlusion of the chest tube in 4 . with our new method , patients rarely exhibited pain and fever , and occlusion of the chest tube did not occur . 
aggressive surgical intervention in n2 non-small cell cancer of the lung . an aggressive attitude toward surgical treatment was taken in patients with n2 non-small cell lung cancer in the past 10 years . computed tomographic scanning was employed in the diagnosis of n2 disease , and had a true-positive rate of 57 % . among patients with n2 disease detected by computed tomographic scanning , surgical intervention was attempted except for those with unresectable disease . of 190 patients with clinical n2 disease , 115 underwent surgical exploration : 9 patients had only an exploratory thoracotomy , 53 patients underwent a curative operation , and 53 had a noncurative operation . the overall 5-year survival rate of these patients was 16 % and that of curatively resected patients was 20 % . there were 47 patients whose n2 disease was not recognized before operation . the 5-year survival rate of this group was 20 % overall and 33 % in curatively resected cases . the overall 5-year survival rate of patients with n2 disease who underwent resection ( 106 with clinical n2 disease and 47 with clinically unrecognized n2 disease ) was 17 % , and that of the 84 patients undergoing curative operations was 24 % . an aggressive attitude toward surgical intervention can be advocated for patients with n2 disease on the basis of our present results . 
diagnosis of poststernotomy infection : comparison of three means of assessment . of 737 adults undergoing cardiac operations through a median sternotomy over a 2-year period ( january 1988 to january 1990 ) , sternal-substernal space infection requiring mediastinal exploration developed in 8 . six of these patients as well as 18 additional patients were evaluated for possible poststernotomy wound infection by computed tomography ( 4 true positive , 4 false positive , 10 true negative , 2 false negative ) , indium-111 leukocyte scanning ( 5 true positive , 0 false positive , 18 true negative , 1 false negative ) , and epicardial pacer wire cultures ( 6 true positive , 1 false positive , 12 true negative , 0 false negative ) . on the basis of this experience it is suggested that in addition to computed tomography , indium-111 leukocyte scanning and epicardial pacer wire cultures may be useful in the diagnosis of poststernotomy deep wound infection . 
misplaced caval filter and subsequent pericardial tamponade . use of the greenfield filter for partial caval interruption is generally accepted as the most reliable mechanical method of pulmonary embolus prophylaxis . however , there have been reports of a variety of ( usually nonfatal ) complications . we report here the near-fatal complication of acute pericardial tamponade after misplacement of a greenfield filter . because of the filter 's unusual location , retrieval required cardiopulmonary bypass , profound hyperthermia , and circulatory arrest . 
total unilateral lung gangrene in hodgkin 's disease : treatment by thoracostomy . total gangrene of the left lung developed in a 30-year-old male patient with a pulmonary recurrence of hodgkin 's disease after mediastinal irradiation and chemotherapy . clinically , tension pyopneumothorax and severe septic shock were present . surgical repair was done by thoracostomy , resecting three ribs . a 2 x 0.5-cm hole in the necrotic wall of the left main bronchus was covered with an intercostal muscle bundle . the necrotic pleural surfaces were treated openly by daily change of dressings . the patient recovered satisfactorily and underwent four further courses of chemotherapy without any complications . 
intraoperative management of severe endobronchial hemorrhage endobronchial hemorrhage due to pulmonary artery perforation by a swan-ganz catheter developed during coronary artery bypass grafting while weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass . after reinstitution of cardio-pulmonary bypass with pulmonary artery venting , bleeding was localized to the right lower lobe bronchus using fiberoptic bronchoscopy . a fogarty embolectomy catheter was inflated in the bronchus to tamponade successfully only the right lower lobe . this case illustrates a method of distal bronchial blockade for maximal retention of pulmonary function and avoidance of pulmonary resection . 
nephrotic syndrome complicating adenocarcinoma of the lung with resolution after resection . nephrotic syndrome is an uncommon complication of lung cancer . we present a case in which adenocarcinoma was complicated by the nephrotic syndrome , which resolved after resection of the cancer . 
extracorporeal gas exchange in adult respiratory distress syndrome : associated morbidity and its surgical treatment . extracorporeal carbon dioxide removal ( ecco2-r ) over a membrane lung is a new therapy for patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) who frequently suffer from lung complications caused by long-term artificial ventilation and who may require major thoracic surgery . this is a report of 76 patients with severe ards who were treated by ecco2-r . twenty-six of these 76 patients required thoracotomy : 19 for pneumothorax and pneumatocele , and seven for haemothorax , infected lung necrosis or oesophagotracheal fistula . most pneumothoraces were bilateral . ten of these 26 patients required reoperation , usually for extensive persisting alveolar air leaks . sixteen ( 62 per cent ) of the 26 patients who had a thoracotomy and 22 ( 44 per cent ) of the 50 patients without surgery survived . these results demonstrate that performing a thoracotomy , if necessary , does not diminish the survival chance of high-risk patients with severe ards . 
interpleural analgesia improves pulmonary function after cholecystectomy . the purpose of this study was to examine the effects of interpleural bupivacaine on analgesia and ventilatory capacity after cholecystectomy . forty-two patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy were randomly assigned to two groups : one to receive interpleural administration of bupivacaine-adrenaline mixture ( group 1 = 22 patients ) and the other standard administration of intramuscular meperidine ( group 2 = 20 patients ) for postoperative pain relief . the intensity of pain was evaluated by a visual analogue scale ( vas ) preoperatively as well as at 2 , 8 , 24 and 48 hr postoperatively . at the same time , fvc and fev1 .0 measurements were obtained for all patients . the group given interpleural bupivacaine had better pain relief with mean vas of 0.6 + / - 0.9 ( mean + / - sd ) 1.1 + / - 1.4 , 0.6 + / - 0.9 and 0.8 + / - 1.2 compared with 5.2 + / - 2.2 , 5.8 + / - 2.7 , 5.5 + / - 2.2 and 4.5 + / - 1.8 for patients receiving meperidine ( p less than 0.001 ) . the patients in group 1 also had larger fvc and fev than those in group 2 : fvc 22 + / - 14.5 per cent vs 32 + / - 15.2 per cent ( p less than 0.005 ) , fev1 .0 25 + / - 15.5 vs 38 + / - 14.8 per cent ( p less than 0.001 ) ( mean + / - sd ) . we conclude that the interpleural analgesia can achieve better pain relief with greater ventilatory capacity than a standard analgesic regimen in the first two days after cholecystectomy . 
improved outcomes from tertiary center pediatric intensive care : a statewide comparison of tertiary and nontertiary care facilities objective : to compare outcomes from pediatric intensive care in hospitals with different levels of resources . design : prospective , blinded comparison of outcome and care . setting : tertiary ( n = 3 ) and nontertiary ( n = 71 ) hospitals in oregon and southwestern washington . patients : all critically ill children admitted with respiratory failure and head trauma for 6 months . measurements and main results : severity of illness adjusted mortality rates were determined using admission day , physiologic profiles ( pediatric risk of mortality score ) and care modalities were assessed daily . the crude mortality rate of the tertiary patients was four times higher than for the nontertiary patients ( 23.4 % vs. 6.0 % , p less than .0001 ) . in the tertiary patients , the numbers of outcomes were accurately predicted by physiologic profiles ( observed : 30 deaths and 98 survivors ; predicted : 29.3 deaths and 98.7 survivors , z = -.25 , p greater than .4 ) . however , for the nontertiary patients , the number of the deaths were significantly different than predicted ( observed : 20 deaths and 315 survivors ; predicted : 14.4 deaths and 320.6 survivors , z = -2.08 , p less than .05 ) . the odds ratios of dying in a nontertiary vs. a tertiary facility were about 1.1 , 2.3 , and 8 ( p less than .05 ) for mortality risk groups of less than 5 % , 5 % to 30 % , and greater than 30 % . patients in tertiary facilities received more ( p less than .05 ) invasive ( e.g. , arterial catheters ) and complex ( e.g. , mechanical ventilation ) care , whereas patients in nontertiary facilities received more ( p less than .05 ) labor-intensive care ( e.g. , hourly vital signs ) . conclusions : care of the most seriously ill children in tertiary pediatric icus could improve their chances of survival . 
reliability of the bronchoscopic protected catheter brush in the diagnosis of pneumonia in mechanically ventilated patients . objective : to assess the usefulness of the telescoping plugged catheter in the diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia . design : prospective study . patients : a total of 103 ventilated patients with suspected pneumonia were prospectively studied over 20 months . results : the quantitative cultures of the protected brush specimen detected pulmonary bacterial infection ( greater than 10 ( 3 ) cfu/ml ) in 49 ( 47.5 % ) patients . subsequent follow-up confirmed pneumonia in 41 patients ; in only one patient was a positive protected brush specimen culture established as a false-positive result . there were 54 patients with less than 10 ( 3 ) cfu/ml and the diagnosis was excluded in 36 of them . we identified eight patients with false-negative protected brush specimen cultures . the results obtained by this technique allowed us to modify treatment in 49 ( 47.5 % ) patients . conclusions : the telescoping plugged catheter demonstrated significant bacterial infection in a relatively small proportion of patients in whom bacterial lung infection was suspected . this technique can be safely performed and is a sensitive and specific method to establish the cause of pneumonia , thus allowing specific treatment and the avoidance of inappropriate antibiotic therapy . 
high incidence of cardiopulmonary complications associated with implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus in patients with advanced neurologic disease . objective : the purpose of our study was to examine the cardiopulmonary complications of a group of patients who had undergone implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus for treatment of neurologic disease . design : prospective study with partially matched historical controls . setting : tertiary care community medical center . patients and methods : seven patients with advanced parkinson 's disease and three patients with progressive supranuclear palsy underwent implantation of adrenal medullary tissue into the caudate nucleus . these patients were compared with respect to their cardiopulmonary complications with a control group who had undergone craniotomy and then compared with a control group who had undergone only abdominal surgery . results : in the study group , six patients developed major postoperative complications including development of large pleural effusions , lobar atelectasis , pneumonia , upper airway obstruction , and cardiac arrest . three patients had minor complications including development of small pleural effusions , subsegmental atelectasis , purulent bronchitis , mild congestive heart failure , and atrial flutter/fibrillation . one patient had an unremarkable postoperative course . the first control group , whose only surgery was a craniotomy , had only one major complication . the second control group , the abdominal surgery control group , had one major and five minor complications . conclusion : the particular neurologic disease , its severity , and the type of surgery performed appear to be causative factors in the high incidence of complications in the study group . 
effect of prostaglandin e1 infusion on leukocyte traffic and fibrosis in acute lung injury induced by bleomycin in hamsters . objective : to determine whether the iv infusion of prostaglandin e1 ( pge1 ) could modify the early influx of neutrophils into bleomycin-injured lungs and if that would affect subsequent development of inflammation and fibrosis . background and methods : in vivo controlled animal study performed in a university hospital pulmonary research laboratory . male syrian golden hamsters ( 100 - to 110-g body weight ) were divided into four treatment groups : a ) no treatment ; b ) intratracheal bleomycin plus pge1 infusion ; c ) bleomycin plus saline infusion ; d ) pge1 infusion only . pge1 ( 180 ng/hr .100 g ) or saline were infused iv 3 to 25 hr after intratracheal instillation of bleomycin sulfate ( 0.5 u/0 .5 ml .100 g ) . total and differential counts of cells recovered by lavage , lavage fluid protein , and lung total protein and hydroxyproline levels were measured from 6 hr to 30 days later . results : pge1 infusion reduced the influx of neutrophils 6 hr after bleomycin injury by 53 % compared with saline infusion ( p less than .0001 ) , but increased inflammatory cell traffic after 24 hr for 15 days . at 4 days , protein recovered in lung lavage fluid was also decreased in pge1-treated , bleomycin-injured animals , reflecting reduced injury to lung permeability barriers . accumulation of lung collagen in the pge1-treated , bleomycin-instilled hamsters tended to be lower than in the bleomycin-injured , saline-infused group at 15 and 30 days , although these differences did not achieve statistical significance . despite this fact , greater than 33 % of the animals in the pge1-treated group died , possibly indicating an increased risk of sepsis in these animals . conclusions : pge1 infusion can decrease early neutrophil traffic and reduce injury to the lung permeability barriers . however , this treatment augments late inflammatory events and does not significantly alter the development of fibrosis . 
inhibition by methylprednisolone of leukocyte-induced pulmonary damage . background and methods : the purpose of this study was twofold : the development of a chronic model of leukocyte-mediated pulmonary injury and the evaluation of the protective effects of methylprednisolone . rabbits were inoculated ip with zymosan . blood gases and circulating leukocytes were evaluated . survivors were killed on day 10 for microscopic studies and for the evaluation of lung lipid peroxidation through the by-product malondialdehyde . results : intraperitoneal zymosan resulted in a marked decrease of pao2 and circulating leukocytes , and increased cellularity of alveolar septa , interstitial edema , and increased lung malondialdehyde . pulmonary damage was partially prevented when methylprednisolone was administered before zymosan inoculation , but not when methylprednisolone was given 24 hr later . conclusions : the authors conclude that a local nonseptic inflammatory stimulus may provoke remote changes to the lungs and that methylprednisolone may counteract the process only if it is administered before or very early after the onset of inflammation . 
use of a biotinylated dna probe specific for the human y chromosome in the evaluation of the allograft lung . a cloned 3.4 kilobase dna probe derived from the heterochromatin of the y chromosome was used to investigate the regeneration and reepithelialization of allograft lungs of nine recipients who received sex mismatched donor organs . patients were monitored for varying periods of time , up to four years , by transbronchial biopsy . in situ hybridization on paraffin-embedded biopsies utilizing the y probe revealed that bronchial and alveolar epithelium and arterial and venous endothelium of the peripheral lung retained a donor phenotype , irrespective of episodes of acute or chronic rejection ( obliterative bronchiolitis ) which are known to injure these cellular subsets . in contrast , migratory cells , lymphocytes and macrophages , gradually , at varying rates , infiltrated the allografted lungs , replacing preexisting donor elements . cases of active ob were manifested by infiltration of bronchioles by sex-mismatched lymphocytes ; however , in some instances , quiescent recipient lymphocytes colonized the allograft and were unassociated with histologic rejection . macrophages of similar sex seemed to cluster together within air spaces . use of a dna probe for the y chromosome and in situ hybridization techniques allow monitoring of cellular alterations over time in recipients with sex mismatched allografts . 
upper-extremity deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism . a prospective study . we prospectively evaluated the prevalence of pulmonary embolism ( pe ) in 30 consecutive patients with proved deep venous thrombosis ( dvt ) of the upper extremity . ten patients ( seven male and three female ; mean age , 43 years ) had primary dvt , and 20 patients ( 14 male and six female ; mean age , 52 years ) had catheter-related dvt . ventilation-perfusion lung scans were routinely performed at the time of hospital admission to all but one patient ( one patient was critically ill , and he died four days after dvt diagnosis because of massive pe ) . lung scan findings were normal in nine of ten patients with primary dvt , and they were indetermine in the remaining patient . by contrast , perfusion defects were considered highly suggestive of pe in four patients with catheter-related dvt ; two patients had indeterminate lung scans , and 13 patients had normal scans . we conclude that pe is not a rare complication in upper extremity dvt , and that patients with catheter-related dvt seem to be at a higher risk . 
deep venous thrombosis . implications after open heart surgery . we reviewed the cases of 10,638 cardiac surgical patients to determine the incidence of deep vein thrombosis ( dvt ) after open heart surgery ( ohs ) . seventy-seven patients ( 0.7 percent ) had dvt . group 1 included 36 patients who had dvt without pulmonary embolism ( pe ) . occurrence was equal in either leg . anticoagulation with heparin and warfarin sodium ( coumadin ) was employed as treatment . extension of hospital stay was 10.8 days . group 2 consisted of 41 patients who experienced pe 9.9 days after ohs . sixteen patients had known dvt and were receiving heparin . in 25 patients , pe was the first event . risk factors for pe included perioperative myocardial infarction ( 16 percent ) , atrial fibrillation ( 41 percent ) ; blood type a ( 70 percent ) ( p less than 0.05 ) , and coronary artery bypass graft ( cabg ) ( 98 percent ) . twenty-four patients were treated with anti-coagulation alone . six died of recurrent pe ; mortality was 25 percent . seventeen patients received anticoagulation plus inferior vena cava ( ivc ) interruption using a hunter balloon . there were no recurrent pes and there was one death from myocardial infarction ( 6 percent ) . deep vein thrombosis and pe are rare complications of ohs . routine prophylaxis with either heparin or warfarin is unnecessary . patients with dvt , atrial fibrillation ( af ) , and perioperative myocardial infarction are at high risk of pe . aggressive diagnosis to identify major venous thrombi along with anticoagulation and early consideration of ivc interruption are recommended for these patients . patients who have undergone ohs and who have pe are at an unusually high risk for recurrent pe with death and are more safely treated with ivc interruption and anticoagulation than anticoagulation alone . 
serum leukotriene b4 levels in patients with obstructive pulmonary disease . leukotriene b4 has been found to be increased in the serum of cigarette smokers and some patients with bronchial asthma , as well as in the sputum of patients with cystic fibrosis and copd . corticosteroids supposedly may block the formation of ltb4 . to determine if the effect of cs on airway disease is by reduction in ltb4 , we studied serum ltb4 levels in clinically stable patients with asthma or copd who were treated with or without cs . the ltb4 was extracted from serum and assayed by radioimmunoassay . serum ltb4 concentrations , expressed as the mean + / - sd , were 0.36 + / - 0.15 ng/ml in ten normal controls , 0.56 + / - 0.18 ng/ml in nine asthmatic subjects , 0.67 + / - 0.2 ng/ml in eight asthmatic subjects receiving cs , 0.81 + / - 0.19 ng/ml in seven patients with copd , and 0.97 + / - 0.29 ng/ml in eight patients with copd receiving cs . serum ltb4 levels in normal controls differed significantly from all groups with copd or asthma ( p less than 0.01 ) . levels of ltb4 in asthmatic subjects differed from levels in patients with copd ( p less than 0.03 ) , and levels in asthmatic subjects receiving cs differed from subjects with copd receiving cs ( p less than 0.03 ) . concentrations of ltb4 within either the copd or the asthmatic groups were not lower in the patients treated with cs . we conclude that serum ltb4 concentrations are higher in copd than in asthma or normal controls and that administration of cs is not associated with low ltb4 levels . the beneficial effects of cs in obstructive airway disease appear to be mediated by mechanisms other than reduction of ltb4 . 
lymphokine-activated killer cell activity in lung cancer . this study evaluates local pulmonary immune effector cell lytic activity . purified lymphocyte populations were isolated from balf obtained from 18 patients with bronchogenic carcinoma , six patients with lung disorders other than cancer , and ten normal control volunteers matched for age and smoking history . these cells were evaluated for nk and lak cell lytic activity against nk-resistant lak-sensitive tumor targets ( a549 pulmonary tumor and daudi tumor cells ) and an nk-sensitive tumor ( k562 ) ; lak activity was detected in balf from 6 of the 18 patients with cancer . the remaining patients with cancer , the subjects with pulmonary disease other than cancer , and the normal volunteers had no detectable lytic activity . peripheral blood lymphocytes from all subjects had only nk lytic activity and did not kill the pulmonary tumor target ; ams were not tumoricidal . interleukin-2 , which is required for lak cell activation , was detected only in balf recovered from the six patients with pulmonary lak lytic activity . these results demonstrate that activated lak cells , capable of killing pulmonary tumor cells , are present in balf of some patients with bronchogenic carcinoma . this lytic lak cell population represents a local pulmonary response against the lung cancer in the absence of systemic tumoricidal activity . the functional status of pulmonary immune effector cells , as well as the type and quantities of cytokines in the lung determine local responsiveness to bronchogenic carcinoma and may well control the course of this disease . 
magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of pulmonary infarction . we report for the first time , to our knowledge , mri features which could differentiate noninvasively pulmonary infarction from pneumonia . three subjects with angiographically proven pulmonary infarction showed high t1 weighted mri signals located in the embolic territory . three patients with pneumonia and one patient with emboli , but without infarction , did not have these t1 weighted images . 
long-term therapy with deflazacort in chronic sarcoidosis . purpose : to evaluate the long-term action of deflazacort ( df ) , a new calcium-sparing and bone-saving corticosteroid , in chronic sarcoidosis patients needing prolonged therapy . patients and methods : 40 patients with chronic histologically proved sarcoidosis requiring long-term corticosteroid therapy were treated with df and followed for a mean period of 958 + / - 515 days ( range 382-2 , 068 ) . the indication for giving corticosteroid therapy was pulmonary impairment in most ( 36 ) , but also other events including hypercalcemia ( 2 ) , kidney stones ( 5 , 2 with recurrent colic ) , uveitis ( 2 ) , lupus pernio ( 3 ) , suspected heart impairment ( 5 ) , hypersplenism ( 1 ) , and other causes . follow-up examination included serial ace , chest x-ray , 67ga lung scan , pulmonary function data , serum and urinary calcium levels . eleven patients ( ut group ) were not receiving glucocorticoids when first seen at our clinic ; 29 patients ( pt group ) were on therapy with glucocorticoids ( 27 wity prednisone , 2 with df ) for 870 + / - 1,128 days ( range 27-4 ,310 ) results : in the pt group , df maintained the good results previously obtained with prednisone ; in this group , chest x-ray film showed improvement in 16 patients , 67ga lung scan was better in 13 , while worsening chest x-ray film findings in 1 and 67ga lung scan in 2 was seen coincident with df tapering . respiratory function data showed a mild nonsignificant improvement . sace decreased significantly from 114.6 + / - 38.7 to 91.5 + / - 37.9 nm/ml/min ( p less than .05 ) . in the ut group the results were better , as expected in a population where the action of corticosteroids did not influence the first observation . fvc increased significantly from 76.3 + / - 13.0 to 89.9 + / - 19.5 percent predicted ( p less than .01 ) ; the 67ga lung scan and chest x-ray film findings improved in all but 1 patient , and ace dropped significantly ( p less than .01 ) from 131.8 + / - 46.3 to 83.7 + / - 25.0 . in both groups the side effects were mild , and only 2 patients discontinued the treatment , 1 for gastric ulcer , and the other for amenorrhea plus a 14 kg weight gain . current status : one patient died of cancer , 9 discontinued treatment ( 5 because therapy was no longer necessary , 2 for the above described side effects , 2 for non-drug-related reasons ) , 4 dropped out and were last seen when taking df 22.5 , 18 , 12 and 6 mg daily respectively . twenty-six are continuing the drug on a long-term basis at the current mean daily dose of 12.1 + / - 7.3 mg ( range 3-30 ) . in a number of these , an attempt to discontinue df resulted in a sarcoid relapse , and df was restarted . conclusion : df is a good and safe approach to the long-term corticosteroid therapy of sarcoidosis . 
soluble interleukin-2 receptor in sera of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis interleukin-2 receptor , the complex of il-2r-alpha and/or il-2r-beta , is expressed mainly on t-lymphocytes , and the soluble form of il-2r-alpha ( sil-2r-alpha ) has been reported to be detected in the serum of patients with lymphoproliferative disorders or disease characterized by the cellular immune reaction . we measured serum sil-2r-alpha levels among patients with pulmonary diseases and found that sil-2r-alpha levels were significantly elevated in patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis ( 1,327 + / - 209 u/ml ) and sarcoidosis ( 1,037 + / - 115 u/ml ) when compared with healthy volunteers ( 468 + / - 49 u/ml , p less than 0.01 ) . among patients with pulmonary tuberculosis , the sil-2r-alpha levels were high in sera from patients with extensive parenchymal lesions on the roentgenogram ( 2,745 + / - 705 u/ml ) and patients with tuberculous pleurisy ( 2,111 + / - 679 u/ml ) . in contrast , the sil-2r-alpha levels in tuberculous patients with minimal lesion ( 455 + / - 92 u/ml ) or moderate lesion ( 1,082 + / - 189 u/ml ) were not significantly elevated when compared with healthy volunteers . after the treatment with antituberculosis agents , serum sil-2r-alpha levels decreased in accordance with improvement of roentgenographic findings and laboratory data . these results suggest that serum sil-2r-alpha level may be useful as a monitor for the disease activity in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis . 
pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . we describe the cases of three women with pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the illness was characterized by elevated peripheral blood eosinophil counts , myalgias , fatigue , and dyspnea . two of three patients had bilateral infiltrates on chest roentgenograms . all three had markedly decreased carbon monoxide diffusing capacities and pulmonary hypertension . high-dose prednisone therapy provided only partial resolution of the pulmonary symptoms . open lung biopsy specimens showed chronic interstitial and perivascular infiltrates in two of the patients and moderate fibrointimal hyperplasia of pulmonary vasculature in the third . high-dose prednisone therapy prior to the biopsies may have modified the original histologic features . 
comparative study of legionella pneumophila and other nosocomial-acquired pneumonias . we studied , in a prospective way , the characteristics of definitively diagnosed nosocomially acquired pneumonias in our hospital over 36 months . out of 55 cases , 27 were due to legionella pneumophila and 28 to other , non-legionella bacteria . the cases of legionellosis concentrated in july , august , and december . the only risk factors that showed significant differences ( p less than 0.05 ) were general anesthesia and surgery and immunosuppressive disease , which were more frequent in the non-legionella group , as were chronic liver disease and lowering of consciousness level . the absence of severe underlying disease , chronic or not , was uncommon in both groups , but more frequent in the legionella group . we observed no differences in the clinical features of the two groups . mean values of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and total bilirubin were higher ( p less than 0.05 ) in the non-legionella group . the only x-ray data that showed significant difference were pleural effusion , more frequent in the non-legionella group ( p less than 0.02 ) . the mortality rate of legionellosis was 14.6 percent compared to 35.7 percent for the non-legionella group ( p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that a sure differential diagnosis based on clinical , roentgenographic and analytical features of both groups is not possible . the relatively low mortality rate of the legionella group , when compared to other series of nosocomial legionellosis , could be due to the standard use of erythromycin in the therapeutic approach to nosocomial-acquired pneumonia in our hospital . 
adenosine deaminase in the diagnosis of tuberculous pleural effusions . a report of 218 patients and review of the literature . the activity of adenosine deaminase in the pleural fluid of 218 consecutive patients was studied . according to the etiology of exudative pleural effusions , the patients were divided into the following five groups : ( 1 ) tuberculosis ; ( 2 ) lung cancer ; ( 3 ) pneumonias ; ( 4 ) miscellaneous ; and ( 5 ) idiopathic . patients with pleural tuberculosis presented significantly higher ada activity than patients with nontuberculous pleural effusions ( p less than 0.0001 ) . the results indicated that in a population with a relatively high prevalence of tuberculosis , the analysis of ada levels in pleural effusions constitutes a useful marker for the diagnosis which , in addition , can be made quickly and cheaply . additionally , a comprehensive review of the literature on the role of ada in the diagnosis of tuberculous pleural effusions is presented . 
amiodarone-induced pulmonary toxicity . immunoallergologic tests and bronchoalveolar lavage phospholipid content . amiodarone ( a ) is a widely-used antiarrhythmic drug . pulmonary toxicity is the most serious adverse effect with an estimated mortality of 1 to 33 percent . in order to determine an element helpful for diagnosis , we examined four patients with amiodarone-induced pulmonary toxicity , three patients treated with a , without evidence of pulmonary toxicity but with a main underlying pulmonary disease , and four healthy volunteers . daily and cumulative doses or duration of treatment were similar in the first two groups . pulmonary function tests ( spirometry , co-diffusing capacity , arterial blood gases ) , roentgenographic examinations , pulmonary biopsies or immunoallergologic tests ( skin reaction , lymphoblastic transformation test and human basophile degranulation test ) did not provide any discriminatory element . in apt + , we observed an increased cellularity of the bronchoalveolar lavage . neither the differential cell count nor the presence of foamy macrophages were distinguishable between apt + and apt - . the phospholipid composition of bal fluid showed a decreased total phospholipid and phospholipid/protein ratio in all patients compared to normal subjects . these changes reflect more the severity of pulmonary disease than the specificity of the causative agent . however , we observed that the unique pl which decreases in apt - and remains normal in apt + is phosphatidyl-serine + phosphatidylinositol ( ps + pi ) . this has to be confirmed and should be evaluated at different stages of the disease to determine an eventual specific element . we conclude that there are no data currently available to establish the diagnosis of apt except perhaps for the analysis of bal pl content . 
utility of bronchoscopic sampling techniques for cryptococcal disease in aids . although cryptococcal pneumonia is a well recognized complication of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , optimal diagnostic approaches remain to be defined . during a 32-month period ( october 1984 to june 1987 ) , 11 patients were diagnosed with cp at our institution . the diagnosis was established in all 11 patients from specimens obtained via fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( ten ) and/or double-lumen catheter lavage ( one ) . direct stains of sedimented bronchoalveolar lavage were positive for organisms characteristic of cryptococcus neoformans in nine of 11 patients . transbronchial biopsies were positive ( special histologic stains ) in six of eight patients ; bronchial washings were positive ( direct smear ) in seven of ten patients , the bronchial brushings were positive on stain in six of nine patients , and in one patient , a wang transbronchial needle aspirate was positive on stain . fungal cultures were positive on the bal in seven of 11 patients , and on the bronchial washings in four of ten patients ; the tbbx culture samples were all negative ( zero of three ) . the serum cryptococcal antigen titer was elevated ( median = 1:1024 ) in all eight patients in which it was assayed . our data suggest that bal and bronchial washings have a combined sensitivity on smear equal to that of tbbx and superior to that of tbbx fungal culture . the tbbx does not appear to be necessary in this setting . in addition , an elevated serum cryptococcal antigen titer appears to be an important adjunct in the evaluation of pulmonary infiltrates in aids . 
acute pulmonary embolism triggered by the act of defecation . pulmonary embolism associated with the act of defecation has not been previously well described . recently , we reported our experience with four patients who presented to us over a 12-month period with syncope , near syncope , or sudden death following the act of defecation . in all four cases , acute pulmonary embolism was shown to be the etiology of the defecation-associated events . a retrospective chart review of all patients with the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism at our institution over a three-year period yielded five additional patients with the diagnosis of defecation-associated pulmonary embolism . these nine patients accounted for 6.8 percent of all patients with a discharge diagnosis of pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the three-year study period . six of the nine patients died from their defecation-associated pulmonary embolism . these six deaths accounted for 25 percent of all deaths from pulmonary embolism seen at our institution during the study period . based on our experience , we suggest that the act of defecation may trigger the development of acute pulmonary embolism in some patients with deep vein thrombosis . 
macrophage colony-stimulating factor activity in malignant pleural effusions . its augmentation by intrapleural interleukin-2 infusions . the activity of endogenous colony-stimulating factor ( csf ) in malignant pleural effusions of lung cancer patients before and during daily intrapleural infusions of recombinant interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) was measured quantitatively by colony-forming bioassay and radioimmunoassay ( ria ) . before therapy , malignant pleural effusions had various levels of csf activities , and this csf activity was neutralized almost completely by anti-m-csf antibody . ria also showed that the effusions contained various amounts of m-csf . daily intrapleural infusion of recombinant il-2 caused significant increase in the csf activities and m-csf levels in pleural effusions . these results indicate that in vivo treatment with il-2 induces production of endogenous m-csf . 
atopy and primary lung cancer . histology and sex distribution . atopy , defined as the ability to develop ige antibodies to commonly encountered allergens under conditions of normal exposure , has an inherited component with pleiotropic effects . an inverse relationship between the occurrence of atopy , allergy-related diseases , and cancers at specific sites has been reported . the familial association of primary lung cancer is most evident among women , nonsmokers , and those with adenocarcinomas . in order to determine whether the relationship between a lower prevalence of atopy among patients with lung cancer compared to control subjects was consistent between histologic cell types , we used seven common allergens to allergy prick skin test 209 community control subjects ( 46 women ) , 109 cases with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the lung ( 25 women ) , and 67 patients with primary adenocarcinomas of the lung ( 23 women ) . we have confirmed earlier reports of an inverse relationship between atopy and lung cancer risk . in analyses focusing on sex and histologic cell type , we found that women with adenocarcinomas were an exception and were as likely to be atopic as control subjects . the evidence does not support a protective role for atopy among these women . 
effect of fast vs slow intralipid infusion on gas exchange , pulmonary hemodynamics , and prostaglandin metabolism . intralipid ( 20 percent , 500 ml ) was infused fast ( 5 h ) or slow ( 10 h ) randomly in patients with lung injury to relate changes in plasma prostaglandin ( pg ) concentrations to gas exchange and pulmonary hemodynamics . data were collected at baseline , midpoint of infusion , and 2 h following infusion . vasodilator and vasoconstrictor pg metabolites , 6-keto-pgf1 alpha , and thromboxane b2 , respectively , were measured in radial arterial blood samples . slow intralipid infusion increased shunt fraction ( qs/qt ) without changing mean pulmonary artery pressure ( mpap ) , whereas fast intralipid infusion increased mpap without changing qs/qt . prostaglandin levels did not change significantly during either infusion . however , in both groups when the pg substrate was removed , hemodynamic and metabolite values decreased in parallel . in conclusion , we were unable to demonstrate a cause and effect relationship between plasma levels of 6-keto-pgf1 alpha and thromboxane b2 and the observed pulmonary hemodynamic response to slow or fast intralipid infusion . 
auto-peep during cpr . an " occult " cause of electromechanical dissociation ? a 64-year-old man with severe copd developed refractory nonperfusing sinus rhythm after intubation and positive-pressure ventilation . fifteen minutes after resuscitative efforts were halted , the patient was noted to have spontaneous respirations and blood pressure , suggesting that dynamic hyperinflation was responsible for the observed electromechanical dissociation ( emd ) . we recommend a brief trial of apnea for patients with copd and emd when conventional measures are unsuccessful . 
endobronchial actinomycosis simulating bronchogenic carcinoma . diagnosis by bronchial biopsy . five cases of actinomycosis of the main bronchi or trachea which were suggestive clinically of bronchogenic carcinoma are described . in four patients the correct diagnosis was made by a bronchial biopsy or wash , or both . three of them recovered following antibiotic treatment , and one died a few days after bronchoscopy . in one case the actinomyces were found in the bronchial wash retrospectively following diagnosis of pulmonary actinomycosis in the lobectomy specimen . a concomitant endobronchial lipoma was found in one of the patients . the diagnosis of pulmonary actinomycosis by bronchial biopsy may save the patient major surgical intervention . 
the acute and insidious onset of pulmonary metastatic transitional cell carcinoma . transitional cell carcinoma is a common urologic neoplasm . although pulmonary metastases from this tumor are often not appreciated clinically , they are frequently documented in autopsy studies . therefore , the clinical recognition of this condition can be problematic . to illustrate this point , we present three patients with progressive unexplained dyspnea and histories of transitional cell carcinoma . since ineffective and possibly detrimental therapeutic approaches may be initiated , a high index of suspicion for pulmonary metastatic embolization must be maintained . early histologic identification of these metastatic emboli and initiation of effective chemotherapy may prove beneficial for improved quality of life . 
pulmonary embolism presenting as exercise-induced hypotension . a 68-year-old man with remote history of previous myocardial infarction presented with a four-week history of intermittent dyspnea . after developing hypotension during an exercise tolerance test , he underwent cardiac catheterization , revealing significant pulmonary hypertension and two-vessel coronary artery disease . pulmonary angiography confirmed the presence of pulmonary emboli which partially resolved after thrombolytic therapy . subsequent treadmill testing confirmed the absence of exercise-induced hypotension two months following treatment . this case underscores the importance of considering pulmonary embolism as a potential cause of exercise-induced hypotension , since it can be successfully treated with thrombolytic agents weeks after the initial onset of symptoms . 
spontaneous pneumothorax in aids patients with recurrent pneumocystis carinii pneumonia despite aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis . aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) may predispose these patients to recurrent apical pneumocystis infection . bullous changes and pulmonary cysts develop in the lung apices due to repeated episodes of inflammation and cytotoxic effects of hiv on pulmonary macrophages . these changes progress despite prophylaxis against recurrent pneumocystis infection with aerosolized pentamidine , increasing the risk of spontaneous pneumothorax . two cases are presented of bilateral pneumothoraces in patients with aids and recurrent p carinii pneumonia despite aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis . patients receiving aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis for pneumocystis pneumonia appear to have an increased risk of pneumothorax due to recurrent apical infections with p carinii . 
pathologic bronchial vasculature in a case of massive hemoptysis due to chronic bronchitis . the cause of bleeding in a patient with recurrent massive hemoptysis was not apparent after bronchoscopy and gross examination of the lobectomy specimen . histologic submission of all major bronchi uncovered dilated , tortuous bronchial arteries just below the bronchial mucosa with sites of both current and healing arterial rupture . this bronchial arterial abnormality is common to several chronic pulmonary diseases , but is rarely diagnosed as a cause of massive hemoptysis . careful pathologic examination of major bronchi in the setting of hemoptysis of unknown causation is recommended . 
bilateral reexpansion pulmonary edema following unilateral pleurocentesis . acute ipsilateral pulmonary edema following reexpansion of the lung after pleurocentesis or pneumothorax is a well described entity . we report the unusual occurrence of bilateral pulmonary edema following unilateral pleurocentesis in a young male without heart disease . various hypotheses regarding the mechanism of reexpansion pulmonary edema include increased capillary permeability due to hypoxic injury , decreased surfactant production , altered pulmonary perfusion and mechanical stretching of membranes . this case suggests that forces leading to ipsilateral reexpansion pulmonary edema also affect the contralateral lung . 
treatment of atelectasis with selective bronchial suctioning . use of a curved-tipped catheter with a guide mark . we applied our technique of selective bronchial suctioning ( sbs ) for the treatment of atelectasis ( at ) of middle and lower lobes ; nine patients with refractory ats were successfully treated . we considered that sbs using a curve-tipped catheter with a guide mark ( ctcgm ) is the technique of choice for the treatment of refractory at when conventional respiratory therapy is not effective and a bronchoscopist is not available . 
asthma and chronic obstructive lung disease : a pharmacologic approach . changing concepts are emerging that should improve our ability to adequately treat asthma . this volume of disease-a-month reviews the triggers and the role of inflammation in asthma , and outlines the treatment of acute asthma as well as the chronic management of reversible obstructive airways disease . there is general agreement that sympathomimetics are the treatment of choice for acute severe asthma . the role of theophylline for acute symptoms has been downplayed , and the role of corticosteroids continues to be debated . however , most authorities agree that patients with severe asthma will benefit from the addition of corticosteroids to the program . for the chronic management of asthma , appreciation that inflammation is a perpetuating feature suggests that treatment should generally be directed toward the inflammation . corticosteroid aerosols have taken on greater prominence and have been advocated as the first line of approach . new concepts regarding the role of allergy in the perpetuation of asthma and the role of immunotherapy in its amelioration also have emerged . medications not previously thought to be beneficial are being actively investigated . they include gold , methotrexate , and even intravenous gamma globulin . 
severe preeclampsia presenting as dysphonia secondary to uvular edema . a case report . in addition to hypertension and proteinuria , generalized edema is seen commonly in women with severe preeclampsia . a patient presented to us at term with the complaint of dysphonia . upon examination she appeared to be clearly preeclamptic and had a grossly edemetous uvula , which we think occurred secondary to generalized edema . this case might be the first reported one of preeclampsia presenting as dysphonia and of uvular edema in association with preeclampsia . 
accelerated silicosis in scottish stonemasons . a small group of stonemasons working with sandstone was exposed to levels of respirable quartz up to 130 times the workplace standard over a period of up to 6 years . two died of accelerated silicosis , a disease that caused serious diagnostic difficulties and was initially not recognised by the doctors of the then department of health and social security medical boarding centre ( respiratory diseases ) . previous descriptions of this disease in the uk date back to the years of the industrial revolution ( late 18th century ) . one other mason on the site proved to have an earlier stage of accelerated silicosis and two had radiographic changes of early classic silicosis . regulations intended to prevent silicosis have been in place in the uk for many decades and were strengthened by the health and safety at work act in 1974 . although the workers had been aware of a health risk from quartz , they had not been able to persuade management to take effective preventive action until serious illness had occurred . current pressures on management to cut overheads and to achieve maximum productivity could , as in this instance , lead to neglect of health and safety standards . 
epidemiology of acute respiratory infections in young children from thailand . a prospective evaluation of the epidemiology and presentations of acute respiratory infections in children younger than 5 years of age admitted to children 's hospital bangkok ( 1988 to 1989 ) was supported by the world health organization . there were 226 patients with the inclusion criteria : 1 to 5 years of age ; duration of illness less than 2 weeks ; no prior antibiotic therapy ; and low socioeconomic status . the disease categories included : croup , 19 cases ; bronchiolitis , 60 cases ; and pneumonia , 147 cases . pathogens isolated were : respiratory syncytial virus ( 40 ) ; parainfluenza iii ( 1 ) ; influenza b ( 1 ) ; and adenovirus ( 1 ) ; bacterial infections were proved in 23 cases . no significant differences in clinical features between bacterial and viral pneumonia were found . interstitial radiographic patterns were more common in viral pneumonia whereas alveolar patterns were more common in bacterial pneumonia . however , 91 % of mixed radiographic patterns ( interstitial and alveolar ) in chest films were from viral pneumonia . 
viral pneumonia in the first month of life . we performed a 5-year review of 40 patients less than or equal to 30 days of age with viral pneumonia . isolates included respiratory syncytial virus ( 55 % ) , enteroviruses ( 15 % ) , rhinoviruses ( 15 % ) , adenoviruses ( 10 % ) , parainfluenza virus ( 7.5 % ) and herpes simplex virus ( 5 % ) . most infants were previously healthy but had ill family members . nine were born at less than 37 weeks of gestation . symptoms and signs included tachypnea , decreased feeding , cough , cyanosis , lethargy , retractions , apnea , bradycardia , seizures and depressed consciousness . seasonality and clinical features , but not radiographic patterns , suggested specific pathogens . patients were moderately to severely ill . the median duration of hospitalization was 7 days ; therapies administered included oxygen ( 90 % ) , mechanical ventilation ( 45 % ) , blood transfusions ( 25 % ) and supplemental oxygen after discharge ( 27 % ) . the case fatality rate was 7.5 % . prematurity , ill appearance at presentation , lobar consolidation and adenovirus infection were risk factors for severe disease . 
klebsiella pneumonia in the modern era : clinicoradiographic correlations . a classic clinical and radiographic picture of klebsiella pneumonia has emerged in the literature . patients are typically male , older than 48 years , and have a history of chronic alcoholism . the majority of these pneumonias are community acquired . bulging interlobar fissures and cavitation are radiographic findings said to be distinctive for klebsiella pneumonia . we prospectively studied 15 cases of bacteremically proven klebsiella pneumonia and found clinical and radiographic features strikingly different from those described in the literature . immunosuppression ( from corticosteroids , cytotoxic chemotherapy , neutropenia , hematologic malignancy , and transplantation ) now rivals alcoholism as the primary risk factor . cases tended to be nosocomial rather than community acquired . neither bulging interlobar fissure nor cavitation was seen in any case . the right upper lobe was involved in 11 of our 15 cases . pneumonia due to klebsiella oxytoca was more likely to be isolated from patients with bilateral infiltrates , while klebsiella pneumoniae was more likely in patients with unilateral infiltrates . 
adenotonsillectomy in children with sickle cell disease . the pediatric patient with sickle cell disease risks having a vasoocclusive episode during adenotonsillectomy under general anesthesia . with proper patient selection and appropriate perioperative management , adenotonsillectomy can be accomplished safely in children with sickle cell disease . we review the management of 10 children with sickle hemoglobinopathies who had adenotonsillectomy . indications for surgery were recurrent streptococcal infections in four and obstructive sleep apnea in six of these children . no complications resulted from any of these procedures , and the mean length of postoperative hospitalization was 2.4 days . the principal feature of preoperative management was the transfusion of red blood cells to suppress the patient 's endogenous erythropoiesis and to reduce the concentration of sickle cell hemoglobin to less than 30 % . though a prospective , multi-institutional clinical trial will ultimately be required to settle the issue of the safest preoperative management of children with sickle cell disease , balancing the risks of transfusion-related complications against anesthesia-related complications , our experience supports the operative safety of hypertransfusion therapy in children with sickle cell disease . 
giant cell interstitial pneumonia . giant cell interstitial pneumonia is a distinctive and uncommon form of interstitial pneumonia . it is distinguished by the prominence of large , actively phagocytic alveolar giant cells of histiocytic origin in the presence of chronic interstitial pneumonia . multinucleated type 2 granular pneumocytes are also identified . the multinucleated cells lack viral intranuclear inclusions of the type seen in measles pneumonia . giant cell interstitial pneumonia may be idiopathic or it may occur with occupational exposure to hard metals or cobalt . we report this case to give recognition to an uncommon interstitial pneumonia . 
necrotizing tracheobronchitis : complication of mechanical ventilation in an adult . a 51-year-old woman had localized interstitial pneumonia that rapidly progressed to involve all lung fields . after 9 days of conventional mechanical ventilation , pneumothorax developed in the presence of an obstruction of the right main bronchus . bronchoscopy and endobronchial biopsies revealed ntb involving the tracheobronchial tree distal to the tip of the endotracheal tube , with complete obstruction of the right main bronchus by hard , eschar-like material . tracheal mucosa proximal to the tip of the endotracheal tube was normal . subsequent bronchoscopy , 20 days later , showed marked resolution of ntb . though a frequent complication of mechanical ventilation in the neonate , ntb as a complication of conventional mechanical ventilation has not previously been recognized in an adult . necrotizing tracheobronchitis should be suspected in adults who have had mechanical ventilation and who are experiencing ventilatory difficulties , after routine problems have been treated or excluded . 
cavitary pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients receiving aerosol pentamidine prophylaxis . we have described two patients with aids who had cavitary pneumocystis carinii pneumonia while receiving aerosolized pentamidine prophylaxis . this is the first report of this complication . neither patient showed a clinical response to subsequent use of pentamidine either intravenously or by aerosol followed by intravenous use . clinicians should be aware of the possibility that cavitary pneumonia in patients receiving aerosolized pentamidine may be due to p carinii . 
embolism of cerebral tissue : a cause of coagulopathy and cerebral infarction ? report of a case . we report a case of potentially survivable closed head injury , which was complicated by disseminated intravascular coagulation and bilateral cerebral infarction . autopsy disclosed pulmonary emboli composed of cerebral tissue . we suggest that the entry of brain tissue into the systemic blood circulation caused severe disseminated intravascular coagulation , with consequent thrombosis of cerebral veins and spreading infarction . 
return of tuberculosis : screening and preventive therapy approximately 25 percent of individuals exposed to mycobacterium tuberculosis become infected . of those , about 10 percent will develop clinically active tuberculosis at some time in their lives . the tuberculin skin test should be used to screen all patients , especially those at greatest risk of contracting the disease , such as the young and the old , and those with weakened immune systems from poor nutrition , alcohol and drug abuse , chronic illness and human immunodeficiency virus infection . depending on the characteristics of the local population and individual medical risk factors , a reaction ( induration ) between 5 and 15 mm ( or more ) generally represents infection . isoniazid therapy in persons with positive skin tests will decrease the risk of disease by 60 to 80 percent . family physicians will play a critical role in efforts to eliminate tuberculosis from the united states by the year 2010 . 
an evaluation of the use of the statewide planning and research cooperative system of new york state as a resource planning tool for hiv infection . hospital discharge records of patients with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) in new york state were studied to determine whether cases of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection were identified . we estimate that as many as 13 percent of hospitalizations of patients with pcp in 1987 and 10 percent of those in 1988 were not appropriately identified as hiv related . identification of pcp as hiv related was a function of a hospital 's volume of pcp admissions . 
survival trends of people with aids in washington state . survival rates of 609 cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) in washington state diagnosed between 1982 and 1987 according to pre-1987 aids surveillance definition were analyzed . people with a primary diagnosis of kaposi 's sarcoma survived longer than those with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . both groups survived longer than those with other diagnoses . median survival increased from 11.3 , to 12.5 , to 20.8 months for cases diagnosed in or before 1985 , during 1986 , and during 1987 , respectively . 
adult respiratory distress syndrome . basic scientists and clinicians have written numerous articles on the diverse causes of adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) . there is no specific diagnostic test for ards ; the condition is characterized by interstitial lung edema , reduction in lung compliance , alveolar and small airway closure , decrease in functional residual capacity , and persistent hypoxia with increasing amounts of pulmonary blood flow coursing through nonventilated or poorly ventilated alveoli . recent studies have emphasized the roles of macrophages and polymorphonuclear neutrophils in lung defense and injury . advances in understanding the pathophysiology of ards have produced little significant change in the clinical management of the syndrome . there is no specific treatment for ards . the cornerstone of therapy is the early recognition and elimination of initiating factors such as sepsis . ards is not a single disease process , but appears to represent a final common pathway for the manifestation of a variety of lung injuries . the goal of therapy is to eliminate the predisposing condition and support the patient . new modes of ventilatory and pharmacologic therapy are presented . 
gastro-oesophageal reflux during elective laparoscopy . an oesophageal ph electrode was used to record gastro-oesophageal reflux in 73 women who had elective laparoscopy for various gynaecological procedures . no refluxes were recorded during the 63 procedures from which results could be analysed ; the upper 95 % confidence limit from this observation is 3 in 63 ( 4.8 % ) . two of the excluded women refluxed during episodes of hiccough that occurred shortly after induction of anaesthesia . tracheal intubation may be required during laparoscopy , although the need to protect against the possibility of aspiration of gastric contents may not be a valid reason unless , with the same logic , it is suggested that all patients who hiccough should be intubated . 
aspiration pneumonia and the laryngeal mask airway a case of aspiration pneumonia is reported after the use of a laryngeal mask airway in a young woman undergoing an elective cholecystectomy . the case illustrates the hazards of regurgitation with the laryngeal mask airway and the need for further evaluation when used with controlled mechanical ventilation . 
atlanto-axial subluxation in down 's syndrome . a case of atlanto-axial subluxation in a patient with down 's syndrome is described . the gradual deterioration in the patient 's locomotor ability caused a delay in diagnosis . patterns of presentation of this condition are discussed . 
quantitation of abnormal 67ga uptake in pulmonary interstitial vascular disease -- a new test to detect diffuse lung disease . gallium 67 has been used as a modality to diagnose and follow the clinical course of diseases such as tumors , infections , inflammatory disorders , and interstitial lung disease . it has been appreciated , however , that mild to moderate changes in scan activity , when these disorders are followed over time , are less than optimal . spect ( single-photon emission computed tomography ) scanning is a new technique designed to obviate this problem . spect scanning utilizes computer acquisition to provide three-dimensional scanning and the additional benefit of colorization to aid in discerning differences of uptake . spect scanning was performed on 22 patients with interstitial lung disease of various etiologies . additionally , 7 patients had follow-up spect scanning to determine their response to treatment . two patients are presented as examples . 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia : a case report . the authors report a case of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia , in whom massive pulmonary embolism occurred in spite of heparin anticoagulation . successful pulmonary thrombectomy was carried out under cardiopulmonary bypass , with limitation of platelet clumping during bypass by aggregation inhibitors . this report is a comprehensive contribution to a better understanding of this rare immunoallergic complication of heparin administration , with a high incidence of serious thromboembolic events . the optimal management for cases of unavoidable reexposure to heparin is discussed . 
mechanisms of gas-exchange impairment in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis . to investigate the mechanisms of pulmonary gas-exchange impairment in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) and to evaluate their potential relationship to the co diffusing capacity ( dlco ) , we studied 15 patients with ipf ( mean dlco , 52 % of predicted ) at rest ( breathing room air and pure o2 ) and during exercise . we measured pulmonary hemodynamics and respiratory gas-exchange variables , and we separated the ventilation-perfusion ( vaq ) mismatching and o2 diffusion limitation components of arterial hypoxemia using the multiple inert gas elimination technique . at rest va/q mismatching was moderate ( 2 to 4 % of cardiac output perfusing poorly or unventilated lung units ) , and 19 % of aapo2 was due to o2 diffusion limitation . during exercise va/q mismatch did not worsen but the diffusion component of arterial hypoxemia increased markedly ( 40 % aapo2 , p less than 0.005 ) . we observed that those patients with higher pulmonary vascular tone ( more release of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction ) showed less pulmonary hypertension during exercise ( p less than 0.05 ) , less va/q mismatching [ at rest ( p less than 0.005 ) and during exercise ( p less than 0.0025 ) ] , and higher arterial po2 during exercise ( p = 0.01 ) . we also found that dlco corrected for alveolar volume ( kco ) correlated with the mechanisms of hypoxemia during exercise [ va/q mismatching ( p less than 0.025 ) and o2 diffusion limitation ( p less than 0.05 ) ] and with the increase in pulmonary vascular resistance elicited by exercise ( p less than 0.005 ) . in conclusion , we showed that the abnormalities of the pulmonary vasculature are key to modulate gas exchange in ipf , especially during exercise . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia and respiratory failure in aids . improved outcomes and increased use of intensive care units . to determine whether the outcome of intensive care for patients with aids , pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) , and respiratory failure has changed , we studied patients admitted to the intensive care units an san francisco general hospital from 1981 to 1988 . we compared the course of patients with pcp and respiratory failure admitted to the intensive care unit from 1986 to 1988 with a similar cohort hospitalized from 1981 to 1985 . the hospital survival rate for the 35 patients in the 1986 to 1988 cohort was 40 % , compared with 14 % for the 42 patients in the 1981 to 1985 cohort ( p less than 0.01 ) . age , episode of pcp , time since aids diagnosis , anti-pcp therapy , and important clinical variables were similar in both cohorts . corticosteroids were used commonly in the recent era . patients who received steroids had an in-hospital survival rate of 46 % , compared with 22 % for those who did not receive steroids ( p = ns ) . in a stepwise logistic regression model , icu care in the recent era and higher serum albumin at the time of icu admission were the only variables significantly associated with survival . the hospital survival of patients with pcp and respiratory failure has improved . the improvement could not be explained by patient selection or by better anti-pcp therapy . the apparent beneficial effect of corticosteroids deserves further study . the improvement in icu outcome was reflected in increased icu utilization by patients with aids , pcp , and respiratory failure . 
increased levels of oxidized methionine residues in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid proteins from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis . phagocytic cells are believed to play a crucial role in the development of inflammatory lung diseases . we assumed that the oxidation of methionine ( met ) to methionine sulfoxide [ met ( o ) ] by oxygen-derived free radicals released from phagocytes is one parameter to identify the oxidative mechanisms of lung injury . to test this hypothesis we determined the molar ratio of met ( o ) / met in the soluble protein fraction of bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluids from healthy nonsmokers and from nonsmoking patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) or sarcoidosis . the met ( o ) / met ratio of the healthy nonsmoker group ( n = 11 ) was 0.046 + / - 0.008 ( mean + / - sem ) . in contrast , the met ( o ) / met ratio of the nonsmoking ipf group ( n = 11 ) was significantly increased to 0.223 + / - 0.053 ( p less than 0.0002 ) . the bal fluids of this group showed strongly increased numbers of neutrophils but normal numbers of alveolar macrophages ( am ) . in the sarcoidosis group ( n = 10 ) the met ( o ) / met ratio ( 0.048 + / - 0.010 ) was not significantly different from control values . a close relationship was found between the met ( o ) / met ratios and the relative as well as the absolute neutrophil counts ( r = 0.86 ; p less than 0.0002 ; n = 22 ) . in contrast , no significant correlation was found between the met ( o ) / met ratios and the absolute am counts ( r = 0.22 ; p = 0.32 ; n = 22 ) . we conclude that mechanisms of oxidative lung injury in ipf can be characterized by oxidation of met and that this oxidation may be mediated by neutrophils . 
immunoglobulin g antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies are produced in the respiratory tract of patients with wegener 's granulomatosis . wegener 's granulomatosis ( wg ) is a small-vessel vasculitis of unknown etiology that usually involves the upper and lower respiratory tract and the kidneys . recently , an association has been made between the presence of serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies ( anca ) and wg . because wg frequently involves the lung , we sought to evaluate bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluids obtained from 14 patients with wg for the presence of anca . immunoglobulin ( ig ) g anca was found in the bal with the same staining patterns as observed in the serum . patients with active disease had the highest serum and bal igg anca titers . iga or igm anca was not detected in the serum or bal of these patients . protein analysis of bal fluid revealed that patients with active , untreated wg had approximately a fourfold elevation in total protein ( 41.3 versus 10.5 mg/dl ) , with a disproportionately greater increase in the ratio of igg to albumin ( bal igg index = 1.49 , normal = 0.74 ; p = 0.027 ) . the increase of the igg index in patients with active wg suggests that local production of igg anca occurs in the lungs . 
size distribution of human lung elastin-derived peptide antigens generated in vitro and in vivo . the protease-antiprotease hypothesis of emphysema development suggests that degradation of elastin in the lung interstitium may give rise to abnormal quantities of circulating elastin-derived peptides ( edp ) during periods of inflammation . recent studies have shown a relationship between emphysema and high levels of edp in human plasma . this report characterizes elastin digests on the basis of antigenicity , size , and method of preparation , as well as the size distribution of edp found in the plasmas of nonsmokers , smokers , and emphysema patients . gel filtration of elastin digests prepared by hydrolysis of human lung elastin using a low ( 1:500 ) ratio of neutrophil elastase to elastin generated a broad protein peak of approximately 70,000 daltons . in contrast , a high ( 1:25 ) ratio of neutrophil elastase to human lung elastin gave a broad protein peak , with a size distribution in the 10,000 to 30,000 dalton range . this digest showed distinct immunochemical properties . a polyclonal antibody directed against the low-ratio digest showed a minimum detection of 2 ng/ml for the homologous antigen but required 1,000 ng/ml of the high-ratio digest for detectable inhibition in an indirect elisa assay . gel filtration of plasmas from normal nonsmokers and the majority of normal smokers revealed a single immunoreactive edp fraction of approximately 70,000 daltons . plasmas from selected normal smokers and emphysema patients with high levels of circulating edp ( greater than 90 ng/ml ) fractionated into a complex pattern of peptides in which the 70,000 dalton component represented 50 % of the immunoreactive material and several lower molecular weight peptides represented the remaining circulating elastin antigens . 
early post-treatment with pentoxifylline or dibutyryl camp attenuates escherichia coli-induced acute lung injury in guinea pigs . we examined effects of early post-treatment with the methylxanthine pentoxifylline ( ptxf ) , or the cell-permeable adenosine 3 ' , 5 ' - cyclic monophosphate ( camp ) analog dibutyryl camp ( db-camp ) on escherichia-coli-induced acute lung injury in guinea pigs . acute lung injury was assessed by measurements of lung water ( lung wet/dry weight ratio ; w/d ratio ) , the concentration ratio of 125i-albumin in bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) fluid and lung tissue compared with plasma ( albumin index ; bal-ai or tissue-ai ) , and total differential leukocyte count in bal fluid . mean arterial pressure ( pa ) and peripheral wbc counts were monitored continuously over the 8-h experiment . septicemia was induced by a bolus injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) / kg live e. coli . thirty minutes later the animals received a bolus injection followed by continuous infusion of ptxf ( 20 mg/kg + 20 mg/kg/h ; n = 8 ) or db-camp ( 2 mg/kg + 2 mg/kg/h ; n = 8 ) or saline ( septic control ; n = 8 ) . nonseptic control groups were also studied . the lung w/d ratio , bal-ai , lung tissue-ai , and bal leukocyte count increased significantly in the septic control group . the ptxf-septic and db-camp-septic groups showed no significant increase in lung w/d ratio , bal-ai , and lung tissue-ai . however , there was no difference in bal total and differential leukocyte count as compared with the septic control group . ptxf and db-camp had no effect on e. coli-induced changes in peripheral wbc count and pa . comparison in vitro experiments demonstrated that ptxf and db-camp inhibited the endotoxin-induced ( e. coli ) chemiluminescent response of isolated guinea-pig polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( pmn ) . 
a ten-year follow-up study of cotton textile workers . a follow-up study of respiratory function in cotton textile workers was performed 10 yr after the original cross-sectional study ( 1975 to 1985 ) . there were 35 nonsmoking female and 31 smoking male textile workers restudied from the original group of 116 . the majority of those lost to follow-up had left the industry . the prevalence of byssinosis among the female workers at the time of follow-up was 15/35 ( 42.9 % ) compared with 8/35 ( 22.9 % ) at the time of the initial study ( p = 0.063 ) . for men the byssinosis prevalence at follow-up was 16/31 ( 51.6 % ) compared with 8/31 ( 22.9 % ) at the time of the initial study ( p = 0.03 ) . similarly , the prevalence of almost all other respiratory symptoms was significantly higher at the follow-up than at the time of the initial study . significant across-shift decrements in fev1 and fvc were documented at both surveys . the mean annual decline in ventilatory capacity was greater than expected for both female ( fvc : -0.036 + / - 0.005 l/yr ; fev1 : -0.059 + / - 0.009 l/yr ) and male workers ( fvc : -0.059 + / - 0.008 l/yr ; fev1 : -0.068 + / - 0.006 l/yr ) ( mean + / - se ) . the mean total airborne dust concentration measured at the time of the follow-up study was 3.95 mg/m3 with an average respirable dust concentration of 0.97 mg/m3 . we conclude that continued exposure to high dust concentrations in the cotton textile industry is associated with an increasing prevalence of respiratory symptoms and progressive impairment of lung function . the increase in respiratory impairment was seen both in smokers and nonsmokers . 
relationship of respiratory symptoms and pulmonary function to tar , nicotine , and carbon monoxide yield of cigarettes . the data from consecutive surveys of the tucson epidemiologic study ( 1981-1988 ) were used to evaluate the relationship in cigarette smokers of respiratory symptoms and pulmonary function to tar , nicotine , and carbon monoxide ( co ) yields of the cigarette . there were 690 subjects who reported smoking regularly in at least one survey , over age 15 . after adjustment for intensity and duration of smoking and for depth of inhalation , the risk of chronic phlegm , cough , and dyspnea were not related to the tar and nicotine yields . in 414 subjects with pulmonary function tested in at least one of the three surveys the spirometric indices used were significantly related to the daily dose of tar , nicotine , and co ( product of the cigarette yield and daily number of cigarettes smoked ) . the effects were more pronounced for past than for current doses . however , the differentiation of pulmonary function due to various yields of cigarettes was small in comparison to the difference in pulmonary function between smokers and nonsmokers . 
initial airway function is a risk factor for recurrent wheezing respiratory illnesses during the first three years of life . group health medical associates . we recently reported a significant relationship between lung function measured prior to any lower respiratory tract illness and subsequent wheezing illnesses during the first year of life ( n engl j med 1988 ; 319:1112 -7 ) . follow-up has continued for this group of infants during the second and third years of life . when compared with never wheezers , infants who wheezed during the first year of life and had at least one additional lower respiratory illness had 22 % lower initial levels of an indirect index of airway conductance derived from the shape of tidal breathing curves ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) , 22 % lower respiratory conductance ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) , 25 % lower maximal flows at the end-expiratory point ( p less than or equal to 0.01 ) , and 10 % lower functional residual capacity ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) . infants who wheezed only once during the first 3 yr of life or who started wheezing during the second year of life had normal tidal breathing curves but significantly lower maximal expiratory flows ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) . their functional residual capacity was also lower than that of never wheezers ( p less than or equal to 0.05 ) . we conclude that diminished initial airway function may be a predisposing factor for recurrent wheezing respiratory illnesses starting in the first year of life . infants who will have only one wheezing respiratory illness or who will start wheezing after the first year of life seem to have lower levels for some but not for all lung function tests performed in this study . 
the normal range of diurnal changes in peak expiratory flow rates . relationship to symptoms and respiratory disease . measuring peak expiratory flow rates ( pefr ) several times a day can provide an objective assessment of functional changes relative to environmental or occupational exposures . this report describes the pattern of diurnal changes in pefr in a reference population , and defines ranges of " normal " between - and within-day variability . an index of diurnal changes was defined as the ratio between maximal and minimal values , where the maximal value was restricted to pefr measured at noon or in the evening ( n , e ) and the minimal value was restricted to the morning or at bedtime ( m , b ) . a ratio greater than normal represented an exaggeration of the normal diurnal pattern in pefr . normal limits , based on the ninety-fifth percentile in the reference population , were larger for children ( 130 % ) than for adults 15 to 35 yr of age ( 117 % ) and those older than 35 yr of age ( 118 % ) . the meaningfulness of excessive diurnal changes in pefr was examined by relating this ratio ( max/min ) , and a similar measure ( the amplitude percent mean ) to chronic respiratory symptoms and diseases in 938 adults and children who recorded pefr values 2 to 4 times per day for as long as 14 days . there was a strong relationship of diurnal changes in pefr that exceed normal limits with physician-confirmed asthma ( relative risk of 2.99 with max/min ) , with exertional dyspnea ( grade 2 + ) , and with more frequent reporting of acute symptoms of wheeze , attacks of wheezing dyspnea , cough , and chest colds . in addition , those exceeding the normal limits had about 2.9 times greater risk of having a fev1 below 80 % of predicted , and nearly 7 times greater risk of being below 70 % . 
protective effect of theophylline on bronchial hyperresponsiveness in patients with allergic rhinitis . disorders of the upper respiratory tract , particularly allergic rhinitis are commonly associated with bronchial hyperresponsiveness . the latter may be responsible for chronic cough , a common symptom in patients with allergic rhinitis , which , as previously shown , can be the sole presenting manifestation of bronchial hyperresponsiveness . theophylline is widely used in patients with asthma for its bronchodilator effect , whereas its action on bronchial reactivity is controversial . the aim of this study was to determine the effect of theophylline administration on bronchial hyperresponsiveness in patients with allergic rhinitis complaining of chronic cough . fourteen patients were studied . all of them were judged atopic on the basis of positive skin tests to common allergens . during control , spirometry , flow-volume curves and specific airway conductance ( sgaw ) were measured . bronchial challenges were then performed with increasing concentrations of carbachol , and dose-response curves were constructed . the concentration of carbachol , which decreased sgaw by 35 % from baseline ( pd35 ) was determined by interpolating from the dose-response curve . after control measurements patients received in a randomized , double-blind crossover fashion either theophylline 10 mg/kg/day orally or placebo for 30 days . measurements were then redone . after a washout period of 8 days the measurements were repeated , and patients received theophylline or placebo for a second period of 30 days . measurements were again performed at the end of this last study period . during control all patients had normal baseline lung function data and showed marked bronchial hyperresponsiveness , pd35 amounting to 26 + / - 7 micrograms of carbachol ( normal value greater than 160 micrograms ) . no significant changes in pd35 were noted after placebo and washout when compared with control values . 
airways inflammation in nocturnal asthma . nocturnal asthma is a frequent problem , but the mechanism is unclear . we investigated the possibility that airways inflammation occurred during the night . bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was analyzed in asthmatic patients with ( n = 7 ) and without nocturnal asthma ( n = 7 ) at 1600 and 0400 h. the nocturnal asthma group had an increase in the total leukocyte count ( 24.0 + / - 7.0 to 41.1 + / - 9.9 x 10 ( 4 ) cells/ml , p less than 0.05 ) , neutrophils ( 1.1 + / - 0.6 to 3.7 + / - 1.5 x 10 ( 4 ) cells/ml , p less than 0.05 ) , and eosinophils ( 0.5 + / - 0.1 to 1.7 + / - 0.7 x 10 ( 4 ) cells/ml , p less than 0.05 ) from 1600 to 0400 h. cellular components for the non-nocturnal asthma group did not change . between groups , the 1600-h cells were similar . at 0400 h the nocturnal asthma group had significantly higher total leukocyte , neutrophil , eosinophil , lymphocyte , and epithelial cell counts . for all subjects , the overnight fall in peak expiratory flow rates was correlated to the change in neutrophils ( r = 0.54 , p less than 0.05 ) and eosinophils ( r = 0.77 , p less than 0.05 ) . we conclude that the nocturnal worsening of asthma has an associated cellular inflammatory response that is not seen in patients without overnight decrements in lung function . this inflammatory response together with epithelial damage may be important factors in the etiology of nocturnal asthma . 
lymphokine-induced airway hyperresponsiveness in the rat . we evaluated the potential role of the lymphocyte in chronic airway inflammation and responsiveness by repeated administration to rats of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) , the principal lymphokine responsible for lymphocyte proliferation . lewis rats ( mean weight , 184 + / - 2 g ) received either 120,000 units of il-2 ( n = 10 ) or vehicle ( n = 7 ) subcutaneously twice a day for 4.5 days . animals were anesthetized with urethane and intubated for measurements of pulmonary resistance ( rl ) and airway responsiveness to aerosol methacholine ( mch ) . lung lavage was performed , the animals were exsanguinated , and the lungs were fixed in 10 % formalin . histologic edema and the extent of infiltration of the bronchi , pulmonary veins , and arteries by cells was scored blindly . il-2 increased airway responsiveness to mch ; the concentrations of mch causing a doubling of rl were 0.14 versus 1.39 mg/ml ( geometric mean ) for the il-2 and vehicle group , respectively ( p = 0.001 ) . il-2 significantly increased total cellular return and the percentage of lymphocytes , neutrophils , and eosinophils in lavage . il-2 caused edema and a mixed cellular infiltration of the bronchovascular tree . lymphocytes predominated around the airways and veins . a correlation ( r = 0.50 ) was present between airway responsiveness and airway inflammation but not with edema or vascular infiltration . release of il-2 by lymphocytes in the airways may be an important mediator of airway hyperresponsiveness . 
acute effects of interleukin-2 on lung mechanics and airway responsiveness in rats . we studied the acute effects of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) , the principal lymphokine responsible for lymphocyte proliferation , on lung mechanics and airway responsiveness to methacholine ( mch ) in rats . lewis ( n = 12 ) and fisher 344 ( n = 13 ) rats were anesthetized and intubated , and intravenous and intra-arterial lines were inserted . il-2 ( 750,000 u/kg ) was infused intravenously over 2 to 4 min into seven lewis and seven fisher rats , and vehicle alone was administered to five lewis and six fisher rats . blood pressure , heart rate , respiratory frequency ( f ) , tidal volume ( vt ) , minute ventilation ( ve ) , and lung resistance ( rl ) were measured before and every 5 min for 45 min after the infusion of il-2 . lung compliance was measured before and 30 min after il-2 . bronchial provocation testing with mch was performed 45 min after the infusion of il-2 . subsequently , the animals were exsanguinated , and the lungs were removed for histologic examination . infused il-2 did not alter heart rate or blood pressure , vt , f , ve , and rl increased significantly by 15 min ( p less than 0.05 ) , but they returned to baseline by 45 min . lung compliance decreased significantly in both rat strains . il-2 increased airway responsiveness only in lewis rats ; the concentration of mch that caused a doubling of rl ( ec200rl ) was 0.6 mg/ml and 4.3 mg/ml ( p = 0.003 ) in il-2-treated and control rats , respectively . the airway responsiveness did not change significantly in fisher rats ; ec200rl was 0.13 and 0.35 mg/ml for il-2-treated and control rats , respectively ( p = 0.09 ) . 
complement activation is a secondary rather than a causative factor in rabbit pulmonary artery ischemia/reperfusion injury . we have previously demonstrated that reperfusion of a rabbit lung in vivo after 24 h of unilateral pulmonary artery occlusion results in edema , transient leukopenia , and intravascular leukocyte aggregation . we hypothesized that complement was activated by reperfusion and that this in turn contributed to lung injury . in the preliminary phase of the study , we found that ischemia followed by reperfusion resulted in a drop in c3 to 15 + / - 10 % ( mean + / - sem ) of the prereperfusion value as compared with no change in a group of control animals that had undergone an identical thoracotomy but without pulmonary artery occlusion and reperfusion ( p less than 0.05 ) . we then studied three groups of animals to determine if complement depletion with cobra venom factor ( cvf ) prior to ischemia and reperfusion would prevent the injury . rabbits treated with cvf but without occlusion and reperfusion did not develop significant lung edema , with left and right lung wet/dry ratios of 5.32 + / - 0.11 and 5.26 + / - 0.12 , respectively . for rabbits that were not treated with cvf but underwent ischemia and reperfusion , the comparable numbers were 6.15 + / - 0.36 and 5.19 + / - 0.32 ( p less than 0.05 for right versus left ) . for cvf-treated rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion , the right/left difference persisted ( 6.77 + / - 0.48 versus 5.35 + / - 0.14 , p less than 0.01 ) . immunocytochemistry documented c3 deposition in non-cvf rabbits that underwent ischemia and reperfusion but not in cvf-treated rabbits . we conclude that ischemia/reperfusion of the lung results in complement activation , but it is not a complement-dependent injury . 
morphometric analysis of the lung in bronchopulmonary dysplasia . we studied lung development in children with or without bronchopulmonary dysplasia ( bpd ) using light microscopic morphometry and thick lung sections stained for elastic fibers . one lung was obtained at autopsy from each of eight patients with bpd ( ages , 2 to 28 months ) and six children ( ages , 5 days to 51 months ) who died without lung disease . patients with bpd demonstrated severe somatic growth retardation and had reduced lung volumes with abnormal lobar volume proportions . in the central bronchi mean volume proportion of glands and smooth muscle was increased in bpd . bronchiolar density was also increased , but it tended to normalize with advancing age . mean bronchiolar diameter was slightly smaller in bpd , and bronchiolar smooth muscle hypertrophy was a constant histologic feature . the most striking change , however , was noted in alveolar structure and development . total alveolar number was severely decreased in patients with bpd compared with that in control subjects , and there was little evidence of compensatory alveolar development with increasing age . lung internal surface area was correspondingly reduced , and mean linear intercept was increased . sections stained for elastic tissue demonstrated in the patients with bpd a simplified acinar structure with thickened , tortuous , and irregularly distributed alveolar elastic fibers . we conclude that in severe , fatal bpd there is marked impairment of lung development with alveolar hypoplasia and reduced internal surface area . in addition , bronchial and bronchiolar smooth muscle hypertrophy and bronchial gland hyperplasia may be important contributing factors to airflow limitation . 
bronchoalveolar lavage analysis in wegener 's granulomatosis . a method to study disease pathogenesis . a prospective analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) in 13 patients with wegener 's granulomatosis ( wg ) , 20 disease control subjects with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) , and 24 normal control subjects was conducted to ( 1 ) evaluate the quality of the alveolar inflammatory response associated with active wg ; ( 2 ) determine whether antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody ( anca ) is present in alveolar fluid and produced in the lungs of patients with wg ; and ( 3 ) determine whether inhaled particles or infectious agents may play an etiologic role in wg . bal in untreated active wg had a marked increase in neutrophils ( mean = 42 % of total wbc count ) , and usually in eosinophils ( mean = 4 % ) compared with that in normal control subjects ( 1.6 % neutrophils , 0 % eosinophils ) , and untreated wg in remission ( 5.9 % neutrophils , 0 % eosinophils ) . disease control subjects with ipf , a process known to be associated with neutrophilic alveolitis , had an increased population of neutrophils ( 15.4 % ) and eosinophils ( 2.7 % ) in bal . leukocyte remnants , as well as intact leukocytes , could be identified within bal macrophages in the patients with wg and ipf , and rarely in the normal control subjects . normal subjects and control patients with ipf were all negative for anca in serum , whereas anca was found in serum and bal in all patients with active wg who had generalized disease . protein analysis of bal revealed a disproportionate increase in the igg to albumin ration compared with serum values ( igg index ) in patients with active untreated disease . the increase in the igg index suggests that igg with anca reactivity is produced by pulmonary lymphoid tissue . an infectious agent in bal was not identified by any of the techniques applied in this study . 
cellular and molecular basis of the asbestos-related diseases . asbestosis is an inflammatory and fibrotic process of the alveolar structures mediated , at least in part , by cytokines released by " activated " alveolar macrophages . the process of phagocytosis and " activation " of alveolar macrophages is poorly understood . are all macrophages activated or only subpopulations ? which cytokines are up-regulated ? how does the local milieu modulate profibrotic and antifibrotic mediators ? is protein release accompanied by up-regulation of gene transcription ? is there an ordered sequence of cytokine activity ? what roles do neutrophils and lymphocytes play ? how can disease progression best be quantified absent further exposure ? answers to these questions are important to direct rational strategies at interdicting the fibrotic process . the question of cancer and asbestos is more vexing . the processes of inflammation , fibrosis , and carcinogenesis appear to be closely intertwined . for example , proto-oncogenes such as c-sis ( pdgf b-chain ) are up-regulated in activated alveolar macrophages from fibrotic lungs ; these and possibly others may play an important role in asbestos carcinogenesis . second , asbestos can transfect dna into cells . furthermore , dna can adhere to asbestos fibers , and these fibers are capable of direct transmigration into cells . the questions of the mechanisms of cigarette smoke cocarcinogenicity and latency remain . lastly , if the bronchial epithelium is highly metaplastic throughout from cigarette smoking , what triggers a single ( or several ) nidus of cells to transform into carcinoma ? malignant mesothelioma poses the most challenging questions because of association with brief asbestos exposure by history . mesothelial cells are susceptible to minute environmental manipulations , and changes occur after exposure to all fiber types . yet epidemiologic studies point toward long amphiboles as having greater mesothelioma risk . to test this hypothesis , experimental data must be generated differentiating tumorigenesis risk from short , chrysotile fibers that can migrate to the parietal pleura from the associations of long amphiboles persisting in lung tissue . despite the future decreasing numbers of clinical cases of asbestos-related disease , solving the important mechanistic questions remaining will contribute significantly to our understanding of fibrosis and cancer . 
eosinophilic airway inflammation during exacerbation of asthma and its treatment with inhaled corticosteroid . we have compared the inflammatory changes in the bronchial mucosa and the increase in the airway hyperresponsiveness in an asthmatic patient during the deterioration of symptoms . a striking increase in the number of bronchial epithelial eosinophils was associated with an increase in both airway hyperresponsiveness and asthma symptoms . during 16 wk of treatment with the inhaled corticosteroid , budesonide , the patient 's clinical status and airway hyperresponsiveness improved . this was accompanied by an improvement in the ultrastructure of bronchial mucosa and a decrease in the number of epithelial eosinophils . 
aggressive cavitary pulmonary sarcoidosis . pulmonary sarcoidosis in a young patient is usually a relatively benign disease that either resolves spontaneously or remains quiescent for many years . very rarely it pursues a more aggressive course leading to progressive lung destruction . we report a young patient who presented with stage iii sarcoidosis and over a period of 4 yr progressed to severe cavitary disease with frequent superinfections leading to bronchiectasis and chronic suppuration of the lung , eventually requiring a pneumonectomy . 
hypersensitivity pneumonitis versus invasive pulmonary aspergillosis : two cases with unusual pathologic findings and review of the literature . two brothers simultaneously exposed to moldy hay , who developed differing forms of aspergillus-related lung disease , are presented . patient 1 developed a true case of hypersensitivity lung disease , whereas his brother developed invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage eosinophilia and unusual pathologic features including tissue eosinophilia . the possible overlap between hypersensitivity pneumonitis and invasive aspergillosis in the immunocompetent host is discussed . 
reversed helper/suppressor t-lymphocyte ratio in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from patients with breast cancer and pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . pneumocystis pneumonia ( pcp ) usually occurs in patients with hematologic malignancies and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . patients with solid tumors represent a very small fraction of the reported cases of pcp . over an 18-month period , pcp was diagnosed in three patients who had received radiation and chemotherapy for breast cancer . in all three patients , there was no serologic or clinical evidence of aids . direct staining of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( bal ) revealed pneumocystis carinii , and cellular analysis of bal revealed an increased percentage of lymphocytes with reversed helper/inducer : suppressor/cytotoxic t-cell ( cd4 : cd8 ) ratio . because decreased cd4 : cd8 ratio in bal is commonly accepted as findings consistent with hypersensitivity pneumonitis and aids , we conclude that similar findings in patients without aids are not specific for hypersensitivity pneumonitis , and p. carinii should be ruled out in the appropriate clinical setting . 
external fixation using microplates after laryngotracheal expansion surgery . an animal study . management of severe laryngotracheal stenosis requires treatment with open laryngeal surgical approaches . performing the necessary anterior , and possibly posterior , incisions to expand the cricoid and tracheal rings causes instability of the segments . placing an intraluminal stent has several disadvantages , ranging from injury of healthy tissue to airway obstruction . the availability of an external stent would avoid many of these complications . we performed expansion laryngeal surgery in dogs and explored the use of microplates for external fixation and determined the surgical outcome if no fixation is used . the results show that microplates are very effective in maintaining external fixation and that a need for placing an intraluminal stent when a posterior cricoid split is performed exists . 
single-stage laryngotracheal reconstruction . the mainstay for repairing subglottic and tracheal stenosis has been the rib graft with prolonged stenting . a refinement of this treatment was the use of the anterior cricoid decompression ( split ) . we present single-stage reconstruction of the airway as an additional refinement of the laryngotracheoplasty . this article describes the experience of two institutions with single-stage reconstruction and offers some observations on the principles of the technique . 
the characteristics of children with epiglottitis who develop the complication of pulmonary edema . a review was performed of 234 consecutive cases of epiglottis that occurred during a 20-year period to delineate the rate of , and clinical characteristics associated with , the complication of pulmonary edema . as a result of the prior utilization of a " dual " management protocol , there were 170 children who received endotracheal intubation , and 64 children managed without placement of an artificial airway . in all , five children ( 2.1 % ) of varying ages developed this complication -- all experienced severe airway obstruction progressing to respiratory arrest , with evidence of pulmonary edema developing shortly after endotracheal intubation . two of these five children died due to complications resulting from upper airway obstruction-induced cardiorespiratory arrest . by contrast , no child with milder degrees of airway obstruction managed without an artificial airway exhibited clinical evidence of pulmonary edema . several possible mechanisms for the development of this complication are described . pulmonary edema associated with epiglottitis is an uncommon complication that can occur following endotracheal intubation in those patients with marked respiratory insufficiency . an artificial airway should be instituted in all cases of pediatric epiglottitis -- the potential complication of pulmonary edema should be anticipated before placement of an artificial airway , especially in those patients with a severe degree of upper airway obstruction . 
salivary gland involvement in wegener 's granulomatosis . salivary gland involvement is a rare clinical feature of wegener 's granulomatosis . we report a series of five cases in which submandibular or parotid gland swelling was part of the initial manifestation of the disease . all patients had limited forms of wegener 's granulomatosis . the value of determination of serum anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies is demonstrated in four of the cases , and its use as a new diagnostic adjunct and promising tool to monitor disease activity is discussed . the use of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole as part of alternative treatment regimens for limited wegener 's granulomatosis is advocated . 
pupil cycle time and early autonomic involvement in ocular leprosy . ocular complications of leprosy patients often develop insidiously and with few if any symptoms . this study involves measurement of the pupil cycle time ( pct ) to evaluate the autonomic nerve system of the iris to determine the presence of subclinical intraocular involvement . the study included 19 lepromatous ( ll ) , 19 borderline lepromatous ( bl ) , and five borderline tuberculoid ( bt ) leprosy patients and involved 25 healthy volunteers , 10 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and eight with duhring disease . the pct was measured in these groups . in all leprosy groups included in the study the pct was higher than in the control groups . moreover , the pct of the leprosy patients without any intraocular involvement was higher than in the controls . these results show that in the ophthalmic examination of leprosy patients without any symptoms the fact that autonomic nerve system of the eye is affected by the leprosy can often be determined by measuring the pct . 
small cell carcinoma of the prostate . this report details clinical and pathologic aspects of a patient with small cell undifferentiated carcinoma of the prostate and systemic hyperglucagonemia . a panel of potential serologic markers was evaluated in order to document additional evidence of ectopic hormonal production . immunocytochemical markers were sought in tissue samples from the primary neoplasm and a lung metastasis . stains were positive for corticotropin ( acth ) and gastrin in both the prostate and in the lung , but no evidence of excess secretion was documented . these findings are consistent with the notion that neuroendocrine activity is common in undifferentiated small cell carcinomas , regardless of their site of origin . 
hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia . the incidence , clinical characteristics , and outcome of hypersensitivity reactions to teniposide ( vm-26 ) , etoposide ( vp-16 ) , or both were determined in 108 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) treated with a contemporary regimen of intensive multiagent chemotherapy . fifty ( 46 % ) of the 108 patients had one or more hypersensitivity reactions . the risk of any child having an initial reaction over the cumulative dose range studied was 52 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 41 % and 63 % ) for vm-26 , compared with 34 % ( 95 % confidence limits , 24 % and 44 % ) for vp-16 . the risk of having an initial reaction to vm-26 or vp-16 was clearly related to the cumulative dose . this risk peaked at 1500 to 2000 mg/m2 for vm-26 and at 2000-3000 mg/m2 for vp-16 . all reactions were type 1 reactions according to the gell and coombs classification , characterized by urticaria , angioedema , flushing , rashes , or hypotension , and 86 % of reactions were of grade 1 or 2 severity according to standard criteria . there was no evidence of increasing clinical severity on repeated rechallenge with premedication , and no deaths occurred . the findings suggested that hypersensitivity reactions to epipodophyllotoxins in children with all are more common than previously reported , but only rarely constitute dose-limiting toxicity . 
cisplatin , continuous-infusion 5-fluorouracil , and intermediate-dose methotrexate in the treatment of unresectable non-small cell carcinoma of the lung . forty-one patients with unresectable non-small cell carcinoma of the lung ( nsccl ) were treated with cisplatin 20 mg/m2/d for 5 days as a daily bolus injection , 5-fluorouracil 800 mg/m2/d by continuous infusion for 5 days , and intermediate-dose methotrexate 200 mg/m2 on days 15 and 22 of a 28-day cycle ( pfm ) . one complete and 23 partial responses were observed , yielding an overall response rate of 60 % . there was no significant difference in response rates based on histologic subtype or extent of disease ( locally unresectable versus metastatic ) . median duration of response was 6 months , and the median survival of all patients was 10 months . two patients with unresectable disease at presentation became resectable after chemotherapy and remain disease-free at 46 + and 53 + months . toxicity was modest , with oral mucositis the major adverse effect . clinically important neutropenia was uncommon . pfm is an active regimen in nsccl and deserves further study in the " neoadjuvant " setting . 
ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery in the treatment of metastatic colon carcinoma . preliminary results . cryosurgery , the in situ freezing of cancer , has been proposed in the past as a possible treatment for unresectable hepatic tumors . its advantage lies in the fact that it is a very focal treatment sacrificing less normal tissue than surgical resection , allowing treatment of multiple lobes . because cryosurgery does not affect large vessels , tumors in difficult locations , such as adjacent to the inferior vena cava ( ivc ) , can be treated . with the use of intraoperative ultrasound to place the cryoprobes and monitor the freezing process , 18 patients with unresectable metastatic colon carcinoma confined to the liver were treated . of the 18 patients treated , 4 ( 22 % ) are in complete remission as determined by computed tomography ( ct ) scans and carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) levels , with a mean follow-up of 28.8 months . four patients ( 22 % ) were not adequately treated at the time of cryosurgery . the number of lesions frozen in each patient ranged from 1 to 12 , with a mean of 6 lesions . fourteen patients had bilobar disease ; three patients had previous right lobectomies with recurrences in their remaining left lobes prior to cryosurgery , and one patient had unilobar disease . mean survival of the 14 cases with recurrence was 21.4 months , with 2 of the 14 still alive . ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery appears to be an effective treatment for metastatic colon carcinoma to the liver that is unresectable ( including patients with bilobar and multiple lesions ) . these preliminary results indicate that the procedure warrants further study . 
immunohistologic evaluation of parathyroid hormone-related protein in human lung cancer and normal tissue with newly developed monoclonal antibody . with a newly developed monoclonal anti-pthrp antibody , 4b3 , the immunohistochemical localization of the parathyroid hormone-related protein ( pthrp ) was studied on the formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded sections of normal human tissues and various subtypes of lung cancer . among normal epithelial tissues , keratinocytes in squamous epithelia , transitional and bronchial epithelia with squamous metaplasia , meningoepithelial cells , and mammary ductal cells with lactating changes showed positive immunoreactivity . also , among endocrine tissues , cells in the parathyroid gland , pancreatic islets , adrenal cortex , pituitary gland , and testis were sporadically positive for pthrp . these distribution patterns suggested that in a physiologic condition , pthrp was closely related to keratinization and local secretion and/or the metabolism of calcium in specifically differentiated tissues . in lung cancer , however , pthrp was detected in all cases of well-differentiated and moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma and in most cases of small cell carcinoma , irrespective of the patients ' serum calcium level . however , pthrp was not detected in two of five cases of poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma and in all cases of adenocarcinoma . consequently , it was found that pthrp was commonly produced by squamous cell carcinomas of the differentiated type , and that humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy could be induced when the pthrp transgressed the homeostatic mechanisms . 
screening for lung cancer . a critique of the mayo lung project . the national cancer institute of the united states recently sponsored three large-scale , randomized controlled trials of screening for early lung cancer . the trials were conducted at the johns hopkins medical institutions , the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center , and the mayo clinic . participants were middle-aged and older men who were chronic heavy cigarette smokers and thus at high risk of developing lung cancer . screening procedures were chest radiography and sputum cytology , the only screening tests of established value for detecting early stage , asymptomatic lung cancer . in the hopkins and memorial trials the study population was offered yearly chest radiography plus sputum cytology every 4 months . the control population was offered yearly chest radiography only . in these trials the addition of sputum cytology appeared to confer no lung cancer mortality rate advantage . the mayo clinic trial compared offering chest radiography and sputum cytology every 4 months to offering advice that the two tests be obtained once a year . this trial demonstrated significantly increased lung cancer detection , resectability , and survivorship in the group offered screening every 4 months compared with the control group . however , there was no significant difference in lung cancer mortality rate between the two groups . the statistical power of these trials was somewhat limited . nevertheless , results do not justify recommending large-scale radiologic or cytologic screening for early lung cancer at this time . 
the applications of imaging in lung cancer . the applications of imaging to the lung cancer patient have become more focused recently . screening of high risk patients is not recommended even though intuition and clinical judgment prevail in practice to justify the use of chest radiographs in this patient category . cross-sectional imaging procedures should be tailored to the staging process in the individual with a large central primary or to confirm an abnormality noted on the chest radiographs . the patient at high risk for thoracotomy is generally also subjected to radiologic staging . the radiologic staging process is reviewed and critiqued , emphasizing our role in identifying the disease sites that would suggest nonrespectability . 
prognostic implications of dna histogram , dna content , and histologic changes of regional lymph nodes in patients with lung cancer . forty-six cases of resected lung cancer , including 20 cases at stages i and ii and 26 cases at stage iii ( n2 ) , were subdivided into two groups : a good prognosis group with a longer survival period and a poor prognosis group in which the patients died earlier of the cancer . from paraffin-embedded lymph node tissues of these patients , the authors examined dna histogram pattern and dna content , using flow cytometry , and histologic hyperplasia of germinal center and paracortical area ; they also evaluated their correlation with the prognosis . in the good prognosis group at stages i and ii , paracortical hyperplasia ( ph ) of the lymph nodes was observed significantly more frequently . in the good prognosis group at stage iii , the incidence of ph , g2m phase in the dna histograms , and dna content were all significantly higher . dna content was positively correlated with the grade of ph. 
primary and metastatic pulmonary meningioma . patient 1 was a 53-year-old man who had a very rare primary pulmonary meningioma that developed in the left lingular segment . when this report was written , 7 years had passed since he underwent operation , and no recurrence of the meningioma had been detected . in patient 2 , a 61-year-old woman , multiple pulmonary metastases were confirmed 19 years after she had undergone operation for multiple cerebellar meningiomas , and the metastases were resected . after 2 years , multiple intraperitoneal metastases were found , and thus aggressive surgery was performed . currently , 22 years after the operation for the primary cerebellar meningioma , the patient is alive without any subjective symptoms , although intraperitoneal metastases have recurred . to date , only four cases ( all in women ) of primary pulmonary meningioma have been reported . case 1 reported in this article is thus the first case in a male patient to be reported , and , in addition , this patient also has the first reported case to have been evaluated for more than 5 years . in case 2 , however , each of the excised extracranial tumor lesions was histologically homogeneous and showed a hemangiopericytomatous pattern . the histologic picture of those tumor lesions was exactly the same as the picture of a small portion of the cerebellar meningiomas excised 19 years earlier . thus , all those extracranial tumor lesions were diagnosed to be metastatic meningiomas . however , it is difficult to explain why there had been no symptoms for as long as 19 years until the pulmonary metastases were discovered . 
lung cancer in patients younger than 40 years of age . the records of 52 patients younger than 40 years of age who had bronchogenic carcinoma diagnosed between 1965 and 1985 were reviewed . the preponderance of adenocarcinoma ( 54 % ) , the lower male-female ratio in this age group compared with patients age 40 or older ( 2:1 ) , the importance of cigarette smoking as a causative factor ( 80 % of patients ) , the long mean duration of symptoms ( 5 months ) , and the high incidence of advanced stage at diagnosis ( 77 % stages iii and iv ) in these patients are findings similar to those reported in other published series . there was no significant difference in resectability ( 23 % versus 19 % ) , median survival length ( 5.3 months versus 6.9 months ) , median survival length of patients who had surgical resection ( 10.5 months versus 10.8 months ) , and 5-year survival rate ( 11.5 % versus 6.3 % ) in these patients compared with a randomly selected group of 260 patients with lung cancer who were age 40 or older . 
the use of ketoconazole in ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone syndrome . the authors report a patient with ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone ( acth ) syndrome ( eas ) resulting from small cell lung cancer . treatment with ketoconazole ( kcz ) resulted in significant suppression of serum cortisol levels . the authors confirmed kcz to be a useful adjunct in the treatment of cushing 's syndrome . 
human leukoagglutinating antibody evokes cooperative leukotriene synthesis in pulmonary microvasculature . model of transfusion-related acute lung injury . leukoagglutinating antibodies have been implicated in the development of transfusion-related acute lung injury . in the present study , human neutrophil leukotriene generation was provoked by an anti-5b immunoglobulin g , isolated from a multiparous donor plasma that caused noncardiogenic lung edema during transfusion therapy . in 5b-positive polymorphonuclear neutrophils ( pmns ) , the antibody stimulated marked arachidonic acid metabolism , dependent on the presence of plasma as the complement source . quantity and profile of lipid mediators ( leukotriene b4 and its omega-oxidation products , 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid , and nonenzymatic hydrolysis products of leukotriene a4 ) corresponded to those repeatedly described after pmn in vitro stimulation with the artificial calcium ionophore a23187 . anti-5b challenge of pmns sequestered in the microvasculature of perfused rabbit lungs did , however , induce a markedly modified metabolite profile . nonenzymatic hydrolysis products of leukotriene a4 were not detected , and 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid was markedly reduced . in contrast , cysteinyl leukotrienes were measured as predominant compounds , with rapid appearance of leukotriene c4 and more protracted generation of leukotriene e4 . leukotriene b4 and its omega-oxidation products were released with similar kinetics , but in lower amounts , as compared with the isolated pmn stimulation . anti-5b challenge of pmns coincubated with pulmonary artery endothelial cells in vitro , but not stimulation of either cell type alone , provoked marked generation of cysteinyl leukotrienes . these findings suggest modulation of pmn 5-lipoxygenase metabolism in favor of leukotriene a4 transfer to adjacent acceptor cells with subsequent enzymatic conversion to cysteinyl leukotrienes under conditions of lung vascular sequestration . endothelial cells appear to serve as predominant cooperative cells under circumstances of blood-free lung perfusion . pmn-related transcellular eicosanoid synthesis may be involved in the pathogenesis of transfusion-evoked acute lung injury . 
differentiation between the intensity of breathlessness and the distress it evokes in normal subjects during exercise . 1 . this study was designed to examine whether normal subjects could differentiate between the ' intensity ' of their breathlessness and the amount of ' distress ' it evoked , by specific wording of the instructions . 2 . a preliminary study showed no significant difference between ' distress ' score during exercise measured on two separate occasions ( p = 0.3 ) . 3 . ten subjects each performed two identical incremental cycle-ergometer exercise tests on separate occasions during which they were asked to quantify either ' intensity ' or ' distress ' by using modified borg scales . 4 . in all subjects there was a significant correlation ( p less than 0.001 ) between ' intensity ' and minute ventilation . in eight subjects there was a significant correlation ( p less than 0.05 ) between ' distress ' and minute ventilation . one subject displayed no significant correlation and one registered no distress . 5 . mean ' intensity ' was greater than the mean ' distress ' ( p = 0.0001 ) . the slope of ' intensity ' / minute ventilation was greater than the slope of ' distress ' / minute ventilation ( p = 0.0001 ) . 6 . within individuals there was a significant correlation between ' intensity ' and ' distress ' ( p less than 0.05 ) . there was a wide scatter in the slope of this relationship between subjects and maximum ' intensity ' and ' distress ' did not correlate . 7 . different elements of the breathlessness sensation could be identified and selectively measured depending on the wording of the instructions given to the subject . 8 . there was a wide intersubject variation in the magnitude of both breathlessness ' intensity ' and ' distress ' estimates , but the differences between subjects in these two components of the sensation did not appear to follow a common pattern . 
treatment of obstructive pneumatosis coli with endoscopic sclerotherapy : report of a case . the case of an 86-year-old man with cardiac and pulmonary failure , in whom pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis caused segmental obstruction of the sigmoid colon is described . the patient was treated with endoscopic puncture and sclerotherapy of the cyst walls in four sessions , giving endoscopic and radiologic regress of the lesions and symptomatic relief . 
interstitial lung disease . the interstitial lung diseases are comprised of a group of pulmonary disorders characterized clinically by diffuse infiltrates on the chest radiograph and histologically by distortion of the gas exchanging portion of the lung . the physiologic correlates are restriction of lung volumes and impaired oxygenation . the term " interstitial " when applied to these diseases is actually a misnomer because it implies that the inflammatory process is limited specifically to the area between the alveolar epithelial and capillary endothelial basement membranes . the diseases currently grouped as " interstitial " also frequently involve the alveolar epithelium , alveolar space , pulmonary microvasculature , and less commonly , the respiratory bronchioles , larger airways , and even the pleura . the enormous differential diagnosis of interstitial lung disease can be made manageable by understanding that pneumoconiosis , drug-induced disease , and hypersensitivity pneumonitis account for over 80 % of the responsible entities and can usually be identified from the patient 's history . the nine remaining diseases/disease categories include : sarcoidosis , idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis , bronchiolitis obliterans-organizing pneumonia , histiocytosis x , chronic eosinophilic pneumonia , collagen vascular disease-associated interstitial lung disease , granulomatous vasculitis ( wegener 's granulomatosis , churg-strauss syndrome , lymphomatoid granulomatosis ) , goodpasture 's syndrome , and pulmonary alveolar proteinosis . the diagnosis of a specific interstitial lung disease can be made via various means including the patient 's history , specific serologies , bronchoalveolar lavage , transbronchial biopsy , and biopsy of extrathoracic tissues or open lung biopsy . a directed diagnostic approach can be formulated based on an understanding of these techniques and a thorough knowledge of the clinical presentations and specific diagnostic criteria for each of the major diseases . this monograph will serve as a guide for the clinician to use in evaluating and treating patients with interstitial lung disease . we begin by reviewing the clinical presentation , diagnostic criteria , and management of specific interstitial lung diseases excluding pulmonary infection , neoplasm , and sarcoidosis . pneumoconiosis and drug-induced syndromes are not discussed in detail , but the agents responsible and pertinent exposures are presented in tabular form in the discussion of the general diagnostic approach . 
pneumonia : update on diagnosis and treatment . pneumonia is the most common infectious disease necessitating hospitalization of elderly patients . a number of misconceptions exist regarding the clinical and radiological features of pneumonia in elderly patients . early recognition and appropriate therapy can reduce morbidity and enhance survival . this article explores the manifestations of pneumonia in the elderly , as well as the diagnostic approach and contemporary therapy . 
sedation for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy : results of a nationwide survey . a postal questionnaire inquiring about routine sedation and premedication practice for upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was sent to 1048 doctors . of 665 appropriate returns , 81 % were from consultant physicians and surgeons . most endoscopists ( 90 % ) reported using an intravenous benzodiazepine for at least three quarters of endoscopies and 54 % of physicians and 69 % of surgeons always did so . midazolam was the intravenous sedative used by a third of all respondents and 13 % also used an additional intravenous agent , usually pethidine . over the previous two years a total of 119 respiratory arrests , 37 cardiac arrests , and 52 deaths were identified . adverse outcomes were reported more frequently by consultant physicians , by those who ' titrated ' the intravenous sedative , and by those who used an additional intravenous agent , but were reported equally frequently by endoscopists using midazolam and endoscopists using diazepam . there is an urgent need for a prospective study to identify the circumstances and risk factors associated with adverse outcomes related to endoscopy . 
delivery dependence of early proximal bicarbonate reabsorption in the rat in respiratory acidosis and alkalosis . in the intact rat kidney , bicarbonate reabsorption in the early proximal tubule ( ep ) is strongly dependent on delivery . independent of delivery , metabolic acidosis stimulates ep bicarbonate reabsorption . in this study , we investigated whether systemic ph changes induced by acute or chronic respiratory acid-base disorders also affect ep hco3 - reabsorption , independent of delivery ( flhco3 , filtered load of bicarbonate ) . hypercapnia was induced in rats acutely ( 1-3 h ) and chronically ( 4-5 d ) by increasing inspired pco2 . hypocapnia was induced acutely ( 1-3 h ) by mechanical hyperventilation , and chronically ( 4-5 d ) using hypoxemia to stimulate ventilation . when compared with normocapneic rats with similar flhco3 , no stimulation of ep or overall proximal hco3 reabsorption was found with either acute hypercapnia ( paco2 = 74 mmhg , ph = 7.23 ) or chronic hypercapnia ( paco2 = 84 mmhg , ph = 7.31 ) . acute hypocapnia ( paco2 = 29 mmhg , ph = 7.56 ) did not suppress ep or overall hco3 reabsorption . chronic hypocapnia ( paco2 = 26 mmhg , ph = 7.54 ) reduced proximal hco3 reabsorption , but this effect was reversed when flhco3 was increased to levels comparable to euvolemic normocapneic rats . thus , when delivery is accounted for , we could find no additional stimulation of proximal bicarbonate reabsorption in respiratory acidosis and , except at low delivery rates , no reduction in bicarbonate reabsorption in respiratory alkalosis . 
expression of rat renal na/h antiporter mrna levels in response to respiratory and metabolic acidosis . the mammalian proximal tubule is an important mediator of the renal adaptive response to systemic acidosis . in chronic metabolic and respiratory acidosis the bicarbonate reabsorptive ( or proton secretory ) capacity is increased . this increase is mediated , at least in part , by an increase in vmax of the luminal na/h antiporter . to determine whether this adaptation involves increased mrna expression , na/h antiporter mrna levels were measured by northern analysis in renal cortex of rats with metabolic ( 6 mmol/kg body wt nh4cl for 2 or 5 d ) and respiratory ( 10 % co2/air balanced for 2 or 5 d ) acidosis and of normal , pair-fed rats . na/h antiporter mrna levels were unchanged after 2 d of both metabolic and respiratory acidosis . after 5 d , however , na/h antiporter mrna expression was increased 1.76 + / - 0.12-fold in response to metabolic acidosis ( p less than 0.005 , n = 8 ) , but was not different from normal in response to respiratory acidosis : 1.1 + / - 0.2 ( ns , n = 8 ) . thus , the renal adaptive response to metabolic acidosis involves increased cortical na/h antiporter mrna levels . in contrast , the enhanced proximal tubule na/h antiporter activity and bicarbonate reabsorption in respiratory acidosis seem to involve mechanisms other than increased na/h antiporter gene expression . 
septic shock and death due to occult sinusitis . we report a case of septicaemia and death due to occult sinusitis in an otherwise healthy adult . septicaemia was diagnosed on clinical grounds and blood culture grew streptococcus pneumoniae . maxillary sinusitis was discovered incidentally on a ct scan four days after the onset of symptoms . a sinus wash-out revealed pus which on culture was positive for streptococcus pneumoniae . the patient deteriorated gradually and died despite appropriate therapy . we conclude that sinusitis should be suspected in any case of septicaemia where the primary focus is not known and the patient does not respond quickly to treatment . 
fatal pulmonary embolism caused by streptokinase treatment of deep venous thrombosis of the leg ? during the last 10 years , four of 150 ( 2.7 % ) patients with deep venous thrombosis ( dvt ) treated with streptokinase ( sk ) at our department have died of pulmonary embolism ( pe ) . a retrospective study of 1393 dvt patients treated with heparin during the period 1973-1986 showed that five ( 0.36 % ) of these patients died of pe while still on heparin . in this paper we describe the four patients treated with sk who developed fatal pe . in our opinion this increase in mortality does not warrant the use of sk in routine treatment of dvt of the leg before a proper trial has been conducted to compare the frequencies of pulmonary embolism after both treatments . 
variables influencing tumor uptake of anti-melanoma monoclonal antibodies radioiodinated using para-iodobenzoyl ( pib ) conjugate tumor uptake was examined with respect to antigen expression , time-dependent biodistribution , dose of mab injected , tumor size , and tumor site ( i.e. , subcutaneous versus lung or liver metastases ) . nr-ml-05 , 96.5 , and p94 showed significantly greater uptake in subcutaneous tumors than cl207 and 5.1 ( p less than 0.05 ) . nr-ml-05 had a significantly higher tumor uptake at 24 hr ( 11.9 + / - 0.51 ) than at 72 hr ( 4.0 + / - 0.37 ) or 144 hr ( 2.7 + / - 0.84 ) after injection ( p less than 0.001 ) . the other four mabs had similar tumor distribution at all three time points . the tumor uptake of four mabs ( 96.5 , p94 , cl207 . 5.1 ) differed with respect to in vitro versus in vivo binding to tumor , tumor type , dose of mab , and tumor site ( subcutaneous versus metastases ) . in contrast , nr-ml-05 demonstrated consistent uptake in tumors independent of the above parameters . these data suggest that certain host parameters can influence in vivo tumor targeting depending on characteristics of each mab studied . 
dapsone as a single agent is suboptimal therapy for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . in a prospective , noncomparative study , seven patients with mild pneumocystis carinii pneumonia , characterized by room air arterial po2 greater than 60 mm hg at the time of presentation , were treated with dapsone alone at a dose of 200 mg daily . two of the seven patients required mechanical ventilation for respiratory failure on day 5 of dapsone therapy ; both died . four patients experienced major side effects during dapsone therapy . none of the seven patients successfully completed a full course of therapy with dapsone . we conclude that high-dose , single-agent dapsone is not suitable for further study as therapy for pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with aids : evaluation of lavage and staining techniques in diagnosis . the diagnostic yield of unilateral vs. bilateral bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) was prospectively evaluated in 65 consecutive patients suspected of having pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) complicating acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) . gram-weigert ( gw ) , papanicolaou ( pap ) , and gomori 's methenamine silver ( gms ) stains were used for identification of p. carinii in all cases . forty-eight patients had pcp that was identified by gw staining of bal in 47/48 patients followed by pap/gms staining of bal in 44/48 patients and pap/gms staining of bronchial washings in 40/48 patients . in patients with bilateral interstitial infiltrates , unilateral lavage was sufficient for diagnosis of pcp when gw stain was utilized . in patients with pcp complicating aids , the diagnostic yield of bal may be increased by use of both gw and gms stains . 
treatable abdominal pathologic conditions and unsuspected malignant neoplasms at autopsy in veterans who received mechanical ventilation . study objective : to determine , in medical patients who received mechanical ventilation , the frequency and types of major unexpected diagnoses at autopsy that , if known before death , would probably have led to improved survival ( class i errors ) or substantively changed management but not survival ( class iib errors ) . design : retrospective cohort study . setting : six medical intensive care units in a department of veterans affairs cooperative study . patients : one hundred seventy-two autopsied patients of the 401 veterans who received mechanical ventilation and died in the hospital . results : the class i error rate was 12 % . abdominal pathologic conditions -- abscesses , bowel perforations , or infarction -- were as frequent as pulmonary emboli as a cause of class i errors . while patients with abdominal pathologic conditions generally complained of abdominal pain , results of examination of the abdomen were considered unremarkable in most patients , and the symptom was not pursued . six percent of patients had extensive malignant neoplasms ( class iib errors ) . conclusions : atypical presentation of potentially treatable abdominal pathologic conditions is a common cause of class i errors in veterans who receive mechanical ventilation . conversely , several patients with unrecognized terminal conditions underwent intensive intervention . if the information gained at autopsy had been known before death , management would have probably changed substantively in 18 % of patients . 
protective efficacy of haemophilus influenzae type b polysaccharide and conjugate vaccines in children 18 months of age and older . to evaluate the protective efficacy of polyribosylribitol phosphate ( prp ) and polyribosylribitol phosphate-diphtheria toxoid ( prp-d ) vaccines in children 18 to 59 months of age , we conducted a case-control study in los angeles ( calif ) county between july 1 , 1988 , and july 31 , 1989 . seventy-nine children with invasive haemophilus influenzae type b disease 18 to 59 months of age were identified , and 212 controls were selected by random-digit telephone dialing methods . cases and controls were stratified by age and month of disease onset of the case . seventeen prp vaccine failures and two prp-d vaccine failures occurred more than 2 weeks after vaccination . the prp vaccine was shown not to be effective ( point estimate -- 47 % ; 95 % confidence interval , -- 307 % to 47 % ) , but the prp-d vaccine was 88 % protective ( 95 % confidence interval , 42 % to 97 % ) . adjustment of the efficacy estimates for potential confounding variables did not change the results significantly . the prp-d vaccine provided significantly better protection than the prp vaccine against invasive h influenzae type b disease in this population . 
mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands : a reappraisal of the influence of tumor differentiation on prognosis . thirty-nine cases of mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the salivary glands were reviewed for a reappraisal of the influence of the grade of differentiation on the outcome of the disease . the age of the patients ranged between 7 and 84 years . fifteen patients were females and 24 males . the tumors were located at the parotid gland ( n = 30 ) , the submaxillary gland ( n = 1 ) , the soft palate ( n = 5 ) and the oral mucosa nos ( n = 3 ) . at presentation 4 tumors were intraglandular and 35 extraglandular ; three patients had lymph node metastases and one patient lung metastases . the grade of differentiation was assessed using the criteria of healey et al . twelve tumors were classified as grade i , 17 as grade ii , and 10 as grade iii . follow-up information was obtained with a duration of 5-144 months ( mean 44.7 months ) . six cases recurred locally and 5 developed metastases . five years cumulative survival was 100 % for grade i , 70.1 % for grade ii , and 47.2 % for grade iii . the results point to the usefulness of the assessment of the grade of differentiation as a guide to anticipate the outcome of the disease . 
is there ever a role for salvage operations in limited small-cell lung cancer ? combined modality treatment with chemotherapy and radiation produces tumor regression in most patients with small-cell lung cancer , but the impact on survival has been small , and less than 20 % of patients with limited disease survive 2 years . survival time is extremely short after failure to respond or relapse after treatment . local control remains a problem , with one third of patients having recurrence only at the primary site . in an attempt to prolong survival and perhaps achieve cure , we undertook surgical resection in 28 patients with limited small-cell lung cancer who did not have complete remission with standard treatment or who had only local recurrence after treatment . there were 28 patients , 22 male and six female , median age 61 years ( range 41 to 76 ) . all patients had been treated with chemotherapy and 13 had received preoperative radiotherapy to the primary site and mediastinum . eight patients underwent an operation for relapse after complete remission . five patients had had no response to treatment , three had had a slight response followed by progression during chemotherapy , and 12 had achieved partial response but had greater than 3 cm residual masses . twelve patients required pneumonectomy , 15 lobectomy , one patient had unresectable disease , and two had bulky residual masses after the operation . three others had microscopic residual disease . pathologic examination showed only small-cell lung cancer in 18 patients , mixed small-cell and non-small-cell in four , and only non-small-cell lung cancer in six . there were only four patients with stage i disease , 10 with stage ii , and 14 with stage iii . the median survival from the date of diagnosis for the entire group is 105 weeks and from the date of operation , 74 weeks . the projected 5-year survival rate is 23 % . the two patients with residual masses died with local progression , and distant metastatic disease developed in 17 others . one patient died at 6 years without recurrent disease . eight patients are alive 2 to 5 years after diagnosis . seven of these patients required only a lobectomy , four had stage i disease , two had stage ii , and two had stage iii disease . five had pure small-cell lung cancer and three had mixed small-cell and non-small-cell tumors . all of the patients with pathologic stage i disease remain alive compared with one of 10 with stage ii disease and two of 14 with stage iii . in summary , relapse or failure to respond to chemotherapy may be due to non-small-cell lung cancer or a mixed tumor . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
radon and health radon and its daughter decay products are thought to be the cause of 5 % of lung cancer in the uk . this assessment has been made by the national radiological protection board ( nrpb ) after a national survey of radon levels in homes , when more houses than anticipated were found to have high levels , and after a reappraisal upwards of the effectiveness of radon and its daughter products in causing lung cancer . a review of the scientific evidence reveals no direct evidence to incriminate radon or its decay products at the levels found in our homes in lung cell carcinogenesis . the issue involves different scientific disciplines and is highly complex . debate between scientists is required and more epidemiological studies of lung cancer and low radon exposure are necessary . meanwhile the indirect evidence linking low levels of radon exposure to lung cancer is insufficient to warrant the remedial action proposed by the nrpb and accepted by the uk government . 
perception of breathlessness during bronchoconstriction induced by antigen , exercise , and histamine challenges . perception of breathlessness was studied in eight patients with mild , stable asthma after a histamine and exercise challenge performed before and 24 and 48 hours respectively after an antigen challenge . fev1 and perception of breathlessness , evaluated by borg 's 10 point category scale , were measured after each administration of doubling antigen or histamine concentrations to achieve a greater than 20 % fall in fev1 , and after six minutes of steady state exercise at 80 % of maximal oxygen consumption ( vo2max ) . the geometric mean provocative concentration of histamine causing a 20 % fall in fev1 ( pc20 ) fell from 1.67 mg/ml before antigen challenge to 0.52 mg/ml 24 hours after the challenge . the median maximal % fall in fev1 with exercise was 24.9 % ( range 10.5-40 .5 % ) before and 30.6 % ( range 13.8-52 .3 % ) 48 hours after antigen challenge . the median maximum % fall in fev1 after antigen inhalation was 20.1 % ( range 13.3-35 .2 % ) within the first hour ; only two subjects had a late fall in fev1 ( 23 % and 58 % ) . the median ( range ) of borg scores obtained when fev1 was reduced by 20 % did not differ significantly for the three types of acute challenges : 1.25 ( 0.5-2 .5 ) and 1.0 ( 0.5-3 .0 ) after histamine tests , 1.0 ( 0.5-4 .1 ) and 1.55 ( 0.5-2 .0 ) after exercise , and 1.5 ( 0-3 .0 ) after antigen challenge . in the two subjects who had a late response to antigen the borg score was reduced for the same % fall in fev1 as with the early response . it is concluded that the perception of breathlessness does not differ appreciably during the early response to histamine , antigen exposure , or exercise , but that it is reduced during the late asthmatic response . it was not influenced by previous antigen exposure , despite an increase in airway responsiveness . 
modified muscle sparing posterolateral thoracotomy . a modified posterolateral thoracotomy is described that combines the advantages of complete muscle sparing through a thoracolumbar fascial slide with excellent exposure . the technique is easy to perform . the procedure was associated with relatively little postoperative pain , coughing was effective , and early ambulation was achieved . experience with this approach in the first 49 patients suggests that it offers an attractive alternative to the standard muscle cutting posterolateral thoracotomy approach for elective procedures . 
inhaled micronised gentamicin powder : a new delivery system . forty patients undergoing routine bronchoscopy were randomised to receive inhaled micronised gentamicin powder ( 180 mg ) or nebulised gentamicin solution ( 160 mg ) one hour before the procedure . similar levels of gentamicin were detected in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in the two groups ( micronised powder ( n = 20 ) 9.3 ( sd 9.3 ) mg/l , nebulised solution ( n = 20 ) 8.0 ( 7.8 ) mg/l ) . the micronised gentamicin powder preparation caused cough in half the patients but this did not stop their receiving a full dose . dry powder gentamicin may be a convenient formulation for long term inhaled treatment if the problem of cough can be overcome . 
lung function 8-18 years after intermittent positive pressure ventilation for hyaline membrane disease . lung function and respiratory symptoms were studied in 40 children aged 8-18 years who had been ventilated for hyaline membrane disease after birth ; 11 had had bronchopulmonary dysplasia . also studied were 38 age matched children who had had hyaline membrane disease but had not required ventilation , 25 unmatched children who were born prematurely but did not develop hyaline membrane disease , and 39 randomly selected pupils of similar age . there was no difference in thoracic gas volume , total lung capacity , inspiratory vital capacity , residual volume , or transfer factor for carbon monoxide between the groups . respiratory symptoms during the three years before the study and the frequency of clinically diagnosed asthma in patients and their family were similar in all the children with hyaline membrane disease irrespective of whether they had been ventilated or had had bronchopulmonary dysplasia . the children with bronchopulmonary dysplasia , however , had a lower forced expiratory volume in one second ( fev1 ) before bronchodilator ( 73 % predicted ) than the other groups ( 88-95 % predicted ) . children who had required ventilation had lower values for specific airways conductance ( sgaw ) and a greater increase in fev1 ( delta fev1 ) after salbutamol ( 13 % ) than non-ventilated children ( 6 % ) ; delta fev1 was associated with the peak pressure of intermittent positive pressure ventilation , a family history of asthma and a history of wheezing , recurrent respiratory illnesses , and a doctor 's diagnosis of asthma during the three years before the study . these findings indicate that after eight years of age patients with bronchopulmonary dysplasia have more reversible airways obstruction , compatible with increased bronchial smooth muscle tone . 
effects of hypothyroidism on bronchial reactivity in non-asthmatic subjects . the effect of hypothyroidism on non-specific bronchial reactivity was studied in 11 patients without pulmonary disease ( mean age 40 ( sd 13 ) years ) who had had a total thyroidectomy and radioiodine treatment for thyroid cancer 41 ( 36 ) months before the study . all patients when mildly hyperthyroid while having long term thyroxine replacement treatment and once when hypothyroid two weeks after stopping triiodothyronine for the purpose of screening for metastases . bronchial reactivity was assessed by measuring specific airways conductance ( sgaw ) after increasing doses of inhaled carbachol ( 45-1260 micrograms ) . the dose producing a 35 % decrease in sgaw ( pd35 ) was determined from the cumulative log dose-response curve by linear regression analysis . mean baseline sgaw values were similar when the patients were hypothyroid and when they were hyperthyroid ( 1.35 ( 0.36 ) and 1.41 ( 0.56 ) s-1 kpa-1 ) . the interstudy coefficients of variation of baseline sgaw were higher in the thyroid patients than in a euthyroid control group ( 14 % versus 8 % ) . geometric mean pd35 was lower when the patients were hypothyroid ( 97 micrograms ) than when they were mildly hyperthyroid ( 192 micrograms ) . it is concluded that acute hypothyroidism increases non-specific bronchial reactivity in nonasthmatic subjects . 
performance and prognosis in patients with lung cancer . the edinburgh lung cancer group . the edinburgh lung cancer group prospectively registered 651 new patients presenting with lung cancer during 1981 ; only 47 survived five years ( 7 % ) . the survival rate was highest in patients selected for surgery ( 35/116 , 30 % ) and in this group was related to cell type , stage of disease , and possibly to karnofsky performance score ( not statistically significant ) . by comparison with non-surgical patients these 116 patients undergoing surgery were highly selected in terms of age , favourable histological type , stage of disease , and performance score . forty-two of the 535 non-surgical patients were given radical radiotherapy alone and seven ( 17 % ) survived five years . the remaining 493 received palliative radiotherapy , chemotherapy ( alone or combined with radiotherapy ) , or symptomatic treatment alone ; only five ( 1 % ) survived five years . median survival was related to cell type ( adenocarcinoma 2.6 months , squamous cell carcinoma 6.2 months ) , stage ( stage i 8.5 months , stage iii 4 months ) , and karnofsky performance index ( greater than or equal to 90 9.3 months , less than or equal to 50 1.2 months ) . age and sex had no independent prognostic value in any group . performance score was highly correlated with stage ( and age ) and in this study represented the " best prognostic factor " in clinical practice . 
life threatening haemoptysis in cystic fibrosis : an alternative therapeutic approach [ published erratum appears in thorax 1991 apr ; 46 ( 4 ) :274 ] desmopressin and vasopressin were used to control massive haemoptysis in a patient with cystic fibrosis . after bolus doses a continuous infusion of vasopressin was maintained for 36 hours and haemoptysis stopped . 
intercostal arteriovenous fistula due to pleural biopsy a 32 year old woman had a pleural biopsy for a left pleural effusion , which showed caseating granuloma typical of tuberculosis . when the fourth biopsy specimen was removed considerable bleeding occurred from the puncture site . four days later a bruit was audible over the punctured area , radiating to the back . eight days after the procedure the patient had a massive bleed into the left pleural space . selective aortic angiography showed an arteriovenous fistula between the 9th intercostal artery and vein and a pseudoaneurysm in the intercostal punctured area . thoracotomy showed bleeding from the site of the pleural biopsy . the intercostal vessels were ligated and pleural decortication was performed , and the patient recovered uneventfully . 
chylothorax secondary to obstruction of the superior vena cava : a complication of the leveen shunt . a case of thrombosis of the superior vena cava was complicated by bilateral chylothoraces and a widened mediastinum . removal of a clotted leveen shunt led to prompt resolution of the obstruction and chylothoraces . 
pulmonary embolization of iodine-125 seeds following prostate implantation . the optimal treatment of prostatic carcinoma limited to the gland remains controversial . treatment has included implantation of iodine-125 seeds via both a suprapubic approach and , more recently , a transperineal technique utilizing ultrasound guidance . we recently have noted a heretofore unreported complication with this latter technique , namely , embolization of seeds to the lungs . review of the chest x-ray films of 31 patients who underwent suprapubic implants showed no evidence of this phenomenon . one of 5 patients undergoing transperineal implant was found to have seeds lodged in the lung . complications surrounding the various treatments of localized prostate carcinoma are reviewed . 
prognostic factors and value of adjunctive nephrectomy in patients with stage iv renal cell carcinoma . we reviewed 57 cases of stage iv renal cell carcinoma to clarify the factors influencing prognosis and to evaluate the value of nephrectomy . cumulative survival from the initial diagnosis was analyzed with respect to the patients ' age , sex , side of primary tumor , initial performance status ( ps ) , site of metastasis , and nephrectomy . overall survival for the patients was 51 percent at one year , 22 percent at three years , and 11 percent at five years . age , sex , and side of primary tumor had no influence on survival . improved survival was correlated with good ps , metastases limited to single organ , and removal of the primary tumor . with regard to histopathologic features in nephrectomized patients , low grade and stage were correlated with longer survival . these factors should be considered in the analysis of results of future clinical trials of metastatic renal cell carcinoma . 
papillary carcinoma of the thyroid with mucoepidermoid features . the significance and differential diagnoses of signet-ring cells found in the fine-needle aspirate of metastatic mucoepidermoid carcinoma from the thyroid are reported and discussed . the primary tumor occurred in a 35-year-old man , who had a history of neck irradiation during his childhood . despite postoperative treatment with 60 gy external radiation and 1,200 mci 131i , the patient has at present -- 12 years after the initial operation -- progressive disease with local recurrence in the neck as well as lung metastases . 
continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in hypertensive crises in pregnancy . twenty-four patients first seen with hypertensive crises during pregnancy were studied by continuous electrocardiographic monitoring for a period of 24 hours to detect the presence of serious ventricular arrhythmias . three patients were excluded from analysis because of low serum potassium levels . thirteen of the remaining 21 patients had ventricular tachycardia on subsequent analysis of the electrocardiogram . these arrhythmias subsided after induction of anesthesia when blood pressure control was optimal . this finding may be implicated in the pathogenesis of pulmonary edema and sudden death in these patients . 
neonatal complications at term as related to the degree of umbilical artery acidemia . the degree of umbilical arterial acidemia associated with immediate newborn morbidity has not been determined . therefore we compared 358 term infants with umbilical artery acidemia ( ph less than 7.20 ) with 358 term , nonacidotic matched control infants , to evaluate immediate neonatal complications in both groups . nonacidotic was defined as an umbilical artery ph greater than or equal to 7.20 . complications included seizures , persistent hypotonia , and/or signs of end-organ damage such as renal or cardiac dysfunction . none of the 693 newborns with an umbilical artery ph greater than or equal to 7.00 had such complications . two of 23 infants with an umbilical artery ph less than 7.00 had sequelae related to intrapartum asphyxia . in these two infants the umbilical artery ph was less than 7.00 , the 1-minute and 5-minute apgar scores were less than or equal to 3 and the acidemia was metabolic in nature . 
ultrastructure of respiratory cilia of wic-hyd male rats . an animal model for human immotile cilia syndrome . the wic-hyd rat is a mutant from the csk : wistar-imamichi rat , with spontaneous hydrocephalus . in male rats , the hydrocephalus is severe and about one half of hydrocephalic male littermates possess situs inversus totalis . ependymal cilia in these animals are immotile , and this defect is regarded as a mechanical cause of hydrocephalus . this paper presents the ultrastructural features of respiratory cilia in these rats in comparison with those in human immotile cilia syndrome . the respiratory cilia in these rats also are immotile and the dynein arms are missing , as in human cases . previously only eight dogs with immotile cilia syndrome and a mutant hydrocephalic-polydactyl mouse were reported with respect to these phenomena . however the wic-hyd rat is the first useful animal model for human immotile cilia syndrome , and further studies may serve to clarify the genetic background of this condition . 
selective differences in macrophage populations and monokine production in resolving pulmonary granuloma and fibrosis . alveolar macrophages ( am ) and their production of interleukin-1-like activity ( il-1 ) and macrophage-derived growth factor for fibroblasts ( mdgf ) were examined during chronic inflammatory reactions leading to either granuloma formation or fibrosis . groups of five rats each received , respectively , a single transtracheal injection of xonotlite , attapulgite , short chrysotile 4t30 , uicc chrysotile b asbestos , or saline . one month later , such treatments induced either no change ( xonotlite ) , granuloma formation ( attapulgite and short chrysotile 4t30 ) , or fibrosis ( uicc chrysotile b ) . by 8 months , however , the granulomatous reactions had resolved or greatly diminished , whereas the fibrosis persisted irreversibly . parallel examination of cell populations obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage revealed that multinucleated giant macrophages ( mgc ) were present in lavage fluids of animals with resolving granulomatous reactions but absent in those obtained from animals with lung fibrosis . evaluation of monokine production by inflammatory macrophages also revealed significant differences . enhanced production of il-1-like activity was seen in both types of lung injury , although especially during the early stage ( 1 month ) and decreased thereafter ( 8 months ) . by contrast , augmentation of mdgf production was observed in animals with lung fibrosis only and persisted up to 9 months . taken together , these data indicate that production of selected cytokines , as well as am differentiation along a given pathway , may modulate the outcome of a chronic inflammatory response . 
thromboxane synthetase inhibition decreases polymorphonuclear leukocyte activation following hindlimb ischemia . ischemia of the lower extremity has been shown to cause pulmonary leukostasis and increased pulmonary artery pressure . thromboxane ( tx ) has been implicated as a mediator in this process . the effect of oky-046 , a tx synthetase inhibitor , on polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmn ) production of superoxide anion ( o2 - ) as determined by ferricytochrome reduction was examined . fourteen dogs were subjected to 6 hours of bilateral gracilis muscle ischemia followed by 1 hour of reperfusion . o2 - production from resting pmns and pmns stimulated with opsonized zymosan ( oz , 0.1 mg/ml ) was measured prior to ischemia or drug treatment ( baseline ) , and following reperfusion in both treated ( n = 7 ) and control groups ( n = 7 ) . serum tx levels were measured using a radioimmunoassay . following reperfusion , tx levels in the treated group were decreased as compared with the control group ( 18 + / - 2 pg/ml vs. 72 + / - 26 pg/ml , p less than 0.05 ) . superoxide production by both resting and stimulated pmns was also decreased in the treated group ; from 0.98 + / - 0.16 nmol to 0.43 + / - 0.12 nmol o2 - in the resting state ( p less than 0.05 ) and from 13.3 + / - 1.5 nmol to 9.0 + / - 1.1 nmol o2 - after stimulation ( p less than 0.005 ) . o2 - production was increased in the control group following reperfusion as compared with baseline samples , and this increase was attenuated by treatment with oky-046 . tx synthetase inhibition decreases activation of pmns following hindlimb ischemia . 
treatment of intractable aspiration using a laryngeal stent or obturator . twenty-five patients were treated with a laryngeal stent for potentially reversible chronic aspiration of life-threatening magnitude . the causes of the intractable aspiration were diverse and included chronic neurologic disease , extensive head and neck surgery , and severe gastroesophageal reflux . the advantages of this technique are noted in comparison to those of more invasive procedures . disadvantages of the laryngeal stent and complications encountered are also covered . the long-term results show that all but one patient had a significant improvement in their chronic aspiration with the stent in place . however , only eight patients achieved adequate oral deglutition without aspiration following stent removal . 
transtracheal delivery of oxygen : efficacy and safety for long-term continuous therapy . transtracheal ( tt ) oxygen delivery involves administration of oxygen percutaneously through a catheter inserted in the suprasternal trachea . transtracheal oxygen delivery has been proposed as a means of overcoming the high visibility , inconvenience , and discomfort associated with nasal cannula use . this report describes our experience using tt delivery in 40 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( n = 32 ) and other types of lung disease ( n = 8 ) . overall acceptance of tt catheter use was high and only 5 subjects elected to discontinue use . we believe the tt route is a relatively safe approach for oxygen administration and a promising method of improving patient compliance . it also offers the potential of more adequately oxygenating patients with refractory hypoxemia . 
surgical applications of ultrathin flexible bronchoscopes in infants . ultrathin flexible bronchoscopes with controlled distal angulation allow the conventional diagnostic examination of the lower airways of even the smallest infants . these instruments may be passed through small endotracheal or tracheostomy tubes while ventilation is maintained . it is thus possible , under direct visualization , to control the manipulation of surgical instruments where they could not otherwise be seen , or to study airway dynamics and anatomy intraoperatively without extubating the patient . 
skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele and osteomyelitis . a case of skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele is presented . while the similarity in clinical signs between sinus mucocele and malignancy has recently been emphasized in the literature , no previous case of skull base malignancy following frontoethmoid mucocele has been reported . the literature is reviewed and the association between inflammatory conditions and sinus malignancy is outlined . 
laryngeal dystonia : a series with botulinum toxin therapy . laryngeal dystonia is a syndrome characterized by action-induced , involuntary spasms of the laryngeal muscles . most patients have involvement of the adductor laryngeal muscles producing uncontrolled spasms during phonation , and a " strain-strangle " speech pattern commonly termed " spastic dysphonia . " other patients have involvement of the abductor muscles producing " whispering dysphonia . " rare patients have paradoxical vocal cord motion during respiration with adductor spasms on inspiration . over the past 5 years we have used botulinum toxin ( botox ) to treat more than 200 patients with laryngeal dystonia . this group includes patients with adductor involvement ( phonatory dystonia , recurrent laryngeal nerve section failure , respiratory dystonia ) and those with abductor involvement ( whispering dystonia ) . patients received benefit within 24 to 72 hours , with sustained improvement for 2 to 9 months with an average of 4 months . patients improved to an average of 90 % of normal function . clinically significant adverse effects included extended breathy dysphonia and mild choking on fluids . botox has become our treatment of choice for dystonic conditions of the larynx . 
management of subglottic stenosis in the adult . twenty-one adult patients were surgically treated for severe subglottic stenosis refractory to endoscopic treatment . patients were treated by anterior or anterior and posterior cricoid division with costal cartilage grafting . seventy-six percent of the patients were successfully decannulated . success of treatment was not dependent on cause of the stenosis or age or sex of the patient . there was a significantly better outcome ( p less than .05 ) in patients with isolated subglottic stenosis versus those with combined glottic and subglottic stenosis . 
radiological abnormalities among sheet-metal workers in the construction industry in the united states and canada : relationship to asbestos exposure . we investigated the possible adverse health effects to sheet-metal workers who had past exposure to asbestos . a cross-sectional medical examination of 1,330 workers was conducted during 1986 and 1987 in seven cities in the united states and canada . a total of 1,016 workers had been employed for at least 35 y in the industry , and the mean duration from onset of asbestos exposure was 39.5 y ( sd = 7.41 y ) . chest x-ray abnormalities were found in more than half of the group . pleural fibrosis , the most frequently found abnormality , was present in 47.0 % of the cases and was the only abnormality found in 27.8 % of cases ; parenchymal interstitial fibrosis , found in 33.1 % of cases , was the only abnormality found in 16.2 % of cases . radiologic abnormalities increased as duration of exposure increased . a positive smoking history was associated with a higher prevalence of radiologically detectable parenchymal abnormalities , a finding confirmed by us and others . dyspnea on exertion was graded by a medical research council questionnaire , the examinee 's self-assessment , and a more detailed 12-point scale questionnaire . few persons had marked shortness of breath , and approximately one-third had slight dyspnea . individuals who had radiologic abnormalities experienced more shortness of breath than did those who had no radiologic abnormalities . cigarette smoking also resulted in a higher prevalence of dyspnea . the results indicate that during the past , construction sheet-metal workers have been significantly exposed to asbestos on the job . every effort should be made to minimize the anticipated serious health consequences , and further asbestos exposure for those who continue in this trade should be avoided . 
proportion of lung and bladder cancers in males resulting from occupation : a systematic approach studies conducted in several countries that investigated the relationship of occupation and cancer in men were reviewed and compared . estimates of the proportion of cancers due to occupational exposure that occurred in the general population were analyzed , and sources of variation were explored . a systematic and standardized evaluation of studies on lung and bladder cancer were undertaken , and only investigations that allowed for confounding from tobacco smoking were included . the proportion of lung cancers attributable to occupation ranged between 1 and 5 % ( when considering only exposure to asbestos ) and 40 % ( in a study with a high proportion of subjects exposed to ionizing radiation ) ; for bladder cancer , estimates were between 0 and 3 % in a few studies and between 16 and 24 % in several investigations . no similar attempt of systematic comparison was possible for other cancers . 
pulmonary tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries . a prospective study of 12 cases . pulmonary tumor embolism leading to subacute cor pulmonale has been extensively studied . however , to our knowledge , the involvement of pulmonary alveolar capillaries has not previously been studied in detail . a prospective study was conducted on 112 autopsied patients with cancer to determine the presence of microembolism in the alveolar septal capillaries . fifteen sections of predetermined lung areas were obtained and examined . tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries was detected in 12 cases ( 10.7 % ) , with simultaneous involvement of other vascular territories in 11 . seven patients had dyspnea ; four , right ventricular failure ; four , hypertrophy of the right ventricle ; and three , arterial vascular sclerosis . the present data have led us to conclude that pulmonary tumor embolism to alveolar septal capillaries occurs in association with the involvement of arterial or lymphatic vessels and should be analyzed within the context of the study of subacute cor pulmonale . 
pneumonia complicating abdominal sepsis . an independent risk factor for mortality . nosocomial pneumonia ( np ) is associated with a significant mortality , 66 % in a previous retrospective study of np complicating intra-abdominal sepsis ( ias ) . we prospectively compared the outcome of np complicating ias with that of recurrent ias ( r-ias ) in the absence of np . data were collected prospectively on 300 patients with ias ; 34 patients who presented with pneumonia were excluded from the analysis ( 44 % mortality ) . one hundred seventy-one patients with no np and no r-ias ( group 1 ) had a hospital mortality of 20 % ( 34 patients ) ; 36 without np in whom r-ias developed ( group 2 ) had a 17 % mortality ( six patients ) ; and 47 with np but no r-ias ( group 3 ) had a 53 % mortality ( 25 patients ) . finally , 12 patients who had both np and r-ias suffered a 75 % mortality ( nine patients ) . we examined the relationships among the following putative risk factors and mortality : apache ( acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ) ii score ( at initial presentation with ias ) , the need for mechanical ventilatory assistance following initial treatment for peritonitis , steroid requirement , generalized peritonitis vs abscess , and the need for surgical as opposed to percutaneous treatment . using mortality as the dependent variable , group 2 vs 3 as the explanatory variable , and the risk factors as confounders , logistic regression analysis indicated that the group difference was significant after controlling for confounders . we conclude that np complicating ias is an independent risk factor associated with a significant mortality compared with r-ias . these data challenge the notion that death in ias is usually due to recurrent or persistent intra-abdominal infection . 
detection of hiv-1 in human lung macrophages using the polymerase chain reaction . we have used the polymerase chain reaction to investigate hiv-1 infection of lung macrophages from 44 aids patients with pneumonia . proviral hiv-1 dna was detected in the lung macrophages of 47 % ( 21 of 44 ) of patients tested ; 32 % ( seven of 21 ) of the patients had pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) , and 56 % ( 11 of 21 ) had pneumonia caused by other aetiological agents . matched peripheral blood specimens were obtained from 22 patients in this study , and hiv-1-specific dna was detected in 100 % ( 22 out of 22 ) of non-adherent white cell preparations tested . hiv was detected in blood monocytes of 11 out of 22 patients ( 50 % ) , and a virus signal was also found in the lung macrophages of eight of these patients . our results indicate that pcp does not predispose lung macrophages to hiv-1 , nor does hiv-1 infection of lung macrophages increase the probability of contracting pcp . 
low-dose dapsone prophylaxis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in aids and aids-related complex . the efficacy , toxicity and cost of orally administered dapsone ( 50-100 mg/day ) for prophylaxis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( pcp ) were evaluated in 30 patients with aids or aids-related complex ( arc ) . six patients received primary and 24 secondary prophylaxis . ten patients received a maximum dose of 100 mg/day and 20 a maximum of 50 mg/day for a median duration of 19 weeks ; 22 of the 30 patients continue to receive prophylaxis as of may 1989 . four patients have died , none of pneumocystis infection . one patient with aids suffered a mild relapse while receiving 50 mg/day . hematologic toxicity was mild and could not be definitively attributed to dapsone therapy ; rash due to dapsone was documented in two patients . a review of 33 patients at our institution with a history of pcp who received no prophylaxis demonstrated seven relapses , three of which were fatal . cost analysis revealed a significant advantage for oral dapsone over aerosolized pentamidine . 
impact of hiv on tuberculosis in zambia : a cross sectional study objective -- to examine the contribution of hiv infection to the apparently increasing incidence of tuberculosis in central africa . design -- cross sectional study . setting -- outpatient clinic in teaching hospital , lusaka , zambia . patients -- 346 adult patients with tuberculosis . results -- overall , 206 patients ( 60 % ; 95 % confidence interval 54 % to 65 % ) were positive for hiv -- in one or both assays used . the peaks for both tuberculosis and hiv infection were among men aged 25-34 years and women aged 14-24 years . of patients with confirmed pulmonary tuberculosis , 73/149 ( 49 % ; 41 % to 57 % ) were positive for hiv ; 67/83 ( 81 % ; 70 % to 89 % ) patients with pleural disease and 16/19 ( 84 % ; 60 % to 97 % ) patients with pericardial disease were positive . hiv positive patients with positive sputum culture were less likely to have had a positive sputum smear , and their chest x ray films less often showed classic upper zone disease or cavitation . of 72 patients who fulfilled clinical criteria for aids , 17 were negative for hiv . conclusions -- the high prevalence of hiv in patients with tuberculosis suggests that an epidemic of reactivating tuberculosis is arising in those who are infected with hiv . the redirection of public health priorities towards tuberculosis would focus on a major treatable and preventable complication of the aids epidemic . 
prevalence of acute mountain sickness in the swiss alps . objective -- to assess the prevalence of symptoms and signs of acute mountain sickness of the swiss alps . design -- a study using an interview and clinical examination in a representative population of mountaineers . positive symptoms and signs were assigned scores to quantify the severity of acute mountain sickness . setting -- four huts in the swiss alps at 2850 m , 3050 m , 3650 m , and 4559 m. subjects -- 466 climbers , mostly recreational : 47 at 2850 m , 128 at 3050 m , 82 at 3650 , and 209 at 4559 m. results -- in all , 117 of the subjects were entirely free of symptoms and clinical signs of acute mountain sickness ; 191 had one or two symptoms and signs ; and 158 had more than two . those with more than two symptoms and signs were defined as suffering from acute mountain sickness . at 4559 m 11 climbers presented with high altitude pulmonary oedema or cerebral oedema , or both . men and women were equally affected . the prevalence of acute mountain sickness correlated with altitude : it was 9 % at 2850 m , 13 % at 3050 m , 34 % at 3650 m , and 53 % at 4559 m. the most frequent symptoms and signs were insomnia , headache , peripheral oedema , and scanty pulmonary rales . severe headache , vomiting , dizziness , tachypnoea , and pronounced pulmonary rales were associated with other symptoms and signs and therefore characteristic of acute mountain sickness . conclusion -- acute mountain sickness is not an uncommon disease at moderately high altitude -- that is , above 2800 m. severe headache , vomiting , dizziness , tachypnoea , and pronounced pulmonary rales indicate severe acute mountain sickness , and subjects who suffer these should immediately descend to lower altitudes . 
physical and psychosocial consequences of total laryngectomy . the incidence and severity of respiratory symptoms after total laryngectomy and their influence on daily living were studied in 59 laryngectomized patients . daily sputum production was the principal complaint of these patients ( 98 % ) , followed by coughing ( 64 % ) and the need for frequent forced expectoration ( more than 5 times a day ) in order to clear the airway ( 57 % ) . frequent stoma cleaning ( more than 5 times a day ) was required by 37 % of the patients . significant correlation was found between respiratory symptoms , voice rehabilitation and several aspects of daily living , including fatigue , sleep problems , social contacts and psychological distress . these findings indicate that respiratory symptoms after total laryngectomy are both frequent and troublesome . the development of effective methods for minimizing and/or preventing such respiratory problems would contribute significantly to improving the quality of life of laryngectomized patients . 
chronic otitis media : the significance of nasal obstruction . the nasal airway resistance of 15 patients with unilateral chronic otitis media and 15 controls was measured by anterior active rhinomanometry . airway resistance was measured on each side before and after decongestion to differentiate resistance due to structural abnormality from that due to mucosal swelling . the nasal resistance was significantly greater ( p less than 0.01 ) on the side of the affected ear in patients with unilateral chronic otitis media before decongestion , but following decongestion the difference was not significant . nasal obstruction is a significant determinant in unilateral chronic otitis media and although septal displacement may be the underlying cause , the major component of the obstruction appears to be due to an associated mucosal oedema . 
lymphocytes and nonlymphoid cells in human nasal polyps . immunohistochemical stainings were performed on polyp specimens of 48 patients and on mucosal biopsy specimens of the middle and inferior turbinates of 23 and 28 patients , respectively . significantly more cd8 + ( suppressor/cytotoxic ) than cd4 + ( helper/inducer ) cells were found in the polyps . the number of cd2 + , cd4 + , and cd8 + lymphocytes in nasal polyps were very similar to the number in the macroscopically unaffected mucosa of the middle turbinates , whereas scores in the inferior turbinates were lower . in healthy subjects , the differences were smaller . cd22 + b cells were detected in varying numbers in the polyps in more or less organized clusters . significantly more hla-dr + cells were found in polyps and middle turbinates than in the inferior turbinates . eosinophils were found in moderate to large numbers in polyps of 77 % of the patients . mast cells and plasma cells were detected in moderate numbers , whereas neutrophils were found in 35 % of the patients . in the middle and inferior turbinates varying but small numbers of eosinophils , mast cells , plasma cells , and neutrophils were found . in considering these findings , the role of chronic inflammation with t cell-dependent disturbances is discussed with regard to the pathogenesis of nasal polyps . 
diagnostic value of anti-neuronal antibodies for paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system . the diagnostic value of the presence of anti-neuronal antibodies in serum was examined in 21 patients suspected of paraneoplastic disorders of the nervous system ( ns ) ( group 1 ) and was compared to three control groups ; group 2 : 25 patients with a neurological disease , without cancer and no sign of paraneoplastic disorder ; group 3 : 27 patients with neurological disease and cancer and no signs of a paraneoplastic disorder ; group 4 : 94 patients with cancer and without neurological disease . in group 1 , anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies were detected in eight patients ( 38 % ) , in titres from 1:1000 to 1:32,000 . a small cell lung cancer was present in six patients , ovarian cancer in one patient and in one patient no tumour could be detected . the neurological symptoms preceded a diagnosis of cancer in five out of eight patients . anti-neuronal antibodies were found in the serum of two out of 94 patients ( 2 % ) from control group 3 but not in serum from any of the other control groups . these data indicate a moderate sensitivity of 38 % , but a high specificity of 98.6 % ( 95 % confidence interval 95.5-99 .8 % ) for the presence of anti-neuronal nuclear antibodies if a paraneoplastic ns disorder is suspected . 
bronchopulmonary dysplasia : improvement in lung function between 7 and 10 years of age . to evaluate the natural history of bronchopulmonary dysplasia , we studied the same 32 patients at a mean age of 7 and 10 years . the group as a whole had normal height and weight percentiles , and each child grew along his or her established somatic growth curve . although some children had abnormal values , the group maintained a normal mean total lung capacity and functional residual capacity . the mean residual volume and the residual volume/total lung capacity ratios were elevated at both ages . at age 7 years the 19 patients ( 59 % ) who had a forced expiratory volume in 1 second ( fev1 ) of less than 80 % had " catch up " improvement by 10 years of age ( 65 + / - 11 % to 72 + / - 16 % of predicted value ; p less than 0.05 ) . all the children who had a normal fev1 at 7 years of age continued to have a normal fev1 at age 10 years . resting single-breath carbon monoxide uptake by the lung was normal when measured at age 10 years . the majority of patients had a positive methacholine challenge test result at both ages , although there was a low incidence of clinically diagnosed asthma . this study demonstrates that patients with bronchopulmonary dysplasia who have normal lung function at age 7 have had normal lung growth and that those with evidence of mild to moderate lung disease have continued lung growth or repair , or both , during their school years . 
relationship of parental smoking to wheezing and nonwheezing lower respiratory tract illnesses in infancy . group health medical associates . the relationship between parental smoking and lower respiratory tract illness ( lri ) was studied in a large cohort of infants followed prospectively from birth . illnesses were diagnosed by physicians using agreed-on criteria , and parental smoking histories were obtained by questionnaire . the lris were differentiated into wheezing and nonwheezing episodes , and the age at first illness of either type was evaluated in relation to smoking by parents . the odds of having an lri were significantly higher in children whose mothers smoked ( odds ratio 1.52 ; confidence interval 1.07 to 2.15 ) . the odds were higher if the mother smoked a pack of cigarettes or more per day and if the child stayed home rather than attending day care ( odds ratio 2.8 ; confidence interval 1.43 to 5.5 ) . logistic regression indicated that the lri rate was significantly elevated both in children exposed to heavy maternal smoke in the absence of day care , and in those who use day care but were not exposed to maternal smoking of a pack or more per day . these findings could not be attributed to other confounding variables . neither paternal smoking nor smoking by other household members was consistently related to the lri rate . the relationship of maternal smoking to lri rate was evident for both wheezing and nonwheezing illnesses . maternal smoking of a pack or more per day was also related to an early age at first lri , for both wheezing ( p less than 0.05 ) and nonwheezing ( p less than 0.002 ) illnesses . in sum , maternal smoking is associated with a higher rate of lris in the first year , particularly when mothers smoked a pack or more per day and when the child did not use day care . 
community-acquired influenza c virus infection in children . to clarify the epidemiologic and clinical features of community-acquired influenza c infection in children , we took specimens throughout the year from a larger number of patients with acute respiratory illnesses in a pediatric clinic in yamagata , japan . during a 2-year survey , 20 strains of influenza c virus were isolated from 13,426 specimens . these isolates were recovered throughout the year . the ages of patients with influenza c virus isolates ranged from 2 months to 11 years and peaked at the age of 1 year . the clinical diagnosis of patients with influenza c virus infection included bronchitis in one child and pneumonia in four . community-acquired influenza c infection in children can cause a variety of respiratory illnesses that can not be clinically differentiated from those caused by other viruses . 
decreased mortality rate among small premature infants treated at birth with a single dose of synthetic surfactant : a multicenter controlled trial . american exosurf pediatric study group 1 . to determine whether a single prophylactic dose of synthetic surfactant would reduce mortality and morbidity rates , we performed a randomized , controlled trial of exosurf neonatal at 19 hospitals in the united states . the exosurf preparation ( 5 ml/kg ) was instilled into the endotracheal tube of premature infants weighing 700 to 1100 gm during mechanical ventilation , as soon as practical after birth . control infants were treated with air ( 5 ml/kg ) . dose administration was performed in secrecy by clinicians who did not reveal for 2 years what they had instilled . a total of 222 infants received air and 224 received the synthetic surfactant ; 36 infants with congenital pneumonia or malformations were excluded from the primary efficacy analysis . by the age of 28 days , there were 44 deaths in the air group and 27 deaths in the surfactant group ( p = 0.022 ) . by the age of 1 year after term there were 61 deaths in the air group and 35 deaths in the surfactant group ( p = 0.002 ) . although there was no reduction in the incidence of respiratory distress syndrome , a significant reduction in the number of deaths attributed to respiratory distress syndrome , a significant reduction in the incidence of pulmonary air leaks , and significantly lower requirements for oxygen and mean airway pressure indicated that lung disease was less severe in the exosurf-treated infants . there were no significant differences in the incidence of complications such as bronchopulmonary dysplasia , intraventricular hemorrhage , patent ductus arteriosus , necrotizing enterocolitis , and infection . the results indicate that a single prophylactic dose of exosurf , in high-risk premature infants treated soon after birth , reduces the number of deaths from respiratory distress syndrome and the overall mortality rate . 
preoperative chemotherapy ( cisplatin and fluorouracil ) and radiation therapy in stage iii non-small-cell lung cancer : a phase ii study of the lung cancer study group . the lung cancer study group conducted a phase ii pilot study of concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy ( chemoradiotherapy ) before surgery in 85 eligible patients with non-small-cell cancer limited to the chest but in whom attempted resection would have been likely to leave residual disease ( advanced stage iiia and minimal stage iiib disease ) . cisplatin , 75 mg/m2 , was given on days 1 and 29 ; fluorouracil , 1 g/m2 per 24 hours , was administered as a continuous infusion on days 1 through 4 and on days 29 through 32 ; and thoracic radiation , 30 gy in 15 fractions , was administered on days 1 through 19 . two patients achieved a complete response and 46 patients had a partial response for an overall response rate of 56 % . toxicity from chemoradiotherapy was moderate but acceptable . eight weeks after therapy was initiated , 54 patients underwent thoracotomy and tumor resection was attempted : 29 ( 34 % ) had complete resection and 15 ( 18 % ) had incomplete resection . although surgical dissection was generally more difficult than in patients not pretreated with chemoradiotherapy , there was no apparent increase in postoperative complications . in 8 patients ( 9 % ) , no viable tumor was detected pathologically in the resection specimen . of the 18 patients whose tumors were completely resected and had disease recurrence , none had recurrence only in the chest , 12 ( 67 % ) had recurrence only in distant sites , and 3 developed second primary tumors . median survival of all patients was 13 months . the overall results do not indicate a major benefit from this preoperative chemoradiotherapy regimen in patients with advanced but potentially resectable non-small-cell lung cancer . these results suggest a need to define better the relative roles of preoperative radiotherapy and chemotherapy . 
ibuprofen prevents deterioration in static transpulmonary compliance and transalveolar protein flux in septic porcine acute lung injury . the effects of intravenous ibuprofen on measurements of pulmonary function and alveolar capillary membrane permeability to protein in sepsis-induced porcine acute lung injury ( ali ) were studied . young swine ( 15-25 kg ) were anesthetized , cannulated , and ventilated ( 5 cm h2o peep , 0.5 fio2 , and 15 cc/kg tidal volume ) . three groups were studied : septic animals ( ps , n = 10 ) received pseudomonas aeruginosa for 1 hr iv , controls ( c , n = 9 ) received 0.9 % nacl , and ibuprofen-treated septic animals ( ps + ibu , n = 7 ) received ibuprofen 12.5 mg/kg at 0 and 120 min post ps . systemic ( sap ) and pulmonary ( pap ) arterial pressures , pao2 , cardiac index ( ci ) , static lung compliance ( cl ) , evlw ( thermal cardiogreen ) , and peripheral white blood cell counts ( wbc ) were measured . bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) was performed for protein and % neutrophil ( % pmn ) content . results : ps produced significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decreases in cl , pao2 , sap , ci , and peripheral wbc and increases in pap , evlw , bal protein , and % pmn 's vs. controls . ibu prevented the early increase in pap and attenuated the late increase in pap and evlw . ibu also maintained pao2 , cl , bal protein , and % pmn 's in bal at control levels , but exhibited no significant effect on peripheral leukopenia . these data strongly suggest that ibuprofen administered before and at 120 min after onset of pseudomonas infusion improves lung compliance and affects neutrophil function sufficiently to significantly ameliorate many of the physiologic derangements in acute sepsis . 
the rat lung organotypic culture : an in vitro model for studying surfactant metabolism abnormalities . the amount of surfactant present in the intra-alveolar space is mainly regulated by the synthesis and recycling of surfactant by type ii pneumocytes . biochemical analyses have shown that the surfactant level is frequently diminished and that protein-rich exudate can further interfere with surfactant function in the lungs of adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) patients . the microenvironmental changes that occur in the alveoli of burned patients , who are prone to developing ards , are unclear . therefore , using an in vitro rat lung organotypic culture , we showed that the sera of rats with a 3-day old , third-degree thermal injury ( 25-30 % total body surface area ) inhibited surfactant synthesis in organotypically cultured rat lung cells . surfactant precursor , 3h-choline , incorporation into the surfactant was 58 % of control . using liposomes made of dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylglycerol ( 8:1 , v/v ) or surfactant we showed that surfactant endocytosis by purified type ii alveolar cells is an active , temperature-dependent process , and correlates with the quantity of surfactant present in the milieu . we also found that plasma protein-rich fluid interfered with surfactant endocytosis by the purified type ii pneumocytes . these two processes of inhibition of surfactant synthesis and its reutilization by these cells may contribute to the pathogenesis of ards . 
isolated hyoid bone fracture : a case report and review of the literature . isolated hyoid bone fractures secondary to trauma other than strangulation are rare and have few , if any , complications . we report a case of an isolated hyoid bone fracture that resulted in sudden and severe upper airway compromise . diagnosis of these fractures is difficult and usually can be made only with a strong degree of suspicion . patients who suffer neck injuries in whom a hyoid fracture is diagnosed or strongly suspected should be observed for 48 to 72 hours , considered for endoscopy , and treated as warranted . 
microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism causing subacute cor pulmonale : a difficult antemortem diagnosis [ published erratum appears in mayo clin proc 1991 apr ; 66 ( 4 ) :439 ] microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism is difficult to diagnose . the most common initial clinical symptom is subacute progressive dyspnea , and the initial laboratory evaluation typically shows hypoxemia in a patient with clear lung fields on a chest roentgenogram . another distinguishing feature may be hepatic abnormalities . in general , pulmonary angiography discloses no evidence of emboli , but multiple subsegmental peripheral perfusion defects are noted on ventilation-perfusion lung scans . the diagnosis of microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism can be confirmed by open-lung or transbronchial lung biopsy or by microvascular pulmonary cytology , a less invasive procedure that could be performed at the time of pulmonary angiography . herein we describe two patients with unsuspected microscopic pulmonary tumor embolism that eventuated in subacute cor pulmonale and death . these cases illustrate the characteristic findings of this entity and emphasize the need for early diagnosis . 
oxygen-exacerbated bleomycin pulmonary toxicity bleomycin is an antineoplastic agent with potential for producing pulmonary toxicity , attributed in part to its free radical-promoting ability . clinical and research experiences have suggested that the risk of bleomycin-induced pulmonary injury is increased with the administration of oxygen . we report a case in which the intraoperative administration of oxygen in the setting of previous bleomycin therapy contributed to postoperative ventilatory failure . our patient recovered with corticosteroid therapy . physician awareness of a potential interaction between oxygen and bleomycin may help reduce the morbidity and mortality related to bleomycin therapy . 
pulmonary aspergillosis in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome background and methods . symptomatic pulmonary aspergillosis has rarely been reported in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . we describe the predisposing factors , the clinical and radiologic features , and the therapeutic outcomes in 13 patients with pulmonary aspergillosis , all of whom had human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection and 12 of whom had aids . results . pulmonary aspergillosis was detected a median of 25 months after the diagnosis of aids , usually following corticosteroid use , neutropenia , pneumonia due to other pathogens , marijuana smoking , or the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics . two major patterns of disease were observed : invasive aspergillosis ( in 10 patients ) and obstructing bronchial aspergillosis ( in 3 ) . cough and fever , the most common symptoms , tended to be insidious in onset in patients with invasive disease ( median duration , 1.3 months before diagnosis ) . breathlessness , cough , and chest pain predominated in the three patients with obstructing bronchial aspergillosis , who coughed up fungal casts . radiologic patterns included upper-lobe cavitary disease ( sometimes mistaken for tuberculosis ) , nodules , pleural-based lesions , and diffuse infiltrates , usually of the lower lobe . transbronchial biopsies were usually negative , but positive cultures were obtained from bronchoalveolar-lavage fluid or percutaneous aspirates . dissemination to other organs occurred in at least two patients , and direct invasion of extrapulmonary sites was seen in two others . the results of treatment with amphotericin b , itraconazole , or both were variable . ten of the patients died a median of 3 months after the diagnosis ( range , 0 to 12 months ) . conclusions . pulmonary aspergillosis is a possible late complication of aids ; if diagnosed early , it may be treated successfully . 
orofacial metastasis of pulmonary giant cell carcinoma . a patient was admitted to the hospital with multiple skin nodules of recent origin and signs and symptoms suggestive of acute pulmonary infection . because one of the skin masses was located overlying the left mandibular body region , the patient was referred to the hospital dentistry clinic for evaluation . historical , clinical , and radiographic assessments were consistent with reactive lymphadenopathy , and an intraoral excisional biopsy was performed . the biopsy results were indicative of giant cell carcinoma , which was confirmed by biopsy results from a similar skin lesion on the shoulder and by malignant cells recovered in the sputum and pleural fluids . although this carcinoma has been shown to rarely metastasize to the skin and lymphatics of the neck , this is the first case report of metastasis to facial lymphatics . 
ct and mr imaging in staging non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma : report of the radiologic diagnostic oncology group . the accuracies of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging and computed tomography ( ct ) in determining tumor classification and assessing mediastinal node metastases were compared in a prospective cooperative study of 170 patients with non-small cell bronchogenic carcinoma . the sensitivity of ct in distinguishing t3-t4 tumors from t0-t2 tumors was 63 % ; specificity was 84 % . these values for mr imaging were not significantly different ( 56 % and 80 % ) . with receiver operating characteristic ( roc ) analysis , no difference existed between the accuracies of ct and mr imaging in diagnosis of bronchial involvement or chest wall invasion , but mr imaging was significantly more accurate than ct ( p = .047 ) in diagnosis of mediastinal invasion . lymph node sampling was performed in 155 patients ( 642 node stations ) . cancerous nodes were found in 14 % of stations in 21 % of patients . there was no significant difference between the accuracies of ct and mr imaging in detecting mediastinal node metastases ( n2 or n3 ) ; the sensitivities were 52 % and 48 % , respectively , and specificities were 69 % and 64 % . roc analysis also showed no difference between ct and mr imaging . 
pulmonary atelectasis : signal patterns with mr imaging . to assess the signal characteristics of different types of pulmonary atelectasis on magnetic resonance ( mr ) images , the authors studied obstructive atelectasis ( oa ) in 17 patients and nonobstructive atelectasis ( noa ) in 25 patients . all patients underwent electrocardiographically gated mr imaging studies of the thorax with standard spin-echo sequences . no signal differences were observed between either type of atelectasis on t1-weighted images . conversely , oa and noa appeared significantly different on spin-density-weighted images ( p less than .001 ) and on t2-weighted studies ( p less than .0001 ) . on t2-weighted images , all 17 cases of oa appeared hyperintense , whereas 22 of 25 cases of noa demonstrated a very low signal intensity . differences in the pathophysiology of oa and noa presumably account for this observation . in oa , alveolar air is totally resorbed and secretions accumulate in the obstructed lung . the resulting increase in free fluid prolongs the t2 relaxation times and leads to high signal intensity on t2-weighted images . in noa , the short t2 relaxation time of lung tissue in the absence of secretions and potential magnetic susceptibility effects due to residual air are likely to be responsible for the low t2 signal pattern . 
fungal pulmonary infections after bone marrow transplantation : evaluation with radiography and ct . the authors reviewed 55 pairs of chest radiographs and computed tomographic ( ct ) studies obtained in 33 febrile bone marrow transplant ( bmt ) recipients . the images were read separately , without knowledge of the clinical diagnosis . twenty-one episodes of fungal infection were documented . one chest radiograph showed a pneumonia-like opacity , and 17 showed nodular opacities , five with cavitation . in 20 of 21 episodes , ct showed nodules with cavitation ( n = 7 ) , halo ( n = 4 ) , hazy margin ( n = 5 ) , air bronchogram ( n = 2 ) , cluster of fluffy nodules ( n = 1 ) , or sharp margin ( n = 1 ) . in none of the nine bacteremic episodes , however , were there opacities on chest radiographs or ct studies . ct studies demonstrating complicated nodules in febrile bmt patients strongly suggest a fungal infection , whereas negative ct studies suggest bacteremia or non-filamentous fungal infection of nonpulmonary origin . ct appears to add useful information to radiographic analysis during the assessment of febrile episodes in bmt patients , especially when invasive diagnostic procedures pose a high risk . 
apical opacity associated with pulmonary tuberculosis : high-resolution ct findings . to elucidate the nature of the apical opacity that is commonly seen in patients with tuberculosis -- usually referred to as an " apical cap " or " apical pleural thickening " -- 18 patients with upper lobe tuberculosis were studied with high-resolution computed tomography ( hrct ) . all had a homogeneous apical opacity at least 1 cm thick on chest radiographs . fifteen of the 18 had a history of pulmonary tuberculosis of more than 5 years duration , and nine showed evidence of ipsilateral pleurisy . hrct scans at the apex of the thorax in all nine patients scanned at this level showed that extrapleural fat with interspersed vessels accounted for most of the plain radiographic opacity . scans obtained at a level slightly above visible aerated lung showed extrapleural fat 3-25 mm thick peripherally and atelectatic lung centrally . at more caudal levels , at which both aerated lung and " thickened pleura " were visible on plain radiographs , hrct showed extrapleural fat ( 3-20 mm thick ) , thickened pleura ( 1-3 mm thick ) , and atelectatic lung peripherally and areas of emphysematous bullae , bronchiectasis , and atelectatic lung centrally . 
interstitial lung disease : impact of postprocessing in digital storage phosphor imaging . the ability to resolve the fine linear structures of interstitial lung disease is one measure of the limiting performance characteristics of an imaging system . conventional screen-film radiography was compared with six algorithms of isodose storage phosphor digital radiography ( 0.2-mm x 10-bit pixel matrix ) in the detection of interstitial lung abnormality documented by means of computed tomography in 40 patients with abnormalities and 25 healthy control subjects . performance was evaluated with an analysis of variance ( the fisher paired comparison test ; p less than .05 ) of the average receiver operating characteristic area of 2,730 observations by six readers . the moderately and the more markedly high-frequency edge-enhanced algorithms of storage phosphor digital radiographs were equivalent in performance to screen-film radiography . the default mode , low - and medium-frequency edge-enhanced algorithms , and gray scale reversed mode of storage phosphor digital radiography were inferior to screen-film radiography . the authors conclude that high-frequency edge-enhanced algorithms can perform as well as screen-film radiography in the detection of interstitial disease . 
lesions that manifest as medial cheek and nasolabial fold masses . seventeen cases were collected in which the patient presented with a medial cheek or nasolabial fold mass . most of these lesions were uncommon , and some were rare . the most reliable differentiating finding was the type of associated bone involvement . the malignancies had bone erosion and as a group could be distinguished from the other masses . computed tomographic attenuation and magnetic resonance imaging signal intensities were nonspecific and did not allow a definitive diagnosis to be made . the types of pathologic conditions and their sectional imaging findings are reviewed . 
outpatient assessment of infants with bronchiolitis . two hundred thirteen infants younger than 13 months with bronchiolitis were prospectively followed up to identify the historical , physical , and laboratory clues at initial emergency department evaluation that would help to predict disease severity . based on their total course of illness , the patients were classified as having mild ( 139 patients ) or severe ( 74 patients ) disease , and the initial emergency department evaluation findings of these two groups were compared . six independent clinical and laboratory findings were identified that were strongly associated with more severe illness : ( 1 ) " ill " or " toxic " general appearance ; ( 2 ) oxygen saturation less than 95 % , as determined by pulse oximetry ; ( 3 ) gestational age , younger than 34 weeks ; ( 4 ) respiratory rate , 70/min or greater ; ( 5 ) atelectasis on a chest roentgenogram ; and ( 6 ) age , younger than 3 months . the infant 's oxygen saturation as determined by pulse oximetry was the single best objective predictor of more severe disease . 
increased transient tachypnea of the newborn in infants of asthmatic mothers . objective : to compare the incidence of transient tachypnea of the newborn ( ttn ) in infants of asthmatic vs nonasthmatic mothers . research design : case-control analysis . setting : group model health maintenance organization . patients : a volunteer sample of 294 pregnant asthmatic women and 294 pregnant nonasthmatic women with normal pulmonary function test results , matched on the basis of age and smoking status . all subjects entered the study before their third trimester of pregnancy . subjects with multiple gestations and abortions ( less than 20 weeks ' gestation ) were excluded . intervention : asthma was treated in the allergy department . routine obstetric , neonatal , and pediatric care was provided to all patients by staff physicians . measurements/results : transient tachypnea occurred in 11 infants ( 3.7 % ) of asthmatic women and in one control infant ( 0.3 % ) . there were no significant differences between asthmatic and matched control subjects in previously defined ttn risk factors , such as the occurrence of longer labors , failure to progress , cesarean sections , premature births , male sex , apgar scores of less than 7 at 1 minute , or birth weight greater than 4 kg . although infants of asthmatic mothers were more likely to exhibit wheezing by age 15 months compared with control infants ( 12.0 % vs 3.2 % ) , none of the infants with ttn manifested wheezing by age 15 months . no relationships could be identified in the asthmatic cohort between the occurrence of ttn and asthma severity or medication use ( during the pregnancy in general or during labor and delivery in particular ) . conclusion : although the mechanism is uncertain , maternal asthma appears to increase the risk of infant ttn . 
should you cancel the operation when a child has an upper respiratory tract infection ? cancelling an operation when a child has an upper respiratory tract infection ( uri ) is not always feasible or practical . yet we know very little about the additional risk posed by a uri occurring in a child undergoing anesthesia and surgery . using a large prospectively collected pediatric anesthesia database , we studied 1283 children with a preoperative uri and 20,876 children without a uri . we found that children with a uri were two to seven times more likely to experience respiratory-related adverse events during the intraoperative , recovery room , and postoperative phases of their operative experience . although these children also experienced significant disruptions in temperature regulation , they were not at risk for any other deleterious events . the elevation in risk after uri as compared with children without a uri was not explained by differences in age , physical status scores , surgical site , and emergency or elective status . however , if a child had a uri and had endotracheal anesthesia , the risk of a respiratory complication increased 11-fold ( 95 % confidence intervals 6.8 , 18.1 ) . we conclude that the administration of general anesthesia to children with a uri is not benign and that these children require more observation/management in all perioperative phases of their surgical procedure . 
pneumothorax in aids objective : to determine risk factors for the development of pneumothorax in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . design : prospective cohort study . setting : tertiary care center . patients : of 1030 patients with aids who were followed at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center between 1 january 1980 and 30 september 1989 , 20 ( 2 % ) developed pneumothorax that was unrelated to trauma or a pulmonary procedure . results : of 20 patients with aids who presented with pneumothorax , 19 had compelling evidence of concurrent pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . using bivariate analysis , patients receiving aerosol pentamidine prophylaxis ( relative risk , 17.6 ) and those with a history of p. carinii pneumonia ( relative risk , 14.5 ) were more likely to develop pneumothorax . by mantel-haenszel stratified analysis , aerosol pentamidine use was a statistically significant risk factor independent of a history of p. carinii pneumonia . the pneumothorax-related mortality rate was 10 % and there was considerable morbidity . conclusions : patients with aids at the highest risk for developing pneumothorax are those with a history of p. carinii pneumonia who are receiving aerosol pentamidine prophylaxis but who nevertheless develop p. carinii pneumonia . the benefits of aerosol pentamidine prophylaxis in these patients far outweigh this risk . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia should be considered as the most likely diagnosis in any patient with aids who develops a pneumothorax . 
therapy of pulmonary nocardiosis in immunocompromised mice . we compared the bactericidal efficacies of various antimicrobial agents and combinations thereof in experimentally induced nocardia asteroides pneumonia in immunocompromised mice . cortisone acetate treatment , which produced impaired cell-mediated immune function , was followed by nasal inoculation of 5 x 10 ( 4 ) cfu of n. asteroides into each mouse . therapy was begun 24 h after inoculation and continued for the next 96 h. dosages of antimicrobial agents resulted in concentrations approximating levels in human serum . animals from each of nine treatment groups were sacrificed every 24 h. the pulmonary tissue obtained was homogenized and quantitatively cultured . results were calculated to indicate the number of cfu per gram of lung tissue . amikacin and imipenem were the two most effective single agents studied . sulfadiazine and ciprofloxacin were ineffective , and ceftriaxone reduced bacterial counts modestly . combination therapy did not enhance the bactericidal activities of the agents tested . we conclude that amikacin and imipenem , as well as select broad-spectrum cephalosporins , represent therapy superior to the sulfonamides in this experimental model and may represent alternative treatment for patients who can not tolerate sulfa agents ( e.g. , human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients ) or who fail primary treatment . 
deferoxamine and eflornithine ( dl-alpha-difluoromethylornithine ) in a rat model of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . the iron chelator deferoxamine and the polyamine biosynthesis inhibitor eflornithine ( dl-alpha-difluoromethylornithine ) were examined for anti-pneumocystis carinii activity in the rat model of p. carinii pneumonia . the activity of deferoxamine at 250 , 500 , and 1,000 mg/kg given intraperitoneally provides evidence that iron chelation is a promising novel approach to p. carinii chemotherapy . results with eflornithine at 2 , 3 , and 4 % in drinking water confirm and extend previously reported activity in the rat model . 
recurrent wheezy bronchitis and viral respiratory infections fifty four patients aged from 1 to 6 years who had had recurrent attacks of wheezy bronchitis were prospectively followed up for three months to find out if there was an association between different viral respiratory infections and episodes of wheezing . of the 115 episodes of upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms , virus or mycoplasma pneumoniae infection were diagnosed in 52 ( 45 % ) . thirty four of rhinoviruses . the patients had an average of 2.1 episodes of respiratory tract symptoms the total mean ( sd ) duration of which was 30 ( 2 ) days of the 92 days that followed . wheezing occurred during 76 ( 66 % ) of the 115 episodes and during a third of these the patient was admitted to hospital because of severe dyspnoea . wheezing started a mean ( sd ) of 43 ( 7 ) hours after the first symptoms of respiratory infection and persisted for 3.8 ( 4.2 ) days in patients in whom virus infection was diagnosed . the incidence of wheezing was not associated with ige mediated atopy , with positive virological tests , or with fever during virus infection , but was associated with parental smoking and more than one sibling . 
wegener 's granulomatosis presenting as temporal arteritis . a granulomatous giant cell vasculitis of the temporal artery was observed in a biopsy specimen from a patient with corresponding clinical symptoms . within weeks , the new onset of pulmonary infiltrates and renal failure prompted biopsy of the patient 's kidney . a necrotizing glomerulonephritis , compatible with a diagnosis of wegener 's granulomatosis , was present . vasculitis of the temporal artery may be a feature of wegener 's granulomatosis . 
fatal pulmonary venoocclusive disease secondary to a generalized venulopathy : a new syndrome presenting with facial swelling and pericardial tamponade . we describe a patient who developed fatal pulmonary artery hypertension secondary to diffuse venulitis . this otherwise healthy young woman first presented with generalized venulopathy , with chemosis , facial swelling , pleural effusions , and pericardial tamponade . the symptoms partially responded to steroid therapy , but over a 2-year course , a rapidly progressive and fatal venoocclusive disease developed . no other primary condition was diagnosed , and at autopsy , the patient had striking venulitis throughout , including the pulmonary bed . we believe that this is a unique case of pulmonary hypertension resulting from a generalized venulopathy . 
tension pneumothorax associated with hyperbaric oxygen therapy . the authors present three patients who developed a tension pneumothorax while receiving emergent hyperbaric oxygen therapy for acute carbon monoxide poisoning . each patient was intubated and received closed chest compressions for cardiac arrest prior to hyperbaric oxygenation . despite the apparent absence of pneumothorax prior to hyperbaric therapy , tension pneumothorax was detected soon after decompression . these cases illustrate the need for vigilance in detecting and addressing pneumothorax prior to hyperbaric decompression in obtunded patients . serial physical examinations , arterial blood gas determinations , properly positioned chest radiographs , and a high index of suspicion for pneumothorax in the setting of emergent hyperbaric therapy are recommended . 
choroidal lesions in patients with aids . seven cases of bilateral , scattered , yellow-white choroidal lesions have been seen in aids patients since january 1988 . one resulted from presumed extension of cryptococcal meningitis into the optic nerve and choroid . all the remaining six patients had pneumocystis pneumonia at some time during the course of the disease and were receiving aerosolised pentamidine therapy . none died quickly of disseminated pneumocystis carinii infection , unlike previously reported patients . mycobacterial infection was also present in five of these six patients . the differential diagnosis of this entity in aids patients is discussed . 
treatment of end-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with double lung transplantation . six patients with end-stage emphysema ( age 44 + / - 2 years ) underwent double lung transplantation ( tx ) from june 1988 through may 1990 . all suffered from severe inanition and required oxygen therapy . the ischemic time was 193 + / - 28 minutes . post-tx immune suppression was okt3 ( 14 days ) , cyclosporine ( trough levels of 150 + / - 25 ng/ml ) , azathioprine to keep wbc at 3,000 to 5,000 / cu mm ( 1 to 3.0 mg/kg/day ) and following okt3 , a tapering prednisone regimen . two rejection episodes that occurred in two patients on post-tx day 5 and 10 were treated with bolus doses of methylprednisolone . the mean hospital stay was 32 + / - 7 days ( range , 20 to 69 days ) . four patients required treatment of cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection : gastritis ( + donor , + recipient ) in one and cmv pneumonia in two ( + donor , - recipient ) . a fourth ( + donor , - recipient ) had right-sided candida empyema six weeks post-tx , developed cmv and staphylococcal sepsis , and died 64 days post-tx . one patient required pyloroplasty eight weeks post-tx and one patient underwent tracheal suture line repair at eight weeks . during a follow-up of 81 patients months ( range , 8 to 24 months ) , one patient had developed epstein-barr viral ( ebv ) induced lymphoproliferative disease in the lung and one patient had developed ebv lymphoma . three patients are at work , one is continuing rehabilitation , and one is at home . double lung tx offers a definitive benefit to patients with emphysema ; however , a prolonged postoperative course can be expected . viral infections remain serious but treatable problems . 
acid phosphatase ( ec 3.1.3.2 ) activity in alveolar macrophages from patients with active sarcoidosis . five main acid phosphatase ( acp ) zones have been recognized and studied by polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis . band 5 represents the only tartrate-resistant form and is present in bone osteoclasts and in human alveolar macrophages ( ams ) . this study was carried out to quantify the presence of total and tartrate-resistant acp ( tracp ) in ams from bronchoalveolar lavage ( bal ) of 11 patients with first stage sarcoidosis and in 13 nonsmokers and 16 smokers serving as control healthy subjects . the ams from smokers showed an increase in total acp activity ( 115.9 + / - 77.8 mu/10 ( 6 ) ) ; on the contrary , macrophages of patients with sarcoidosis revealed a consistent decrease in total acp ( 27.8 + / - 7.0 mu/10 ( 6 ) ) and particularly the tracp subtype ( 14.8 + / - 3.7 mu/10 ( 6 ) ) in comparison with control nonsmokers ( acp = 42.2 + / - 18.9 mu/10 ( 6 ) [ p = ns ] ; tracp = 35.1 + / - 15.1 mu/10 ( 6 ) [ p less than 0.005 ] ) . the decrease in tracp activity was inversely correlated with the lymphocyte number ( r = -0.75 ; p less than 0.01 ) , lymphocyte percentage ( r = -0.62 ; p less than 0.05 ) , and cd4/cd8 ratio ( r = -0.61 ; p less than 0.05 ) . after six months of follow-up , the cytologic bal picture returned completely to normal in five patients with full spontaneous regression of sarcoidosis ; and also at the same time , normal values of tracp activity were restored . since tracp activity can be easily detected , its possible use , along with the lymphocyte count and cd4/cd8 ratio , as a prognostic indicator of the clinical course of sarcoidosis deserves further investigation . 
safety of the transbronchial biopsy in outpatients . the objective of our study was to determine the safety of transbronchial biopsy ( tbb ) in nonhospitalized patients . the design was a prospective study of the consecutive cases from july 1987 until september 1988 in the setting of a university hospital of the third level with 1,800 beds . the patients were a consecutive sample of 169 patients who had 184 procedures of fiberoptic bronchoscopy ( fob ) with tbb performed . they suffered from different diseases : lung nodules or masses , diffuse interstitial disease , alveolar condensation , etc . an fob with tbb was performed in immunocompetent outpatients , who were kept under observation for four hours and then had a chest roentgenogram taken afterwards . we contacted them again after 72 hours to rule out delayed complications . in three cases , more than 100 ml of blood were obtained during the fob , without significant hemoptysis being recorded in those patients during the observation period ; chest pain occurred in 15 patients during the tbb ; pneumothorax occurred in two patients ( 1 percent ) , one of whom required admission to the hospital , without requiring chest tube drainage . other complications are reported ( bronchospasm , parenchymal hemorrhage , and pneumonia ) . in conclusion , we consider the tbb to be a technique with a low incidence of complications for outpatients , so therefore we do not believe that admission to the hospital is mandatory for this type of patient , although we do recommend a longer observation period . 
lung mechanics and gas exchange during exercise in pulmonary sarcoidosis . to clarify how lung function at exercise is affected in sarcoidosis , and to analyze how exercise studies compare to testing measurements , 63 patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis were examined with lung mechanics and arterial blood gases during exercise . these findings were compared with simultaneously obtained , but previously reported results of the static lung pressure/volume curve and the lung resistance/static lung pressure curve . while mechanical variables at maximal exercise were as sensitive as those determined by measuring the pstl/v and rl/pstl curves , mechanics during spontaneous breathing at rest was less sensitive . the derangement of mechanics was more evident than that of arterial blood gases . no measurement at rest was a good predictor of working capacity or of arterial pao2 . a comprehensive exercise examination may be an alternative to resting investigations , which are either more elaborate or less sensitive . 
stair climbing as an exercise test to predict the postoperative complications of lung resection . two years ' experience . the results of a clinically performed preoperative stair climb was compared to the presence of postthoracotomy complications in the retrospective hospital record review of 54 adult men . the stair climb was a maximum of five flights ( 125 steps ) performed at the patient 's rate and terminated at his request . pulmonary function measurements and facets of the stair climb physiology were also examined in reference to the presence , type , and severity of complications experienced . most minor complications such as transient arrhythmias , atelectasis , and pneumonia were clearly not predicted by the stair climb performance . the ability to climb three flights preoperatively most clearly separated those patients having the longer postoperative intubation and hospital stay , greater frequency of complications , and cumulative complication score ( p less than 0.005 ) . this retrospective study did not have sufficient numbers of fatal cardiopulmonary complications to exclude the possibility that these may be predicted by the results of this simple test . 
spirometric criteria for hospital admission of patients with acute exacerbation of copd . recent studies have demonstrated that there is a high relapse rate for patients discharged from the emergency department ( ed ) following treatment of acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) . objective criteria have not been established to determine when to hospitalize these patients . this study evaluated spirometric criteria for that use . eighty-three patients with an acute exacerbation of copd were studied ; 45 percent were admitted to the hospital while 17 percent of the patients who were discharged suffered a relapse . an fev1 of less than 40 percent of predicted normal identified patients who required hospital admission or suffered a relapse with a sensitivity of 0.96 , specificity of 0.58 , and overall accuracy of 0.78 . combining clinical assessment with spirometry led to an improvement in specificity to 0.73 with a minimal decrease in sensitivity . patients with an fev1 of 40 percent or greater of predicted normal or no clinical evidence of respiratory distress after treatment may be safely discharged from the hospital . patients not meeting these criteria are at high risk for relapse and should either be admitted or have further aggressive ed therapy . 
pulmonary tolerance of prophylactic aerosolized pentamidine in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients . the effects of primary and secondary long-term prophylaxis of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia with aerosolized pentamidine on pulmonary function in hiv + patients were evaluated . eighty-one patients , none of whom were drug addicts or had pulmonary kaposi 's sarcoma , were studied . fifty patients were receiving ap as secondary prophylaxis , 36 monthly and 14 twice-monthly ; eight patients with a history of pcp served as control subjects . twenty-three patients were receiving ap as primary prophylaxis , 12 monthly and 11 twice-monthly . pulmonary function tests , including spirometry , lung transfer capacity for carbon monoxide ( tlco ) and alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient ( p [ a-a ] o2 ) were evaluated at m1 , ie , one month after the diagnosis of pcp , or at the beginning of the ap prophylaxis , and then at three-month intervals ( m4 to m13 ) . no differences were observed in the results of spirometry or p ( a-a ) o2 . among the patients receiving secondary prophylaxis , a significant increase ( paired student 's t-test ) in tlco occurred at m7 compared to m1 in the group receiving monthly administrations ( p less than 0.01 ) and in the untreated control group ( p less than 0.05 ) ; there was no significant difference in tlco at m13 compared to m1 in the 12 patients who received monthly administrations for this period or at m7 in the 14 patients receiving ap twice-monthly . no significant difference in tlco was observed at m7 in the primary prophylaxis groups . these results indicate that pulmonary tolerance of ap , as reflected by pulmonary function tests , is good . 
pneumocystis carinii pneumonia complicating multiple myeloma . pneumocystis carinii pneumonia complicated the course of two patients with multiple myeloma . the diagnosis was established in both cases by bronchoalveolar lavage , which demonstrated the typical pneumocysts . clinical and roentgenographic improvement in both patients was observed following a course of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole . one patient had lymphocyte subsets performed with a cd4/cd8 ratio of 0.8 ; both patients were hiv antibody-negative by elisa . both patients tolerated prophylactic tmp-smx given concurrently with the subsequent chemotherapy for myeloma . we suggest that the immune defect seen in multiple myeloma may have placed these patients at risk for opportunistic infections such as p carinii pneumonia ; however , as opposed to patients with aids , our patients tolerated therapy with tmp-smz quite well . 
diagnosis of disease caused by mycobacterium avium complex . isolation of mycobacterium avium complex from sputum specimens in association with the appearance of a new cavitary ( or infiltrative ) lesion was studied in 299 patients from whom the organism was isolated one or more times . of the patients studied , 114 showed only single isolation . of these 114 , only two patients ( 2 percent ) had association with appearance of a cavitary lesion . of 29 patients who showed two isolations , 26 ( 90 percent ) had the association . of 40 patients who showed three isolations , 39 ( 98 percent ) had the association . all 116 patients who showed four or more isolations had the association with appearance of a cavitary lesion . accordingly , of a total of 185 patients who showed two or more isolations , 181 ( 98 percent ) had the association . of these 181 , 176 ( 97 percent ) showed two or more isolations in the sputum examinations made in the initial three days . therefore , the sputum examination in the first three days after onset of disease is most important for the diagnosis of disease caused by mycobacterium avium complex . since the probability that casual isolation of the organism occurs twice is extremely low , we can make the diagnosis of pulmonary infection caused by this organism by evidence of two or more isolations of the organism in the first few days after the onset of disease , which is associated with appearance of a new cavitary ( or infiltrative ) lesion . moreover , theoretical consideration made in this study has led us to conclude that patients who have had a single isolation of the organism together with a new cavitary lesion should be regarded as having an infection . 
erythromycin reduces the severity of bronchial hyperresponsiveness in asthma . it has been demonstrated that bronchial hyperresponsiveness is a characteristic feature of bronchial asthma , and airway inflammation plays an important role in bronchial hyperresponsiveness . erythromycin is an antibiotic extensively used worldwide which is also reported to have anti-inflammatory action . this study was designed to clarify whether erythromycin could favorably alter bronchial responsiveness in patients with bronchial asthma . to estimate bronchial responsiveness , histamine challenge was performed in 23 patients with bronchial asthma ( atopic type , 11 ; nonatopic type , 12 ) . all patients were treated for ten weeks with erythromycin , 200 mg three times daily , orally . after ten weeks ' treatment , pc20 , an index of bronchial sensitivity , was increased significantly . there was no difference between atopic and nonatopic patients in the improvement of pc20 . it was concluded that erythromycin reduces the severity of bronchial responsiveness in patients with bronchial asthma . 
il-1 and il-1 inhibitory activity in the culture supernatants of alveolar macrophages from patients with interstitial lung diseases . under normal conditions , the release of interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) and il-1 inhibitors play a role in tissue homeostasis . we have already reported an increase in il-1 activity and a decrease in il-1 inhibitory activity ( iha ) in the supernatants of alveolar macrophages from healthy long-term smokers as compared with healthy nonsmokers . in this study , we report an alteration in the release of il-1 and il-1 iha from alveolar macrophages in patients with interstitial lung diseases ( sarcoidosis and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis [ ipf ] ) . il-1 activity released from alveolar macrophages stimulated by lipopolysaccharide was increased in patients with active sarcoidosis ( mean + / - sd , 2.52 + / - 1.33 u/ml [ n = 6 ] vs 1.38 + / - 0.62 u/ml [ n = 15 ] for healthy non-current smokers [ hns ] ; p less than 0.05 ) . il-1 iha released from alveolar macrophages was significantly different among the groups examined : a decrease of il-1 iha occurred in patients with active sarcoidosis ( 61.4 + / - 19.2 [ n = 6 ] vs 85.9 + / - 13.9 percent : hns ; p less than 0.05 ) and ipf ( 64.7 + / - 18.5 [ n = 9 ] ; p less than 0.05 ) . prednisolone in the culture medium at physiologic concentrations suppressed the release of il-1 and enhanced the release of il-1 iha . il-1 iha inhibited not only mouse thymocyte proliferation but also human fibroblast proliferation in the presence of il-1 . 
right ventricular dysfunction in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . evaluation and management . cor pulmonale is an important consequence of copd . although the incidence is not precisely known , it is seen more frequently in patients with hypoxemia , co2 retention and severely reduced fev1 . when present , it limits peripheral oxygen delivery , increases shortness of breath , and reduces exercise endurance . it is also associated with higher mortality rates independent of other prognostic variables . numerous factors may contribute to the development of cor pulmonale in patients with copd , but its primary cause is chronic alveolar hypoxia resulting in pulmonary vasoconstriction , vascular remodeling and pulmonary hypertension . the physical exam , chest radiograph and ecg may be helpful in detecting the presence of cor pulmonale , but because of anatomic changes that occur in the chest , these tests are often insensitive in patients with copd . noninvasive diagnostic techniques utilizing doppler echocardiography and radionuclide angiography allow for detection of rv dysfunction at an earlier stage and in most cases , preclude the need for right heart catheterization . lto2 is the only therapy shown to improve survival in patients with copd . however , statistical proof correlating improvements in pulmonary hemodynamics with increased survival is lacking . bronchodilators , such as the beta 2 agonists and especially theophylline , may have beneficial effects on pulmonary hemodynamics in addition to their effect on respiratory function and are useful in copd when rv dysfunction is present . diuretics and phlebotomy are also useful in improving symptoms in appropriate patients . vasodilators such as calcium channel blockers and ace-inhibitors may improve pulmonary hemodynamics acutely , but may lower arterial po2 by worsening ventilation-perfusion matching or blunt the improvement in pulmonary hemodynamics seen with supplemental oxygen . the long-term benefits of these agents have not been proven and their routine use in patients with cor pulmonale due to copd can not be recommended . 
indications for spirometry in outpatients with respiratory disease . it has been suggested that spirometry should be incorporated into the routine examination of every patient , analogous to obtaining vital signs . to determine the impact of spirometry on the management of outpatients with respiratory disease , spirometry was performed on 150 consecutive patients ( 123 men and 27 women , mean age 57 + / - 12 years ) seen in our pulmonary disease outpatient clinics . patients with obstructive ( n = 75 ) , restrictive ( n = 31 ) , mixed ( n = 26 ) or other respiratory diseases ( n = 18 ) were initially assessed by history and physical examination and classified as improved , stable , or worse compared to previous visits . a clinical management plan ( cmp ) was formulated based on this initial evaluation . spirometric results were then made available to the examiner who could then make changes in the proposed cmp . the addition of spirometric results caused alteration of the cmp in only eight ( 5 percent ) patients ; in the remaining 142 patients , results did not affect the cmp . two clinical findings identified those patients whose cmp was most likely to be altered by spirometry : severity of lung dysfunction ( determined from previous spirometry ) and deterioration of clinical status ( judged by history and physical examination ) . of the eight patients whose cmp was changed after review of spirometry , six ( 75 percent ) had previous severe ventilatory dysfunction ( fev1 or fvc less than or equal to 40 percent of predicted or fev1/fvc ratio less than or equal to 0.40 ) . in 6 of 38 patients ( 16 percent ) with severe ventilatory dysfunction , cmp was altered after spirometry while only 2 of 112 patients ( 1.8 percent ) with mild or moderate dysfunction had changes in their cmp . patients who were clinically assessed as worse compared to their previous visit were more likely to have their cmp altered after review of spirometry when compared to those considered improved or stable by a ratio of 6:1 . these results suggest that spirometry is most likely to supplement the physician 's history and physical examination in the management of outpatients with pulmonary disease when the initial evaluation suggests that the patient has clinically deteriorated since the previous clinic visit , or when he or she has previous severe ventilatory dysfunction . 
paradoxic air embolism in the absence of an intracardiac defect . a 58-year-old man experienced paradoxic air embolism with passage of air from the systemic venous to the systemic arterial circulation with subsequent stroke and death . no intracardiac shunt was present . pulmonary fibrosis concomitant with severe pulmonary arterial hypertension appears to have been responsible for the air traversing the pulmonary capillary bed . this unusual outcome of a complicated central venous catheterization must be borne in mind and guarded against in similar patients . 
hypercapnic respiratory failure due to l-tryptophan-induced eosinophilic polymyositis . a 24-year-old man presenting with fever , rash , and myalgias subsequently developed hypercapnic respiratory failure and severe limb muscle weakness . muscle biopsy revealed eosinophilic myositis , due to the ingestion of large quantities of l-tryptophan as a dietary supplement . complete recovery occurred with corticosteroid administration . significant involvement of the respiratory muscles can be a predominant feature of this newly described disease entity . 
subcutaneous and mediastinal emphysema associated with hypersensitivity pneumonitis . we report a rare case of a patient in whom severe subcutaneous and mediastinal emphysema occurred in association with summer-type hypersensitivity pneumonitis and in whom overdistention or disruption of alveoli with obliteration of the respiratory bronchioles was revealed on open lung biopsy . this case suggests that obstructive bronchiolitis with hypersensitivity pneumonitis is an etiologic factor of mediastinal emphysema . 
use of indium 111-labeled white blood cell scan in the diagnosis of cytomegalovirus pneumonia in a renal transplant recipient with a normal chest roentgenogram . opportunistic infections are common in patients after renal transplantation . this report describes a case of cytomegalovirus pneumonia in a renal transplant recipient with a normal chest roentgenogram and normal arterial oxygenation . an abnormal 111in-white blood cell scan led to the discovery of a pulmonary source of his recurrent fevers . 
central neurogenic hyperventilation in invasive laryngeal carcinoma . we describe a patient with central neurogenic hyperventilation secondary to extension of a laryngeal tumor into the base of the brain , resulting in extrinsic compression of the medulla . such an association has not been previously described . unique features which distinguish this patient from previously reported cases are emphasized . possible mechanisms involved in pathogenesis , as well as types of therapy , are outlined . 
hypertrophic osteoarthropathy in association with pulmonary tuberculosis . three white male patients with advanced cavitary pulmonary tuberculosis presented with hoa . no other pathology to explain the osteoarthropathy was detected . the osteoarthropathy responded symptomatically to nsai drugs and treatment of tuberculosis but resolved radiologically in only one patient . 
fatal adult respiratory distress syndrome following successful treatment of pulmonary strongyloidiasis . hyperinfection with strongyloides stercoralis occurs mostly in immunocompromised patients , including those treated with systemic steroids . a case of strongyloides-induced adult respiratory distress syndrome was recently reported , and we now report a case in which fatal ards appeared to result from the successful therapy of massive parasitic infection . 
pleural pneumocystis carinii infection . extrapulmonary pneumocystis carinii infection is a rare occurrence in patients with aids . pleural involvement has been demonstrated in only one case , and this occurred after pneumothorax . this is a case report of pleural pneumocystosis in a patient with aids who did not have a pneumothorax . 
unusual presentation of recurrent wegener 's granulomatosis . a 65-year-old woman presented with recurrent wegener 's granulomatosis following two years of immunosuppressive therapy and three years of complete remission . at her initial presentation , she had a characteristic x-ray picture showing multiple nodules with total resolution of these findings at three months . five years later , at the time of clinical relapse , her chest x-ray film showed bilateral diffuse infiltrative disease . this change in radiologic presentation upon relapse of wegener 's has not previously been reported . other unusual features include diffuse infiltrates as the pulmonary presentation and the long interval between cessation of therapy and relapse . we review the radiologic manifestations of wegener 's granulomatosis . 
the role of passive immunity in bovine respiratory syncytial virus-infected calves . the role of passive immunity in bovine respiratory syncytial virus ( brsv ) infections in neonatal calves was evaluated . calves were divided into groups as follows : colostrum-deprived , sham-inoculated ; colostrum-deprived , brsv-inoculated ; and colostrum-fed , brsv-inoculated . calves were inoculated with a low-passage field isolate of brsv for 4 consecutive days by a combined respiratory tract route and were euthanized 6 days after receiving the last inoculation . arterial oxygen tension ( pao2 ) decreased significantly over time in colostrum-deprived , brsv-inoculated calves ( p less than .01 ) and was significantly different among treatment groups ( p less than .05 ) . a significant decrease in arterial oxygen saturation was observed in this same group over time ( p less than .01 ) . mean percentage of pneumonic lung volume ( determined by computer data digitalization ) was significantly greater in infected , colostrum-deprived calves compared with the other groups ( p less than .01 ) , and brsv antigen was detected in these calves by avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase staining . thus , passive immunity derived from colostrum feeding decreased the severity of brsv infections in calves . 
vaccination of cotton rats with a chimeric fg glycoprotein of human respiratory syncytial virus induces minimal pulmonary pathology on challenge . the cotton rat model of human respiratory syncytial virus ( rsv ) infection was used to study the safety and efficacy of a chimeric fg glycoprotein that was expressed in insect cells using a baculovirus vector . histologic and virologic examination of vaccinated rat lungs was done after challenge with rsv . when rats were challenged 1 month after vaccination , severe pulmonary inflammation characterized by both a mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cell infiltrate and 30 % -40 % involvement of lung tissue was observed with a formalin-inactivated rsv vaccine . the fg glycoprotein induced minimal lung inflammation ( involving 2 % -5 % of the lung ) , while negative controls had 1 % -3 % lung involvement . two doses with as little as 20 ng of fg glycoprotein formulated in an aluminum hydroxide adjuvant completely protected the cotton rats from rsv challenge . thus the chimeric fg glycoprotein is highly immunogenic and induces minimal pulmonary inflammation in the cotton rat model . 
immune responses to bordetella pertussis infection and vaccination . to assess antibody and cellular immune responses , 156 healthy children were immunized at approximately 18 months of age with acellular diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccine . changes in antibody responses to filamentous hemagglutinin ( fha ) and to pertussis toxin ( pt ) were similar in pattern , and antibody titers reached values equal to those from patients with convalescent-stage pertussis . the fha-induced dna synthesis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells was maximum at 4 weeks after the primary series , and these levels were equal to those of patients with pertussis . high amounts of pt-induced dna synthesis were observed in both immunized and nonimmunized children ; thus , pt seemed to act mainly as a nonspecific mitogen . almost the same responses to several mitogens that activate different subsets of lymphocytes were observed in young infants compared with older children . furthermore , young infants who had bordetella pertussis infection responded by fha stimulation almost as well as older children . 
hypogammaglobulinemia associated with cytomegalovirus pneumonia . transient but profound hypogammaglobulinemia occurred during cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) pneumonia in a patient who developed striking declines in number of t lymphocytes . a 66-year-old , female , human immunodeficiency virus-negative patient requiring long-term hemodialysis had normal serum immunoglobulin concentrations before the onset of cmv pneumonia ( igg , 1070-1470 mg/dl ; iga , 94-102 mg/dl ; igm , 30-48 mg/dl ) . during the pneumonia episode , serum immunoglobulin concentrations were profoundly reduced ( igg , 440 mg/dl ; iga , 40 mg/dl ; igm , 25 mg/dl ) . total lymphocytes declined from 3048/mm3 to 212/mm3 with reductions in cd4 + cd45 - lymphocytes ( inducers of b cells ) to 9 % ( nl , 24 % -32 % ) and cd4 + cd45 + lymphocytes ( inducers of suppressor t cells ) to 4 % ( nl , 14 % -22 % ) . cd8 lymphocytes were reduced to 5 % ( nl , 19 % -31 % ) . as the pneumonia resolved , serum immunoglobulin concentrations returned to normal . this is one of the few reported instances of cmv infection apparently causing hypogammaglobulinemia . 
serotypes of respiratory isolates of streptococcus pneumoniae compared with the capsular types included in the current pneumococcal vaccine . the serotypes of 474 clinically significant streptococcus pneumoniae respiratory isolates collected during a national surveillance study in 1987-1988 were compared to the capsular types included in the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine licensed for use in the united states . overall , 355 isolates ( 74.9 % ) belonged to types included in the current vaccine , while another 65 ( 13.7 % ) were types serologically related to vaccine types and likely to be protective by virtue of cross-reactivity . relatively few isolates ( 9.1 % ) belonged to nonvaccine serotypes , and only 2.3 % were nontypable . the mucoid serotype 3 was most frequent ( 13.1 % of total ) , followed by 19f ( 9.3 % ) , 23f ( 7.4 % ) , 6b and 14 ( 5.7 % each ) , and 4 and 6a ( 5.5 % each ) . the most frequent type not included in the vaccine was type 16 ( 2.1 % of all isolates ) . thus , nearly 89 % of respiratory isolates included in this study were encompassed within the antigenic spectrum of the currently marketed pneumococcal vaccine . 
nosocomial legionnaires ' disease and use of medication nebulizers . guidelines for the prevention of nosocomial pneumonia specify that only sterile fluids should be used for aerosol therapy ; however , this recommendation may not be uniformly followed . thirteen patients with nosocomial pneumonia due to legionella pneumophila serogroup 3 ( lp3 ) were identified at a community hospital in the period from 1984 through 1988 ; 12 patients ( 92 % ) had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ; and 9 patients ( 69 % ) died . an epidemiologic investigation suggested that the use of nebulizers to deliver medication was associated with acquiring legionnaires ' disease . the hospital potable water system was contaminated with lp3 , and a survey indicated that tap water was commonly used to wash medication nebulizers . lp3 in respirable-size droplets was isolated from aerosols generated by a nebulizer containing lp3 at one-tenth the concentration found in the hospital potable water . these findings support the recommendation that only sterile fluids be used for filling or cleaning respiratory care equipment and suggest that this guideline is not universally followed . 
no detection of characteristic fungal protein elongation factor ef-3 in pneumocystis carinii . the taxonomic status of pneumocystis carinii is uncertain , and p. carinii has been categorized both as a fungus and as a protozoan . recent comparisons of rna sequence homologies between p. carinii and several genera of fungi and protozoa suggest that p. carinii has closer affinities with the ascomycetes than with the protozoa . the translatory systems of the fungi , however , require three soluble protein factors for peptide chain elongation rather than the two necessary in other eukaryotic systems ; to date the additional protein elongation factor ( ef-3 ) appears to be unique to fungi . western blot analysis of cell-free extracts of p. carinii , derived from rat , was done using a polyclonal antibody raised in rabbits to saccharomyces cerevisiae ef-3 . anti-ef-3 cross-reacting material was detected only in lysates of candida albicans and s. cerevisiae included as fungal controls ; no cross reaction was detected in lysates of p. carinii , p. carinii-infected rat lung , or a protozoan control ( trichomonas vaginalis ) . 
meta-analysis in epidemiology , with special reference to studies of the association between exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and lung cancer : a critique meta-analysis , a set of statistical tools for combining and integrating the results of independent studies of a given scientific issue , can be useful when the stringent conditions under which such integration is valid are met . in this report we point out the difficulties in obtaining sound meta-analyses of either controlled clinical trials or epidemiological studies . we demonstrate that hastily or improperly designed meta-analyses can lead to results that may not be scientifically valid . we note that much care is typically taken when meta-analysis is applied to the results of clinical trials . the food and drug administration , for example , requires strict adherence to the principles we discuss in this paper before it allows a drug 's sponsor to use a meta-analysis of separate clinical studies in support of a new drug application . such care does not always carry over to epidemiological studies , as demonstrated by the 1986 report of the national research council concerning the purported association between exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and the risk of lung cancer . on the basis of a meta-analysis of 13 studies , 10 of which were retrospective and the remaining 3 prospective in nature , the council concluded that non-smokers who are exposed to environmental tobacco smoke are at greater risk of acquiring lung cancer than non-smokers not so exposed . in our opinion , this conclusion in unwarranted given the poor quality of the studies on which it is based . 
activated protooncogenes in human lung tumors from smokers . fourteen primary human lung tumor dnas from smokers were analyzed for transforming activity by two dna transfection assays . activated protooncogenes were detected in 3 of 11 tumor dnas by the nih 3t3 focus assay , whereas activated protooncogenes were detected in 11 of 13 tumor dnas by the nih 3t3 cotransfection-nude mouse tumorigenicity assay . k - or nras genes activated by point mutation at codons 12 or 61 were detected in a large cell carcinoma , a squamous cell carcinoma , and 5 adenocarcinomas . an hras oncogene activated by a different mechanism was detected in an epidermoid carcinoma . one adenocarcinoma was found to contain an activated raf gene . two unidentified transforming genes were detected in a squamous cell carcinoma dna and two adenocarcinoma dnas . eight of 10 lung adenocarcinomas that had formed metastases at the time of surgery were found to contain ras oncogenes . no significant increase in metastasis was observed in the lung adenocarcinomas that contained one or more 6-kilobase ecori alleles of the lmyc gene . overall , 12 of 14 ( 86 % ) of the lung tumor dnas from smokers were found to contain activated protooncogenes . ras oncogenes appear to play a role in the development of metastases in lung adenocarcinomas . 
lack of increased bleeding after paracentesis and thoracentesis in patients with mild coagulation abnormalities . to determine whether untreated mild coagulopathy in patients with no evidence of clinical bleeding is associated with an increased risk of hemorrhage after paracentesis or thoracentesis , retrospective examination was conducted of 608 consecutive procedures for which prothrombin time ( pt ) , partial thromboplastin time ( ptt ) , platelet ( plt ) counts , and preprocedure and postprocedure hemoglobin concentrations were available . there was no increased bleeding in patients with mild to moderate coagulopathy ( defined as pt or ptt up to twice the midpoint normal range or pit count of 50 to 99 x 10 ( 3 ) per microl [ 50-99 x 10 ( 9 ) / l ] ) . however , patients with markedly elevated serum creatinine levels ( 6.0 to 14.0 mg/dl [ 530-1240 mumol/l ] ) had a significantly greater average hemoglobin loss ( -0.82 + / - 1.3 g/dl [ -8 + / - 13 g/l ] , n = 11 ) than patients with normal serum creatinine levels ( -0.12 + / - 0.88 g/dl [ -1 + / - 9 g/l ] , n = 450 ) ( p = 0.011 ) . overall , the frequency of bleeding complications requiring red cell transfusions was very low : 0.2 percent of events . the most common diagnosis for patients who had paracentesis was alcoholic liver disease ( 72 % ) ; for those having thoracentesis , it was infection ( 37 % ) . it can be concluded that , for these patients , prophylactic plasma or platelet transfusions are not necessary . patients with markedly elevated serum creatinine deserve close postprocedure observation . 
the use of monoclonal antibody 44-3a6 in cell blocks in the diagnosis of lung carcinoma , carcinomas metastatic to lung and pleura , and pleural malignant mesothelioma . monoclonal antibody ( moab ) 44-3a6 recognizes a glandular differentiation-associated antigen and has been used to identify exocrine differentiation in pulmonary carcinomas . the authors assessed its value in the diagnosis of lung carcinomas metastatic to lung/pleura and pleural malignant mesothelioma ( mm ) , using cell blocks derived from cytologic specimens . sixty-three primary lung carcinomas , 31 metastatic adenocarcinomas ( acs ) ( from breast , gastrointestinal tract , or genitourinary tract ) , and 36 mms were immunostained with 44-3a6 , leu-m1 , and anti-carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) . the results confirm the value of 44-3a6 in identifying acs but do not allow distinction between those of pulmonary , breast , git , or ovarian mucinous derivation . endometrial , ovarian serous , and renal acs are essentially nonreactive , as are almost all mms . the occurrence of one positive mm predicates caution in interpreting 44-3a6 positivity in isolation , but , judiciously used with other discriminating antibodies such as leu-m1 and anti-cea , 44-3a6 is of value in the differential diagnosis of acs and mms . further , its applicability to cytologic specimens may obviate the need for more invasive diagnostic procedures and lead to rapid , accurate diagnosis . 
results of bronchoscopically obtained lower airway cultures from adult sickle cell disease patients with the acute chest syndrome . purpose : the purpose of this study was to determine the frequency of bacterial pneumonia as a cause of the acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease based on bronchoscopically obtained lower airway cultures and to describe the clinical , laboratory , and roentgenographic features of the acute chest syndrome in a series composed entirely of adult patients with sickle cell disease . patients and methods : we reviewed the hospital records from 19 episodes ( 18 patients ) of acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease ( greater than or equal to 19 years of age ) who had undergone flexible bronchoscopy to obtain lower airway cultures between january 1979 and july 1987 . we also recorded patients ' clinical , laboratory , and roentgenographic characteristics . results : pneumonia was diagnosed in four of 19 episodes ( 21 % ) of acute chest syndrome based on quantitative cultures obtained at bronchoscopy . the pneumonia was caused by streptococcus pneumoniae in two patients and mixed aerobic and anaerobic organisms in the other two patients . forty-four of 45 blood cultures were negative , and one grew staphylococcus epidermidis , which was considered a contaminant . chest roentgenograms revealed lower lobe involvement in 17 episodes ( 90 % ) and bilateral infiltrates in six ( 32 % ) . pleural effusions occurred in seven episodes ( 37 % ) , and pleural fluid samples obtained from five of these revealed sterile exudates . conclusion : the results of this retrospective study suggest that bacterial pneumonia is an uncommon cause of acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease . these results are consistent with previous retrospective studies using noninvasive techniques to diagnose pneumonia . nevertheless , there appeared to be no reliable noninvasive variables that could accurately differentiate between patients with and without pneumonia and , consequently , we recommend empiric antibiotic therapy in addition to usual supportive care of these patients . 
emergency adenotonsillectomy for acute postoperative upper airway obstruction peri-operative acute upper airway obstruction may be life-threatening . a case is reported of a child with severe adenotonsillar hypertrophy who developed acute upper airway obstruction after a routine surgical procedure and required emergency adenotonsillectomy . the importance of pre-operative assessment is stressed . 
treatment of decompensated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in the emergency department -- correlation between clinical features and prognosis . study objective : patients with decompensated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) are at high risk of relapse after treatment in an emergency department . the purpose of this study was to determine if the risk of relapse correlates with the clinical features of the disease . patients : three hundred fifty-two patients with documented copd who were treated for dyspnea in the ed of the albuquerque veterans administration medical center over a three-year period . methods : we reviewed the clinical features and pulmonary function tests of the patients , who were considered to have copd if the baseline prebronchodilator one-second forced expiratory volume ( fev1 ) was less than 80 % predicted , and less than 80 % of the forced vital capacity and inhaled bronchodilators failed to increase the fev1 to levels of more than 80 % predicted . visits for pneumonia , pneumothorax , pleural effusion , or pulmonary emboli were excluded . a relapse was defined as an unscheduled revisit to the ed within 14 days of initial treatment . data were entered into a microcomputer data base and analyzed by a commercial statistical package . results : of 877 visits in which the patient was treated and released from the ed , 281 ( 32.0 % ) resulted in relapse and were considered unsuccessful compared with successful visits , unsuccessful visits were characterized by a shorter duration of dyspnea ( p = .002 ) , a lower entry fev1 ( p = .027 ) , a lower discharge fev1 ( p = .040 ) , a greater number of treatments with nebulized bronchodilators ( p = .009 ) , more frequent use of parenteral adrenergic drugs ( p = .006 ) , and less frequent use of oral prednisone on discharge ( p = .016 ) . patients with one or more relapse visits during the study period ( relapsers ) differed from nonrelapsers in several respects . relapsers had a greater bronchodilator response on baseline fev1 than nonrelapsers ( p = .047 ) . nevertheless , relapsers required more bronchodilator treatments in the ed ( p less than .001 ) ; were treated more frequently with parenteral adrenergic drugs ( p less than .001 ) , iv glucocorticoids ( p less than .001 ) , and oral prednisone ( p less than .001 ) ; and recovered less of their baseline fev1 ( p less than .014 ) . conclusion : bronchodilator response on baseline pulmonary function testing appears to identify patients with copd who have a poor prognosis after emergency treatment . their poor response to intensive bronchodilator treatment suggests that loss of bronchodilator response may be involved in the pathogenesis of respiratory decompensation . 
the " fallen lung with absent hilum " signs of complete bronchial transection [ published erratum appears in ann emerg med 1991 jun ; 20 ( 6 ) :671 ] a 19-year-old pedestrian who was the victim of a motor vehicle accident had a left pneumothorax with a large air leak . despite a well-placed chest tube , a chest radiograph showed that the left lung had fallen down and away from the mediastinum and that no hilar structures were visible . this " fallen lung with an absent hilum " is considered virtually diagnostic of complete mainstem bronchus transection . 
nutrition and bronchopulmonary dysplasia twenty two babies who developed bronchopulmonary dysplasia were compared with 22 babies matched for gestational age who did not . those with bronchopulmonary dysplasia weighed less at birth and had lower energy intakes from day 7 to day 56 . undernutrition before and after birth is a major problem in babies who develop bronchopulmonary dysplasia . 
association of pneumothorax and hypotension with intraventricular haemorrhage . to test the hypothesis that acute hypotension resulting from pneumothorax would be associated with severe brain injury ( grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage ) , 67 very low birthweight ( vlbw ) infants of 32 weeks ' gestation or less with respiratory distress syndrome and pneumothorax were studied . thirty six had pneumothorax associated with systemic hypotension and 31 had pneumothorax with normal blood pressure . the groups were similar in gestational age and severity of their respiratory distress syndrome . thirty two of 36 of infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension ( 89 % ) had grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage . this percentage was significantly greater than the percentage for infants with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure ( three of 31 , 10 % ) . the risk ratio for grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage for infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension was 9.8 compared with neonates with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure . these observations are consistent with the hypothesis that systemic hypotension and cerebral hypoperfusion are important factors leading to intraventricular haemorrhage in vlbw infants . 
anaesthetic management of a 2-month-old infant for laser resection of vocal cord granuloma . a 2-month-old infant underwent excision of granulomata of vocal cords with a carbon dioxide laser . high frequency jet ventilation was given through a surgical metal suction tube during the operation . the anaesthetic technique for the infant and the problems of the use of carbon dioxide laser in laryngeal surgery are discussed . 
antithrombotic efficacy of continuous extradural analgesia after knee replacement . we have studied the effect of extradural analgesia on postoperative venous thrombosis in patients undergoing knee arthroplasty . forty-eight patients were allocated randomly to receive either general anaesthesia or extradural analgesia with local anaesthetics for 3 days . all patients wore compressive elastic stockings and no anticoagulant drugs were administered . bilateral venography was performed 10 days after surgery . continuous extradural analgesia did not impede mobilization of the patients . one case of nonfatal pulmonary embolism occurred in a patient who received general anaesthesia . the use of continuous extradural analgesia resulted in a significant difference in the total incidence of deep vein thrombosis ( 18 % compared with 59 % after general anaesthesia ( p = 0.02 ] . the incidence of calf vein thrombosis was 12 % compared with 45 % after general anaesthesia ( p = 0.05 ) . 
traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistula in a child . a case report . a seven-year-old girl sustained a gunshot wound to the chest and spine . evaluation of a persistent pleural effusion demonstrated a subarachnoid-pleural fistula . surgical closure of the dural defect resulted in resolution of the fistula . traumatic subarachnoid-pleural fistulae are rare . the diagnosis is reached by an awareness of fistula formation from penetrating or blunt trauma to the chest . 
pneumocystis carinii infection of the thyroid in a hypothyroid patient with aids : diagnosis by fine needle aspiration biopsy . a 49-yr-old homosexual man with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome presented with a left-sided neck mass . he was found to have a firm goiter . he was clinically euthyroid , but had laboratory evidence of primary hypothyroidism . radioactive iodine scan of the thyroid showed homogeneous uptake over an enlarged right lobe and absence of uptake over the left lobe . two fine needle aspiration biopsies of the thyroid revealed the presence of pneumocystis carinii ( p. carinii ) organisms on the gomori 's methenamine silver strain . after courses of iv and oral therapy with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole , a third fine needle aspiration biopsy failed to reveal any organisms . a repeated radioactive iodine scan of the thyroid showed return of uptake over the left lobe . thyroid function tests normalized with levothyroxine , and the goiter decreased in size . to our knowledge , this is the first report of hypothyroidism associated with p. carinii infection of the thyroid . p. carinii infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus infected individuals presenting with cold thyroid nodules . fine needle aspiration biopsy is a valuable tool in assessing these patients . 
monoclonal immunofluorescence compared with silver stain for investigating pneumocystis carinii pneumonia . two hundred and eighty two specimens from 220 patients positive for hiv with respiratory tract symptoms , or febrile illness , or both , were examined for the presence of pneumocystis carinii . specimens were either induced sputum samples or bronchoalveolar lavage fluids . to establish the optimal method for laboratory diagnosis a comparison was made of detection of the organism by use of monoclonal antibody and immunofluorescence with conventional silver staining methods . three commercially available reagents for immunofluorescence were also compared . immunofluorescence was significantly more sensitive than the silver stain and the best results for immunofluorescence were obtained using . northumbria biologicals ltd reagents . 
mechanical ventilation in medical and neurological diseases : 11 years of experience . mechanical ventilation ( mv ) is imperative in many forms of acute respiratory failure ( arf ) . the aim of this work was to review all episodes of mv in a medical intensive care unit ( micu ) during the 11-year period 1976-1986 . four per cent ( n = 1008 ) of 24,899 admissions to the micu were treated with mv . the mean age of ventilator-treated patients was 53 + / - 18 years , and obviously it increased during the period of study . the average duration of mv was 4.7 d. micu mortality , hospital mortality and 2-year mortality rates for patients subjected to mv were 33 % , 38 % and 46 % , respectively . the mortality rate did not change during the study period . cerebrovascular and malignant diseases carried the highest mortality rates , 75 and 79 % , respectively , whereas mortality in patients ventilated because of drug overdose ( n = 313 ) was only 2 % . the results of this study confirm previously published findings concerning the outcome of mv , and we conclude that the effects of mv remain discouraging in medical and neurological patients . improved quality of ventilator therapy and monitoring , as well as continued research directed at the causes of arf , are equally important in reducing the mortality in arf . 
pneumothorax in a patient with wegener 's granulomatosis during treatment with immunosuppressive agents . we present the case of a 16-year-old woman with wegener 's granulomatosis , who developed a pneumothorax while receiving treatment with cyclophosphamide and glucocorticoids . the lung was re-expanded by tube drainage , and the patient recovered completely while the immunosuppressive treatment was continued in combination with sulphamethoxazole-trimethoprim . a possible role for this antimicrobial drug in the treatment of wegener 's granulomatosis is briefly discussed . 
chemotherapy of brain metastases from lung carcinoma : a controlled randomized study . a controlled randomized study was carried out to evaluate the effects of chemotherapy in patients with brain metastases from lung carcinoma . one hundred patients were randomly divided into three groups at the time of diagnosis or after surgery for metastases . group a received radiotherapy alone ; group b received radiotherapy and chloroethylnitrosoureas ( methyl-ccnu , 100-120 mg/m2 , or acnu 80-100 mg/m2 , every 6-8 weeks ) , and group c received radiotherapy and a combination of chloroethylnitrosoureas and tegafur ( 300 mg/m2 , daily ) . of the 100 patients , 88 could be evaluated . the reduction rates of the tumors of the patients in whom tumor was not surgically removed or not totally removed were compared . complete resolution of the tumor was noted in 29 , 69 , and 63 % of the patients in groups a , b , and c , respectively . tumor regression of greater than or equal to 50 % was seen in 36 , 69 , and 74 % of the patients in groups a , b , and c , respectively . the difference in the response rates of groups a and c was statistically significant ( p less than 0.05 ) . median survival after the start of treatment for brain metastasis was 27 , 30.5 , and 29 weeks in groups a , b and c , respectively . there was 1 long-term survivor ( more than 5 years ) in group a , 3 in group b , and 1 in group c. the main cause of death was deterioration attributable to the primary lesion or systemic metastasis , and no statistical difference was noted in survival time among the groups . 
pott 's puffy tumor : a complication of frontal sinusitis . in children sinusitis is a frequent complication of upper respiratory infections but an infrequently considered diagnosis . although most sinus infections are resolved without complications , when complications do occur they can be serious or life threatening . the most common ones occur in the orbit , but cns extension is not infrequent . osteomyelitis and resulting subperiosteal abscess of the frontal bone -- the so-called pott 's puffy tumor -- is a less common , and perhaps less frequently recognized , serious complication of frontal sinusitis . this paper describes two patients with subperiosteal abscess resulting from frontal sinusitis , one with cns and orbital extension . a brief literature review is presented , and presentation , diagnosis , and treatment are discussed . 
presentation and management of an acute caffeine overdose . a one-year-old white female ingested approximately two to three grams of caffeine ( 200-300 mg/kg ) . the patient survived the ingestion with a maximum caffeine concentration of 385 micrograms/ml four hours postingestion . the child developed ventricular arrhythmias , seizures , metabolic disturbances , and severe pulmonary edema . she survived without apparent long-term sequelae despite having reached a serum caffeine concentration that is the second highest reported level in a survivor . 
respiratory distress in a child in the office . we have reviewed respiratory distress from a pathophysiologic approach . two specific disease entities , epiglottitis and asthma , which commonly present with respiratory distress , are reviewed . the office management of respiratory distress encompasses early recognition of disease to prevent symptoms from progressing . referral should be considered in any difficult cases . 
upper respiratory tract infections . upper respiratory tract infections are among the most common acute infections in humans . this review discusses the clinically important aspects of the epidemiology , etiology , clinical presentation , diagnosis , management , complications , and prevention of the common cold , pharyngitis , otitis media , and sinusitis . most episodes of the common cold and pharyngitis are of viral origin , and curative therapy is not available . streptococcal pharyngitis , acute otitis media , and sinusitis are secondary to bacterial infections , and antibiotic therapy is important . 
lower respiratory tract infections . although lower respiratory tract infections are frequently diagnosed in a primary care setting , they are still associated with a significant morbidity and mortality , which warrants a careful approach to treatment . knowledge of the most common cause based on the age of the patient , location where the infection was acquired , and clinical presentation helps to direct empiric treatment . a few basic laboratory studies , especially a sputum gram stain , can allow for more specific treatment . identification of patients at increased risk for virulent organisms should make the primary care physician consider inpatient treatment along with an aggressive diagnostic workup and broad-spectrum antimicrobial treatment . prevention should always be considered . 
cerebral venous thrombosis : new causes for an old syndrome ? the range of disorders affecting the cerebral veins and sinuses is increasing and now includes blood disorders , abnormalities in the patterns of blood flow , and infiltrative or inflammatory conditions , all of which may promote thrombosis . we describe 10 patients with cerebral venous thrombosis : two had protein s deficiency , one had protein c deficiency , one was in early pregnancy , and there was a single case of each of the following : dural arteriovenous malformation , intracerebral arteriovenous malformation , bilateral glomus tumours , systemic lupus erythematosus , wegener 's granulomatosis , non-hodgkin 's lymphoma . the recognition of such diverse aetiology may be importance since clinical features are non-specific , and may consist only of raised intracranial pressure , allowing confusion with ' benign intracranial hypertension ' . the existence of effective treatment both for the thrombosis and for many of the underlying disorders makes early diagnosis essential . the prognosis of treated patients may be favourable . 
antibodies directed against neutrophils ( c-anca and p-anca ) are of distinct diagnostic value in systemic vasculitis . in a prospective study , sera from over 700 patients with suspected vasculitis , including over 200 patients undergoing renal biopsy , were examined for antibodies to neutrophil cytoplasmic antigen ( anca ) . an indirect immunofluorescence assay on ethanol fixed human neutrophils identified two types of autoantibody : c-anca , which produces diffuse cytoplasmic staining and p-anca , which produces an artefactual nuclear/perinuclear staining pattern . the diagnosis of patients in whom anca of either form was found was established following case note review according to defined diagnostic criteria . forty of 45 patients whose sera contained c-anca at a titre of greater than or equal to 1/40 satisfied the diagnostic criteria for wegener 's granulomatosis or microscopic polyarteritis . twelve of 30 patients with p-anca at a titre of greater than or equal to 1/40 were also classified as having one of these disorders . seventeen of the remaining 18 patients had immune-mediated disorders with deep organ damage . of 47 anca-positive patients who underwent renal biopsy , 21 had glomerulonephritis associated with wegener 's glomerulonephritis and a further 22 had a necrotizing or crescentic glomerulonephritis . ethanol fixation is important for discrimination of c-anca and p-anca . c-anca are highly specific for wegener 's granulomatosis and microscopic polyarteritis . in patients undergoing renal biopsy , the presence of these antibodies is highly specific for a necrotizing or crescentic glomerulonephritis . 
radiographic manifestations of congenital anomalies affecting the airway . congenital anomalies of the airway are generally uncommon , but a vast array of possibilities exists . some present life-threatening emergencies at birth , and others go undiagnosed for years . clinical symptoms are often nonspecific , and radiographic evaluation is frequently requested to localize and characterize the lesion before endoscopy , surgery , or medical management . the most common intrinsic congenital anomalies causing airway compromise in infants include choanal atresia , mandibular hypoplasia , laryngomalacia , vocal cord paralysis , and congenital subglottic stenosis . the radiologist must be on the alert for unsuspected additional anomalies involving the airway , lungs , and esophagus , which occur with relative frequency . numerous extrinsic congenital masses of the head , neck , and mediastinum may compromise the airway . hemangiomas , lymphangiomas , and teratomas are more likely to be noted at birth , whereas branchial cleft cysts , thyroglossal duct anomalies , and dermoid cysts frequently present later . mass location and radiographic characteristics usually allow accurate preoperative diagnosis . intracranial involvement by nasal or nasopharyngeal masses , intrathoracic involvement by lower neck mass , and intraspinal involvement by posterior neck mass must always be sought for radiographically . persistence of respiratory symptoms after removal of such masses is not uncommon because tracheal deformity and laxity may take months or years to resolve . recent advances in cine ct and mr imaging promise to improve imaging of the airway in general and in the pediatric population in particular . significant limitations in imaging of the pediatric larynx remain . as a result , endoscopy continues to be the primary diagnostic tool for airway anomalies of this region . 
bronchopulmonary and neurenteric forms of foregut anomalies . imaging for diagnosis and management . bronchopulmonary foregut malformations encompass a great variety of anomalies that may arise from abnormal differentiation of the respiratory and alimentary tracts , abnormal separation of the two systems , or abnormal development of blood supply , perhaps singly or in combination , during early embryogenesis . the pulmonary and neurenteric forms share the common features of a pulmonary parenchymal opacification and/or intrathoracic mass , with the addition of vertebral anomalies in the instance of the neurenteric malformations . plain radiographs serve as the starting point for diagnostic evaluation and sometimes are all that is needed ; more often , though , the plain film findings suggest which road to follow in further imaging . no single imaging approach can be advocated for all patients . the lesion may be found initially , for example , on prenatal sonography . ultrasonography also can establish the cystic nature of a mass and may help define vascular supply , although it can not yet be said to have supplanted angiography 's role in evaluating suspected sequestrations . for most intramediastinal or intrapulmonary masses without associated vertebral anomalies , ct will satisfactorily establish the cystic nature and should afford a reasonably confident preoperative diagnosis of bronchogenic cysts or type 1 or 2 cystic adenomatoid malformations . type 3 cystic adenomatoid malformation , because of its relatively " solid " imaging characteristics , may not be diagnosed confidently by preoperative imaging . the finding of vertebral anomalies associated with a mediastinal mass especially warrants mr imaging to define intraspinal involvement . however , the association of vertebral or rib anomalies with apparent unilateral pulmonary agenesis or hypoplasia arouses suspicion of a bronchopulmonary foregut malformation that communicates with the gastrointestinal tract , and this uncommon situation calls for a barium examination . radionuclide scintigraphy has an ancillary role in assessing foregut anomalies , but many findings from scintigraphy are relatively nonspecific and anatomic definition is poor . scintigraphy may yield supportive information in cases of sequestration that have inconclusive findings as determined by plain radiographs and ct . 
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the lung . congenital nonvascular anomalies of the lung can be subdivided into those affecting the bronchial tree and those affecting parenchymal abnormalities . embryologic development of the lung is briefly reviewed to facilitate an understanding of developmental pulmonary anomalies . clinical , radiographic , and therapeutic aspects of these anomalies are discussed . 
pharmacokinetics of cefepime in patients with respiratory tract infections . the steady-state pharmacokinetics of cefepime were evaluated in 10 middle-aged and elderly patients with acute lower respiratory tract infections who were receiving 1 g intravenously every 12 h. one preinfusion and 15 postinfusion serum samples and total urine output were collected over one dosing interval between days 3 and 8 of therapy . cefepime concentrations in serum over time exhibited a multicompartmental profile . peak and trough concentrations in serum determined by a validated high-performance liquid chromatography method were 71.2 + / - 17.2 ( mean + / - standard deviation ) and 6.0 + / - 4.9 mg/liter , respectively . the steady-state volume of distribution was 0.22 + / - 0.05 liter/kg . elimination half-lives ranged from 1.93 to 6.04 h ( 3.92 + / - 1.28 h ) , and total body clearances ranged from 36.9 to 102 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ( 73.0 + / - 19.7 ml/min per 1.73 m2 ) . the disposition of cefepime at steady state in patients was comparable to previous observations in healthy elderly volunteers . the predictive performance of regression equations derived from single-dose studies in volunteers relating creatinine clearance with total body and renal clearances of cefepime exhibited slight biases ( mean predictive errors , -9.7 and 2.1 ml/min per 1.73 m2 , respectively ) and similar precisions . predicted and observed total body clearances ( 63.3 + / - 25.1 versus 73.0 + / - 19.7 ml/min per 1.73 m2 , respectively ) and renal clearances ( 51.3 + / - 24.4 versus 49.3 + / - 19.6 ml/min per 1.73 m2 , respectively ) were not significantly different . the pharmacokinetics of cefepime in infected patients appeared to be unaltered by illness , and the steady-state disposition of cefepime was predictable from data derived from single-dose studies in volunteers . 
nasal midline masses in infants and children . dermoids , encephaloceles , and gliomas . nasal dermoids , gliomas , and encephaloceles are uncommon congenital lesions that result from aberrant embryologic development . we have treated 46 children with these nasal lesions . in view of the potential intracranial connection , patients are at risk for intracranial infection , and early surgical correction is thus imperative . neuroimaging studies may help to predict intracranial involvement . 
somatostatin and analogues in the treatment of cancer . a review somatostatin is a naturally occurring cyclic tetradecapeptide that inhibits release of growth hormone and all gastrointestinal hormones . the beneficial effect of somatostatin in the treatment of certain hypersecretory disorders of hormone excess in well recognized ; however its clinical usefulness has been limited in the past by its extremely short plasma half-life . the development of long-acting somatostatin analogues has provided clinically useful agents for treatment of hormone-producing tumors . in addition to well-known inhibiting effects on hormone release and actions , recent studies using experimental tumor models have demonstrated an antiproliferative effect of somatostatin and its analogues on growth of a variety of neoplasms . the exact role of somatostatin analogues in cancer therapy has yet to be established ; however studies suggest that these agents could provide a useful and relatively nontoxic adjuvant therapy in the treatment of certain tumors . in this review , the oncologic application of somatostatin and possible mechanism of action are examined and current clinical and experimental studies are summarized . 
hemodynamic effects of lobar pulmonary artery occlusion in a porcine sepsis model . we induced severe pulmonary hypertension and acute lung injury in 6 pigs by pseudomonas aeruginosa infusion . we studied the effect of pulmonary artery catheter inflation of a pulmonary artery catheter balloon in the left lower lobar pulmonary artery was accompanied by a significant ( p less than 0.05 , paired t test ) increase in pulmonary artery pressure , a decrease in left atrial pressure , a decrease in cardiac output , and a decrease in mean arterial pressure . no significant changes occurred when the catheter was advanced into the wedged position without balloon inflation . balloon inflation had no significant effect on these variables before bacterial infusion . we conclude that with sufficiently severe pulmonary hypertension in association with diffuse lung injury , lobar pulmonary artery occlusion may cause alterations in cardiac output and left atrial pressure . this may confuse interpretation of pulmonary artery catheter measurements . 
computed tomography-guided minithoracotomy for the resection of small peripheral pulmonary nodules . small peripheral pulmonary nodules ranging in size from 1 mm to 20 mm were excised in 58 patients . computed tomography was used to mark the skin overlying the nodules to minimize the surgical exposure needed for operative identification . the nodules were 1 cm or less in maximum diameter in 76 % of the patients . twenty-six patients had single nodules and 32 patients had multiple nodules . the preoperative diagnosis was inaccurate in 67 % of the patients . in 61 % of the patients in whom malignancy was suspected , no tumor was demonstrated . conversely , of the 20 patients in whom a malignant nodule was excised , the preoperative diagnosis was correct in only 50 % . thirty-one patients required no further treatment apart from their biopsy and 27 required additional intervention . small peripheral pulmonary nodules require biopsy for diagnosis . when percutaneous needle aspiration biopsy is unsuccessful , or technically difficult , a computed tomography-guided thoracotomy is an effective and minimally invasive surgical alternative . 
left ventricular pseudoaneurysm with hemoptysis . a 53-year-old man who had previously undergone resection of a left ventricular aneurysm was admitted because of hemoptysis . preoperative evaluation with computed tomographic scan and cardiac catheterization demonstrated a pseudoaneurysm of the inferior ventricular wall measuring 16 cm in diameter with protrusion into the left hemithorax . the neck of the pseudoaneurysm was a defect in the ventricular wall extending from the base of the mitral valve annulus to the insertion of the posterior papillary muscle . operative repair was performed using an albumin-coated , low-porosity dacron patch . 
procainamide-induced respiratory insufficiency after cardiopulmonary bypass . a 46-year-old man could not be weaned from ventilatory support while receiving procainamide . when the drug was discontinued , the patient was successfully weaned shortly thereafter . 
carcinosarcoma of the lung with hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy . carcinosarcoma of the lung is a rare malignancy . endobronchial and parenchymal variants are classically described . clinicopathological features are often related to anatomical location , as is the case for most lung neoplasms . this case report details the surgical management of a carcinosarcoma in a patient seen with pulmonary osteoarthropathy . 
false aneurysm formation of the great arteries after arterial switch operation . an infant with simple transposition of the great arteries underwent a two-staged arterial switch operation , after which mediastinal infection occurred . continuous irrigation with povidone-iodine solution was performed for 10 days . after that , the patient experienced life-threatening hemorrhage three times . at the time of the second hemorrhage , greater omental transfer was performed . on postoperative day 109 , false aneurysm was recognized , having developed from both great arteries . successful repair was performed on postoperative day 110 . 
fistulas between the aorta and tracheobronchial tree . aortobronchial fistula is a rare condition that is invariably fatal if not diagnosed and surgically treated . with appropriate surgical intervention , survival rates greater than 70 % can be achieved . a review of the literature and an illustrative case report are presented . a total of 63 fistulas in 62 patients have been described . the case we present is unusual in the use of serratus anterior muscle for repair of the fistula . eighty-seven percent of the cases documented in the literature were associated with an aneurysm of the thoracic aorta . eighty-six percent of the fistulas were between the descending aorta and left bronchopulmonary tree . more than 95 % of patients experienced at least a single episode of hemoptysis , and massive hemoptysis occurred in more than half of the reported cases . a correct preoperative diagnosis was made in only 54 % of cases . plain chest radiographs definitively demonstrated an aneurysm in only 16 % . the computed tomographic scan was the most rewarding test , identifying an aneurysm in 11 of 12 patients and the fistula in 50 % of them . surgical repair resulted in a 76 % survival rate . 
enhanced antitumor reactivity of tumor-sensitized t cells by interferon alfa . tumor-draining lymph node cells from mice bearing the methylcholanthrene-induced mca 106 tumors can be sensitized in vitro to acquire antitumor reactivity . we examined the effect of interferon alfa on the function of cells that underwent in vitro sensitization in adoptive immunotherapy . interferon alfa increased the antitumor reactivity of in vitro sensitized cells in the treatment of mca 106 pulmonary metastases . this effect was evident in irradiated mice , indicating that a host response to the interferon alfa was not required . interferon alfa treatment increased class i major histocompatibility complex antigen expression on tumor cells and increased their susceptibility to lysis by in vitro sensitized cells . these results suggest that interferon alfa enhancement of adoptive immunotherapy was mediated by its effect on tumor cells . interferon alfa may be a useful adjunct to the adoptive immunotherapy of human cancer . 
bilateral iliac vein filtration . an effective alternative to caval filtration in patients with megacava . greenfield filters were placed bilaterally in the iliac veins in five of 250 patients undergoing percutaneous filter placements . four of the five patients had megacava ( inferior vena cava diameter greater than 28 mm ) . in all patients , the filters were effective in preventing pulmonary embolism . follow-up at 9 months in two patients revealed no changes of chronic venous insufficiency or venous stasis . iliac filtration should be considered in patients in whom a caval filter can not be placed because of large caval size or because it is technically difficult due to iliac vein tortuosity . 
cytologic diagnosis of aspergillosis in cardiac transplantation . fine-needle aspiration of the lung is now widely utilized to diagnose pulmonary neoplasms , but often serologic techniques or open-lung biopsy is relied on for the diagnosis of infectious pulmonary processes . we report a series of four patients in whom the fine-needle aspiration technique was used to make the rapid cytologic diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis . culture confirmation was also obtained on the aspirated material . a discussion of the available techniques for the laboratory diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis is presented and the advantages of fine-needle aspiration cytology are stressed . our favorable results support expanded use of fine-needle aspiration cytology in the evaluation of lung nodules appearing in immunosuppressed populations . 
endoscopic repair of supraglottic laryngeal clefts . we describe the technique of endoscopic diagnosis and endoscopic surgical repair used in the management of supraglottic interarytenoid laryngeal clefts in 11 children seen between 1981 and 1988 at the hospital for sick children , london , england . six of the children had primary type i clefts that required endoscopic repair . the symptoms included inspiratory stridor , choking during eating , and aspiration . five of the children had previous transcervical repair of type ii clefts that had partial breakdown in the interarytenoid area causing symptoms of aspiration , which required secondary repair endoscopically . all the patients had successful microlaryngoscopic closure ; in two children , however , the breakdown of the repair necessitated repeated endoscopic correction . the only complication occurred in a case of postoperative supraglottitis , which was successfully managed with intubation and antibiotics . we conclude that endoscopic repair is a useful and reliable technique and an elegant alternative to the open transcervical approach for the closure of supraglottic laryngeal clefts . 
endoscopic and computed tomographic findings in ostiomeatal sinus disease . previously , there has been no organized format for the documentation of the findings of the nasal endoscopy and the coronal computed tomographic sinus scan . the findings from 100 nasal endoscopies and computed tomographic scans were reviewed and summarized . the summarized findings were incorporated into two forms -- " the nasal endoscopy exam form " and the " computed tomographic scan findings [ form ] " -- utilizing computerized graphics techniques . the forms are presented along with their illustration of pathologic ostiomeatal findings . these forms represent a method of documentation of nasal endoscopic and coronal computed tomographic scan findings . they may be used in the demonstration of disease , treatment , planning , resident training , communication of information , and assisting in a future classification of degrees of severity of sinus disease . 
reconstruction of pediatric larynx and upper trachea with the sternohyoid rotary door flap . the sternohyoid myocutaneous flap , the rotary door flap , is optimally oriented to serve in laryngotracheal reconstruction . it provides immediate , highly vascularized lining and structural support to the augmented airway . therefore , it is one of the most versatile alternative methods available for surgical reconstruction of the stenosed larynx and trachea . thirteen of 14 patients who were managed by the rotary door flap technique have been successfully decannulated . the features of the flap and the surgical technique are described with reference to modifications in the pediatric age group . 
nasal reconstruction with articulated irradiated rib cartilage . nasal structural reconstruction is a formidable task in cases where there is loss of support to both the nasal dorsum and tip . a multitude of surgical approaches and materials have been used for the correction of the saddle-nose deformity with varying degrees of success . articulated irradiated rib cartilage inserted through an external rhinoplasty approach was used to reconstruct nasal deformities in 18 patients over a 6-year period . simultaneous use of a midline forehead flap to reconstruct the overlying soft tissue was required in four cases . follow-up ranged from 1 to 6 years ( mean , 2.8 years ) . results were rewarding in most cases with marked improvement in nasal support and airway . revision and/or replacement secondary to trauma or warping of the graft was required in four cases . none of the patients exhibited infection , extrusion , or noticeable resorption . a description of the surgical technique , review of all the cases , and recommendation for continued use of this graft material are discussed . 
changing disease patterns in patients with aids in a referral centre in the united kingdom : the changing face of aids objective -- to study the changes in morbidity , mortality , and survival patterns in a population of patients with aids in the united kingdom from 1982 to 1989 . design -- a retrospective analysis of inpatient and outpatient records of patients with aids . subjects -- 347 patients with aids , predominantly homosexual or bisexual men . setting -- departments of immunology and genitourinary medicine , st mary 's hospital , london . main outcome measures -- presenting diagnosis of aids , occurrence of other opportunist diseases , cause of death , and survival since aids was diagnosed , in particular for those patients with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia or kaposi 's sarcoma . results -- the overall proportion of patients who developed p carinii pneumonia dropped from 56 % ( 20/36 ) in 1984 to 24 % ( 46/194 ) in 1989 , although it has remained the index diagnosis in about half of new patients . kaposi 's sarcoma has decreased as index diagnosis from 30 % ( 20/67 ) to 20 % ( 15/74 ) over the same period , though the prevalence has remained constant at around 35 % . p carinii pneumonia accounted for 46 % ( 16/35 ) of known causes of death in 1986 but only 3 % ( 1/31 ) in 1989 . conversely , deaths due to kaposi 's sarcoma rose from 14 % ( 1/7 ) to 32 % ( 10/31 ) between 1984 and 1989 . lymphoma accounted for an increased proportion of deaths among these patients with 16 % ( 5/31 ) of deaths in 1989 . their median survival increased from 10 months in 1984-6 to 20 months in 1987 . conclusions -- the changing patterns of disease in patients with aids have important implications both for health care provision and future medical research . medical and nursing provision must be made for the increased morbidity of these diseases and the increased survival of these patients . research should now be directed towards developing effective treatments for the opportunist infections which are currently more difficult to treat , the secondary malignancies of aids , as well as more effective immunorestorative treatments . future changes in disease patterns must be recognised at an early stage so that resources can be adequately planned and allocated . 
spontaneous pneumothorax : marker gas technique for predicting outcome of manual aspiration [ published erratum appears in bmj 1991 mar 23 ; 302 ( 6778 ) :697 ] objective -- to determine whether in a patient with spontaneous pneumothorax the presence or absence of a pleural leak can be shown at the time of manual aspiration by use of a marker gas . also , to find out if the technique can predict whether manual aspiration will be successful , hence avoiding the need for intercostal tube drainage . design -- prospective study of 25 episodes of pneumothorax during which patients breathed air from a douglas bag that contained chlorofluorocarbon gases from a metered dose inhaler while the pneumothorax was aspirated . setting -- medical unit of a district general hospital . patients -- 22 patients who presented over nine months with acute pneumothorax . main outcome measures -- presence or absence of chlorofluorocarbon marker gases in the aspirate . presence or absence of sustained re-expansion of the affected lung in the chest radiograph . results -- marker gas was detected in the aspirate from 16 out of 25 pneumothoraces . of these , 13 required intercostal tube drainage because of failure of the lung to re-expand . marker gas was not detected in nine cases , and in all of these cases manual aspiration resulted in sustained re-expansion of the lung . conclusions -- the presence or absence of a pleural leak during manual aspiration of spontaneous pneumothorax can be shown by using this technique . the absence of marker gas in the aspirate implies that manual aspiration will be successful , whereas its presence predicts , in most cases , either failure of manual aspiration to expand the lung or early re-collapse of the lung . 
exercise testing in the assessment of pulmonary disease . in this chapter , the different types of exercise tests and the indications for requesting a particular type of test have been discussed . the normal physiological responses to exercise have been reviewed and examples of the abnormal responses seen in a variety of disease states that have been discussed . the relatively small number of these responses limits the specificity of exercise tests in actually establishing a diagnosis , but can be helpful in narrowing the differential diagnosis . perhaps exercise tests are most valuable in cases where the patient 's symptoms are mainly limited to exercise and where investigations done at rest have failed to resolve a diagnostic question . when exercise testing is used under these circumstances , it serves a unique function in the diagnosis and management of pulmonary disease . 
bronchoalveolar lavage . the technique of bal performed through the fiberoptic bronchoscope has , in two decades , provided clinicians and researchers with the ability to safely sample the inflammatory-immune cell milieu of the human lung . standardized bal and processing of the lavage constituents provides assistance in determining the optimal care of patients with a variety of lung diseases , and renders diagnosis in selected cases . it has become indispensable in the diagnosis of pulmonary infiltrates in immunocompromised patients , and plays an important role in improving clinical management . finally , it continues to yield an ever increasing amount of data for the researchers studying the mechanisms and pathogenesis of lung disease . it is likely that bal will become an even more valuable tool with increasing relevance to the practice of chest medicine in the 1990s . 
pulmonary aspiration during emergency endoscopy in patients with upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage . objective : to evaluate the frequency and significance of aspiration and its clinical importance in patients with upper gi bleeding undergoing esophagogastroduodenoscopy in the icu . design : thirty consecutive patients with active and severe upper gi bleeding were studied . setting : icu . patients : ranged in age from 20 to 78 yr with an equal number of males and females . interventions : all patients had continuous pulse oximetry monitoring and had chest radiographs obtained less than 12 hr before endoscopy and less than 4 hr after endoscopy . measurements : six ( 20 % ) of 30 patients developed new lung infiltrates after esophagogastroduodenoscopy . in this group of patients , preendoscopy chest radiographs were obtained after less than 4 hr . in five of these patients , infiltrates were accompanied by fever and/or leukocytosis and oxygen desaturation to less than 90 % during the esophagogastroduodenoscopy . conclusion : clinically significant aspiration pneumonia frequently complicates esophagogastroduodenoscopy in upper gi bleeding patients and is an important mechanism of esophagogastroduodenoscopy-induced hypoxia . 
helium-oxygen mixture in the treatment of postextubation stridor in pediatric trauma patients . objective : to assess the effectiveness of a helium-oxygen mixture in reducing post-extubation stridor in children hospitalized for burns or trauma . design : randomized , controlled crossover trial . setting : harborview medical center 's burn and trauma icus from march to september 1989 . patients : children less than 15 yr old who were electively extubated and had symptoms of postextubation stridor , but required less than or equal to 35 % oxygen . intervention : each treatment ( helium-oxygen and oxygen-supplemented room air ) was given in random order for 15 min after extubation . measurements : respiratory distress was assessed by a physician blinded to treatment order using a standard stridor score and clinical judgment . results : there were 13 children with 15 extubations ; seven ( 47 % ) of 15 patients required subsequent treatment with racemic epinephrine or reintubation . stridor scores were lower with helium-oxygen than with oxygen-supplemented room air ( 2.8 vs. 3.7 , p less than .005 ) , and helium-oxygen was preferred in eight of nine trials in which one treatment was clearly favored by the physician . conclusion : because helium-oxygen therapy can reduce stridor scores and is clinically preferred by physicians caring for stridorous children , it may be a useful adjunctive therapy in pediatric trauma patients with postextubation stridor . 
pulmonary artery occlusion-left atrial pressure gradient : an important factor in determining pulmonary venous vascular resistance in acute pulmonary failure . objective : to determine whether pulmonary artery occlusion pressure ( paop ) accurately reflects left atrial pressure ( lap ) in acute pulmonary failure . design : sham-controlled laboratory investigation on goettingen minipigs . interventions : induction of acute respiratory failure by a 4-hr infusion of live escherichia coli bacteria in 11 animals ; two animals served as the control group . anesthesia was obtained with methohexital/piritramide and pancuronium bromide . measurements and main results : cardiac output and pressures were measured by means of femoral artery , pulmonary artery , and left atrial catheters . arterial-alveolar po2 ratio was calculated to evaluate pulmonary function . measurements were obtained before and after 1 and 2 hr of the e. coli infusion . statistical significance was tested with analysis of variance . e. coli infusion caused the hypodynamic shock and respiratory failure . the paop-lap gradient was -0.3 + / - 1.6 mm hg before bacteremia and increased significantly ( p less than .001 ) to 2.9 + / - 1.8 and 3.4 + / - 2.0 mm hg after 1 and 2 hr of bacteremia , respectively . no significant changes occurred in the sham group . conclusions : a paop-lap gradient may develop during acute respiratory failure . therefore , pulmonary venous vascular resistance may be underestimated if its determination is based on paop . an increase in bronchial to pulmonary blood flow and pulmonary venoconstriction are discussed as hypothetical causes of a paop-lap gradient during acute respiratory failure . 
stable and reproducible porcine model of acute lung injury induced by oleic acid . background and methods : previous studies on acute lung injury induced with oleic acid did not attempt to limit the influence of secondary changes on pulmonary circulation , and cardiopulmonary variable data were only collected and processed intermittently . our study was designed to continuously monitor the following variables in five swine : systemic and pulmonary pressure ; mixed venous oxygen saturation ( svo2 ) and arterial oxygen saturation ( sao2 ) ; minute oxygen consumption and co2 production before , during , and for 4 hr after the infusion of oleic acid . a personal computer was programmed to produce 20-sec updates of deadspace ratio ( vd/vt ) , venous admixture ( qsp/qt ) , pulmonary ( pvr ) and systemic vascular resistance ( svr ) , and cardiac output ( qt ) from these data . results : during the oleic acid infusion , there were increases in pvr , svr , heart rate ( hr ) , mean pulmonary arterial pressure ( mpap ) , qsp/qt , and vd/vt , and a decrease in qt , sao2 , and svo2 . thirty minutes after the oleic acid infusion , there was a further increase in hr , qsp/qt , and vd/vt , while mpap , pvr , and svr gradually decreased to pre-oleic acid infusion levels . no further decrease in sao2 , svo2 , and qt was observed during that time . after the 30-min period , there was no further change in the cardiopulmonary variables . conclusion : our method of continuous monitoring was able to demonstrate in swine both the dynamic changes during , and stability after , the oleic acid infusion . 
' two-stage turbinectomy ' : sequestration of the inferior turbinate following submucosal diathermy . submucous diathermy of the inferior turbinates is a widely practised procedure . three cases are presented in which surgery was complicated by avascular necrosis of the turbinate bone . each patient required a debridement procedure before healing and recovery of normal mucociliary function could take place . 
paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis : clinico-pathological correlations . three new cases of limbic encephalitis in association with malignancy are reported . the literature on this condition is reviewed and the clinical , laboratory and histopathological features of cases proven at necropsy are correlated . the possible pathogenic mechanism of this disorder is discussed . 
a target feedback device for ventilatory muscle training . in a previous study , we successfully used a target feedback device , together with an external resistor , to train the ventilatory muscles of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . in this article , we describe the details of the design and function of the target feedback device . when used in conjunction with an external resistance , the target feedback device provides timing and pressure targets , together with feedback information , on whether these targets are achieved . the target feedback device consists of readily available electronic components and is relatively simple to construct . adjustment of an external pressure knob permits setting of pressure targets . adjustment of internal components is possible and allows control of breathing frequency , inspiratory time , and breathing waveform . 
treatment of limited small-cell lung cancer with concurrent etoposide/cisplatin and radiotherapy followed by intensification with high-dose cyclophosphamide : a southwest oncology group study . between march 1986 and may 1988 , the southwest oncology group enrolled 58 previously untreated patients with limited small-cell lung cancer on a treatment program that administered high-dose cyclophosphamide ( 150 mg/kg ) as late intensification . treatment consisted of induction chemo-radiotherapy , ( weeks 1 to 11 ) , consolidation chemotherapy ( weeks 11 to 18 ) , and intensification ( week 18 ) . median age was 61.5 years . eighty-nine percent of patients had a southwest oncology group ( swog ) performance status of 0-1 . twenty-one patients completed all prescribed treatments . there were seven treatment-related deaths , four as a result of intensification . fifty-six patients are available for response analysis . thirty-two patients achieved a complete remission ( cr ) ( 57 % ) and fifteen achieved a partial remission ( pr ) ( 26 % ) . median survival for all patients is 11.1 months . among the 21 patients who received intensification , nine remain alive in a cr with a median survival of 27 months . this sequence of treatments was not associated with a survival advantage for the group as a whole , possibly because of the toxicity of induction and consolidation treatment and the delayed administration of high-dose cyclophosphamide . 
dose-intensity meta-analysis of chemotherapy regimens in small-cell carcinoma of the lung . to determine if chemotherapy dose intensity ( di ) influences treatment outcome , 60 published studies in limited - and extensive-stage small-cell carcinoma of the lung ( sccl ) were retrospectively analyzed for relationship between intended di and response ( complete response [ cr ] or partial response [ pr ] ) or median survival ( ms ) . agents used in the regimens included cyclophosphamide ( c ) , doxorubicin ( a ) , vincristine ( v ) , etoposide ( e ) , and cisplatin ( p ) . relative di ( rdi ) of each study regimen was calculated against a reference regimen , and weighted regression analysis was used . additionally , analysis of individual drug rdi within combinations was performed . for cav , increasing rdi of the regimen showed no correlation with outcome . for the individual drugs , c rdi correlated positively , while a rdi correlated negatively with attainment of cr in limited disease , but both only after unduly influential observations were eliminated . in extensive-stage disease , a rdi correlated positively with cr + , pr but only in randomized trials , and this correlation lost statistical significance after unduly influential observations were eliminated . for cae and cave , the rdi of the regimens correlated positively with ms in extensive-stage disease as did the c rdi . in limited disease , the c rdi correlated negatively with ms. for ep , no significant correlations were seen . we conclude that di-outcome correlations are not consistent for these chemotherapy regimens in sccl . meta-analysis of retrospective data can generate hypotheses for testing in prospective clinical trials , but study sample and method of analysis can appreciably affect conclusions . 
differences in access to zidovudine ( azt ) among symptomatic hiv-infected persons . object : to evaluate socioeconomic factors that determine whether symptomatic hiv-infected persons are offered zidovudine ( azt ) . design : cross-sectional survey conducted as part of the robert wood johnson foundation 's aids health services program . setting : public hospital clinics and community-based aids organizations in nine american cities . patients : 880 hiv-seropositive outpatients interviewed between october 1988 and may 1989 . main results : males were more likely to have been offered azt than were females ( adjusted odds ratio 2.99 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.67 to 5.36 ) , those with insurance were more likely to have been offered azt than were those without ( adjusted odds ratio 2.00 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.25 to 3.21 ) , and whites more likely to have been offered azt than were non-whites ( adjusted odds ratio 1.73 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.11 to 2.69 ) . intravenous drug users were less likely to have been offered azt than were non-drug users ( adjusted odds ratio 0.44 ; 95 % confidence interval 0.28 to 0.69 ) . persons who had had an episode of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia were more likely to have been offered azt than were persons who had aids and had not had pneumocystis carinii pneumonia ( adjusted odds ratio 2.95 ; 95 % confidence interval 1.71 to 5.11 ) . conclusion : the authors conclude that traditionally disadvantaged groups have less access to azt , the only antiretroviral agent demonstrated to increase survival of patients who have symptomatic hiv infection . 
fundoplication and gastrostomy in familial dysautonomia . fundoplication with gastrostomy has become a frequent treatment for patients with familial dysautonomia , so we evaluated the use of both procedures in 65 patients . although patients differed widely in presenting signs and age , from 5 weeks to 40 years , gastroesophageal reflux was documented in 95 % of patients by cineradiography or ph monitoring . panendoscopy was a useful adjunct . preoperative symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux included vomiting , respiratory infections , and exaggerated autonomic dysfunction . severe oropharyngeal incoordination frequently coexisted and resulted in misdirected swallows with aspiration , dependence on gavage feedings , or poor weight gain and dehydration . follow-up after surgical correction ranged from 3 months to 11 years ; 55 patients ( 85 % ) were available for a 1-year postoperative assessment . we had no instances of surgical death . the long-term mortality rate was 14 % , primarily related to severe preexisting respiratory disease . beyond the first postoperative year , 30 patients had pneumonia attributed to continued aspiration , exacerbation of preexisting lung disease , or recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux . of 11 patients who vomited postoperatively , six had recurrence of reflux . recurrence of gastroesophageal reflux was documented in eight patients ( 12 % ) , and we revised the fundoplication in three patients . the number of patients with cyclic crises was reduced from 18 to 7 ; retching replaced overt vomiting in all but two of these seven patients , neither of whom had recurrence of reflux . because oropharyngeal incoordination was prominent , concomitant use of gastrostomy and an antireflux procedure was especially effective in the treatment of younger patients with familial dysautonomia , before the development of severe respiratory disease . despite the development of severe morning nausea in 15 patients , the combination procedure resulted in significantly improved nutritional status , decreased vomiting , and decreased respiratory problems . appropriate use of gastrostomy feedings also contributed to success of the operation . the generally good outcome of fundoplication with gastrostomy confirms the benefit of this procedure in familial dysautonomia . 
radiotherapy alone versus combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy in nonresectable non-small-cell lung cancer : first analysis of a randomized trial in 353 patients . we report the results observed in a large , randomized study that compared the effects of radiotherapy alone ( the standard therapy ) with those of a combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy in nonresectable squamous cell and large-cell lung carcinoma . the radiation dose was 65 gy in each group , and chemotherapy included vindesine , cyclophosphamide , cisplatin , and lomustine . in this study , 177 patients received radiotherapy alone ( group a ) , and 176 patients received the combined treatment ( group b ) . the 2-year survival rate was 14 % in group a and 21 % in group b ( p = .08 ) . the distant metastasis rate was significantly lower in group b ( p less than .001 ) . local control was poor in both groups ( 17 % and 15 % , respectively ) and remained the major problem . 
mortality among workers at oak ridge national laboratory . evidence of radiation effects in follow-up through 1984 [ published erratum appears in jama 1991 aug 7 ; 266 ( 5 ) :657 ] white men hired at the oak ridge ( tenn ) national laboratory between 1943 and 1972 were followed up for vital status through 1984 ( n = 8318 , 1524 deaths ) . relatively low mortality compared with that in us white men was observed for most causes of death , but leukemia mortality was elevated in the total cohort ( 63 % higher , 28 deaths ) and in workers who had at some time been monitored for internal radionuclide contamination ( 123 % higher , 16 deaths ) . median cumulative dose of external penetrating radiation was 1.4 msv ; 638 workers had cumulative doses above 50 msv ( 5 rem ) . after accounting for age , birth cohort , a measure of socioeconomic status , and active worker status , external radiation with a 20-year exposure lag was related to all causes of death ( 2.68 % increase per 10 msv ) primarily due to an association with cancer mortality ( 4.94 % per 10 msv ) . studies of this population through 1977 did not find radiation-cancer mortality associations , and identical analyses using the shorter follow-up showed that associations with radiation did not appear until after 1977 . the radiation-cancer dose response is 10 times higher than estimates from the follow-up of survivors of the bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki , japan , but similar to one previous occupational study . dose-response estimates are subject to uncertainties due to potential problems , including measurement of radiation doses and cancer outcomes . longer-term follow-up of this and other populations with good measurement of protracted low-level exposures will be critical to evaluating the generalizability of the results reported herein . 
surgical treatment for limited small-cell lung cancer . the university of toronto lung oncology group experience . since 1977 , 119 patients with limited small-cell lung cancer have undergone combined modality therapy including surgery at our institution . seventy-nine patients ( 58 male , 21 female ; median age 63 years ) had surgery first , and 67 of these had adjuvant chemotherapy . forty ( 27 male , 13 female ; median age 59 years ) had chemotherapy first , and 94 % had a complete or partial response before the operation . pretreatment staging revealed 69 stage i , 27 stage ii , and 23 stage iii tumors . twenty-six patients required pneumonectomy , 88 lobectomy , and five had no resection . four patients had gross and six had microscopic residual disease . postoperative pathologic examination showed small-cell lung cancer only ( n = 95 ) , non-small-cell lung cancer ( n = 3 ) , mixed ( n = 17 ) , and no residual tumor ( n = 4 ) . postoperative staging revealed 35 stage i , 36 stage ii , and 48 stage iiia tumors . the median survival of the entire group is 111 weeks and the projected 5-year survival rate is 39 % . no survival difference was seen between patients treated with chemotherapy before the operation and those undergoing an initial operation followed by chemotherapy ( p = 0.756 ) . the median survival for patients with pathologic stage i disease has not been reached , and the projected 5-year survival rate is 51 % . this is significantly better than for the patients with stage ii ( median 82 weeks , p = 0.001 ) or stage iii ( median 83 weeks , p = 0.001 ) disease , who have projected 5-year survival rates of 28 % and 19 % , respectively . seven of the 12 patients who had no adjuvant chemotherapy remain alive at 6 to 48 + months . sixty-seven patients have died ( 11 had no evidence of disease ) . only 10 patients had a relapse in the primary site alone , seven at the primary and distant sites , and 39 only in distant sites . in summary , resection improves control at the primary site , and a significant proportion of patients with stage i ( n0 ) disease achieve long-term survival and cure with combined modality therapy including surgery . stage ii and iiia patients have survival predictions similar to stage iiia non-small-cell lung carcinoma treated surgically . 
discriminate use of electrocautery on the median sternotomy incision . a 0.16 % wound infection rate . between june 1978 and june 1989 , superficial or deep mediastinitis ( or both ) developed in only five ( 0.16 % ) of 3118 consecutive patients . all patients studied underwent cardiac procedures through a median sternotomy and survived more than 7 postoperative days . the surgical team disciplined itself to divide presternal soft tissues with a scalpel and used electrocautery for pinpoint hemostasis only . this 0.16 % infection rate was statistically significantly lower than those in 28 previously published studies ( pearson 's chi 2 test , p less than 0.05 ) . twenty-four predisposing factors were evaluated by fisher 's exact test . among these only an operating time longer than 3 hours is related to sternotomy infections ( p = 0.0208 ) , and this effect was not a strong one . statistical evidence strongly suggests that discriminate use of electrocautery is a major reason for the lowest median sternotomy infection rate reported to date . 
co-trimoxazole for childhood febrile illness in malaria-endemic regions . the efficacy of co-trimoxazole for the treatment of plasmodium falciparum parasitaemia in children younger than 5 years of age was evaluated in malawi . 46 children with p falciparum parasitaemia , 37 % of whom also met clinical criteria for a diagnosis of acute lower respiratory tract infection , were treated with 20 mg/kg co-trimoxazole twice daily for five days . parasitaemia ( mean clearance time 2.7 days ) and symptoms were rapidly abolished and improvement was maintained during follow-up for 14 days . co-trimoxazole may be an effective single treatment for febrile illness in young children in areas where malaria is endemic , resources are few , and diagnosis must rely on clinical findings alone . 
cutaneous vasoconstrictor response to glucocorticoids in asthma . the aim of the study was to find out whether asthma patients whose airways obstruction is sensitive ( cs ) or resistant ( cr ) to corticosteroid treatment also differ in their cutaneous vasoconstrictor response to a potent topical glucocorticoid . corticosteroid resistance was defined by failure of forced expiratory volume in 1 s ( fev1 ) and peak expiratory flow rate to improve by at least 15 % after a 2-week trial of corticosteroids ( prednisolone 20 mg daily for 1 week , then 40 mg daily for 1 week ) despite more than 15 % improvement with inhaled beta agonists . beclomethasone dipropionate in concentrations of 3 micrograms/ml , 10 micrograms/ml , 30 micrograms/ml , and 100 micrograms/ml was applied to forearm skin ; the site was occluded under plastic and the degree of blanching assessed after 18 h. cs asthmatic subjects ( n = 31 ) , asthma patients with mild airways obstruction ( n = 26 ) , asthma patients taking long-term prednisolone ( n = 13 ) , and healthy volunteers showed similar vasoconstrictor responses . in cr asthmatic subjects ( n = 15 ) , the response ( expressed in terms of either blanching intensity or the proportion of patients showing a positive response ) was significantly lower than that in the cs group at concentrations of 3 micrograms/ml ( p less than 0.01 ) , 10 micrograms/ml ( p less than 0.01 ) , and 30 micrograms/ml ( p less than 0.05 ) , but not at 100 micrograms/ml . this resistance to glucocorticoids in the skin , together with reported evidence of glucocorticoid resistance in peripheral blood leucocytes , suggests a general defect in the ability of tissues to respond to glucocorticoids in cr asthma . 
surfactant apoprotein-a concentration in sputum for diagnosis of pulmonary alveolar proteinosis . pulmonary alveolar proteinosis ( pap ) , a disease characterised by accumulation of surfactant in alveoli , is diagnosed on the basis of invasive biopsy procedures . we have measured apoprotein a ( sp-a ) concentrations in sputum to see if this is useful for the diagnosis of pap . sputum samples from three patients with pap and twenty patients with other pulmonary disease were assayed using monoclonal antibodies to sp-a . sp-a concentrations were 400 times higher in patients with pap than in the controls , suggestions that this measurement is useful for the diagnosis of pap especially where lung biopsy is contraindicated . 
increased airways reactivity after smoke inhalation . 13 fire victims who required treatment after smoke inhalation underwent lung function assessment within 3 days of injury and 3 months later . initial airways hyperreactivity improved over this period , but fev1 and airways specific conductance did not change significantly . there was a strong correlation between exposure carboxyhaemoglobin concentration ( an indicator of smoke exposure ) and initial airways specific conductance ( r + 0.79 ; p = 0.006 ) . airways obstruction after smoke inhalation in house fires may be more common and more persistent than is generally recognised . early lung function tests would allow the incidence of pulmonary complications after smoke inhalation and the potential benefits of early use of inhaled antiinflammatory drugs to be assessed . 
cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions due to thiacetazone in hiv-1 seropositive patients treated for tuberculosis the effects of the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) on tuberculosis management was investigated in 227 patients initially treated with a regimen containing streptomycin , isoniazid , and thiacetazone ( sth ) . 93 of these 227 were hiv-seropositive . 60 patients , of whom 18 were hiv-seropositive , received a regimen consisting of streptomycin , isoniazid , rifampicin , and pyrazinamide ( shrz ) in the initial phase , and thiacetazone and isoniazid ( th ) in the continuation phase . cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions occurred in 22 of 111 ( 20 % ) hiv-seropositive patients , and in 2 of 176 ( 1 % ) hiv-seronegative patients ( rr = 18 , 95 % ci 4.4-76 , p less than 10 ( -7 ] . during the first 8 weeks of treatment 18 reactions occurred among the 93 hiv-seropositive patients on sth , whereas no reaction occurred in 17 hiv-seropositive patients during the initial phase of shrz/th ( p = 0.04 ) . none of the 18 hiv-seropositive patients with cutaneous reactions who were subsequently challenged with isoniazid reacted , nor did any of the 10 tested with streptomycin , but 6 of the 7 challenged with thiacetazone reacted . 3 patients ( all hiv-positive and with toxic epidermal necrolysis ) died as a result of the cutaneous reaction . these results have major implications for tuberculosis control programmes in africa . 
origin of nasal polyps . the nasoethmoid complexes from 6 patients with nasal polyps were systematically examined . first , the location and place of the origin of the polyps were recorded and photographed . the polyps and their places of origin were removed , serial sectioned , and examined . in all 6 patients , the polyps originated from the nasal mucosa . most of the polyps extended laterally from the mucosa into the anterior part of the middle meatus . several polyps originated from the mucosa near the ethmoid cell ostium or directly from the mucosa lining the edge of the ostium . the ostia themselves were not blocked by the polyps , and there was no indication of polyp formation in the ethmoid cells . 
a comparison of surfactant as immediate prophylaxis and as rescue therapy in newborns of less than 30 weeks ' gestation background . exogenous pulmonary surfactants are administered into the trachea either to prevent respiratory distress syndrome in premature infants or to treat it . in a randomized , multicenter trial , we compared the results of surfactant therapy initiated as prophylaxis with the results of rescue therapy with surfactant . methods . before birth , 479 infants with an estimated gestational age of less than 30 weeks were randomly assigned to receive surfactant as prophylaxis ( n = 235 ) or rescue therapy ( n = 244 ) . the infants in the prophylaxis group received a 90-mg intratracheal dose of an exogenous calf-lung surfactant extract at the time of delivery , whereas the infants in the rescue-therapy group received 90 mg of the surfactant several hours after delivery if the fractional inspiratory oxygen concentration was at least 0.40 or if the mean airway pressure was at least 0.686 kpa ( 7 cm of water ) , or both . infants in both groups received additional doses of surfactant at intervals of 12 to 24 hours if these criteria were met . results . the proportion of infants surviving until discharge to their homes was significantly higher in the prophylaxis group than in the rescue-therapy group ( 88 vs. 80 percent , p = 0.028 ) . this difference was due primarily to the longer survival of very premature infants ( less than or equal to 26 weeks ' gestation ) in the prophylaxis group than in the rescue-therapy group ( 75 vs. 54 percent , p = 0.006 ) . according to proportional-hazards regression analysis , the distribution of survival times was better for all infants in the prophylaxis group ( p = 0.007 ) and for the subgroup of infants in the prophylaxis group who were delivered at 26 weeks ' gestation or earlier ( p = 0.0048 ) . infants in the prophylaxis group who were delivered at 26 weeks ' gestation or earlier had a lower incidence of pneumothorax than similar infants in the rescue-therapy group ( 7 vs. 18 percent , p = 0.03 ) . conclusions . we found a significant advantage to the administration of the initial dose of surfactant as prophylaxis rather than as rescue therapy in very premature infants . 
orthopedic complications . compartment syndrome , fat embolism syndrome , and venous thromboembolism . specialized education in the care of orthopedic patients includes an understanding of the common complications for which patients require monitoring . with a socioeconomic backdrop of decreasing hospital stays and prospective payment , patient care must be managed proactively . for all three complications presented , there are unique sets of risk factors that , when present , contribute to a high index of suspicion for morbidity . clusters of symptoms have also been discussed representing the expected normal patterns . with this knowledge as a foundation , clinical application is essential to incorporate other salient aspects of individual situations . nurses diagnose and treat human responses to health problems . the end result of human responses to injury or orthopedic conditions can be the development of complications . stringent adherence to patient monitoring protocols can promote timely nursing interventions to prevent , minimize , or detect complications or treatment side effects . although definitive treatment is often physician directed , nurses are in a key role to impact final patient outcomes . 
what to do when an x-ray film suggests lung cancer . the chest film is one of the most common methods of detecting lung cancer , which often appears as solitary nodules or hilar masses . once the diagnosis is established , the most effective treatment can be determined and staging of the tumor can be done . surgical resection is the only cure for non-small-cell carcinoma , although radiotherapy and chemotherapy may shrink some tumors . because 90 % of all cases are caused by smoking , a preventive approach to the disease is crucial . screening of high-risk patients ( ie , smokers with airflow obstruction ) using chest films and sputum cytology may aid this approach . 
maxillary sinus hypoplasia masquerading as chronic sinusitis . maxillary sinus hypoplasia is a common condition that may be misdiagnosed as chronic sinusitis . although hypoplasia can usually be seen on conventional sinus films , computed tomography may be necessary , as in the cases described by the authors in this article . 
a mouse model for investigating the molecular pathogenesis of adenovirus pneumonia . intranasal inoculation of type 5 adenovirus ( ad5 ) produced pneumonia in mice even though the virus did not replicate . to induce the pneumonia , however , a large viral infectious dose was required -- i.e. , 10 ( 10 ) plaque-forming units . four strains of inbred mouse were studied ( c57bl/6n , c57bl/10scn , cba/n , and c3h/n ) : all showed similar inflammatory responses , although the greatest infiltration occurred in the c57bl/6n mice . the pathological response to ad5 infection resembled that previously described in cotton rats : it consisted of overlapping early and late phases , and the infiltration contained primarily lymphocytes and monocytes/macrophages with a scattering of polymorphonuclear leukocytes . the prominent early phase and the presence of polymorphonuclear leukocytes suggested that induction of cytokines may play an important role in the pathogenesis of this pneumonia . assays showed the appearance of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) , and il-6 in the infected mouse lungs concomitant with the developing early-phase infiltration . only il-6 was found in the peripheral blood . il-6 reached maximum titers 6-24 hr after infection , whereas maximum levels of tnf-alpha and il-1 were attained 2-3 days after infection . specific rnas for each of these cytokines were demonstrated in the infected lungs . to test the hypothesis that a cytotoxic t-cell response was responsible for the second phase , which primarily consisted of a perivascular and peribronchial infiltration of lymphocytes , ad5 was used to infect c57bl/10scn nu/nu and parent mice . the nude mice showed a normal early-phase response , but essentially no peribronchial and only minimal perivascular infiltrations occurred . 
effects of epidermal growth factor and analogues of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and somatostatin on phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of tyrosine residues of specific protein substrates in various tumors . analogues of somatostatin ( ss ) and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone ( lh-rh ) activate tyrosine phosphatases in mia paca-2 human pancreatic cancer cell line membranes and inhibit growth . we compared the substrates phosphorylated by epidermal growth factor ( egf ) to those dephosphorylated by the ss analogue rc-160 ( d-phe-cys-tyr-d-trp-lys-val-cys-trp-nh2 ) and [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh in cancer cell lines such as mia paca-2 ( human pancreatic cancer ) , hcpc ( hamster cheek pouch carcinoma ) , a-549 ( human lung cancer ) , ht-29 ( human colon cancer ) , and r3230ac ( breast cancer ) . egf phosphorylated proteins of 170 , 65 , and 60 kda and analogues of ss and lh-rh promoted the dephosphorylation of these proteins in mia paca-2 and hcpc cell lines . the egf receptor is 170 kda . pp60src ( 60 kda ) is known to be a substrate for egf receptor . the lh-rh receptor is also 60 kda . the effects of rc-160 and [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh were quantitatively different . examinations of ht-29 , a-549 , and r3230ac cancer cell lines revealed no phosphorylation by egf or dephosphorylation by rc-160 and [ d-trp6 ] lh-rh . in addition to the 170 - , 65 - , and 60-kda proteins , 35-kda proteins were also phosphorylated in some cancer cell lines . this work demonstrates that analogues of ss and lh-rh can reverse the effects of egf biochemically as well as functionally . 
computed tomography and the tnm classification of lung cancer . computed tomography ( ct ) of the thorax and upper abdomen was prospectively evaluated in 84 patients with potentially operable lung cancer . invasion into the thoracic wall and the mediastinal structures was not accurately demonstrated by ct . for metastatic mediastinal lymph nodes , the sensitivity and specificity of ct were , respectively , 86 % and 61 % and the positive and negative predictive indices 49 % and 91 % . for t1 , t2 and t3 tumours the negative indices were 100 % , 96 % and 71 % . positive predictive index did not differ between squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma . adrenal metastases were ct-suspected in 17 cases and liver metastases in eight , but were verified by ultrasonography in only one and four cases . ct should be used in preoperative investigation of lung cancer , irrespective of stage . demonstration of thoracic-wall or mediastinal invasion need not exclude tumour resection . preoperative mediastinoscopy is indicated if ct shows nodal metastases or if there are signs of tumour invasion , but not in ct-negative t1 or t2 tumour . abdominal metastases indicated by ct should be investigated with ct-guided needle biopsy . 
perioperative effect of methylprednisolone given during lung surgery on plasma concentrations of c3a and c5a . methylprednisolone or saline ( placebo ) solution was infused intravenously in 28 patients undergoing elective lobectomy for lung cancer . the state of the complement system during and after surgery and the effects of methylprednisolone on biologically active products of complement were studied by measurements of plasma c3a and c5a anaphylatoxins and leukocyte counts in peripheral blood perioperatively . in the placebo group plasma concentrations of c3a were significantly increased on postoperative days 1 and 2 , whereas c5a had risen significantly 6 hours after surgery and on days 1 and 2 . methylprednisolone infusion during surgery eliminated the postoperative elevation of c3a and c5a . the postoperative leukocyte count in peripheral blood was higher in the methylprednisolone group than in the controls . the observations indicated that methylprednisolone may reduce the influx of leukocytes from peripheral blood into the airways by attenuating production of biologically active complements . 
community-acquired pulmonary infections in a public municipal hospital in the 1980s . the relative and absolute incidences of community-acquired bacterial and tuberculous pulmonary infections , in patients admitted to a public municipal hospital , and the clinical and radiographic characteristics of these infections were retrospectively determined for the first time in 20 years . the data were compared to those previously reported in the literature . such data were also specifically determined for alcoholics and compared to those found in nonalcoholics . the absolute numbers of infections due to pneumococci and anaerobes , and to tuberculosis , were not dissimilar to those reported in the literature , even though relatively few hemophilus infections were documented . the lack of klebsiella sp infections was remarkable but not unexpected . alcoholic patients had significantly higher rates of tuberculosis , cavitary disease , lung disease presumably due to anaerobes , and blood-culture-positive pneumonia . the relative concordance of our results for bacterial and tuberculous infections with those predicted from the published literature was striking . the high frequency of tuberculosis in our patients was particularly striking at a time when the incidence of tuberculosis nationwide , in patients without acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , has declined significantly . 
spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult . we have reported a case of spontaneous rupture of the stomach in an adult . immediate onset of severe upper abdominal pain after overindulgence in food and drink along with radiographic evidence of pneumoperitoneum and the clinical findings of massive abdominal distention , epigastric tenderness , shock , and occasionally subcutaneous emphysema should suggest the possibility of gastric rupture . the treatment is simple , but mortality is high when surgical intervention is not rapid . 
late arterial hemorrhage secondary to a greenfield filter requiring operative intervention . retroperitoneal hematomas associated with greenfield filters have been described and are generally characterized as clinically insignificant . we report a retroperitoneal hematoma that was associated with a greenfield filter and that required operative intervention because of hemodynamic instability . at operation a lumbar arterial laceration apparently caused by a protruding filter prong was identified and ligated . the implications of this occurrence for filter placement indications are discussed . the potential life-threatening severity of filter-associated hematomas is emphasized . 
gastroesophageal reflux in infants . clinically significant gastroesophageal reflux occurs in one in 500 infants . symptoms resolve in 60 to 80 percent of infants by 18 months of age . thickened formula and position changes are often recommended . medication and surgical intervention may be needed in refractory cases . 
cardiac arrest in seattle : conventional versus amiodarone drug evaluation ( the cascade study ) . this randomized study evaluates survivors of out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation ( vf ) not associated with a q-wave acute myocardial infarction who are deemed to be at a high risk of recurrence of vf . it compares the outcome of treatment with empirically administered amiodarone with the outcome of treatment with other antiarrhythmic agents guided by electrophysiologic testing or holter recording , or both . the goal of therapy guided by electrophysiologic testing is to suppress inducible ventricular tachycardia ( vt ) or vf . holter recording is used as the primary means of adjusting therapy only if patients are noninducible at the baseline electrophysiologic study . patients are stratified according to cardiac diagnosis , ejection fraction , and whether they had previously received an antiarrhythmic agent that failed to suppress their arrhythmias . the primary end point of the study is total cardiac mortality . the first patient was enrolled in a pilot study on april 26 , 1984 . by october 1988 , 142 patients had been enrolled in the full study and , as of may 1990 , 199 patients have been enrolled . compliance with therapy has been good , with no patients lost to follow-up and 8 % of patients , equal in both drug groups , crossing over to alternate therapy . baseline clinical characteristics remain similar in amiodarone and conventional drug groups . pulmonary toxicity with amiodarone is 7 % at 1 year , with no patients dying of pulmonary toxicity . in the first 142 patients , the overall 1-year cardiac mortality was 19 % , with a 17 % arrhythmic mortality ( either vf or presumed arrhythmic death ) . 
the intratracheal administration of endotoxin and cytokines . iii . the interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) receptor antagonist inhibits endotoxin - and il-1-induced acute inflammation . endotoxin , a lipopolysaccharide ( lps ) component of gram-negative bacteria , induces alveolar macrophages to express interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) . lipopolysaccharide and il-1 both cause severe acute neutrophilic inflammation in the lung after intratracheal injection , suggesting that lps-induced il-1 expression contributes to the pathogenesis of lps-induced acute inflammation . in the present study , the role of il-1 in lps-induced acute pneumonia was investigated by quantitating the acute inflammation occurring at 6 hours after the intratracheal injection of lps as compared to the same timepoint after the intratracheal coinjection of lps and il-1 receptor antagonist ( il-1ra ) . the il-1ra was found to inhibit lps-induced acute inflammation ( p greater than 0.0001 ) as measured by the number of neutrophils recovered in bronchoalveolar lavage . the lps-induced emigration of neutrophils was inhibited by as much as 45 % . recombinant il-1 beta-induced neutrophil emigration into the lung was inhibited by 95 % when il-1ra was coinjected intratracheally with il-1 beta . coinjection of recombinant il-1 beta and lps increased the neutrophilic exodus as compared to the intratracheal injection of either agent alone . intratracheal injection of lps induces a progressive increase in il-1ra mrna expression in whole-lung rna preparations , suggesting that endogenous il-1ra may play an important role as a negative feedback mechanism to downregulate lps initiated il-1-mediated acute inflammation . in conclusion il-1ra inhibits both lps - and il-1-induced neutrophilic inflammation and may therefore prove clinically useful as an anti-inflammatory agent for the therapy of either septic or aseptic il-1-mediated acute inflammation . 
contrasting roles for tumor necrosis factor in the pathogeneses of iga and igg immune complex lung injury . recent studies suggest that development of acute gamma g immunoglobulin ( igg ) immune complex lung injury is partially dependent on a tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) - dependent mechanisms of neutrophil ( pmn ) recruitment . the authors have sought to further define the role of intrapulmonary tnf in igg alveolitis and to examine its role in iga immune complex alveolitis , a neutrophil-independent model of acute lung injury . igg immune complex lung injury resulted in a marked rise in intrapulmonary tnf activity accompanied by progressive pulmonary pmn accumulation . intratracheal instillation of neutralizing concentrations of anti-tnf markedly reduced pmn influx measured at 4 hours but had no effect on pmn recruitment quantitated at 2 hours . iga immune complex deposition resulted in acute lung injury accompanied by increased numbers of intrapulmonary mononuclear phagocytes but few neutrophils . lung lavage fluids obtained from iga immune complex-injured rats contained both neutrophil and monocyte chemotactic activities , albeit at twofold to fourfold lower concentrations than observed in igg-mediated alveolitis . in contrast to igg complex-mediated alveolitis , lung lavage fluids from iga-injured rats contained no tnf activity . intratracheal administration of anti-tnf antibodies had no effect on the development of iga lung injury as assessed by morphology and measurements of vascular permeability . in vitro exposure of isolated alveolar macrophages to performed igg immune complexes resulted in dose-dependent tnf secretion , while exposure to iga complexes resulted in very low levels of tnf secretion . these data suggest that tnf-mediated pulmonary neutrophil recruitment ( in igg lung injury ) is manifest chiefly in the late phase ( approximately 4 hours ) of developing alveolitis . the virtual absence of intrapulmonary tnf activity in evolving iga immune complex alveolitis may in part account for the limited pmn recruitment observed in this model . 
