endoscopic cholangiopancreatography in hepatic clonorchiasis -- a follow-up study . cholangiographic changes of the biliary system in 16 patients with proven hepatic clonorchiasis , diagnosed by positive stool or bile ova isolates , were studied . all patients presented with epigastric pain . other symptoms included jaundice in 31 % ( 5 of 16 ) and fever in 12.5 % ( 2 of 16 ) . praziquantel given at 25 mg/kg for three doses in 1 day were administered . three consecutive stool tests were performed 3 months after treatment and were negative in 87.5 % ( 14 of 16 ) . ercp studies were repeated at a mean interval of 31.6 months ( range , 8 to 69 months ) . measurements of the bile ducts on retrograde cholangiograms before and after treatment were compared using the paired student 's t test . filling defects and blunting of the terminal bile ducts seen on the initial cholangiogram , interpreted as the presence of adult worms , disappeared after treatment . however , there was no significant change between pre - and post-treatment measurement of bile duct caliber . bile duct dilation , irregularities , and ductal proliferation persisted despite eradication of the parasite . 
cardiac echinococcosis : the diagnostic value of computed tomography scanning . the diagnosis of cardiac hydatid disease is a difficult one . conventional and specific cardiac investigations are not pathognomonic of this disease . in this report , the diagnostic value of computed tomography ( ct ) scanning was prospectively investigated in seven patients . in five patients , the diagnosis was confirmed surgically . the ct-information obtained correlated accurately to the operative findings . in all the patients , ct-densities of the lesions were measured and were found to coincide with values of mean ct-densities of hydatid cysts elsewhere in the body . the capability of measuring tissue densities is unique to ct-scanning and have been emphasized in this report . 
impact of mass treatment of onchocerciasis with ivermectin on the transmission of infection . onchocerciasis is a major blinding disease that , until recently , has been essentially untreatable . ivermectin is a safe and effective drug for the mass treatment of onchocerciasis and when used on an individual basis , it reduces the ability of the treated person to transmit onchocerca volvulus infection . in the present study , the effect of community-based ivermectin treatment on the degree of transmission within the community was assessed by determining the incidence of new infection in children . ivermectin was distributed annually on three occasions to the eligible members of a population of approximately 14,000 people living on a rubber plantation in a forest area endemic for onchocerciasis . after 2 years , the prevalence of infection in 5-year-old children decreased by 21 % . the annual incidence in an uninfected cohort of children decreased by 35 % and , after age-specific adjustment , the reduction in incidence in 7 - to 12-year-old children was 45 % . thus , community-based distribution of ivermectin led to a significant reduction in incidence of new infection . these findings suggest that ivermectin can be important in reducing the transmission of onchocerciasis . 
disseminated strongyloidiasis in aids and non-aids immunocompromised hosts : diagnosis by sputum and bronchoalveolar lavage . in conclusion , disseminated strongyloidiasis is a fatal disease that commonly affects the lungs . the disease should be suspected in an immunocompromised host who came from an area endemic for s stercoralis even years before the onset of symptoms or in patients with unexplained gram-negative bacteremia or meningitis . treatment should be started promptly and should be maintained for a long time . 
cerebral cysticercosis . we studied 143 cases of cerebral cysticercosis over a 30-year period . in 46 there was hydrocephalus due to cysts obstructing the cerebrospinal fluid pathways , with signs of hydrocephalus and cerebellar dysfunction . in 97 there were cysts in the cerebral parenchyma , causing symptoms of intracranial hypertension alone in 22 cases , with additional neurological deficits in the remainder . before 1980 diagnosis was made by pneumoencephalography and ventriculography , but since then it has mostly been done by computed tomography . in 28 cases scanned , typical abnormalities were present in 25 . complement fixation tests were positive in serum in 74 % of cases and in cerebrospinal fluid in 73 % , and the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test was positive in serum in 90 % and in cerebrospinal fluid in 92 % . treatment of cases with hydrocephalus was by removal of the cysts at craniotomy , with placement of a shunt where necessary . intracranial hypertension caused by parenchymal cysts was treated with steroids and osmotic agents , if possible . in resistant cases subtemporal decompression was needed , unilateral in 55 cases and bilateral in eight . mortality in the acute stage was 11 % , with a further 20 % at follow up . 
pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis pleuropulmonary manifestations of hepatic amebiasis occurred in 30 patients ; 18 ( 60 % ) presented with at least 1 pulmonary complaint and 10 ( 33 % ) had multiple pulmonary symptoms . in 14 patients ( 47 % ) , abnormalities were found on examination of the chest . in 16 chest roentgenograms ( 53 % ) , there was at least 1 abnormality : right-sided pleural effusion ( 9 patients ) and elevated right hemidiaphragm ( 8 patients ) were the most common . all patients were treated with metronidazole ( flagyl ) and had resolution of the amebic liver abscess and pulmonary disease . pleuropulmonary disease is a common complication of amebic liver abscess . the clinical presentation and chest roentgenograms are virtually diagnostic and obviate the need for invasive procedures to confirm the diagnosis . pleuropulmonary disease resolves with amebicidal treatment of the hepatic abscess . 
ascariasis . ascaris lumbricoides is the most common helminth to infect humans . infection occurs when contaminated soil containing mature eggs is swallowed . clinically , infection ranges from the asymptomatic carrier state to life-threatening pulmonary disease or intestinal obstruction . diagnosis is most frequently established by identification of the eggs in stool specimens . treatment with antiparasitic drugs is effective in preventing serious complications and eradicating the parasite from all members of the household . 
toxoplasmic chorioretinitis and hepatic granulomas . a 71-yr-old male presented with a 2-month history of fever , malaise , and weight loss . physical exam revealed chorioretinitis . laboratory studies were notable for elevated levels of alkaline phosphatase , gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase , aspartate transaminase , and alanine transaminase . immunoglobulin g antibody to toxoplasma gondii was positive to a dilution of 1:4096 , whereas serologic studies for hepatitis a virus , hepatitis b virus , cytomegalovirus , epstein-barr virus , human immunodeficiency virus , brucella , and tularemia were negative . a percutaneous biopsy of the liver revealed hepatic granulomas . culture of the biopsy specimen was negative for growth of mycobacteria or fungi . spontaneous improvement in clinical and laboratory parameters occurred over a 4-month period . 
high infectious morbidity in pregnant women with insulin-dependent diabetes : an understated complication . patients with insulin-dependent diabetes are prone to infection , possibly related to poor metabolic control . relative immune deficiency exists in pregnancy . we hypothesized that pregnant patients with insulin-dependent diabetes are at an increased risk for infection and that infection is related to poor glycemic control . we matched 65 pregnant women with insulin-dependent diabetes to 65 nondiabetic pregnant controls . at least one episode of infection before delivery occurred in 83 % of the women with insulin-dependent diabetes ( 26 % in control group ) . the rate of postpartum infection was five times higher in the group with insulin-dependent diabetes and they were susceptible to more kinds of infections . although there was no overall difference among the indices of glycemic control , hemoglobin a1 obtained before the infection was higher than during infection . we conclude that a high rate of infection exists in pregnant women with diabetes ; infection and poor glycemic control may be associated , but it is unclear whether improvement in metabolic control will reduce this high infection rate . 
successful medical management of acanthamoeba keratitis seven patients with documented acanthamoeba keratitis were treated with prolonged and intensive triple antiamoebic therapy consisting of topical neomycin-polymyxin b-gramicidin , propamidine isethionate 0.1 % , and miconazole nitrate 1 % . additionally , five patients were treated with topical corticosteroids . six of seven patients were cured of acanthamoeba keratitis with medical therapy alone , one patient required therapeutic penetrating keratoplasty to eradicate the infection . two patients underwent penetrating keratoplasty to improve their vision after medical therapy . our series differs from previous reports in that triple antiamoebic therapy was used in all seven patients and was successful in both early and advanced cases of acanthamoeba keratitis . prolonged and intensive topical therapy with these three antiamoebic drugs may be an effective mode of therapy for acanthamoeba keratitis . 
humoral and cell-mediated immune responses to the plasmodium falciparum antigens pf155/resa and cs protein : seasonal variations in a population recently reexposed to endemic malaria . resurgence of falciparum malaria occurred in the central highlands of madagascar in the 1980s and the disease is currently hyperendemic . we determined the humoral and cellular responses to synthetic peptides reproducing the repeat sequences of 2 major plasmodium falciparum antigens : the pf155/resa and the circumsporozoite ( cs ) protein . blood samples from 83 subjects living in a rural community near antananarivo were obtained at the beginning and the end of the transmission season . at enrollment , 40 subjects presenting with and 43 without blood parasites had similar t cell proliferative response and antibody level to all antigens tested . however , p. falciparum-infected individuals exhibited a decrease in the absolute number of t lymphocytes , due to a diminished number of cd8 + and natural killer lymphocytes . the number of cd4 + cells was similar in both groups . in the overall population , 45 % of subjects had a t cell response to at least 1 resa peptide ( 29-35 % responding to a given peptide ) and 35 % to the cs protein peptide . thirty-two percent of the donors presented with resa antibodies and 23 % had cs protein antibodies . after 20 weeks , at the end of the transmission season , cellular proliferative responses to all antigens markedly decreased as evidenced by a decrease of both the number of responders and mean stimulation indexes . humoral response to resa , as detected by erythrocyte membrane immunofluorescence ( number of responders and mean antibody titers ) markedly increased . humoral responses to the cs protein and resa peptides were similar . 
in vitro growth inhibition of plasmodium falciparum by sera from different regions of the philippines . sera from different malaria endemic regions of the republic of the philippines were compared for their ability to inhibit growth of plasmodium falciparum in vitro . dialyzed serum was added to synchronous cultures containing schizonts for either the total 48 hr test period or only the last 24 hr in order to analyze the effects on erythrocytic invasion and intraerythrocytic growth , respectively . reduction in 3h-hypoxanthine uptake was used to determine the percent of inhibition compared to nonimmune serum . one hundred seventy sera from mindanao and palawan in the south , the centrally located island of mindoro , and luzon in the north , were tested against 4 p. falciparum strains from the philippines and 1 from africa . indirect fluorescent antibody titers were not predictive of inhibition . inhibition of merozoite invasion rather than intraerythrocytic parasite growth is suggested by this study . generally , sera were more inhibitory to parasite strains from the same geographical area than to those from more remote areas . 
comparison of active and passive case detection of cutaneous leishmaniasis in guatemala . to estimate the degree to which passive case detection underestimates the true incidence of cutaneous leishmaniasis in guatemala , we compared data from the passive surveillance system of the guatemalan ministry of health with a cross-sectional population-based survey of cutaneous leishmaniasis in guatemala . of the 2,938 persons interviewed , 143 ( 5 % ) reported having had cutaneous leishmaniasis at some time in the past , 37 ( 1.3 % ) reported the onset of infection in the 12 months before the survey , 31 ( 1.1 % ) had active infections , and 16 ( 0.5 % ) had parasitologically confirmed infections . calculated on the basis of these reports and the estimated population of the endemic area , the total number of new cases in the leishmaniasis-endemic area in the 12 months before the survey was approximately 2,574 ; during the same 12 month period , ministry of health data based on passive surveillance listed 64 cases of cutaneous leishmaniasis . in guatemala , incidence estimates based on passive surveillance may underestimate the occurrence of cutaneous leishmaniasis by as much as a factor of 40 . 
diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis acquired in peru . a case of diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis ( dcl ) acquired in peru is described . the causative agent was leishmania mexicana amazonensis as determined by isoenzyme analysis and species-specific monoclonal antibody binding characteristics . histological examination of biopsy material showed a large number of intracellular and extracellular amastigotes and few lymphocytes . treatment with meglumine antimoniate ( glucantime ) administered iv at a dosage of 20 mg antimony/kg body weight/day for 60 days resulted in visible improvement of the lesions , but not in clinical or parasitological cure . 
a comparison of host responses of the mongolian jird to infections of brugia malayi and b. pahangi . host responses of jirds receiving a single subcutaneous inoculation of subperiodic brugia malayi were compared with those of jirds similarly infected with b. pahangi . parasite burdens , lymphatic lesion severity , granulomatous reactivity , antibody responses to parasite antigens , and complete blood cell counts were assessed at 60 and 150 days post-inoculation . at 60 days post-inoculation , percentages of adults recovered at necropsy and lymphatic lesion severity were greater in b. pahangi-infected jirds . at 150 days post-inoculation , lesion severity and percentages of worms recovered were similar in both infections . no significant differences were noted in either infection in reactivity to homologous or heterologous parasite antigens in any parameter measured . similarities in the kinetics of the inflammatory reactivities of the 2 infections suggest that previous observations made in the jird-b . pahangi model could be utilized in designing studies using b. malayi . further , the more marked lesion severity observed in b. pahangi-infected jirds and the relative ease of maintaining b. pahangi in the laboratory support the continued use of this system as a conceptual model for the study of lymphatic lesion pathogenesis . 
transmission indices of loa loa in the chaillu mountains , congo . a longitudinal entomological survey of the vectors of loiasis was conducted in the missama area ( lekoumou region ) in the congo from september 1987 to august 1989 . the principal catching site was a palm grove surrounded by forest 3 km from the village . landing/biting densities of chrysops were measured by standardized fly catches lasting 11 hr carried out twice a month . vector landing densities were also assessed in the bantu and pygmy villages and in the fields . populations of chrysops from the palm grove were examined 6 times a month for infection with the infective stage of loa loa . chrysops silacea was the predominate vector except at the beginning of the rainy season , when c. dimidiata was the prevailing species . chrysops were caught throughout rainy season , from october to june . the host-seeking activity of c. silacea was greatest in the middle of this season ( february ) , but occurred sooner ( october ) for c. dimidiata . the following variables associated with transmission were calculated from our observations in the palm grove ( the first figure corresponds to the first year of the study and the figure in parentheses corresponds to the second year ) . it was calculated that 2.658 ( 2.185 ) c. silacea and 1.412 ( 1.182 ) c. dimidiata could bite a person in the palm grove per year , including an average of 14.4 ( 12.7 ) infective c. silacea and 9.8 ( 7.2 ) infective c. dimidiata . the percentage of all dissected flies with third stage larvae in the head and the mean number of larvae in the head/infective fly were 0.57 % and 10.1 + / - 6.8 for c. silacea and 0.66 % and 11.2 + / - 6.5 for c. dimidiata , respectively . the estimated annual transmission potentials were 171.1 ( 102.9 ) for c. silacea and 116.1 ( 73.8 ) for c. dimidiata . in the palm grove , transmission was ensured by 2 effective vectors during the rainy season ( october to may ) . although the annual biting rate for both species was twice as low in the village as in the forest , our data suggest that effective transmission occurs there also . 
in vivo assessment of antimicrobial agents against toxoplasma gondii by quantification of parasites in the blood , lungs , and brain of infected mice . the in vivo effects of antimicrobial agents against toxoplasma gondii were evaluated in mice that were infected intraperitoneally with 10 ( 4 ) tachyzoites of the rh strain by determination of survival rates and study of the kinetics of growth of t. gondii in infected mice . at various intervals after infection , subcultures of serial dilutions of blood , lung , and brain homogenates were performed in fibroblast tissue cultures for determination of parasitic loads . pyrimethamine ( 18.5 mg/kg per day ) , sulfadiazine ( 375 mg/kg per day ) , and clindamycin ( 300 mg/kg per day ) were administered for 10 days from day 1 or day 4 after infection . untreated control mice died within 9 days and showed early and predominant lung involvement . all mice treated with sulfadiazine administered from day 1 survived and were apparently healthy ; parasitic loads decreased early after treatment , but a relapse was observed 5 days after the cessation of therapy . when pyrimethamine was administered from day 1 , 7 of 11 mice died within 25 days ; by determination of parasitic loads , the effect of pyrimethamine was only demonstrable from day 6 , and a relapse was constantly observed after the cessation of therapy . when pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine were administered in combination , 100 % of mice survived ; when therapy was started at day 1 , parasites remained undetectable ; in mice treated from day 4 , parasites were eradicated by day 8 but infection relapsed 8 days after the cessation of therapy . all mice treated with clindamycin from day 1 or day 4 died within 10 days , but parasitemia was always undetectable . 
intraoperative bronchial aspiration of ruptured pulmonary hydatid cysts . ruptured pulmonary hydatid cysts are seen clinically and radiologically as persistent cavitary lesions of the lung . bronchi opening into the pericyst cavity allow for discharge of fluid matter but not the escape of solid remnants of the collapsed parasite . operative manipulation of the involved lung in the course of surgical management of chronic ruptured pulmonary hydatids can force fragments of the laminated membrane or small daughter cysts into the bronchial tree . such extruded solid fragments lodge in bronchi of the same or opposite lung with resulting acute obstruction of airways . intraoperative bronchial aspiration of hydatid material was seen in 7 patients with ruptured hydatid cysts of the lung , either primary or secondary to transdiaphragmatic extension of liver hydatids . the first clinical sign can be unexplained difficulty in ventilation . effective management consists of prompt exposure of the stem bronchus on the operative side , with bronchotomy for suction retrieval of escaped solid fragments of the parasite . 
an immunofluorescence study of cerebral malaria . a correlation with histopathology . histopathologic and immunopathologic features of cerebral malaria have been defined in a study of six autopsy cases with severe plasmodium falciparum infection . in five cases , immunofluorescent studies demonstrated intense deposition of p falciparum antigen , igg , and fibrin in cerebral vessels associated with the histopathologic finding of hemorrhage in the white matter of cerebrum and cerebellum regardless of the presence of parasitized erythrocytes in the cerebral vessels . immunofluorescent study also demonstrated the extravascular deposits of p falciparum granular antigen associated with acute inflammatory lesion in cerebral tissue in one case . these findings suggested that the immunopathogenic mechanism may in some way play a role in the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria . 
in vitro rosetting , cytoadherence , and microagglutination properties of plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes from gambian and tanzanian patients . to understand the molecular mechanisms that lead to sequestration of red blood cells infected with mature stages of plasmodium falciparum and to examine the relevance of earlier studies on adherence properties of laboratory-derived p falciparum parasites to the natural parasite population , we analyzed gambian and tanzanian isolates for in vitro cytoadherence and antibody-mediated microagglutination . eighteen cryopreserved isolates of ring-stage parasites were cultured for 20 to 30 hours in vitro , in the patients original erythrocytes , to the trophozoite and schizont stage . all parasites were positive in the microagglutination assay with at least one of four african hyperimmune sera . in a rosetting assay , only 2 of the 18 isolates were strongly positive ( 35 % and 41 % of parasitized erythrocytes with more than two uninfected cells bound ) . thirteen isolates showed either intermediate ( 5 % to 18 % ) or low ( less than 5 % ) rosetting while three isolates did not form rosettes . infected cell-binding of the different isolates to immobilized cd36 or thrombospondin , or c32 melanoma cells correlated with the percentage of mature parasites in the blood samples ( r = .932 for cd36 , r = .946 for thrombospondin , and r = .881 for c32 melanoma cells ) . there was a high correlation between binding to cd36 and thrombospondin ( r = .982 ) . the extent of infected cell rosetting with uninfected cells in these blood samples was not correlated with these other receptor properties . we also observed coexpression of rosetting and cytoadherence receptors on the same parasitized erythrocytes . 
mefloquine kinetics in cured and recrudescent patients with acute falciparum malaria and in healthy volunteers . mefloquine pharmacokinetics were compared in a randomized clinical trial in thailand among patients with malaria and healthy volunteers . a single oral dose of 1500 mg mefloquine hydrochloride was administered to 11 patients and 5 volunteers and 750 mg was given to 16 patients and 5 volunteers . efficacy was 82 % for 1500 mg and 63 % for 750 mg . in cured patients taking 750 mg mefloquine , peak plasma drug concentration ( cmax ) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve ( auc ) were significantly greater than in the patients for whom treatment failed ( p less than 0.0005 and p less than 0.01 , respectively ) , and plasma mefloquine levels were significantly higher from 8 hours to 18 days after treatment . mefloquine auc was reduced and variable in the presence of diarrhea . compared with noninfected volunteers , clinically ill patients displayed a delayed time to reach peak concentration ( p less than 0.01 ) and significantly higher mefloquine plasma levels in the first 2 days after administration of either the 750 mg or the 1500 mg dose . mefloquine auc was similar in patients with malaria and healthy volunteers . because plasma levels increased in temporal relationship with clinical illness , mefloquine volume of distribution or clearance ( or both ) was reduced during the acute phase of illness . 
hemoptysis in a 49-year-old man . an unusual presentation of a sporadic disease . although amebiasis is prevalent in tropical and subtropical areas , it occurs sporadically in the united states . pleuropulmonary involvement is seen in about 20 percent of the patients with amebic liver abscesses . we describe a patient with pleuropulmonary amebiasis who complained of hemoptysis but had no gastrointestinal symptoms . this rather unusual presentation caused a considerable delay in securing the diagnosis . 
variceal sclerosis in schistosomotic patients : a 5-year follow-up study . to assess the therapeutic possibilities of injection sclerosis in schistosomotic portal hypertension , a 5-year prospective study was conducted in northeast brazil , where this parasitosis is endemic . fifty patients undergoing endoscopy for upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage from rupture of esophageal varices from july through december 1981 were chosen for the study . the 32 consenting patients were submitted to injection sclerotherapy paravariceally , using ethanolamine oleate ; the 18 refusing to participate were assigned to the control group . the incidence of rebleeding was 28.1 % in the former and 44.5 % in the latter , a difference which was not statistically significant ( fisher 's test , p = 0.375 ) . mortality from rupture of esophageal varices was 3.1 % in the sclerotherapy group and 27.7 % in the control group , a statistically significant difference ( fischer 's test , p = 0.017 ) . since sclerotherapy markedly improved the long-term survival rate of the patients , this procedure is advocated for the treatment of esophageal varices in cases of portal hypertension due to schistosomiasis . 
transfusion risks . hepatitis remains the most serious transfusion risk , in terms of incidence and severity . transfusion-associated aids , hemolytic reactions , trali , and anaphylaxis are severe problems that occur relatively rarely , while febrile reactions and mild allergic reactions are common but not serious . the key to avoiding all these complications is autotransfusion ( see the article " autologous transfusion " in this issue ) . although intraoperative scavenging became available in many centers in the united states in the 1980s , it is hoped that pre-deposit autotransfusion will also become widely utilized in the next decade . 
circulating immune complex-associated parasite antigens in human onchocerciasis . this study identified and characterized parasite antigens in sera from humans infected with onchocerca volvulus . immune complexes were precipitated from human sera with polyethylene glycol and analyzed by immunoblot with rabbit antibodies to o. volvulus . a 23-kda parasite antigen was detected in sera from 17 of 23 nigerian onchocerciasis patients and 5 of 10 endemic controls . other parasite antigens with apparent molecular masses of 62 , 66 , and 70 kda were less consistently observed . these antigens were not present in nigerian or us nonendemic control sera , in sera from patients with various other parasitic infections , or in sera from us patients with autoimmune diseases . biochemical studies indicated that these antigens are nonglycosylated acidic proteins that do not contain phosphorylcholine . these antigens may be useful as targets for improved diagnostic tests for onchocerciasis based on parasite antigen detection . 
bacterial infections in patients with visceral leishmaniasis . bacterial infections are often seen in patients with visceral leishmaniasis . to determine the incidence of such infection and the more common infectious agents , 30 consecutive patients with visceral leishmaniasis were followed throughout hospitalization . there were 24 episodes of bacterial infection in 18 patients ( 60 % ) . the incidence of bacterial infections in these patients was 22.2 / 1000 days of admission . the proportion of patients becoming infected by time was significantly greater in the visceral leishmaniasis group than in controls ( p less than .01 ) . the skin , respiratory tract , and middle ear were the most common sites of infection , and pseudomonas aeruginosa and staphylococcus aureus were the most common agents . low-grade-virulence bacteria ( e.g. , serratia and providencia species ) were also isolated from some cases . bacterial infections ( mainly nosocomial ) in patients with visceral leishmaniasis tend to be severe and can cause death . when bacterial infection is suspected in these patients , empiric antibiotic therapy should be started immediately , including coverage for p. aeruginosa and s. aureus , after appropriate diagnostic procedures are taken . 
diagnosis of intestinal amebiasis using salivary iga antibody detection . this investigation sought to determine whether detection of salivary iga antibodies to entamoeba histolytica could identify intestinal amebic infections among 223 school children . four groups of children were identified through coproparasitoscopic examination : e. histolytica as other parasites only ( 20 % ) ; and parasite-free ( 25 % ) . the diagnostic accuracy of salivary iga antibodies to an e. histolytica membrane extract was 91.5 % ( sensitivity , 85 % ; specificity , 98 % ) , maintaining high predictive value at different prevalences . also , a positive correlation ( r = .753 , p less than .001 ) was observed between fecal e. histolytica membrane antigen levels and salivary iga antibody activity . measurement of iga antibodies in saliva may be useful in diagnosing intestinal infections with e. histolytica within a wide range of prevalences . moreover , sampling of saliva may be a useful non invasive test for immunoepidemiologic surveys . 
effects of albendazole on echinococcus multilocularis infection in the mongolian jird . albendazole chemotherapy of larval echinococcus multilocularis was studied in the mongolian jird by administration of medicated feed at various concentrations and durations . the effects were evaluated by comparison of treated and control groups in terms of host mortality , larval metastases to the lungs , and final weight and histologic appearance of larval tissue . viability of larval tissue at necropsy of each animal was tested by inoculation into two noninfected jirds . albendazole-medicated feed ( 0.05 % -0.10 % ) significantly inhibited larval growth . other effects of the drug included larval degeneration and necrosis , inhibition of protoscolex formation , decreased pulmonary metastases , and reduced mortality of hosts . adverse effects on the parasite correlated significantly with serum albendazole metabolite levels and duration of therapy . however , serum albendazole levels in jirds equal to or exceeding concentrations achieved in humans receiving daily doses of 10 mg/kg of body weight did not kill the parasite . 
dexamethasone increases plasma levels of albendazole . therapy of neurocysticercosis with cysticidal drugs is frequently complicated by the exacerbation of symptoms that follows the inflammation triggered by the acute destruction of cysticerci . treatment of such adverse reactions with dexamethasone is highly effective . however , it has been shown that dexamethasone lowers the plasma levels of praziquantel , thus reducing its cysticidal efficacy . we measured plasma levels of albendazole , another strong cysticidal drug , when dexamethasone was given simultaneously . we found that dexamethasone increased the plasma levels of albendazole by about 50 % ( p less than 0.002 ) ; hence , it seems that cysticercosis and the ensuing inflammation can be treated simultaneously with albendazole and dexamethasone without diminishing the efficacy of the cysticidal drug . 
toxoplasmosis of the conus medullaris in a patient with hemophilia a-associated aids . case report . toxoplasma gondii has been reported to be the most common cause of focal brain lesions in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( aids ) . a case of intramedullary toxoplasmosis of the conus medullaris is reported in a patient with hemophilia a-associated aids . the diagnosis is discussed , with particular emphasis on the magnetic resonance imaging appearance . 
cerebral malaria in children cerebral malaria is a rapidly progressive encephalopathy with up to 50 % mortality . a cardinal feature is the massing of red cells containing mature plasmodium falciparum within the cerebral capillaries . adhesion of these parasitised red cells to endothelium , an event which may initiate cerebral malaria , is being studied at the molecular level . however , the relevance of these studies to the pathophysiology and treatment of human cerebral malaria is uncertain . although chloroquine is still widely used to treat falciparum malaria , resistance has spread to most of the endemic zone . quinine is emerging as the only effective treatment for cerebral malaria , though resistance to this drug threatens to become a problem . alternative drugs are urgently needed . 
hiv disease : a review for the family physician . part ii . secondary infections , malignancy and experimental therapy . the first part of this two-part article included recommendations for the initial evaluation of patients suspected of having hiv infection , the centers for disease control 's classification scheme for hiv disease and current recommendations for the use of zidovudine . in this second part , secondary infections and malignancy are reviewed , and various experimental therapies are briefly discussed . 
detection of congenital toxoplasmosis by chorionic villus sampling and early amniocentesis . we describe a strategy used in this case to detect congenital toxoplasmosis early in pregnancy . combination of chorionic villus sampling and early amniocentesis with an in vitro cell culture technique makes prenatal diagnosis of congenital toxoplasmosis possible from the end of the first trimester of pregnancy . 
variations in malaria transmission rates are not related to anopheline survivorship per feeding cycle . anopheline survivorship , vectorial capacity , and mosquito infection probability estimates from mosquito infection rates were determined 4 times in 1 year in a papua new guinea village . estimates of survivorship over the length of the extrinsic incubation period differed significantly during the year . however , survivorship per feeding cycle , individual mosquito vectorial capacity , and mosquito infection probability did not vary significantly . estimates of these parameters were then compared to estimates of survivorship , individual vectorial capacity , and mosquito infection probability in mosquito populations in other villages in the study area . since survivorship per feeding cycle did not vary significantly among the mosquito populations in these villages , changes in malaria transmission potential can be better gauged from estimates of survivorship over the length of the extrinsic incubation period . however , as measurements of relative inoculation rates are easier to perform and have been related to parasite prevalences in children in this area , estimates of inoculation rates are a preferred option for estimating malaria transmission in the madang area of papua new guinea . 
geographical distribution of plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte rosetting and frequency of rosetting antibodies in human sera . uninfected erythrocytes bind spontaneously to those infected with certain strains of plasmodium falciparum . this is known as spontaneous erythrocyte rosetting . we have studied the occurrence and frequency of rosetting in 75 fresh patient isolates and have identified rosetting strains from africa , south america , and asia . rosetting was present in 49 % of the isolates tested ; the frequency of rosetting red blood cells ( rbc ) in individual isolates was 0-75 % when scored during the first cycle of in vitro growth . rosetting antibodies were found in 15 out of 73 ( 21 % ) liberian sera as measured by disruption of rosettes in vitro . however , antibodies able to inhibit cd36 dependent cytoadherence of p. falciparum-infected rbc were not detected in these sera . erythrocyte rosetting is a geographically widespread phenomenon . rosetting antibodies seem to be induced by natural infection and the molecular mechanism of rosette formation seems distinct from that of endothelial cytoadherence . 
studies in owl monkeys leading to the development of a synthetic vaccine against the asexual blood stages of plasmodium falciparum . during the development of a synthetic vaccine for human use against the asexual blood stages of plasmodium falciparum , monkey trials were performed to assess safety , immunogenicity , and protectivity . we determined the minimal infective dose of the p. falciparum fvo strain , the kinetics of the immune response induced by vaccination with the synthetic peptide mixture ( s7 + s12 + s17 ) or the synthetic hybrid polymeric protein spf66 , and the induction of protective immunity against the experimental challenge with 2 p. falciparum strains . a clear boosting effect was observed , determined by the increased antibody titers against synthetic peptides s7 , s12 , s17 , and spf66 , and by improvement in the protective immune response against the challenge . these studies suggest that either the peptide mixture or the synthetic hybrid polymeric protein are excellent choices for the development of a vaccine against p. falciparum . 
immunization of owl monkeys with a combination of plasmodium falciparum asexual blood-stage synthetic peptide antigens . a mixture of 3 synthetic peptides ( 35.1 , 55.1 , and 83.1 ) corresponding to portions of the 35 kda , 55 kda , and 83 kda proteins from the asexual blood stages of plasmodium falciparum and a polymer of a syntheic peptide incorporating the 3 individual peptides ( spf66 ) were tested as candidate malaria vaccine antigens in aotus nancymai . monkeys were immunized with combinations of the 3 peptides from 2 separate sources ( centers for disease control [ cdc ] , atlanta , ga or colombia ) or with the synthetic polymer . animals immunized with a combination of the 3 peptides from cdc had higher antibody titers to the 35.1 and 55.1 peptides than to the 83.1 peptide . monkeys immunized with a combination of the 3 peptides produced in colombia developed higher levels of antibody to the 55.1 than to the 83.1 and 35.1 peptides . animals immunized with the polymer produced detectable antibodies to the 55.1 peptide alone . following challenge with p. falciparum , no differences were observed between the 3 vaccine groups and 2 control groups with respect to the number of animals with parasitemias greater than or equal to 10 % . the inconsistency of serologic response to all 3 peptides in these animals contrasted with previous trials performed in colombia where the monkeys developed high antibody titers against the 3 peptides and were protected against the experimental infection . 
ultrasonographical investigations of onchocerciasis in liberia . the efficiency of ultrasonography ( us ) for the diagnosis and clinical characterization of onchocerciasis was evaluated . us was performed on 120 probands in liberia . ninety-two patients had generalized onchocerciasis , 21 patients suffered from the chronic hyperreactive form of onchocerciasis ( sowda ) , and 7 probands served as controls . patients were examined by us with linear ( 7.5 mhz and 5 mhz ) and sector ( 3.5 mhz ) scanners . us results were evaluated by examination of extirpated nodules . the us structure of nodules revealed a typical pattern consisting of a homogeneous echogenicity with small echodense particles and a lateral acoustic shadow , and differentiation from lymph nodes , lipoma , or fibroma was achieved . within the onchocercomata , calcifications or fluid were identified . regarding the estimation of the worm burden , it is important to note that in 24 patients , additional nodules not previously palpated were found by us . also , the number of worm centers in palpable conglomerate nodules were determined more exactly by us than by palpation . in 4 of 16 sowda patients , impalpable nodules were found by us . in 13 patients with positive microfilaria counts , no nodules could be detected . the highly characteristic ultrasonographical pattern of onchocercomata may serve as a basis for further us investigations in onchocerciasis . 
plasmodium falciparum-infected anopheles stephensi inconsistently transmit malaria to humans . malaria was transmitted to only 5 of 10 volunteers bitten by 1-2 anopheles stephensi carrying sporozoites of the 3d7 clone of the nf54 strain of plasmodium falciparum in their salivary glands . parasites were detectable by culture in blood taken 7-10 days following exposure and by thick blood film 14-16 .5 days after exposure . infectivity did not correlate with the numbers of sporozoites in the salivary glands . 
quantitative in vitro drug potency and drug susceptibility evaluation of leishmania ssp . from patients unresponsive to pentavalent antimony therapy . quantitative in vitro drug sensitivity of 32 leishmania isolates ( 16 from patients failing pentavalent antimony [ sbv ] therapy ) was determined using a radiorespirometric microtechnique ( ram ) . of 30 isolates with histories , 22 ( 73 % ) ram tests agreed with patient history ; the remaining 8 ( 27 % ) did not . there was no difference in ram drug sensitivity : clinical correlation between 15 isolates tested blindly and 15 with known clinical history ( 4 did not agree with clinical history in both ) . test sensitivity appeared to be limited only by the sensitivity of the leishmania to sbv and could be detected at 2 micrograms/ml sb ( about 10 % of serum drug level ) . an isolate from a patient with untreated self-healing cutaneous disease was drug resistant . using ram , parasite drug sensitivity can be quantified apart from patient physiologic and immunologic variables intrinsic to clinical data . potency differed a maximum of 100 % ( weight % sb : weight % sb ) among drug lots and also between glucantime and pentostam . potency changes between drug lots were not explainable based on sb content or test-to-test variability . this microtest offers a rapid method for evaluating the drug sensitivity of patient isolates and for determining of the activity of pentavalent antimonials and other candidate anti-leishmanials prior to the initiation of therapy . 
parasite antigenemia in untreated and treated lymphatic filarial infections . to evaluate the merit of antigen detection assays as a tool to monitor the efficacy of chemotherapy for lymphatic filariasis , we serially measured antigen levels in sera from jirds infected with brugia malayi and from humans with bancroftian filariasis . antigenemia was detected in all animals with parasitologically proven infection and was present in jirds with prepatent or occult filariasis . antigen levels correlated with worm burdens , and progressively declined in drug-cured animals . treatment with diethylcarbamazine ( dec ) triggered a transient increase in serum levels of filarial antigens bearing the epitope recognized by the monoclonal antibody hc 11 . all patients with bancroftian filariasis became amicrofilaremic within one week after dec treatment . antigenemia levels slowly declined over a period of several months in all but one treated individual . forty-two months after treatment , progressively rising antigen levels are present in 10 patients . six of these remain amicrofilaremic ; in the other 4 , elevated antigenemia levels preceded or were detected at the same time as recurrent parasitemia . periodic monitoring of antigenemia levels after treatment of patients with lymphatic filariasis can be used to identify individuals who are likely to develop recurrent microfilaremia before the parasites become detectable in blood samples , thereby allowing timely retreatment . 
selective breeding of dogs for segregation of limb edema from microfilaremia as clinical manifestations of brugia infections . three generations of beagles were monitored for microfilaremia ( mf ) and clinical disease during repeated infection with brugia pahangi and were selectively bred for offspring manifesting limb edema and low or amicrofilaremia . a high microfilaremic female mated to a high microfilaremic male produced 7 pups , 6 of which maintained mf greater than 1,000 / ml for greater than 2 years after 5 monthly infections of 10 infective larvae each . an uninfected female mated to another high mf male produced 5 pups , 4 of which did not exceed 1,000 mf/ml 7 months after initiation of the repeating infection regimen ; 1 of these remained amicrofilaremic after 2 additional challenges . neither the parents nor the offspring from these matings manifested chronic limb edema . two matings were conducted with offspring from the microfilaremic female by breeding siblings with the lowest mf and breeding siblings with the highest mf . the high mf siblings produced 4/5 offspring manifesting chronic limb edema ( greater than or equal to 7 months duration ) and either no mf ( in 2 dogs ) or less than 100 mf/ml after the repeating infection regimen . the lower mf siblings produced 5 offspring , all with greater than 1,000 mf/ml 6 months after the initiation of the repeating infection regimen ; none manifested edema . comparisons of igg antibody levels , specific for extracts of adult worms , showed no consistent differences between these 2 litters of dogs that could be associated with limb edema or mf when monitored for 16 months ; however , the onset of lymph node enlargement was much earlier in the group of dogs manifesting limb edema than in the other litter . 
physical activity , opportunity for reinfection , and sibling history of heart disease as risk factors for chagas ' cardiopathy . a case-control study was conducted to examine whether physical activity , sibling history of heart disease ( hhd ) , and length of residence in an area endemic for chagas ' disease were associated with the risk of developing chagas ' cardiopathy . two hundred forty-seven cases of chagas ' heart disease and 345 seropositive subjects with normal ecg ( controls ) were selected in a population survey in goiania , brazil . prevalence ratios for exposure variables were estimated for cases in relation to controls and for subgroups of seropositives with selected ecg abnormalities in relation to controls . increasing age and male sex were consistently and significantly related to an increased risk of ecg abnormalities . hhd was significantly associated with ecg alterations in 3 of the 5 comparison subgroups ( any ecg alteration , right bundle branch block , and left anterior hemiblock ) . no association was found between length of residence in an area endemic , physical activity , and ecg abnormalities . a sample of 529 seronegative subjects were also examined and the interaction between exposure variables and seropositivity was tested to assess whether the associations found were specific for seropositives . males were at greater risk of any ecg alteration and left anterior hemiblock in relation to females if they were seropositive . an increasing risk of ventricular premature beats with age was clearer for seropositive than for seronegative subjects . subjects with hhd were at an increased risk of ecg abnormalities and this was greater in those with a positive serological test ( p less than 0.05 ) . the findings suggest a possible geographical clustering or a familial aggregation of cases of chagas ' heart disease . 
efficacy and toxicity of sodium stibogluconate for mucosal leishmaniasis . objective : to determine the efficacy and toxicity of the world health organization 's ( who ) recommended treatment for mucosal leishmaniasis : antimony , 20 mg/kg body weight per day for 28 days . design : open trial with 12-month follow-up . setting : inpatient unit of a regional referral hospital in a developing country . patients : twenty-nine consecutive eligible patients with culture-confirmed infection of the mucosa with leishmania species who were otherwise healthy . eight patients ( 28 % ) had mild to moderate disease ( confined to the nasal mucosa ) . twenty-one patients ( 72 % ) had severe disease ( including the oropharynx as well as the nasal mucosa ) . intervention : antimony , 20 mg/kg body weight intravenously every day for 28 days . patients received antimony in the form of sodium stibogluconate . measurements and main results : initial results of therapy were as follows : 63 of 72 lesions ( 88 % ) healed or markedly improved ; all lesions were culture-negative for parasites ; and 18 of 29 patients ( 62 % ) showed complete clinical and parasitologic cure of all lesions . by the 12-month follow-up examinations , however , 37 lesions had recurred , 8 new lesions had appeared , and only 8 patients ( 30 % ) showed clinical cure of all lesions . of the 8 patients with mild to moderate disease , 6 were cured compared with only 2 of the 21 patients with severe disease . side effects of this treatment regimen included t-wave inversion on electrocardiogram ( 4 patients ) , abnormal liver function tests ( 10 patients ) , and musculoskeletal pain ( 24 patients ) . no side effects occurred during week 1 of therapy . conclusions : the only recommended treatment for mucosal leishmaniasis is ineffective in patients with severe disease . the acceptable toxicity of the regimen suggests that longer courses of therapy with antimony , or that trials with other antileishmanial agents alone or combined with antimony be evaluated as initial therapy for this disease . 
acute renal failure in obstructive jaundice in cholangiocarcinoma . this study was aimed at defining the natural history of renal failure in obstructive jaundice due to cholangiocarcinoma , which is an important health problem in northeastern thailand . sixty-four patients among a total of 130 patients with obstructive jaundice secondary to cholangiocarcinoma who developed acute renal failure were studied retrospectively . analysis was made with respect to clinical features , laboratory findings , and outcome . the development of renal failure before surgery was observed in all patients . it was nonoliguric in 80 % and was associated with severe jaundice , gram-negative infection ( 42 % ) , hypotension ( 31 % ) , hypoproteinemia ( 30 % ) , hyponatremia ( 56 % ) , and hypokalemia ( 63 % ) . the mean duration of renal failure was 2 weeks . all patients underwent surgery for the relief of jaundice . seventy-seven percent of the patients survived and had recovery of renal function after the relief of jaundice . twenty-three percent of the patients died of infection . clinical data highlight the higher serum bilirubin levels and the frequent occurrence of hyponatremia , hypokalemia , and hypotension in renal failure . their possible roles in contributing to the development of renal failure are discussed . 
sulfadiazine crystalluria revisited . the treatment of toxoplasma encephalitis in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . toxoplasma gondii encephalitis is an important opportunistic infection in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , estimated to occur in 20,000 to 40,000 patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in the united states by 1991 . the combination of sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine is regarded as the treatment of choice . acute renal failure due to crystal deposition in the urinary tract was well described 30 to 40 years ago and is likely to resurface as a clinical entity if appropriate prophylactic measures are not taken . we describe two cases of sulfadiazine-induced crystalluria and renal failure in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome , review the pertinent literature , and discuss the pathogenesis . recommendations are made for the prophylaxis and treatment of sulfadiazine-related renal toxic reaction . physicians using this " new " drug must be aware of the potential danger of sulfonamide-induced injury to the urinary tract . 
lindane ( kwell ) - induced aplastic anemia . numerous toxic exposures have been implicated in causing aplastic anemia . thirteen cases of aplastic anemia and 5 cases of other blood dyscrasias , eg , red blood cell aplasia and thrombocytopenia , associated with lindane , have been reported in the literature . however , aplastic anemia secondary to the scabicidal product ( lindane [ kwell ] ) has not been documented , to our knowledge . we present the case of a 21-year-old man with a diagnosis of aplastic anemia , known prolonged exposure to lindane , and documented elevated serum lindane levels . his clinical course is described as well as various defects are explored for the aplasia . 
pathophysiological insights into the cardiomyopathy of chagas ' disease . the evidence gained from both human and animal studies of chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy suggests that the disease occurs as a consequence of several discrete and progressive pathophysiological processes occurring after infection , the ultimate expression of which depends on a host of unidentified factors . collectively , the infection-associated events compromise microvasculature function and result in hypoperfusion , with consequences indistinguishable from those observed in other , nonparasitological cardiomyopathic diseases secondary to hypoperfusion . therefore , chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy may share similar pathophysiological abnormalities with other chronic congestive cardiomyopathic states . 
longitudinal study of lesions of the posterior segment in onchocerciasis . onchocerciasis is a major cause of blindness , and much of the blindness due to onchocerciasis is caused by chorioretinitis . little is known about the progression of lesions in the posterior segment in either untreated or treated disease . the authors studied the progression of onchocercal chorioretinitis in 57 patients from 1 to 3 years . changes were documented from detailed ocular examinations , fundus photographs , and fluorescein angiograms , and included live intraretinal microfilariae , intraretinal hemorrhages , cotton-wool opacities , intraretinal pigment , white and shiny intraretinal deposits , retinal pigment epithelial window defects , and atrophy . depigmentation at the edge of chorioretinal scarring progressed at a rate of up to 200 microns per year . ivermectin or mebendazole treatment did not appear to alter the progress of depigmentation at the edge of chorioretinal scars . these observations suggest that onchocercal chorioretinitis is associated with early changes in the retina and retinal pigment epithelium , and that disease in the posterior segment may progress rapidly . 
toxoplasma gondii retinochoroiditis and optic neuritis in acquired immune deficiency syndrome . report of a case . a 29-year-old man with acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) was found to have a retinochoroiditis and optic neuritis of his left eye . results of fundus examination showed inflammatory and hemorrhagic retinal lesions consistent with retinitis due to cytomegalovirus infection . a computed tomographic ( ct ) scan demonstrated enlargement of the optic nerve . the eye was enucleated and results of histopathologic examination showed retinal necrosis with underlying choroiditis and an optic neuritis . numerous encysted toxoplasma gondii organisms were present in the retina and tachyzoites were present in the optic nerve . to the authors ' knowledge this is the second histologically documented case of toxoplasma optic neuritis in a patient with aids . 
concomitant neurocysticercosis and brucellosis . a young mexican woman had headache and left arm weakness develop shortly after immigrating to the united states . a solitary cerebral cysticercus was found at surgery , but , instead of the expected finding of clear fluid , the cyst contained pus from which brucella melitensis was cultured . although the patient had no signs or symptoms suggestive of brucellosis , agglutination studies revealed igm and igg antibodies consistent with active brucellosis . clinicians should be alert to the possibility of multiple infections in immigrants from countries where parasites and bacteria that are uncommon in the united states are endemic . 
disseminated strongyloidiasis with central nervous system involvement diagnosed antemortem in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and burkitts lymphoma . a 45-year-old man presented with central nervous system involvement as the initial manifestation of disseminated infection with strongyloides stercoralis . several concurrent clinical factors contributed to this event , all related to the patient 's immunosuppression , including high-grade lymphoma , corticosteroid therapy , and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . this is only the third case of cns involvement in disseminated strongyloidiasis diagnosed antemortem . 
echinococcus infestation of the biceps brachii . a case report . echinococcus is a genus of tapeworm endemic in certain parts of the world but found only rarely in the united states . an extremely unusual case of an intramuscular infestation involving an extremity occurred in a 41-year-old man . since the infestation closely resembled a soft-tissue tumor on clinical and roentgenographic examination , the patient was treated with an incisional biopsy of the mass , which consisted of a cystic cavity filled with clear fluid . the diagnosis of an echinococcus cyst was made only after permanent section analysis revealed numerous scoleces within the cyst lining . the patient was asymptomatic six months after cyst excision but still remains at risk for recurrence of the infestation . the present report serves to alert the reader to this rare but potentially fatal condition . preoperative diagnosis is imperative to avoid inadvertant rupture of a hydatid cyst , which releases viable scoleces into the systemic circulation and may precipitate an anaphylactic reaction . 
phrenomediastinal echinococcosis . a patient with the rare presentation of posterior mediastinal echinococcosis is reported . magnetic resonance imaging ( mr ) demonstrated the extension of a primary retroperitoneal cyst into the posterior mediastinum which was subsequently confirmed surgically to be of echinococcal origin . such a case of phrenomediastinal echinococcosis has been described only once before in literature . 
epidemiology of epilepsy in guaymi indians from bocas del toro province , republic of panama . this cross-sectional study was conducted to describe the epidemiology of epilepsy in guaymi indians residing in changuinola , a small town on panama 's caribbean coast near costa rica . we randomly selected households and attempted to enroll all residents aged less than or equal to 1 year ; 337 eligible subjects agreed to participate ( 93 % response rate ) . we administered a standard neurologic disease screening examination to all subjects and , if any abnormality was found , we administered a standard neurologic evaluation . we detected 19 cases of active epilepsy ; the mean age at onset was 12 years , and generalized tonic-clonic seizures were the most common diagnosis ( 10 of 19 , 53 % ) . the prevalence of active epilepsy among caribbean coastal guaymi ( 57/1000 ) is considerably greater than that in lower class panama city populations ( 22/1000 ) or in other parts of the world . to identify risk factors for epilepsy , we collected epidemiologic data and serum ( for cysticercus antibody ) from subjects with active epilepsy and from 44 age/sex-matched controls . significantly more cases ( 47 % ) than controls ( 6 % ) had other family members with epilepsy ( relative risk , rr = 14 ) ; 44 % of cases and 13 % of controls reported a history of febrile seizures during childhood ( rr = 6 ) . 
light microscopic diagnosis of human microsporidiosis and variable response to octreotide . microsporida are protozoan parasites that have recently been identified as a cause of human disease in immunocompromised patients . because of their small size , they have been recognized primarily by electron microscopy . this has limited the study of their prevalence , incidence , and association with large-volume diarrhea . the present report describes two cases of enterocytozoon bieneusi infection of the small intestine in patients with intractable diarrhea in whom the diagnosis was made by light microscopy and confirmed by electron microscopy . both patients were treated with octreotide , and one had a good response . 
b cell responses to paramyosin . isotypic analysis and epitope mapping of filarial paramyosin in patients with onchocerciasis . to examine the fine specificity of the human immune response to filarial paramyosin , the antigenicity of an expressed rcdna ( 2.55 kb ) of dirofilaria immitis paramyosin was detailed by elisa . using sera from patients infected with onchocerca volvulus , we analyzed both the entire paramyosin molecule and six subcloned fragments for their igg , igg subclasses , and ige responses . patients from both guatemala ( 64 % positive ) and ghana ( 100 % positive ) reacted to paramyosin with specific igg levels above normal controls . although there was no anti-paramyosin subclass restriction common to all patients , the igg3 response in the ghananians was significantly greater than that of guatemalans ( p less than 0.001 ) . ige anti-paramyosin responses showed positive correlations with igg2 ( p less than 0.001 ) , igg4 ( p less than 0.002 ) , and igg1 ( p less than 0.04 ) responses . epitope mapping using the igg response to the six subclones demonstrated preferential recognition of the amino terminal end of the molecule ( nucleotides 1 to 360 ) . igg2 reactivity was clearly localized to the most amino-terminal 120 amino acids , and the igg4 antibodies recognized amino acids immediately adjacent to this fragment . these studies examining the fine specificity of anti-filarial immune reactions should provide a method for understanding how parasites either evade or induce host immune responses . 
eosinophilic meningitis : cause of a chronic pain syndrome . three tourists developed eosinophilic meningitis after visiting the fijian islands . two had a severe and long lasting illness with chronic intractable pain . in one patient electrophysiological studies and mri scan of the brain were abnormal and provided evidence of both radicular and cerebral parenchymal involvement by the most likely causative agent , angiostrongylus cantonensis . 
the " nuisance " sexually transmitted diseases : molluscum contagiosum , scabies , and crab lice . although molluscum contagiosum , scabies , and infestation by crab lice do not carry the requirements of partner notification or other long-term consequences , they are among the most commonly reported sexually transmitted disease . molluscum contagiosum is a benign viral infection of the skin epidermal layer , most often transmitted by intimate skin-to-skin contact . the lesions often resolve spontaneously over time , but patient discomfort or social reasons may require destructive removal of the lesions . scabies is caused by the sarcoptes scabiei mite . the victims continually itch , especially at night , and often seek over-the-counter topical remedies before seeing a clinician . once a correct diagnosis is made , successful resolution of this disease and its itching can be achieved . head and pubic lice account for most of the more than three million cases of louse infestation treated in the united states each year . symptoms of infestation generally include itching that leads to scratching , erythema , irritation , and inflammation . a careful diagnosis followed by disinfection , symptomatic treatment , and psychologic support should result in a complete cure with no long-term effects . 
identification of toxoplasma gondii in paraffin-embedded sections by the polymerase chain reaction . we used the polymerase chain reaction to amplify dna fragments specific to toxoplasma gondii . the sensitivity of the technique allowed for the detection of as few as ten cultured t. gondii tachyzoites . we applied the same amplification technique to deparaffinized ocular sections from two cases of ocular toxoplasmosis . although toxoplasmic cysts could only be seen in one eye by optical microscopy , polymerase chain reaction allowed the identification of the parasite in both cases . our study indicates the feasibility of a sensitive dna-based assay to complement pathologic studies of an ocular parasitic disease . 
acanthamoeba keratitis associated with disposable contact lenses . two patients developed acanthamoeba keratitis associated with the use of disposable extended-wear hydrogel contact lenses . both patients removed , irrigated , and reinserted the contact lenses without disinfecting them . one patient wore the lenses on a daily basis , rinsed the lenses in tap water , stored them overnight , and discarded them weekly . both infections were treated successfully . in a third patient , acanthamoeba species was cultured from two pairs of disposable lenses that had been stored in cases rinsed with well water . potential benefits from disposable contact lens wear are negated when patients do not comply with a continuous wearing schedule . 
visceral leishmaniasis in a scottish child . a scottish girl acquired visceral leishmaniasis ( kala-azar ) while on holiday in majorca . she presented with the infection , six months later , in scotland . because of inexperience with the disease and a degree of scepticism unnecessary investigations were carried out resulting in a delay in treatment . 
human cerebral malaria : association with erythrocyte rosetting and lack of anti-rosetting antibodies . plasmodium falciparum isolates from 24 gambian children with cerebral malaria and 57 children with mild forms of the disease were assessed for their ability to form erythrocyte rosettes . all isolates from the children with cerebral malaria were able to form rosettes , whereas those from children with mild forms of the disease did not form rosettes , or had a significantly lower rosetting rate . plasma of children with cerebral malaria lacked anti-rosetting activity , whereas plasma of children with mild disease could often disrupt rosettes in vitro . a monoclonal antibody to p falciparum histidine rich protein ( pfhrp1/kp/kahrp ) disrupted rosettes of many of the isolates in vitro indicating that the rosetting ligand is relatively conserved compared with ligands associated with endothelial cytoadherence . the findings strongly support the hypothesis that erythrocyte rosetting contributes to the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria and suggest that anti-rosetting antibodies protect against cerebral disease . 
pregnancy outcome after inadvertent ivermectin treatment during community-based distribution . ivermectin is the drug of choice for community-based treatment of onchocerciasis . since pregnancy testing during mass distribution campaigns is not feasible , the safety of ivermectin in pregnancy must be established . during a 3-year study , ivermectin was distributed to the population of a rubber plantation ( 14,000 people ) in liberia . only 31 % of women were aware of their pregnancy status during the first month ; it was calculated that about half of women in the first trimester of pregnancy are likely to be treated inadvertently . 203 children born to women inadvertently treated during pregnancy were identified . in this limited sample , there was no significant difference in birth defects between treated and untreated mothers in the same population or compared with a reference population . children of treated and untreated mothers showed no difference in developmental status or disease patterns . further surveillance is necessary ; however , since no major effects of ivermectin on pregnancy outcome were detected , there seems no need to change existing strategies of ivermectin distribution . 
activated eosinophils increase vascular permeability and resistance in isolated perfused rat lungs the effects of eosinophils activated with phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) on isolated perfused rat lungs were examined . eosinophils were obtained from lungs of rats infected with toxocara canis by bronchoalveolar lavage , incubated with pma , and administered to an isolated perfused rat lung preparation . vascular endothelial permeability was assessed by measuring the capillary filtration coefficient ( kf , c ) in the perfused lungs . in lungs receiving either no eosinophils ( control ) or nonactivated eosinophils , there were no changes in pulmonary hemodynamics or kf , c. however , in lungs receiving 2 x 10 ( 6 ) eosinophils activated with pma , there was a transient 4.8-fold increase in pulmonary vascular resistance that peaked at 30 min , primarily due to the constriction of small arteries and veins . after the initial pressor response , kf , c was increased to 7.5 times control at 130 min and resulted in marked lung edema , increased wet-dry weight ratios , and edema on histologic examination . pulmonary arterial pressure and kf , c responses were dose related for eosinophil numbers between 1 x 10 ( 6 ) and 4 x 10 ( 6 ) cells . peak airway pressure ( paw ) during constant tidal volume ventilation also increased in lungs receiving activated eosinophils compared to the control and nonactivated eosinophil groups . these findings indicate that activated eosinophils are potent effector cells and can cause pulmonary vasoconstriction , bronchoconstriction , and vascular endothelial injury without widespread plugging of capillaries by aggregated eosinophils . 
