sex hormone receptors in human thyroid tissues . the behavior of sex hormone receptors was studied in the cytosol of thyroid tissue samples in order to clarify the effects of sex hormones on diseases of the thyroid . androgen receptor ( ar ) , estrogen receptor ( er ) , and progesterone receptor ( pgr ) were assayed using the dextran-coated charcoal ( dcc ) method and analyzed by the method of scatchard . androgen receptor , er , and pgr were negative in all of the cytosol prepared from normal thyroid tissues . however , the positive rates for the receptors in the neoplastic and nonneoplastic tissues were 22 % for ar , 29 % for er , and 18 % for pgr . especially , the incidence of er was significantly higher in neoplastic lesions than normal tissues . these data suggest that sex hormones , especially estrogen , may play a role in diseases of the thyroid . 
klinefelter 's syndrome with anomalous origin of left main coronary artery klinefelter 's syndrome is a rare entity . even rarer is an anomalous origin of the left main coronary artery . for both conditions to occur in the same patient is hence exceedingly rare . reported here is a never previously reported case of a coronary congenital anomaly in a patient with klinefelter 's syndrome together with the proper angiographic approach . 
effects of corticosteroids on mechanical strength of intervertebral joints and vertebrae in dogs . dogs with hyperadrenocorticism had a higher incidence of intervertebral joint disease , i.e. , disc protrusion or spondylosis . in comparing cases of hyperadrenocorticism with age - and breed-matched controls with hypothyroidism , the incidence was significantly greater than expected . this was not seen , however , in beagle dogs in which the incidence was already high and attributed to chondrodystrophoid tendencies in this breed . to investigate the pathogenesis of this association and its possible relationship to steroid-induced osteopenia , adult dogs were given a placebo , prednisone , or prednisone plus calcium for six months . torque testing of intervertebral joints revealed a consistent trend of lower force to failure in both prednisone-treated groups , but the difference was not statistically significant . in these dogs with mild to moderate hyperadrenocorticism , compression tests of intact vertebral bodies were not significantly different , but blocks of trabecular bone cut from the vertebral bodies failed at significantly lower compressive forces in both prednisone-treated groups compared with controls . histomorphometric evaluation of lumbar vertebral trabecular bone revealed that the percentage of bone volume was not significantly decreased in the prednisone-treated groups . nor was there any difference in the thickness or porosity of vertebral end-plates , which might contribute to weakening of intervertebral ligamentous insertions . 
tests of thyroid function : update in the diagnosis and management of thyroid disease . current thyroid function tests give the clinician powerful tools for the accurate assessment of thyroid status in the majority of patients encountered . there are , however , a small number of clinical situations in which there appear to be inconsistencies in the interrelationship of the thyroid function tests and/or in which they are apparently inappropriate to the clinical status of the patient . in most instances , there is a rational explanation for these observed alterations . the application of this information should allow clinicians to further refine their diagnostic accuracy and thereby enable them to proceed with an appropriate therapeutic or management program . 
management of primary hypothyroidism . primary hypothyroidism is a common condition requiring lifelong treatment and monitoring . the type and amount of thyroid hormone replacement , selection of laboratory tests , and timing of office visits are all important for optimizing patient well-being and reducing the costs of medical care . the aim of treatment is to bring the patient to the euthyroid state . currently this is defined as a normal serum concentration of tsh by recently developed sensitive and specific immunometric assays , and is accomplished by titrating the dose of levothyroxine and changing it not more often than at 4 - to 6-week intervals . as an indicator of euthyroidism , the sensitive tsh assay has advantages over tests of serum t4 , ft4i , t3 , ft4 , and tsh by ria because it is independent of tbg changes that result from pregnancy , birth-control pills , and estrogen replacement , is not spuriously elevated by the levothyroxine treatment itself , and is the only test that detects both subclinical hypothyroidism and subclinical hyperthyroidism . additional serum tests are not usually necessary but have advantages under special circumstances . once the optimal replacement dose is determined , monitoring can be done yearly or even bi-yearly , depending on the adequacy of patient education and patient compliance . 
lack of effect of clonidine and pentoxifylline in short-term therapy of diabetic peripheral neuropathy . the goal of this study was to confirm or rule out anecdotal reports of beneficial effects of clonidine and pentoxifylline in the treatment of painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy . clonidine was administered to 16 subjects at two dosage levels ( 0.1 and 0.2 mg/day ) and was compared to placebo in a crossover design , with each phase lasting 4 wk . either pentoxifylline ( 400 mg 3 times/day ) or placebo was given to 21 subjects in a 12-wk trial . discomfort was characterized and rated with a subjective pain score ( range 0-20 ) . there was a significant decrease in pain score from baseline with both active drugs ( p less than 0.05 ) , but this was no better than the response to placebo ( p less than 0.30 for clonidine and p less than 0.95 for pentoxifylline ) . this study does not demonstrate a short-term benefit of either clonidine or pentoxifylline in the treatment of peripheral neuropathy . 
measuring vibration sensations with graduated tuning fork . simple and reliable means to detect diabetic patients at risk of neuropathic foot ulceration . to find a simple and reliable means to measure vibration sensations , 189 diabetic patients and 88 control subjects were tested at different sites with a graduated tuning fork . within-test variation at big toes reached 8.4 % in diabetic patients vs. 2.2 % in control subjects . mean contralateral variation was 7.5 % in diabetic patients vs. 2.5 % in control subjects . tuning-fork sensations were inversely correlated with duration of diabetes , whereas no correlation was found with hba1c levels or the severity of retinopathy . ninety-nine ( 52 % ) patients had vibratory sensation at big toes of less than 99th percentile of normal values for age . in addition , 51 % of the patients with clinical symptoms at extremities ( n = 67 ) , 70 % of the patients without tendon reflexes ( n = 50 ) , and 75 % of the patients with abnormal nerve conduction velocities ( n = 60 ) also had low vibration sensations . all patients with lower-limb injuries ( n = 7 ) had values at big toes of less than 2 . altogether , the graduated tuning fork represents a simple and reliable alternative to quantitate vibration sensations . long-term follow-up of asymptomatic patients will indicate whether these abnormalities reflect underlying neuropathy . patients with abnormal values at screening will necessitate additional investigations and special foot-care education programs . 
diabetes , hyperinsulinemia , and hyperlipidemia in small aboriginal community in northern australia . a small rural aboriginal community in northern australia was surveyed for diabetes , impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) , hyperinsulinemia , and lipid levels . of the 122 adults greater than 17 yr of age who participated ( 95 % response rate ) , 11.5 % had diabetes , 7.4 % had igt , and the remaining 81.1 % had normal glucose tolerance . both diabetes and igt were strongly age related . this high frequency of diabetes occurred , despite the population being relatively lean . although the body mass index ( bmi ) increased with age in both men and women , only 25 % of the population overall had bmi greater than 25 kg/m2 . there were wide ranges of insulin responses to glucose , with the upper tertile of 2-h insulin levels being more than seven times higher than the lower tertile ( 144 + / - 13 vs. 19 + / - 1 mu/l ) . hyperinsulinemia was associated with igt , elevated triglycerides , and lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels . lipid abnormalities were much more frequent among men than women . cholesterol levels were an average of 0.55 mm higher and triglycerides an average of 1.05 mm higher in men than in women , and both increased with age . in conclusion , this small isolated aboriginal population from northern australia had an unexpectedly high frequency of diabetes ( in view of their relative leanness ) in association with a high frequency of metabolic abnormalities indicative of insulin resistance ( hyperinsulinemia , igt , hypertriglyceridemia ) . 
total serum glycosylated proteins in detection and monitoring of gestational diabetes . the goal of this study was to determine whether serum glycosylated protein levels ( i.e. , fructosamine ) can reliably screen for gestational diabetes and whether these levels are valid markers of short-term glycemic control in the third trimester of pregnancy . ninety-seven pregnant women at 26-28 wk gestation were evaluated over 9 mo . hba1c and serum glycosylated protein ( serum fructosamine ) were determined at the baseline venipuncture of the 100-g oral glucose tolerance test performed to detect gestational diabetes . of the 97 women studied , 13 tested positive for gestational diabetes ( national diabetes data group criteria ) . there were significant differences in the fasting and 1 - , 2 - , and 3-h glucose values between nondiabetic and diabetic patients ( p less than 0.005 at each time point ) . no difference was noted in the baseline serum glycosylated protein level ( 2.02 + / - 0.08 vs. 1.98 + / - 0.02 mm , ns ) or hba1c level ( 4.42 + / - 0.2 vs. 4.6 + / - 0.3 % , ns ) between gestational and nondiabetic patients . diabetic patients were followed at 2-wk intervals , with serum glycosylated protein analysis , hba1c , fasting glucose , and mean glucose determined by outpatient monitoring . serum glycosylated protein correlated significantly to fasting blood glucose ( r = 0.81 , p less than 0.001 ) and mean outpatient glucose ( r = 0.62 , p less than 0.001 ) at the 2-wk follow-up visits . no correlation was found between hba1c and fasting blood glucose ( r = 0.11 , ns ) or mean outpatient glucose ( r = -0.12 , ns ) during the follow-up period . the serum glycosylated protein level ( serum fructosamine ) is not a useful screening test for gestational diabetes . however , this assay shows potential as an objective marker of short-term control in evaluating the maternal glycemic state . 
influenza infection and diabetes mellitus . case for annual vaccination . herein , epidemiological data on influenza pneumonia and mortality , results of clinical studies , and the outcome of influenza vaccination trials are reviewed . all excess mortality studies that specify for underlying disease list diabetes as one of the major risk factors . during influenza epidemics , death rates among patients with diabetes mellitus may increase by 5-15 % . diabetes mellitus is also mentioned as a risk factor in most clinical studies , making up 3-14 % of the patients studied . even in recent studies , diabetes mellitus is only preceded as a risk factor by cardiovascular disease and chronic pulmonary disorders . to what extent cardiovascular disease and old age contribute to the increased influenza mortality and morbidity in diabetic patients remains unclear . the influence of epidemic influenza on the incidence of diabetic acidosis in combination with an impaired immune response to both staphylococcus aureus and the influenza virus suggests that diabetes mellitus itself is the main risk factor . it is concluded that all patients with diabetes mellitus should receive annual vaccinations and that , in official recommendations , patients with diabetes mellitus should be mentioned as a separate risk group . whole-virus vaccines are preferred over subunit vaccines . 
relationship of psychiatric illness to impotence in men with diabetes . clinical data from 37 adult males with diabetes mellitus ( insulin dependent , n = 22 ; non-insulin dependent , n = 15 ) who had undergone psychiatric diagnosis and peripheral nerve conduction studies were reviewed to determine whether psychiatric illness was significantly related to complaints of sexual dysfunction . main-effects testing revealed that impotence was associated with both neuropathy ( p less than 0.01 ) and psychiatric illness ( p less than 0.001 ) . logistic regression analysis was then used to determine the independent relationships of these two variables with impotence . after controlling for the effects of neuropathy , psychiatric illness ( generalized anxiety disorder and depression ) remained significantly associated with sexual dysfunction ( p less than 0.01 ) . these data allow for the hypothesis that psychiatric illness may be an important contributor to impotence in diabetic men , as it is in nondiabetic men , even when neuropathic complications of the disease are present . 
oral contraceptives in women with diabetes . we evaluated the association of oral contraceptive use with the presence and severity of diabetic retinopathy , hypertension , and glycosylated hemoglobin in women of childbearing age who have diabetes . neither current or past use nor number of years of use of oral contraceptives was associated with severity of retinopathy , hypertension , or current glycosylated hemoglobin . in conclusion , further study of various birth control methods in young women of childbearing age should be considered . 
comparison of hba1 and fructosamine in diagnosis of glucose-tolerance abnormalities . total glycosylated hemoglobin ( hba1 ) and fructosamine were evaluated as screening tools for detection of glucose-tolerance abnormalities in 144 asymptomatic subjects undergoing a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test . subjects were classified according to world health organization criteria as having normal ( n = 78 ) , impaired ( n = 40 ) , or diabetic ( n = 26 ) glucose tolerance . we found good specificity for hba1 and fructosamine ( 100 and 97 % , respectively ) but low sensitivity ( 15 and 19 % , respectively ) . at the intersection of the curves of sensitivity and specificity drawn from various thresholds of normality , both sensitivity and specificity were 75 % for hba1 and 55 % for fructosamine . thus , neither hba1 nor fructosamine seems to be suitable for the diagnosis of mild abnormalities in glucose tolerance . 
fertility after contraception or abortion . there is a very small correlation , if any , between the prior use of ocs and congenital malformations , including down 's syndrome . there are few , if any , recent reports on masculinization of a female fetus born to a mother who took an oc containing 1 mg of a progestogen during early pregnancy . however , patients suspected of being pregnant and who are desirous of continuing that pregnancy should not continue to take ocs , nor should progestogen withdrawal pregnancy tests be used . concern still exists regarding the occurrence of congenital abnormalities in babies born to such women . the incidence of postoperative infection after first trimester therapeutic abortion in this country is low . however , increasing numbers of women are undergoing repeated pregnancy terminations , and their risk for subsequent pelvic infections may be multiplied with each succeeding abortion . the incidence of prematurity due to cervical incompetence or surgical infertility after first trimester pregnancy terminations is not increased significantly . asherman 's syndrome may occur after septic therapeutic abortion . the pregnancy rate after treatment of this syndrome is low . the return of menses and the achievement of a pregnancy may be slightly delayed after ocs are discontinued , but the fertility rate is within the normal range by 1 year . the incidence of postpill amenorrhea of greater than 6 months ' duration is probably less than 1 % . the occurrence of the syndrome does not seem to be related to length of use or type of pill . patients with prior normal menses as well as those with menstrual abnormalities before use of ocs may develop this syndrome . patients with normal estrogen and gonadotropin levels usually respond with return of menses and ovulation when treated with clomiphene . the rate for achievement of pregnancy is much lower than that for patients with spontaneous return of menses . the criteria for defining pid or for categorizing its severity are diverse . the incidence of pid is higher among iud users than among patients taking ocs or using a barrier method . the excess risk of pid among iud users , with the exception of the first few months after insertion , is related to sexually transmitted diseases and not the iud . women with no risk factors for sexually transmitted diseases have little increased risk of pid or infertility associated with iud use . there appears to be no increased risk of congenital anomalies , altered sex ratio , or early pregnancy loss among spermicide users . all present methods of contraception entail some risk to the patient . the risk of imparied future fertility with the use of any method appears to be low . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
secondary hypogonadism in hemochromatosis . hemochromatosis is a rare disorder of iron storage . this report illustrates a case of hypogonadotropic-hypogonadism in a female with biopsy-proven hemochromatosis . dynamic pituitary and gonadal testing revealed subnormal gonadotropin responses to gonadotropin-releasing hormone ( gnrh ) but normal ovarian reserve , as shown by normal follicular stimulation with hmg . thus , abnormalities of ovulation and menstruation in patients with hemochromatosis are most likely because of inadequate pituitary responsiveness to gnrh . 
effect of hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia on intracellular glucose and fat metabolism in healthy subjects . hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia per se both stimulate glucose uptake and the disposal of glucose by oxidative ( gox ) and nonoxidative ( nox ) metabolism . however , the intracellular metabolic fate of glucose may not be the same when glucose uptake is stimulated predominantly by either of these mechanisms due to different effects on fat oxidation ( fox ) . to address this issue , 11 healthy subjects each had four glucose-clamp studies performed in combination with indirect calorimetry to compare gox , nox , and fox at two different rates of glucose uptake ( approximately 7 and 10 mg.kg-1 fat-free mass [ ffm ] . min-1 ) matched at each level by either hyperglycemia or hyperinsulinemia . when glucose uptake was matched at the lower rate ( 7 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 ) , there was less suppression of both ffa ( 33 vs. 43 % , p less than 0.05 ) and fox ( 73 vs. 90 % , p less than 0.05 ) and less stimulation of incremental ( above basal ) gox ( 1.95 vs. 2.49 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 , p less than 0.025 ) at low insulin ( 72 pm ) and hyperglycemia ( 21.8 mm ) compared with high insulin ( 280 pm ) and euglycemia ( 5.1 mm ) . matching glucose uptake at the higher rates ( 10 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 ) required greater than 300 pm of insulin ( 309 and 632 pm ) in both studies and resulted in maximal suppression of ffa ( 49 vs. 46 % , ns ) and fox ( both greater than 90 % , ns ) and similar incremental gox ( 2.89 vs. 2.73 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 , ns ) whether at hyperglycemia ( 15.7 mm ) or euglycemia ( 5.2 mm ) . therefore , both hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycemia stimulate glucose uptake and increase intracellular glucose availability , but insulin also regulates gox by suppression of ffa and fox . however , when ffa and fox are maximally suppressed , the rate of glucose uptake , rather than the prevailing insulin level , determines the distribution of intracellular glucose metabolism . 
occurrence of type vi collagen in extracellular matrix of renal glomeruli and its increase in diabetes . human and bovine glomerular basement membrane ( gbm ) preparations , representing the extracellular matrix of the renal filtration units , were found to contain type vi collagen . this protein was solubilized by guanidine and guanidine-dithiothreitol extractions and characterized after polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic resolution by immunoblotting with an antiserum directed against the alpha 1 ( vi ) and alpha 2 ( vi ) polypeptide chains and by its insensitivity to collagenase digestion in the nonreduced state . in contrast to gbm , which is the product of three distinct cells , type vi collagen could not be detected in extracts from calf lens capsule , an epithelial cell-derived basement membrane . quantitation by radioimmunoassay of the type vi collagen content of gbm from 17 diabetic and 15 nondiabetic human subjects indicated a 2.8-fold higher level ( p less than 0.001 ) in the diabetic preparations . because in the glomerulus type vi collagen is considered on the basis of immunohistochemistry to be localized to the mesangium , we believe that measurement of this protein in gbm preparations can provide a valuable index of mesangial expansion in diabetic and other glomerulopathies . 
effects of converting-enzyme inhibition on barrier function in diabetic glomerulopathy . differential solute clearances were used to examine the effects of a 90-day course of enalapril on glomerular barrier function in 16 proteinuric patients with diabetic glomerulopathy . by day 90 , plasma renin and prorenin became elevated , and arterial pressure declined . transglomerular passage of dextrans of broad size distribution ( radii 28-60 a ) was lowered significantly . in a subset of 8 patients , withdrawal of enalapril was followed after an additional 30 days by a return of renin levels and arterial pressure to pretreatment levels . the dextran-sieving profile also returned to baseline , becoming uniformly elevated above treated day-90 levels . a theoretical analysis of the serial dextran-sieving profiles indicated that enalapril shifted glomerular pore size distribution to smaller size . these changes in barrier size selectivity were associated with a reduction in fractional albumin and igg clearances during enalapril therapy and a subsequent rise in these quantities after its withdrawal ; urinary protein excretion rate tended to vary in parallel . we conclude that inhibition of converting enzyme in humans with established diabetic glomerulopathy diminishes glomerular permeability to proteins by enhancing barrier size selectivity . because neither enalapril therapy nor its withdrawal influenced the glomerular filtration or renal plasma flow rates significantly , we propose that the primary action of enalapril may be to modulate the intrinsic membrane properties of the glomerular barrier . 
interaction between insulin and glucose-delivery route in regulation of net hepatic glucose uptake in conscious dogs . in the presence of fixed basal levels of insulin , the route of intravenous glucose delivery ( protal vs. peripheral ) determines whether net hepatic glucose uptake ( nhgu ) occurs . our aims were to determine if the route of intravenous glucose delivery also plays a role in regulating nhgu in the presence of hyperinsulinemia and to determine if length of fast ( 18 vs. 36 h ) influences regulation of nhgu . five conscious dogs fasted 18 h were given somatostatin and replacement insulin ( 245 + / - 34 microu.kg-1 . min-1 ) and glucagon ( 0.65 ng.kg-1 . min-1 ) infusions intraportally . after a 40-min control period , the insulin infusion rate was increased fourfold , and glucose was infused for 3 h. glucose was given either through a peripheral vein or the portal vein for 90 min to double the glucose load reaching the liver . the order of infusions was randomized . nhgu was measured with the arterial - venous difference technique . insulin and glucagon levels were 12 + / - 2 , 35 + / - 6 , and 36 + / - 5 microu/ml and 55 + / - 12 , 61 + / - 13 , and 59 + / - 7 pg/ml during the control , peripheral , and portal infusions , respectively . the glucose infusion rate , the load of glucose reaching the liver , and the arterial-portal plasma glucose gradient were 0 , 9.58 + / - 2.28 , and 10.44 + / - 2.94 mg.kg-1 . min-1 ; 29.4 + / - 3.6 , 56.8 + / - 3.4 , and 56.8 + / - 2.8 mg.kg-1 . min-1 ; and 2 + / - 1 , 5 + / - 1 , and -51 + / - 15 mg/dl during the same periods . 
heart-rate variability and cardiac autonomic function in diabetes . cardiac autonomic function was measured in 25 subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and 11 control subjects . autonomic integrity was assessed with standard tests of autonomic function and a new technique of measuring heart-rate variability ( hrv ) for 24 h. all of the diabetic subjects were selected on the basis of peripheral or autonomic neuropathy or long-term poorly controlled diabetes . they were divided into groups according to presence or absence of vagal neuropathy based on the results of standard tests of autonomic function . thirteen diabetic subjects had normal autonomic function tests ( group 1 ) , and vagal neuropathy was detected in 12 diabetic subjects ( group 2 ) . all subjects were monitored by ambulatory electrocardiograph , and the recordings were played back through an analyzer that identified and timed successive pulse ( r-r ) intervals . hrv was measured from the standard deviation of the successive differences between r-r intervals . hrv was significantly reduced in group 1 ( mean + / - se 73 + / - 9 ms ) and group 2 ( 65 + / - 12 ms ) diabetic subjects compared with the control group ( 138 + / - 10 ms ) . the standard tests of autonomic function did not distinguish the vagal dysfunction noted with hrv monitoring in group 1 diabetic subjects compared with control subjects . measurement of 24-h hrv can detect small changes in cardiac autonomic function compared with currently available tests . 
increased transcapillary escape rate of albumin in nondiabetic men in response to hyperinsulinemia . diabetic patients manifest increased vascular permeability . to determine whether insulin per se might increase vascular permeability , five nondiabetic men were studied by the hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp technique . each subject received a 0.72-nmol / kg body wt i.v. insulin bolus , followed by a 72-pmol . kg-1 . min-1 insulin infusion for 4 h. euglycemia was maintained by the biostator glucose controller . at 7 h of study , 10 microci i.v. 125i-labeled albumin was injected as bolus dose . frequent blood samples were drawn during the next 70 min for determination of the transcapillary escape rate ( ter ) of albumin . subjects returned 1-2 wk later for a control study , during which 0.45 % saline was infused at a rate identical to the dextrose and insulin infusion rates during the hyperinsulinemic clamp . the mean + / - se serum insulin levels during the hyperinsulinemic clamp and saline infusion were 9786 + / - 126 and 46 + / - 4 pm , respectively , whereas serum glucose during the two sessions was similar ( 5.0 + / - 0.2 vs. 4.8 + / - 0.1 mm , ns ) . identical fluid volumes were infused during the two sessions ( 1767 + / - 197 ml/7 h ) , and urine outputs did not differ significantly ( 1615 + / - 309 vs. 1035 + / - 248 ml/7 h ) . the ter of albumin was greater in all five men after hyperinsulinemia than after saline infusion ( 18.3 + / - 2.7 vs. -2.8 + / - 2.3 % / h , p = 0.01 ) . 
actions of novel antidiabetic agent englitazone in hyperglycemic hyperinsulinemic ob/ob mice . the effects of cp 68722 ( racemic englitazone ) were examined in ob/ob mice , in adipocytes and soleus muscles from ob/ob mice , and in 3t3-l1 adipocytes . administration of englitazone at 5-50 mg.kg-1 . day-1 lowered plasma glucose and insulin dose dependently without producing frank hypoglycemia in either the diabetic or nondiabetic lean animals . the glucose-lowering effect in ob/ob mice preceded the reduction in hyperinsulinemia . on cessation of drug , plasma insulin returned to untreated levels within 48 h , whereas plasma glucose rose slowly over 5 days . englitazone ( 50 mg/kg ) for 11 days lowered plasma glucose ( 22.2 + / - 1.4 to 14.0 + / - 1.9 mm ) , insulin ( 7.57 + / - 0.67 to 1.64 + / - 0.60 nm ) , nonesterified fatty acids ( 1813 + / - 86 to 914 + / - 88 microm ) , glycerol ( 9.20 + / - 0.98 to 4.94 + / - 0.03 mm ) , triglycerides ( 1.99 + / - 0.25 to 1.03 + / - 0.11 g/l ) , and cholesterol ( 6.27 + / - 0.96 to 3.87 + / - 0.57 mm ) , but no effects were observed 3 h after a single dose . basal and insulin-stimulated lipogenesis were enhanced in adipocytes from ob/ob mice treated with 50 mg/kg englitazone for 11 days compared with lipogenesis in cells from vehicle-treated controls . treatment of ob/ob mice with 50 mg/kg englitazone reversed the defects in insulin-stimulated glycolysis ( from [ 3-3h ] glucose ) and glycogenesis and basal glucose oxidation ( from [ 1-14c ] glucose ) in isolated soleus muscles . englitazone ( 30 microm ) stimulated 2-deoxy-d-glucose transport in 3t3-l1 adipocytes from 0.37 + / - 0.03 to 0.65 + / - 0.06 and 1.53 nmol.min-1 . mg-1 protein at 24 and 48 h , respectively . thus , englitazone has 1 ) insulinomimetic and insulin-enhancing actions in vitro and 2 ) glucose - , insulin - , triglyceride - , and cholesterol-lowering properties in an animal model of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) in which sulfonylureas have little or no effect . thus , this new agent may have beneficial effects including a reduced risk of hypoglycemia in patients with niddm . 
mutation of the signal peptide-encoding region of the preproparathyroid hormone gene in familial isolated hypoparathyroidism . preproparathyroid hormone ( prepropth ) gene mutation has been proposed as a cause of familial isolated hypoparathyroidism ( fih ) . we cloned the prepropth alleles of a patient with autosomal dominant fih and sequenced the coding regions , 5 ' flanking regions , and splice junctions . the putatively abnormal ( based on previous linkage studies ) allele differed from the other allele 's normal sequence at only one nucleotide . this t to c point mutation changes the codon for position 18 of the 31 amino acid prepro sequence from cysteine to arginine , disrupting the hydrophobic core of the signal sequence . because the hydrophobic core is required by secreted proteins for efficient translocation across the endoplasmic reticulum , the mutant protein is likely to be inefficiently processed . indeed , in vitro studies demonstrated dramatically impaired processing of the mutant prepropth to propth . in summary , we observed a point mutation in the signal peptide-encoding region of a prepropth gene in one fih kindred and demonstrated a functional defect caused by the mutation . mutation of the signal sequence constitutes a novel pathophysiologic mechanism in man , and further study may yield important insights both into this form of hormone deficiency and into the role of signal sequences in human physiology . 
total parathyroidectomy and autotransplantation in hyperplasia of the parathyroid gland . hyperparathyroidism caused by multiple-gland hyperplasia has traditionally been treated by subtotal parathyroidectomy . excellent results have been reported by some , particularly in primary hyperparathyroidism , but other have reported a significant incidence of recurrent hyperparathyroidism . since 1979 , we have chosen to avoid the possibility of remedial exploration of the neck and its attendant risks by treating all patients with primary and secondary hyperplasia with total parathyroidectomy and heterotopic autotransplantation . a total of 20 patients were studied . there were no failures of grafts and no operative complications . we conclude that this procedure is a reliable and safe alternative in the treatment of primary or secondary hyperplasia of the parathyroid gland . 
surgical management of islet cell dysmaturation syndrome in young children . islet cell dysmaturation syndrome ( icds ) encompasses the causes of infantile hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia histologically described as islet cell hyperplasia , pancreatic adenomatosis and nesidioblastosis . eleven infants underwent 14 pancreatic resections for icds from 1965 to 1990 at the university of california at los angeles medical center for severe hypoglycemia unresponsive to medical therapy . seizures were the presenting symptoms of hypoglycemia in eight infants . six patients had nesidioblastosis , four had islet cell hyperplasia and one patient had an adenoma with histologically normal pancreatic islet cells . four neonates underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection ; three with nesidioblastosis required reoperation ( 90 to 95 per cent resection ) . four older infants underwent 80 per cent pancreatic resection but required diazoxide for less than six months postoperatively . three infants underwent 90 to 95 per cent pancreatic resection . none have required reoperation or postoperative medications . all infants are normoglycemic without pancreatic exocrine insufficiency and none had postoperative complications . five infants had preoperative neurologic impairment , with three having severe retardation ; all showed some improvement postoperatively , but only one infant now has normal findings on neurologic examination . early diagnosis and aggressive surgical resection should minimize neurologic complications of the icds . 
follicular cell predominance in the cytologic examination of dominant thyroid nodules indicates a sixty percent incidence of neoplasia . the interpretation of aspiration cytologic smears that contain a predominance of follicular components often presents a dilemma to the clinician who is treating a patient who has a dominant thyroid nodule , especially when thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression does not produce any significant involution of the dominant nodule . we reviewed a consecutive series of 555 fine-needle aspiration cytologic examinations of dominant thyroid nodules . all specimens that contained colloid or follicular cells mixed with lymphocytes or hurthle cells were excluded from this review . additionally , nine aspirates contained degenerated follicular cells with insufficient material for cytologic diagnosis . the remaining 76 specimens contained a predominance of follicular cells : 27 specimens were interpreted as containing " normal " follicular cells , and the remaining 49 specimens were read as " atypical " follicular cells . histopathologic examination of the resected specimens indicated a 60 % incidence of neoplasia ( 30 % carcinoma , 30 % adenoma ) in which the aspiration cytologic study was interpreted as " normal " follicular cells . on the other hand , a 63 % incidence of neoplasia ( 27 % carcinoma , 36 % adenoma ) occurred in which the cytologic study was read as " atypical . " in conclusion , aspirates showing a predominance of follicular cells , whether " normal " or " atypical " indicate a 60 % incidence of neoplasia in dominant thyroid nodules that do not decrease significantly in size with thyroid-stimulating hormone suppression . 
intraoperative parathormone level measurement in the management of hyperparathyroidism . to investigate the potential use of intraoperative intact parathormone measurements to predict curative parathyroidectomy , we measured ionized calcium ( cai ) levels and parathormone levels in 33 patients with hyperparathyroidism who underwent exploratory bilateral neck surgery . nineteen patients each had a solitary adenoma , 13 patients had hyperplasia , and one patient had four normal parathyroid glands . these results were compared to the results for 37 patients who underwent either thyroid lobectomy ( tl ) ( n = 10 ) or near-total thyroidectomy ( ntt ) ( n = 27 ) and of 14 control patients who underwent miscellaneous operations . parathormone decline after curative parathyroidectomy was 86.4 + / - 1.2 % ( mean + / - se ) , which was significantly greater than a decline of 25.7 % + / - 9.8 % in three patients with persistent postoperative hyperparathyroidism ( p less than 0.01 ) . declines were 38.5 % + / - 8.7 % after tl ( p less than 0.01 ) , 52.2 % + / - 5.9 % after ntt ( p less than 0.01 ) , and 8.3 % + / - 4.3 % ( p less than 0.01 ) , in the control patients . an intraoperative cai decline of 4.0 % + / - 0.6 % after curative parathyroidectomy did not differ significantly from the results after tl , ntt , or miscellaneous operations in the control patients . patients with persistent postoperative hyperparathyroidism had the greatest decline in cai levels ( 7.1 % + / - 2.3 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . from these data we conclude that ( 1 ) a decline in parathormone level of 70 % or more 20 minutes after parathyroidectomy is predictive of cure , ( 2 ) thyroidectomy , even unilaterally , produces a significant decline in parathormone level that affects interpretation of intraoperative parathormone level changes , ( 3 ) cai level because of its slow decline is not useful in predicting effective parathyroidectomy , and ( 4 ) measurement of intraoperative parathormone level changes should not be used as a substitute for exploratory bilateral neck surgery . 
leukoaraiosis , intracerebral hemorrhage , and arterial hypertension . to investigate whether the observed association of leukoaraiosis with intracerebral hemorrhage is direct or mediated by risk factors , we compared 116 patients with intracerebral hemorrhage confirmed by computed tomography and 155 controls without intracerebral hemorrhage , evaluating the prevalence of leukoaraiosis and vascular risk factors . leukoaraiosis was observed in 21 ( 18 % ) of the 116 patients and in 12 ( 8 % ) of the 155 controls ( p less than 0.01 ) . only two ( 6 % ) of the 31 patients with lobar hemorrhage had leukoaraiosis on computed tomograms , compared with 17 ( 24 % ) of the 71 patients with basal ganglionic hemorrhage ( p less than 0.05 ) . leukoaraiosis was significantly correlated with intracerebral hemorrhage after controlling for age and sex by using multiple logistic regression analysis , while the correlation disappeared after controlling for hypertension . our results indicate that leukoaraiosis is not an independent risk factor for intracerebral hemorrhage . 
risk factors for white matter changes detected by magnetic resonance imaging in the elderly . we found increased age ( p = 0.001 ) and history or evidence of stroke ( p = 0.016 ) to be significant independent multivariate predictors of the presence and severity of leukoencephalopathy on magnetic resonance imaging brain scans in a mixed population of 35 elderly psychiatric patients and 25 neurologically healthy elderly volunteers . these results suggest that subcortical ischemia , as well as age-related changes that may not be vascular in origin , contribute to the emergence of periventricular and other deep white matter hyperintensities that are commonly seen on the magnetic resonance imaging brain scans of older adults . 
patient-related variables and restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty -- a report from the m-heart group . as part of a randomized prospective study designed to investigate the restenosis process after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) , the relation between patient-related variables and restenosis rate was examined . a total of 722 patients had successful ptca . angiographic follow-up was scheduled for 6 + / - 2 months after the procedure and achieved in 510 patients ( 71 % ) , yielding 598 lesions for analysis . the overall restenosis rate was 40 % . the rate was higher in patients undergoing early restudy for a clinical event than in those undergoing routinely scheduled follow-up restudy ( 71 vs 22 % , p less than 0.0001 ) . age , sex , cigarette smoking history , diabetes mellitus and history of previous myocardial infarction were not associated with restenosis rate . angina duration and severity before ptca were also unrelated to restenosis rate . in summary , these variables , many of which have been previously implicated in restenosis , were not found to be predictors of restenosis . the decision to perform ptca in individual patients should not be negatively influenced by the presence of these factors . 
circadian rhythmicity of rate-normalized qt interval in hypothyroidism and its significance for development of class iii antiarrhythmic agents . lengthening of repolarization and refractoriness occurs in hypothyroidism ; it is associated with a reduced probability of arrhythmias , with the converse occurring in hyperthyroidism . because the qt interval and its circadian rhythmicity relative to heart rate is poorly defined in man , we used our new computer-assisted technique to measure qt interval in our analysis of 24-hour holter tapes before and after ( 8 to 12 weeks ) thyroxine ( t4 ) replacement in 10 patients with hypothyroidism ; the findings were compared to those in 6 normal control subjects . qtc interval was prolonged ( p less than 0.02 ) and heart rate decreased ( p less than 0.005 ) during the hypothyroid state . data were analyzed for circadian rhythmicity by repeated-measures analysis . circadian variation in qtc and heart rate was statistically significant during hypothyroid and euthyroid states ( p less than 0.001 ) as well as in control subjects , but the circadian rhythmicity of qtc interval and heart rate were out of phase ; the maximum prolongation of qtc occurred between midnight and 6 a.m. , at a time when heart was at its lowest . qtc interval remained significantly prolonged after 8 to 12 weeks of t4 replacement , when biochemical indexes of hypothyroidism had returned to normal values . the computer-assisted qtc interval determination technique that we used , and our data on the circadian rhythmicity of qtc and heart rate , have significant implications for the development of new class iii antiarrhythmic agents . 
free alpha subunit of the pituitary glycoprotein hormones . measurement in serum and tissue of patients with pituitary tumors . a solid-phase radioimmunoassay was developed that measures the free alpha subunits of pituitary glycoprotein hormones ( alpha pgphs ) and has negligible cross-reactivity with the intact hormones ( less than 0.014 % for thyroid-stimulating hormone [ tsh ] , less than 0.1 % for human chorionic gonadotropin [ hcg ] , 0.8 % for luteinizing hormone [ lh ] , and 2.0 % for follicle-stimulating hormone [ fsh ] ) . the assay is standardized with the alpha subunit of hcg but also reacts well with the alpha subunits of the other glycoprotein hormones ( 84 % for alpha tsh , 77 % for alpha fsh , and 64 % for alpha lh ) . concentrations as low as 0.3 micrograms/l can be reliably measured , and the 97.5 % reference range in 27 healthy adults , including postmenopausal females , is less than or equal to 1.2 micrograms/l . elevated preoperative alpha pgph concentrations were found in 45 ( 9.4 % ) of 479 sera from patients with pituitary adenoma and 3 ( 4.5 % ) of 66 patients with nonadenomatous sellar lesions . postoperative alpha pgph levels were lower in 30 of 39 adenoma patients and 2 of 3 nonadenoma patients . in five ( 1 % ) of the patients with pituitary adenomas , alpha pgph was the only elevated serum hormone marker . serum values of alpha pgph correlate weakly with alpha subunit immunocytochemical staining -- 95 % of those with negative staining have normal alpha pgph values , but only 18 % of those with positive staining have elevated alpha pgph values . 
thymic hyperplasia . a clue to the diagnosis of hyperthyroidism . the association of simultaneous abnormalities of the thyroid and thymus is well documented , particularly in the case of graves ' disease . we present a case of a natural death following thyroid storm in which marked thymic hyperplasia was present . this finding can be helpful in determining the cause of death . 
liver pathology in morbidly obese patients with and without diabetes . the contribution of obesity and/or diabetes to liver pathology in the morbidly obese patient is controversial . we studied the liver biopsies of 100 consecutive patients undergoing gastric bypass surgery for morbid obesity . multiple morphologic parameters were analyzed and graded independently , without knowledge of the clinical history , liver function tests , and oral glucose tolerance results of the patients . six percent of the entire group demonstrated no fat , 42 % mild fat , 20 % moderate fat , and 24 % severe fatty metamorphosis of the liver . twenty-three percent of the patients had central vein fibrosis , 23 % sinusoidal fibrosis , 19 % bridging fibrosis , and 4 % cirrhosis . thirty-six percent of the patients had some degree of steatohepatitis , 66 % possessed so-called glycogen nuclei of hepatocytes , 6 % had pas-positive thickening of blood vessels in the portal tracts , and 1 % had lipogranulomas . the degree of fatty metamorphosis and fibrosis was analyzed in three separate groups , categorized by the glycemic status of the patient : 46 patients with normal glucose tolerance ( ngt ) , 23 patients with impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) , and 31 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) . increasing severity of fatty metamorphosis from the normoglycemic obese to the diabetic obese patients was found , which was statistically significant by chi 2 analysis . four of the six patients showing no fatty metamorphosis were normoglycemic . glycogen nuclei and pas-positive blood vessels were significantly more prevalent in the diabetic obese than in the normal obese . in conclusion , the distribution of significant liver histopathology in the morbidly obese patient correlates in severity with the degree of impaired glycemic status . 
hyperkalemia in the elderly . physiologic and pathologic events that occur in patients as they grow older may result in distal renal tubular dysfunction , as well as decreased levels of plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone . such alterations result in a tendency toward hyperkalemia . a syndrome termed hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism , associated with hyperkalemia , has been frequently described in elderly patients . the common occurrence of hyperkalemia in the elderly may be aggravated by the use of drugs that either further suppress renin and/or aldosterone or interfere with distal tubular potassium excretion . some patients with hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism respond to diuretic therapy . the recognition of the possible development of severe hyperkalemia in the elderly patient may avoid serious and even fatal complications of this electrolyte disorder . 
geriatric diabetic nephropathy : an analysis of renal referral in patients age 60 or older . we report a series of 33 consecutive hospitalized geriatric diabetic patients who were referred for evaluation of diabetic nephropathy , defined as proteinuria greater than or equal to 1 g/d ( 1,000 mg/24 h ) or a serum creatinine concentration greater than or equal to 177 mumol/d ( greater than or equal to 2 mg/dl ) . the study population was 60 years old or older ( mean age , 68 + / - 6 years ) , was comprised mainly of women ( 24 of 33 , 72.7 % ) , and was predominantly black ( 25 of 33 , 75.8 % ) . all patients had type ii diabetes . a family history of diabetes in parent or sibling was elicited in 24 ( 72.7 % ) patients . there were eight patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis and 25 with less severe nephropathy ( mean proteinuria , 2.7 g/d [ 2,700 mg/24 h ] ; mean creatinine clearance , 0.57 ml-s [ 34 ml/min ] ) . cardiac disorders were noted in the majority of patients : congestive failure in 20 ( 60.6 % ) , myocardial infarction in eight ( 24.2 % ) , and active angina in five ( 15.2 % ) . other comorbid diseases were present in both hemodialysis patients and the subset of nondialyzed azotemic-proteinuric patients , and consisted of peripheral neuropathy in 31 ( 93.9 % ) , gastroparesis in 16 ( 48.5 % ) , retinopathy in 28 ( 84.8 % ) , and legal blindness in 11 ( 33 % ) . we conclude that geriatric diabetic nephropathy in type ii diabetes is similar in presentation and severity of comorbid extrarenal complications to the syndrome described in younger adults . this inference must be tempered by both the small size and the limitation imposed by the demographics of the study population , which is predominantly composed of black patients receiving treatment at inner city hospitals . 
diabetes mellitus and hypertension . hypertension and diabetes mellitus are chronic medical conditions that frequently coexist . in the united states , it is estimated that 10 million persons suffer from diabetes mellitus , 60 million from hypertension , and 3 million from the combination of the two . there may be a causal relationship between hypertension and diabetes . obesity may be a precipitating factor for both hypertension and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . those with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus generally become hypertensive only with the onset of nephropathy . glucose tolerance , insulin resistance , and hyperinsulinemia frequently occur with essential hypertension and may be aggravated by hypertension therapy , especially with diuretics and beta-blockers . hyperinsulinemia may be an important common factor promoting sodium retention , sympathetic nervous system stimulation , and inhibition of the sodium pump . the working group on hypertension in diabetes has outlined a flexible modified version of the stepped-care approach to the treatment of hypertension in diabetes . management is complex because diabetes is associated with autonomic neuropathy , sexual dysfunction , hyperlipidemia , and fluid and electrolyte disorders . all these problems can be exacerbated by antihypertensive treatment . nonpharmacologic measures , which address weight reduction and sodium restriction , are logical , but aggressive antihypertensive medication is invariably necessary . diuretics and/or beta-blockers were the mainstay of treatment until the introduction of angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibitors and calcium channel blockers . these newer agents have no deleterious effects on carbohydrate metabolism and are generally better tolerated . antihypertensive therapy may slow the rate of deterioration in diabetic nephropathy . this was first shown with diuretics , beta-blockers , and hydralazine and more recently with ace inhibitors , which provide effective blood pressure control and a significant drop in albuminuria without affecting the glomerular filtration rate adversely . ace inhibition may also lead to increased insulin sensitivity and glucose disposal rate . long-term trials are needed to assess the effects of these new agents on the treatment of hypertension in the diabetic population . 
definitive localization of x-linked kallman syndrome ( hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia ) to xp22 .3 : close linkage to the hypervariable repeat sequence cri-s232 [ published erratum appears in am j hum genet 1990 nov ; 47 ( 5 ) :883 ] kallmann syndrome is a genetically heterogeneous disease characterized by hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia . six families in which the disorder followed an x-linked inheritance were investigated by linkage analysis . diagnostic criteria were uniformly applied and included tests for hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia . close linkage was found by using the hypervariable repeated sequence cri-s232 ( dxs278 ) previously mapped to xp22 .3 . at a maximum lod score of 6.5 , the recombination fraction was calculated as .03 . of 30 fully informative meioses , one recombination between the disease locus and the loci recognized by probe cri-s232 was observed . when an independent approach is used , these results confirm the x-linked kallmann syndrome assignment previously made by deletion mapping , and allow definitive localization of the syndrome assignment previously made by deletion mapping , and allow definitive localization of the syndrome to the xp22 .3 region . this opens the way to carrier detection and to the identification of a gene responsible for this disorder . 
effect of dietary protein restriction on functional renal reserve in diabetic nephropathy . purpose , patients , and methods : functional renal reserve in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , as determined by the glomerular filtration rate ( gfr ) response test , is a measure of the capacity of the kidney to increase glomerular filtration in response to the stimulus of a protein meal or amino acid infusion . this 12-month study evaluated the changes in functional renal reserve in eight patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with nephropathy ( micro-albuminuria [ greater than or equal to 30 micrograms/minute ] ) who chronically decreased their dietary protein intake to a mean of 0.6 g/kg/day ( group 1 ) compared with a group of similar patients ( n = 7 ) who maintained their unusual dietary protein intake ( 1.0 g/kg/day , group 2 ) . patients were evaluated and measurements taken at 3 - , 6 - , and 12-month intervals . absolute and percent increases in gfr were calculated from three averaged 1-hour measurements after an 80-g protein test meal . results : although the initial absolute mean rise ( 14 + / - 12 versus 18 + / - 13 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 ) in gfr and maximal percent rise ( 16 % + / - 16 % versus 32 % + / - 27 % ) after the meal did not differ significantly between the two groups , at 12 months , values in the lower protein group increased ( 27.8 + / - 9.5 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 and 54.7 % + / - 48.8 % ) , whereas those in the normal protein intake group declined significantly ( 3.7 + / - 3.6 ml/min-ute/1 .73 m2 and 6.5 % + / - 6.5 % ) ( p less than 0.05 ) . both urine urea and microalbuminuria decreased significantly ( p less than 0.05 ) in the low protein group . unstimulated gfr at the end of 12 months was significantly less ( p less than 0.05 ) in group 2 ( 47 + / - 2 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 ) than in group 1 ( 71 + / - 21 ml/minute/1 .73 m2 ) . the rate of decline in gfr was significantly greater ( p less than 0.05 ) in the normal protein intake group than in the low protein intake group ( 0.68 + / - 0.4 versus 0.28 + / - 0.15 ml/minute/1 .73 m2/month ) . conclusions : this study indicates that sustained dietary protein restriction can help to preserve renal function , decrease albuminuria , and lower the baseline gfr while maintaining functional renal reserve in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus . 
magnetic resonance imaging of radiation optic neuropathy . three patients with delayed radiation optic neuropathy after radiation therapy for parasellar neoplasms underwent magnetic resonance imaging . the affected optic nerves and chiasms showed enlargement and focal gadopentetate dimeglumine enhancement . the magnetic resonance imaging technique effectively detected and defined anterior visual pathway changes of radionecrosis and excluded the clinical possibility of visual loss because of tumor recurrence . 
thyroid function and ultrasonically determined thyroid size in patients receiving long-term lithium treatment . thyroid function was investigated in 100 manic-depressive patients . goiter was more common in patients treated with lithium for 1-5 years ( 44 % ) or more than 10 years ( 50 % ) than in patients who never received lithium ( 16 % ) . smoking contributed significantly to thyroid size and goiter . in nonsmoking patients , ultrasonically determined thyroid volume was significantly related to treatment duration . the mechanism behind this increased thyroid volume is unclear , as most patients had normal serum thyrotropin levels and no thyroid autoimmunity . subclinical or overt hypothyroidism was found in 4 % and 21 % of patients treated for 1-5 and more than 10 years , respectively . since few hypothyroid patients had autoimmunity or goiter , lithium may affect the thyroid gland directly . 
initial failure of surgical exploration in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism . to determine the causes of failures of cervical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism , we reviewed 892 patients operated on by one surgeon from 1953 to 1990 . twenty-seven patients ( 3 % ) remained hypercalcemic or developed hypercalcemia within 6 months of surgery . of these , five patients had one adenoma removed initially ; at reoperation , three patients had a second adenoma that was successfully removed , whereas the other two patients had hyperplasia and required subtotal parathyroidectomies . no enlarged parathyroid glands were identified in 22 patients . eventually , six patients became normocalcemic spontaneously , seven patients underwent re-exploration with a successful outcome in all but one case , two patients had ectopic hyperparathyroidism associated with carcinoma elsewhere , and seven patients refused reoperation and remain hypercalcemic . the failure rate of surgical exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism can be reduced by systematically exploring all four parathyroid glands . all abnormal parathyroids should be removed with histologic verification . when no abnormal glands are found , localization studies should be performed before re-exploration . 
results of surgical treatment for hyperparathyroidism associated with renal disease . recently , the role and timing of surgery for treating secondary and tertiary hyperparathyroidism ( hpt ) have been questioned . in order to delineate the indications for surgery in these patients , a retrospective analysis of 53 consecutive patients treated with parathyroidectomy was conducted . subtotal thyroidectomy was done in 37 of 45 patients undergoing their initial operations for hpt . eight additional patients were referred after failed operations . of 33 patients with preoperative bone pain , 70 % improved . joint pain improved in 87 % of 30 patients , pruritus improved in 81 % of 27 patients , and preoperative malaise improved in 73 % of 33 patients after parathyroidectomy . abdominal pain and irritated eyes were unlikely to improve . the best predictors of a successful outcome were a markedly elevated preoperative immunoreactive parathyroid hormone ( mid-region ) level and an elevated alkaline phosphatase level . there were no perioperative deaths . one patient ( 1.6 % ) had a recurrent laryngeal nerve injury , and one patient required reoperation for a neck hematoma . no patient had permanent hypoparathyroidism , but transient hypocalcemia ( less than 7 mg/dl ) occurred in 22 % . postoperative hypocalcemia correlated with elevated preoperative alkaline phosphatase levels ( r2 = 0.247 ) . 
urgent management of a giant scrotal hernia . an unusual case of giant scrotal hernia is presented . hernias of this magnitude are extremely rare , even in underdeveloped countries , and their repair is challenging to the surgeon and stressful to the patient . only a few case reports on the use of pneumoperitoneum prior to herniorrhaphy have been published ; however , our patient 's accompanying complications of diabetes mellitus and gastrointestinal symptoms precluded the use of pneumoperitoneum . the emergency management , including the expansion of the abdominal cavity with prosthesis , the ensuing postoperative complications , and the patient outcome , are discussed . 
relation of hyperglycemia early in ischemic brain infarction to cerebral anatomy , metabolism , and clinical outcome . we studied the relation of serum glucose level measured in the first 12 hours of symptoms to the clinical findings , results of computed tomography ( ct ) , and patterns of cerebral metabolism in 39 patients who had acute ischemic cerebral infarction . structural damage was assessed by ct . metabolic disruption was assessed using 18f-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography ( pet ) . median initial serum glucose concentration was 155 mg/dl ( 6.7 mm ) . clinical recovery was significantly poorer in patients with initial serum glucose levels higher than the median ( p less than 0.05 , chi square ) . pet tended to show normal results or minor abnormalities in patients with initial glucose levels less than the median , as opposed to lobar or multilobe abnormalities in patients with levels that were higher than the median ( p less than 0.05 , kendall 's tau b ) . the severity of hypometabolism in the ischemic region , expressed as the percent asymmetry of local cerebral glucose metabolism between homologous brain regions , was greater in patients with initial glycemia concentrations higher than the median ( p less than 0.001 , t test ) . relationships of serum glucose level with metabolic derangement and structural damage , but not outcome , held true in patients without a history of diabetes mellitus . 
morbidity , mortality , and quality of life for patients treated with levothyroxine in a population study of 1462 middle-aged women initiated in 1968 and 1969 we identified 29 women treated with levothyroxine from 1 to 28 years . in a 12-year follow-up in 1980 and 1981 we investigated the subjects for end-point myocardial infarction , diabetes mellitus , stroke , cancer , and death ( the status of 99.7 % of the initial participants was established ) . the women treated with levothyroxine showed no increase in morbidity or mortality . of the 24 women still receiving levothyroxine in 1980 and 1981 , 22 had serum thyrotropin and triiodothyronine concentrations with-in reference limits . these individuals were compared with the 968 women from the population study having no history of thyroid disease , and appeared identical as to laboratory and clinical data , with the exception of a slightly higher body mass , taller stature , and lower serum cholesterol concentration . the treated group did not differ in a life quality estimate based on 19 questions regarding life satisfaction and sensory function . we conclude that the levothyroxine-treated woman suffers no side effects from her life-long therapy . 
lipoprotein and apolipoprotein levels in subclinical hypothyroidism . effect of levothyroxine therapy . to assess whether subclinical hypothyroidism is associated with changes in lipoprotein fractions , 13 patients maintained in a stable state of subclinical hypothyroidism for at least 3 months were studied prior to and 2 and 4 months following restoration of a euthyroid state with incremental levothyroxine sodium therapy . thyrotropin levels ( + / - sem ) had decreased from 16.6 + / - 3.2 mu/l to 3.1 + / - 0.7 mu/l and 3.2 + / - 0.7 mu/l at 2 months and 4 months . at 2 months , levothyroxine treatment led to a decrease in levels of total cholesterol from 5.5 + / - 0.3 mmol/l ( 213 + / - 12 mg/dl ) to 4.8 + / - 0.3 mmol/l ( 186 + / - 12 mg/dl ) , in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( ldl-c ) from 3.7 + / - 0.3 mmol/l ( 143 + / - 12 mg/dl ) to 2.9 + / - 0.3 mmol/l ( 112 + / - 12 mg/dl ) , and in apolipoprotein b from 91 + / - 8 mg/dl to 74 + / - 7 mg/dl . at 4 months , levels of ldl-c and apolipoprotein b remained significantly lower than pretreatment values ( 2.9 + / - 0.2 mmol/l [ 112 + / - 8 mg/dl ] and 75 + / - 6 mg/dl , respectively ) . while high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( hdl-c ) , hdl3-c , and apolipoprotein a-i were not significantly affected by levothyroxine therapy , there was a slight trend of increase in hdl2-c during levothyroxine substitution . there was also a tendency for a decrease in triglyceride levels from 1.3 + / - 0.2 mmol/l ( 115 + / - 18 mg/dl ) to 0.9 + / - 0.1 mmol/l ( 80 + / - 9 mg/dl ) at 4 months of levothyroxine therapy . levels of hdl-c tended to decrease from 4.8 + / - 0.4 mmol/l ( 186 + / - 15 mg/dl ) to 4.5 + / - 0.5 mmol/l ( 174 + / - 19 mg/dl ) at 2 months and to 3.9 + / - 0.4 mmol/l ( 151 + / - 15 mg/dl ) at 4 months . the ldl-c/hdl-c ratio also decreased from 3.3 + / - 0.3 mmol/l ( 128 + / - 12 mg/dl ) to 2.9 + / - 0.5 mmol/l ( 112 + / - 19 mg/dl ) and 2.5 + / - 0.3 mmol/l ( 97 + / - 12 mg/dl ) at 2 months and 4 months , respectively . these results suggest that long-term levothyroxine therapy in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism is associated with a decrease in ldl-c and apolipoprotein b levels that are reflected in a trend of decreases in cholesterol/hdl-c and ldl-c/hdl-c ratios known to have a relationship with coronary artery disease . 
solid and cystic ultimobranchial body remnants in the thyroid . in this study we determined the incidence rate ( 89 % ) and characterized the morphology of ultimobranchial body ( ubb ) remnants found in 18 serially sectioned neonatal thyroid glands . although ubb remnants are often referred to as solid cell nests , we found cystic features in 55 % . ciliated columnar cells were seen in 23 % . one contained a large pseudo-papilla . the ubb cells had nuclei with features reminiscent of papillary carcinoma nuclei in that they were enlarged , oval , and contained finely dispersed chromatin when compared with follicular cell nuclei . both papillary carcinomas and ubb remnants are common , occur as tiny , solid , or cystic thyroid entities in patients of all ages , may contain papillary structures , and share some common nuclear features . therefore , it is important to include ubb remnants in the differential diagnosis of minute thyroid entities and to recognize their morphologic features . 
long-term function of persons with atherosclerotic bilateral below-knee amputation living in the inner city . long-term function of 24 elderly persons with atherosclerotic bilateral below-knee amputation living in an inner city for at least six months after the second amputation , was determined . twenty-one ( 87.6 % ) subjects were living at home ; three were living in nursing homes . fourteen ( 70 % ) of 20 subjects who received bilateral prostheses were ambulators . at interview , the mean age was 75.2 years ; 4.87 years was the mean time since the second amputation . ten ( 50 % ) subjects remained ambulatory . among the other ten who received prosthesis , loss of ambulation occurred mostly due to medical factors , at an average of 3.47 years after the second amputation . those no longer ambulatory were older and " sicker , " and the interval between amputations was shorter . fifteen ( 62.5 % ) subjects were independent in dressing , 14 ( 58.4 % ) in toileting , and only nine ( 33.3 % ) in bathing . all but one subject required housekeeping assistance . the anticipated effect on function of environmental and socioeconomic factors could not be demonstrated in this sample . survival time and retention of ambulatory skills for an average of nine years after the second amputation in eight ( 33.3 % ) subjects who died before the end of the study was longer than previously described . the high rate of success in rehabilitation and in maintenance of ambulatory skills fully justifies intensive restorative efforts for this group of amputees . 
the operative management of coexisting thyroid and parathyroid disease . three hundred eight patients who underwent operation for hyperparathyroidism were studied . fifty-two ( 17 % ) were identified who had a concomitant thyroid nodule . all 52 underwent parathyroidectomy and thyroid resection in a single operation . eleven of these patients ( 21 % of those with a thyroid nodule ) had differentiated thyroid cancer . one patient with parathyroid hyperplasia developed permanent hypocalcemia . none had permanent vocal cord paralysis and none required tracheostomy . thorough visual inspection and palpation of the entire thyroid gland should be performed during operations for hyperparathyroidism . incidentally discovered thyroid nodules should prompt formal lobectomy with frozen section diagnosis ; unanticipated thyroid malignancies should then be treated as independent entities . treating simultaneous hyperparathyroidism and nodular thyroid disease with a single operation can be done safely ; it avoids the expense and risk associated with neck reexploration and can detect unsuspected cancers . 
x-linked spinal muscular atrophy ( kennedy 's syndrome ) . a kindred with hypobetalipoproteinemia . kennedy 's syndrome , x-linked adult-onset bulbospinal muscular atrophy , has been described in over 30 families . the characteristic distribution of weakness creates a recognizable syndrome , augmented by frequent findings of testicular atrophy and gynecomastia . type iv or type ii hyperlipoproteinemia has been found in some families . we have studied another family with kennedy 's syndrome , this one with hypobetalipoproteinemia . the diversity of serum patterns suggests that lipoprotein abnormalities are not causally related to either the endocrinopathy or the spinal muscular atrophy . however , gene linkage studies indicate proximity of the gene for kennedy 's syndrome and the gene encoding the androgen receptor , which could explain the combination of a motor neuron disorder and the endocrine abnormalities . 
parathyroid hormone and the vascular response to norepinephrine . norepinephrine blood pressure reactivity is reduced in uremia , an effect attributed to excess parathyroid hormone ( pth ) . most , but not all , animal and human studies support the theory that high pth levels diminish the pressor response to norepinephrine . in hemodialysis patients in whom norepinephrine infusion tests were performed to determine the effect of parathyroidectomy on vascular responsiveness , the vascular response to norepinephrine ( 100 ng/kg/min ) improved significantly ( 11.3 + / - 1.3 mm hg before and 17.5 + / - 2.4 mm hg after parathyroidectomy ; p less than .01 ) . excess parathyroid hormone appears to play an active role in reduced vascular responsiveness to norepinephrine , although the mechanisms of this effect are unknown . 
abnormal diastolic function in patients with type 1 diabetes and early nephropathy . left ventricular diastolic function was assessed by pulsed doppler echocardiography in non-diabetic controls ( n = 11 ) and in patients with type 1 diabetes without microvascular disease ( n = 16 ; diabetic controls ) , with microalbuminuria ( n = 9 ) , or with early persistent proteinuria ( n = 11 ) . the peak filling velocities during the early and atrial phases of left ventricular diastole and their ratio ( e : a ratio ) were measured . all patients with diabetes had a normal serum concentration of creatinine and exercise electrocardiogram . the mean e : a ratio was significantly lower in those with proteinuria than in the diabetic controls because of an increase in peak atrial filling velocity ; most patients with proteinuria had an abnormal e : a ratio of less than 1.0 . multiple regression analysis showed that systolic blood pressure was the major determinant of both the peak filling velocity during the atrial phase of diastole and also left ventricular mass . blood pressures were significantly higher in the proteinuria group than in the diabetic controls . glycaemic control and autonomic function did not influence diastolic filling . the slightly raised blood pressures at the earliest stages of diabetic nephropathy are sufficient to alter left ventricular diastolic compliance -- this may reflect early hypertensive heart disease . these data do not preclude a specific heart muscle disease related to diabetes , but suggest that these slightly raised blood pressures contribute significantly to left ventricular dysfunction in these patients , in whom the risk of cardiovascular disease is already greatly increased . 
lobular pattern of choriocapillaris in pre-eclampsia with aldosteronism . we report a case of geographic or mosaic pattern yellowish opaque foci in the left eye of a 36-year-old woman who suffered from severe pre-eclampsia . though the geographic lesions resulted in chorioretinal atrophy , the mosaic lesion led to no significant atrophy . these two findings were both diagnosed as manifestations of choroidal ischaemia , the former due to choroidal artery occlusion , the latter to transient insufficiency of choroidal circulation , which reflects the lobular pattern of the choriocapillaris . 
sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells of patients with insulin dependent diabetes and nephropathy and their parents objective -- to determine whether there are familial and genetic aspects of sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells in diabetic nephropathy . design -- case-control study . setting -- teaching hospital diabetic clinic . subjects -- 40 patients with insulin dependent diabetes , both of whose parents were alive : 20 with persistent proteinuria and 20 with normal albumin excretion matched for age , duration of diabetes , and body mass index . all 80 parents . main outcome measures -- sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells and arterial blood pressure . results -- sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells was higher in the patients with proteinuria than in the patients with normoalbuminuria ( mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) 0.47 ( 0.39 to 0.54 ) v 0.33 ( 0.28 to 0.38 ) mmol/l red cells/h respectively , p = 0.0036 ; mean difference 0.14 ( 0.04 to 0.22 ) ) . the mean countertransport activity for the two parents of each patient was calculated , and from this the mean value for each group of parents was calculated ; the value was higher in the parents of the patients with proteinuria than in the parents of the patients with normoalbuminuria ( 0.40 ( 0.32 to 0.48 ) v 0.30 ( 0.26 to 0.33 ) mmol/l red cells/h respectively , p = 0.016 ; 0.10 ( 0.02 to 0.19 ) ) . twenty-eight of the parents of the patients with proteinuria compared with 12 of the parents of the patients with normoalbuminuria had a countertransport activity that was above the median value in all 80 parents ( p less than 0.001 ) . mean arterial blood pressure in the parents of the patients with proteinuria was related to that of their offspring ( r = 0.46 ; p less than 0.01 ) . there was a positive correlation between the sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells in the parents and their offspring when all parents and patients were considered ( r = 0.37 ; p less than 0.001 ) . conclusions -- increased sodium-lithium countertransport activity in red cells in the parents of diabetic patients with nephropathy provides further evidence that familial , and possibly genetic , factors related to a predisposition to arterial hypertension have a role in the susceptibility of diabetic renal disease . 
unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation : no causal relation with diabetic autonomic neuropathy objective -- to examine the traditional view that unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation in insulin dependent diabetes mellitus are manifestations of autonomic neuropathy . design -- perspective assessment of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and detailed assessment of autonomic neuropathy in patients with insulin dependent diabetes according to the adequacy of their hypoglycaemic counterregulation . setting -- one routine diabetic unit in a university teaching hospital . patients -- 23 patients aged 21-52 with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ( seven with symptoms suggesting autonomic neuropathy , nine with a serious clinical problem with hypoglycaemia , and seven without symptoms of autonomic neuropathy and without problems with hypoglycaemia ) and 10 controls with a similar age distribution , without a personal or family history of diabetes . main outcome measures -- presence of autonomic neuropathy as assessed with a test of the longest sympathetic fibres ( acetylcholine sweatspot test ) , a pupil test , and a battery of seven cardiovascular autonomic function tests ; adequacy of hypoglycaemic glucose counterregulation during a 40 mu/kg/h insulin infusion test ; history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia ; and response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide during hypoglycaemia , which depends on an intact and responding autonomic innervation of the pancreas . results -- there was little evidence of autonomic neuropathy in either the 12 diabetic patients with a history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia or the seven patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation . by contrast , in all seven patients with clear evidence of autonomic neuropathy there was no history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and in six out of seven there was adequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation . unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation were significantly associated ( p less than 0.01 ) . the response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide in the diabetic patients with adequate counterregulation but without autonomic neuropathy was not significantly different from that of the controls ( change in plasma pancreatic polypeptide 226.8 v 414 pmol/l ) . the patients with autonomic neuropathy had a negligible plasma pancreatic polypeptide response ( 3.7 pmol/l ) , but this response was also blunted in the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation ( 72.4 pmol/l ) compared with that of the controls ( p less than 0.05 ) . conclusions -- unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate glucose counterregulation during hypoglycaemia are related to each other but are not due to autonomic neuropathy . the blunted plasma pancreatic polypeptide responses of the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation may reflect diminished autonomic activity consequent upon reduced responsiveness of a central glucoregulatory centre , rather than classical autonomic neuropathy . 
mastalgia refractory to drug treatment . management of the patient with mastalgia who fails to respond to first line therapy is a difficult problem and there is a group of patients who do not respond to any therapy . a group of 126 patients with mastalgia who failed to respond to first line therapy and completed further treatment options was studied . the response rate of those with cyclical mastalgia fell to 57 and 25 per cent for second and third line therapy respectively . equivalent figures for non-cyclical mastalgia were 24 and 21 per cent . danazol maintains a high response rate after the failure of other drugs , whereas the second line response to bromocriptine and evening primrose oil is poor . unresponsive patients were matched to a group of patients who responded to first line therapy , and reproductive and historical factors were compared using the chi 2 test , but failed to identify which patients would respond to therapy . 
through-knee amputation in high-risk patients with vascular disease : indications , complications and rehabilitation . during a 10-year period 104 patients ( mean age 72 years ) had 106 through-knee amputations . indications for surgery were : limb gangrene , 67 ( 64 per cent ) ; ischaemic ulceration , 22 ( 21 per cent ) ; rest pain , 9 ; knee contractures , 6 . thirty patients had had previous unsuccessful vascular reconstructive surgery and five had had a failed femoral embolectomy . the through-knee disarticulation used lateral skin flaps . the mortality was 21 ( 20 per cent ) . of the 83 survivors , 59 ( 71 per cent ) underwent uncomplicated primary wound healing ; 36 ( 43 per cent ) of the survivors were unsuitable for rehabilitation on a prosthesis . the remaining 47 ( 57 per cent ) were walking before discharge 30-130 days ( mean 68 days ) after amputation . through-knee amputation is a rapid , relatively bloodless , amputation and is a useful debridement procedure . the many surgical and functional advantages , in conjunction with the recent reports of better rehabilitation compared with the above-knee or gritti-stokes amputation , suggests that the through-knee amputation deserves greater consideration . 
aetiology of pancreatic cancer curative surgery is possible in only a small minority of patients with pancreatic cancer and , to date , responses to chemotherapy and radiotherapy have been disappointing . to make any impact on the incidence of the disease a clearer understanding of its aetiology is required . this review explores present knowledge of the aetiology and epidemiology of pancreatic cancer . 
parathyroid autotransplantation this paper reviews the technique , indications and results of parathyroid autotransplantation . autotransplantation is most commonly indicated following parathyroidectomy for renal osteodystrophy , but can also be used in primary hyperplastic hyperparathyroidism , re-exploration of the neck and radical neck surgery . the success of the technique ranges from 75 to 100 per cent . 
total knee arthroplasty in diabetes mellitus . a retrospective study was done of 59 total knee arthroplasties ( tkas ) in 40 patients diagnosed with diabetes mellitus . the overall infection rate was 7 % , with an overall revision rate of 10 % and an average follow-up period of 4.3 years . wound complications were present in 12 % of the tkas . the rate of deep joint infections in diabetic patients was statistically higher than the reported incidence of sepsis in nondiabetic patients . therefore , maximum precautions should be taken for diabetic patients having tka to minimize both wound complications and joint sepsis . 
hypothyroidism and pleural effusions . serous effusions have been thought to be an unusual complication of hypothyroidism and most commonly have been associated with ascites , pericardial fluid and heart failure . pleural fluid as an isolated finding in hypothyroidism is apparently rare and complete analysis of these hypothyroid-associated pleural effusions has not been described . to determine the frequency , chemical characteristics and clinical associations of hypothyroidism and pleural effusions , the medical records of 128 patients with hypothyroidism ( defined by an increased serum tsh concentration ) were reviewed . the majority of effusions in patients with hypothyroidism were due to other diseases . effusions solely due to hypothyroidism appeared to be a real entity . these effusions were borderline between exudates and transudates and showed little evidence of inflammation . 
axillosubclavian vein thrombosis produced by retrosternal thyroid . several causes of axillosubclavian vein thrombosis have been described . trauma to the subclavian vein by pacemaker wires or central venous lines as well as the so-called effort thrombosis have been recognized as frequently diagnosed precipitating factors . a patient is herein presented with thrombosis of the subclavian vein caused by a giant substernal thyroid compressing the innominate vein . 
intercellular propagation of individually programmed growth bursts in frtl-5 cells . implications for interpreting growth factor actions . five methods are commonly used to quantify frtl-5 cells ' and other thyrocytes ' growth in vitro and the impact of growth inhibiting or stimulating maneuvers : total cell count , mitotic index , dna measurement , total [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation , and the fraction of [ 3h ] thymidine labeled cells . all of them assess cell growth as though all cells were homogeneous with an identical response to growth factors . we demonstrate here that this assumption is not valid . rather , some intrinsically growth-prone cells appear to pass a growth signal to neighboring cells so that variably sized colonies of synchronized cells within each cluster growing from monodispersed cells are formed . this is true for frtl-5 cells growing in vitro in monolayers and in three-dimensional , collagen embedded spheroids . the pattern is the same when cell suspensions or collagen-embedded spheroids are implanted onto nude mice . patches with alternating high and low growth become particularly prominent in the large tumor-like organoids grown from monodispersed cells in nude mice . the pattern much reminds of similar observations in growing intact thyroids . since there is no significant correlation between the fraction of [ 3h ] thymidine labeled cells and the size of two - or three-dimensional clusters in any experiment , growth of signal-spreading cells is assumed to occur in leaps and bounds . growth velocity in each subclone of a cell population depends on the mean interval between bursts of replications and on the number of cells synchronized by cell-to-cell diffusion of the growth signal emanating from one dividing cell . thus , growth-promoting and growth-inhibiting factors may not only act on the mean interval between successive growth bursts , but they may also change cell-to-cell spreading of growth signals . 
marked improvement of glucose homeostasis in diabetic ob/ob mice given oral vanadate . the trace element vanadium exerts insulinlike effects in vitro and decreases hyperglycemia in insulin-deficient animals . this study examined whether vanadate can improve glucose homeostasis in genetically obese hyperglycemic insulin-resistant ob/ob mice , which present metabolic abnormalities similar to those of human non-insulin-dependent diabetes . sodium orthovanadate ( 0.3 mg/ml ) was administered for 7 wk in h2o . vanadate treatment induced a fall in fed and fasted plasma glucose and insulin levels and improved tolerance to oral glucose ; the stimulated glucose area was decreased by 65 % , and an early peak of insulin secretion was restored . during an intravenous glucose tolerance test , the glucose disappearance rate was twofold higher in vanadate-treated mice , and the reappearance of a significant insulin response was also observed . moreover , vanadate produced a twofold increase in hepatic glycogen content and prevented the exhaustion of pancreatic insulin stores . the hypoglycemic response to exogenous insulin was similar in control and treated mice . in vitro experiments showed that basal glucose oxidation by hemidiaphragms was 32 % higher in vanadate-treated mice than in controls , although stimulation by insulin was similar in both groups . in conclusion , oral vanadate caused a marked and sustained improvement of glucose homeostasis in diabetic insulin-resistant mice by exerting an insulinlike effect on peripheral tissues and apparently preventing the exhaustion of pancreatic insulin stores . 
short-term administration of captopril and nifedipine and exercise-induced albuminuria in normotensive diabetic patients with early-stage nephropathy . recent studies have demonstrated that short-term angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) inhibition with captopril can reduce urinary albumin excretion rate ( uaer ) after exercise in normotensive diabetic patients with early-stage nephropathy . the aim of this study was to investigate whether this effect of ace inhibition was due to a systemic hypotensive action or a specific action at the intrarenal level . thus , we compared the acute effects of captopril and the ca2 ( + ) - channel blocker nifedipine on exercise-induced uaer in normotensive ( blood pressure less than 165/95 mmhg ) diabetic patients who were normoalbuminuric or microalbuminuric at rest ( stage 2 or 3 of diabetic nephropathy ) . twenty-five stage 2 diabetic nephropathy patients , 39 stage 3 diabetic nephropathy patients , and 12 nondiabetic subjects performed five submaximal cycloergometric exercises ( 90 % of theoretical heart rate ) on nonconsecutive days . the first two exercises were performed in basal conditions ; the next three exercises were performed 24 h after administration of captopril ( 25 mg twice daily ) or nifedipine ar ( 20 mg twice daily ) or placebo ( 1 tablet twice daily ) according to a randomized double-blind crossover trial . after placebo , blood pressure and uaer did not change at rest or 1 h after exercise . after captopril , blood pressure at rest and during exercise was similar to that observed after placebo . uaer at rest was not modified , whereas 1 h after exercise , it was significantly decreased both in stage 2 and stage 3 diabetic nephropathy patients ( p less than 0.001 ) . after nifedipine , blood pressure decreased significantly at rest and during exercise in respect to placebo and captopril . uaer at rest did not change significantly . 
anti-islet cell antibodies from nod mice . we produced a panel of monoclonal autoantibodies from the spleen cells of prediabetic nonobese diabetic mice . the antibodies were selected on the basis of their ability to bind to the surface of nondiabetic mouse islet cells , and from greater than 4000 hybridomas screened , 35 islet-reactive antibodies were isolated . most of these reagents also bind to nondiabetic rat and human islet cells and beta-cell tumor lines . a few of the antibodies were found to be reactive with insulin . when tested for cross-reactivity with other cell types , most of the antibodies were found to be islet specific . 
insulin and hypertension . relationship to obesity and glucose intolerance in pima indians . the relationships among blood pressure , obesity , glucose tolerance , and serum insulin concentration were studied in 2873 pima indians aged 18-92 yr ( mean 37 yr ) . age - and sex-adjusted to the pima population , the prevalence of hypertension ( systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 160 mmhg , diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mmhg , or receiving drug treatment ) was 7.1 % for subjects with normal glucose tolerance compared with 13.0 % for subjects with impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) and 19.8 % for those with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . the prevalence ratio of hypertension was 1.8 ( 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] 1.2-2 .5 ) for igt and 2.6 ( 95 % ci 2.0-3 .2 ) for niddm compared with normal glucose tolerance , controlled for age , sex , and body mass index ( bmi ) . in logistic regression analysis , hypertension was positively related to age , male sex , bmi , glucose tolerance , and fasting but not 2-h postload serum insulin concentration . among subjects not taking antihypertensive drugs , however , neither fasting nor 2-h postload serum insulin was significantly related to hypertension . furthermore , in 2033 subjects receiving neither antihypertensive nor antidiabetic drugs , blood pressure was not significantly correlated to fasting insulin concentration , and 2-h postload serum insulin was negatively correlated with diastolic blood pressure . in conclusion , insulin is not significantly related to blood pressure in pima indians not receiving antihypertensive drugs . higher insulin concentrations in drug-treated hypertensive patients might result from the treatment rather than contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension . thus , these data do not support a major role for insulin in determining the occurrence of hypertension or regulation of blood pressure in pima indians . 
structural abnormality in ldl from diabetic patients as revealed by resonance raman spectroscopy . resonance raman spectra of low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) isolated from the plasma of diabetic patients ( age range 13-77 yr , mean age 37 yr ) and age - and sex-matched control subjects were recorded in the 1000 - to 1600-cm-1 region as a function of temperature ( 0-50 degrees c ) . both nondiabetic and diabetic ldl yield spectra characterized by two major bands near 1160 and 1530 cm-1 due to the carotenoid component of lipoproteins . the relative intensity of 1530 - and 1160-cm-1 bands , assigned to - c = c - and = c-c = stretchings , respectively , i.e. , i1530-i1160 ratio , was plotted against temperature . for nondiabetic control subjects , the plots showed an inflection in the temperature range of 30-39 degrees c , which corresponded to the thermal transition of ldl . this transition was abolished in the ldl of diabetic patients ( p less than 0.001 ) , suggesting an altered lipid structure . the transition ( 30-39 degrees c ) was also abolished in the in vitro glycosylated nondiabetic ldl . lipid analysis did not show any appreciable change between nondiabetic control subjects and diabetic patients . the change in the thermal transition properties of diabetic ldl has been attributed to the organizational change in the ldl protein . 
metabolic effects of hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia on fate of intracellular glucose in niddm . hyperglycemia in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) stimulates peripheral glucose uptake , which tends to compensate for impaired insulin-mediated glucose uptake . the metabolic fate of glucose and suppression of fat oxidation may differ , however , when glucose uptake is stimulated primarily by insulin or hyperglycemia . to address this issue , three hyperinsulinemic glucose-clamp studies were performed in combination with indirect calorimetry in seven nonobese subjects with niddm . in the first two experiments , when glucose uptake was matched at approximately 8 mg.kg-1 fat-free mass ( ffm ) . min-1 with primarily hyperinsulinemia ( 1350 + / - 445 pm ) or hyperglycemia ( 20.8 + / - 1.8 mm ) , identical rates of glucose oxidation ( 3.21 + / - 0.29 and 3.10 + / - 0.23 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 , ns ) and nonoxidative glucose metabolism ( 5.19 + / - 0.75 and 5.46 + / - 0.61 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 , ns ) were achieved . when glucose uptake was increased further to 11.11 + / - 0.36 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 with less insulin ( 625 + / - 70 pm ) and hyperglycemia , glucose oxidation ( 3.85 + / - 0.26 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 ) and nonoxidative glucose metabolism ( 7.26 + / - 0.51 mg.kg-1 ffm.min-1 ) rose significantly ( both p less than 0.05 from matched studies at lower rates of glucose uptake ) . during all glucose-clamp studies , free fatty acids were comparably suppressed by 40-46 % ( all p less than 0.005 vs. basal values ) , whereas fat oxidation was suppressed by 70-80 % ( all p less than 0.005 vs. basal values ) . a strong negative correlation was observed between rates of glucose and fat oxidation ( r = -0.88 , p less than 0.001 ) when all studies were combined . 
is insulinlike growth factor i associated with diabetic retinopathy ? insulinlike growth factor i ( igf-i ) is the mediator of the growth-promoting effects of growth hormone and has been suspected of playing a role in the pathogenesis of proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( pdr ) . however , previous attempts to correlate igf-i levels with pdr have yielded conflicting results . we determined igf-i levels in a large population-based study of 682 early-onset ( diagnosed before 30 yr of age ) adult ( greater than or equal to 18 yr old ) insulin-taking diabetic subjects . pdr was found in 25 % of the population . igf-i levels were measured by radioimmunoassay . the mean serum level of igf-i was 277 + / - 108 micrograms/l ( mean + / - sd ) . spearman rank correlations showed statistically significant negative correlations between igf-i levels and age ( r = -0.51 , p less than 0.0001 ) , duration of disease ( r = -0.36 , p less than 0.0001 ) , and glycosylated hemoglobin ( r = -0.09 , p less than 0.05 ) . there was a significant trend ( p less than 0.001 ) toward decreasing risk of pdr with increasing igf-i . however , after controlling for duration of diabetes , glycosylated hemoglobin , diastolic blood pressure , and the presence of proteinuria and/or creatinine greater than or equal to 265 microm in a multiple logistic regression model , igf-i was not significantly associated with pdr . these data suggest that igf-i may not be a risk factor for the development of pdr . 
metabolic effects of 1200-kcal diet in obese pregnant women with gestational diabetes . calorie restriction is widely used as a primary therapy for obese pregnant women with gestational diabetes . to better understand the metabolic consequences of marked calorie restriction , we performed a randomized prospective trial under metabolic ward conditions . obese gestationally diabetic women were randomized to control ( n = 5 ) and calorie-restricted ( n = 7 ) groups . all patients consumed an approximately 2400-kcal/day diet during the 1st wk of the study , and at the end of the 1st wk , metabolic features of the two groups were statistically indistinguishable . during the 2nd wk , the control group continued to consume approximately 2400 kcal/day , whereas the calorie-restricted group consumed approximately 1200 kcal/day . twenty-four-hour mean glucose levels remained unchanged in the control group ( 6.7 + / - 0.8 mm wk 1 vs. 6.8 + / - 0.8 mm wk 2 ) , although they dropped dramatically in the calorie-restricted group ( 6.7 + / - 1.0 mm wk 1 vs. 5.4 + / - 0.5 mm wk 2 , p less than 0.01 ) . fasting plasma insulin also declined in the calorie-restricted group ( 265 + / - 165 pm wk 1 vs. 145 + / - 130 pm wk 2 ) , resulting in a significant change between groups ( p less than 0.02 ) . surprisingly , fasting plasma glucose and glucose tolerance measured by the 3-h oral glucose tolerance test did not change within or between groups . fasting levels of beta-hydroxybutyrate rose in the calorie-restricted group ( 290 + / - 240 microm wk 1 vs. 780 + / - 30 microm wk 2 ) but not in the control group ( p less than 0.01 ) . finally , urine ketones increased significantly ( p less than 0.02 ) in the calorie-restricted group , whereas they remained absent in the control group . 
relationship between blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion in development of microalbuminuria . two hundred nine consecutive normotensive insulin-dependent diabetic ( iddm ) patients were followed prospectively from november 1982 to january 1988 . patient urinary albumin excretion rate ( uae ) had to be normal ( less than 30 mg/24 h ) on at least two occasions before inclusion in the study . patients were aged 18-50 yr with a duration of diabetes of 10-30 yr . uae was measured every 4 mo , and supine blood pressure was measured annually . two hundred five patients completed the study . five years later , 15 patients had developed persistent microalbuminuria with median uae greater than 30 mg/24 h for at least 2 yr ( group 2 ) , and 190 patients stayed normoalbuminuric ( group 1 ) . although within normal range , initial uae was significantly elevated in group 2 compared with group 1 ( mean 19 mg/24 h [ range 15-23 mg/24 h ] vs. 11 mg/24 h [ 10-12 ] , 95 % confidence interval [ ci ] , p less than 0.001 ) . initially , there was no difference in blood pressure between group 2 ( mean systolic 122 mmhg [ 117-127 ] , diastolic 80 mmhg [ 76-84 ] ) and group 1 ( mean 126 mmhg [ 124-128 ] , 79 mmhg [ 78-80 ] , 95 % ci ) , and a significant increase in diastolic blood pressure could first be detected during the 3rd yr of persistent microalbuminuria ( mean systolic 132 mmhg [ 124-140 ] , diastolic 85 mmhg [ 81-89 ] vs. 128 mmhg [ 126-130 ] , 79 mmhg [ 78-80 ] , p less than 0.05 ) . initial hemoglobin a1c was significantly elevated in group 2 compared with group 1 ( 9.6 % [ 8.8-10 .4 ] vs. 8.5 % [ 8.3-8 .7 ] , p less than 0.01 ) . 
insulin-receptor autophosphorylation and endogenous substrate phosphorylation in human adipocytes from control , obese , and niddm subjects . we identified a possible endogenous substrate ( pp185 ) of the insulin-receptor kinase in human adipocytes by treating intact cells with insulin and immunoblotting the cellular extracts with polyclonal antiphosphotyrosine antibody . this 185,000-mr protein was phosphorylated on tyrosine residues in response to insulin in both rat and human adipocytes . the time course of pp185 phosphorylation at 37 degrees c was rapid and corresponded closely to insulin-receptor autophosphorylation but preceded insulin-stimulated glucose transport . unlike many growth factor receptors , including the insulin receptor , pp185 was not adsorbed to wheat-germ agglutinin . we found that pp185 phosphorylation occurred at 12 degrees c and that the phosphoprotein was associated with both cytoplasmic and membrane fractions at this temperature . furthermore , pp185 phosphorylation was induced to the same extent as insulin by vanadate and hydrogen peroxide , compounds previously shown to mimic the biologic effects of insulin . in addition , dose-response analysis of insulin-stimulated glucose transport , receptor autophosphorylation , and pp185 phosphorylation resulted in ed50 values of 0.3 , 12 , and 12 ng/ml , respectively . these results demonstrate the magnitude of " spare " autophosphorylation and pp185 phosphorylation with respect to glucose transport stimulation in human adipocytes . to determine whether the insulin resistance characteristic of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) and obesity is associated with a defect in receptor autophosphorylation and/or endogenous substrate phosphorylation , we estimated the extent of beta-subunit and pp185 phosphorylation in adipocytes from niddm , obese , and healthy subjects . although the efficiency of coupling between receptor activation and pp185 phosphorylation was normal in obesity and niddm , the capacity for insulin-receptor autophosphorylation was approximately 50 % lower in niddm subjects compared with nondiabetic obese or lean subjects . 
multiple hormone elevations in zollinger-ellison syndrome . prospective study of clinical significance and of the development of a second symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome . in the present study of 45 patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome , the frequency and clinical importance of the release of multiple gastrointestinal peptides were assessed prospectively . during an initial evaluation , extent of gastrinoma , clinical symptoms , disease duration , and presence or absence of multiple endocrine neoplasia , type i ( men-i ) were assessed . all patients had determinations of fasting plasma gastrin , human pancreatic polypeptide , motilin , neurotensin , and somatostatin ; 35 had determinations of insulin and gastrin-releasing peptide and 21 had determinations of glucagon . a plasma elevation of additional peptides besides gastrin was detected in 62 % , with 44 % having one , 18 % having two , and 0 % having three additional peptides elevated . motilin was elevated in 29 % , human pancreatic polypeptide in 27 % , neurotensin in 20 % , and gastrin-releasing peptide in 10 % , whereas insulin , glucagon , and somatostatin were not elevated in any patient . the presence or absence of elevation of any peptide did not differ in patients with or without men-i , with gastrinoma size , with the presence or absence of metastatic disease , or with various clinical symptoms . patients were assessed yearly for clinical evidence of a secondary symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome with a median follow-up of 146 and 84 months from onset or diagnosis , respectively . only one patient ( 2 % of patients ) developed a second syndrome ( rate , 2 patients per 100 patients observed for 10 years ) . these results demonstrate that the plasma elevation of multiple gastrointestinal peptides is common in patients with zollinger-ellison syndrome ; however , the rate of developing a second symptomatic pancreatic endocrine tumor syndrome is much lower than generally believed . furthermore , no evidence is found to support the conclusions that the detection of the plasma elevation of these peptides is clinically important in assessing men-i status , disease extent , or presence of metastatic disease or that elevated levels of motilin , neurotensin , gastrin-releasing peptide , or human pancreatic peptide are associated with any distinct clinical symptoms . therefore , we recommend that plasma concentrations of these additional gastrointestinal peptides should not be assessed routinely but rather only if new symptoms develop . 
substance-p is present in a subset of thyrotrophs in the human pituitary . substance-p immunoreactivity and tachykinin-like peptides are present in the pituitary gland of several mammalian species . in humans , however , the biochemical nature and cellular localization of pituitary substance-p has not been defined . we report here that substance-p-immunoreactive material is present in low concentrations in both the anterior and posterior lobes of the human pituitary gland . gel chromatography and reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography indicate that the majority of the substance-p immunoreactivity in human pituitaries elutes as authentic substance-p and its oxidized derivative . immunohistochemical studies showed substance-p-immunoreactive fibers and terminals in the posterior pituitary gland and occasional substance-p-immunoreactive cell bodies in the anterior lobe . the substance-p-immunoreactive cells were found to colocalize with a small subpopulation of tsh beta-immunoreactive cells ( thyrotrophs ) . substance-p immunoreactivity was also found in a pituitary microadenoma that contained numerous tsh beta-immunoreactive cells . these studies indicate that substance-p is present in the human pituitary gland , and they suggest a relationship between substance-p and thyroid function . 
susceptibility to thyroid autoimmune disease : molecular analysis of hla-d region genes identifies new markers for goitrous hashimoto 's thyroiditis . hashimoto 's thyroiditis has been shown to be associated with the hla-specificities dr4 and dr5 . since former association studies yielded variable results , we used novel molecular typing methods to assess predisposing immunogenetic factors . gene analysis of the hla-dr-dq and tumor necrosis factor region was performed in a group of hashimoto 's thyroiditis patients and randomly chosen controls using standards and nomenclature of the 10th international histocompatibility workshop . genomic dna of patients and controls was analyzed using a cdna probe of the dqb1 gene . the resulting restriction fragment patterns allowed the determination of newly defined dqw-types 1-9 . we find the strongest relative risk conferred by dqw7 ( rr = 4.7 ) , that is observed in 36 of 64 patients ( 56 % ) and only 21 of 98 controls ( 21 % ) ( p corr less than 0.002 ) . comparison of dna sequence variation in the dqb1 gene , that is found predominantly in hashimoto 's thyroiditis patients , indicates that codons 45 and 57 are critical features in dqw7 which distinguish it from other dqw specificities . the adjacent dqa1 genes also display a significant association with hashimoto 's thyroiditis ( dqa1 * 0201 / * 0301 heterozygotes were found in 37 % of patients and 15 % controls , p less than 0.03 ) . no significant association could be found with polymorphisms of the tumor necrosis factor gene . these results provide a new basis for the concept of genetic susceptibility in hashimoto 's thyroiditis and will help to elucidate the underlying autoimmune mechanisms that lead to disease at the functional level . 
thyroid hormones influences sex steroid binding protein levels in infancy : study in congenital hypothyroidism . in order to test the hypothesis of a role of thyroid hormones on the circulating levels of sex steroid binding protein ( shbg ) in children , shbg levels were determined in 15 infants with congenital hypothyroidism at diagnosis and during the first 18 months of t4 therapy and in a separate group of 13 children with congenital hypothyroidism ( 7.1 + / - 0.5 yr , mean + / - sd ) , treated before 1 month of age , both during adequate l-t4 therapy and 4 weeks after withdrawing therapy . shbg levels were significantly lower in hypothyroid infants than in controls ( 48.2 + / - 6.5 vs. 77.8 + / - 7.9 nmol/l ; p less than 0.01 ) , and significantly lower in infants with athyreosis compared to those with ectopic or eutopic glands ( p less than 0.05 ) . in patients with low values at diagnosis , shbg increased rapidly and remained normal during lt4 therapy . after 1.5-18 months of treatment , a positive correlation ( p less than 0.01 ) was found between shbg , ft4 , and ft3 levels . in older hypothyroid children , 4 weeks after withdrawal of therapy a significant ( p less than 0.05 ) decrease in shbg concentrations was observed . analysis of these results as well as previous reports in adults , indicates that thyroid hormones influence shbg concentrations in infants and children . this study also indicates that thyroid hormones may play a role in the physiological postnatal increase of shbg . 
defective fasciculata zone function as the mechanism of glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism . glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism is characterized by unusual sensitivity of aldosterone secretion to acth . suppressibility by glucocorticoid and continued stimulability by exogenous acth has provided the basis for diagnosis and treatment of the disorder . a qualitative biochemical abnormality consisting of marked overproduction of the products of the cortisol c-18 oxidation pathway , 18-hydroxycortisol and 18-oxocortisol , has been examined in 10 patients with the disorder and compared to the normal c-18 oxidation products of corticosterone , aldosterone , and 18-hydroxycorticosterone . the technique , based on stable isotope dilution mass fragmentography , measured the tetrahydro urinary metabolites of aldosterone , 18-hydroxycorticosterone , and 18-oxocortisol and unmetabolized 18-hydroxycortisol . all 4 c-18 oxygenated corticosteroids were markedly elevated in the untreated state and showed rapid parallel suppression with low doses of glucocorticoid . the proportional changes in c-18 oxygenated cortisols together with aldosterone and 18-hydroxycorticosterone suggested the mechanism of a common catalytic site of a cytochrome p450 methyl oxidase serving both cortisol and corticosterone substrates . the acth-dependent secretion of the c-18 oxidation products of both corticosterone and cortisol in the disorder is attributed to the acquisition of methyl oxidase activity by the fasciculata zone , where there are abundant pools of these precursors . 
insulin-like growth factor-i receptors in nonfunctioning thyroid nodules . we have recently demonstrated the production of insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) as well as the presence of type i igf receptors in human thyroid cells in primary culture . the role of igf-i in the control of thyroid cell growth has been well established . in order to investigate the involvement of igf-i in abnormal thyroid growth , the density of igf-i receptors in solitary , cold , micro - and macro-follicular thyroid adenomas , and in extranodular histological normal tissue was studied . forty-three euthyroid patients with isolated cold nodules were selected for the study . in 30 patients the presence of igf-i receptors was evaluated by using quantitative immunohistochemistry ; in 10 patients by using radioligand binding studies , and in 3 patients by using affinity labeling . cross-linking and binding studies clearly demonstrated the presence of a homogeneous class of binding sites for type i igf receptors . furthermore , radioligand studies did not show any significant differences in receptor density between the 2 types of thyroidal tissues . conversely , the computerized analysis of 900 fields of nodular and normal thyroid tissues immunostained with the monoclonal antibody alpha-ir3 , strongly indicated that higher concentrations of igf-i receptors were present in the epithelial cells of non-functioning thyroid nodules than in the adjacent extranodular thyroid tissues . these studies strongly suggest that the same type i igf receptor is present in thyroid follicular adenomas as in histological normal thyroid tissue removed from the same patient . the higher concentration of igf-i receptors as documented by immunostaining in the adenomas suggests that igf-i may contribute to the abnormal growth of the neoplasms . 
short term treatment of acromegaly with the somatostatin analog octreotide : the first double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study on its effects . several studies suggest that the somatostatin analog octreotide , or sms 201-995 , may effectively reduce gh hypersecretion . however , no double blind , placebo-controlled study has substantiated these findings . we present the results of a randomized double blind 14-day clinical trial with octreotide in 20 patients with acromegaly . the drug was given sc every 8 h and to the initial dose ( 50 micrograms ) was added another 50 micrograms every other day up to 200 micrograms . gh levels , calculated as the mean values of 12 observations at hourly intervals during 0700-1800 h , and insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) levels were significantly reduced during octreotide treatment . responses varied from a reduction of 97 % of the basal mean gh level to no significant reduction in 2 of 10 patients . there was a good correlation between the reduction of gh and igf-i levels . the main side-effects were gastrointestinal and well tolerated . we found a spontaneous variation of daily mean gh and igf-i levels ( at 0700 h ) in the placebo group , ranging from approximately 150 % to 50 % of the gh and 120 % to 80 % of the igf-i levels noted on day 0 . in patients treated with octreotide , the occurrence of gh rises between administration times suggests that it may be desirable to give octreotide every 6 h in some patients . 
cold follicles in a multinodular human goiter arise partly from a failing iodide pump and partly from deficient iodine organification . to investigate whether the common cold follicles in human multinodular goiters are the consequence of a functional defect of the apical membrane peroxidase , a failure of the iodide transport system , or both deficiencies , we studied iodide accumulation and iodine organification in 30 fragments of a large multinodular goiter transplanted to nude mice and labeled with 125i . transplants were frozen to -80 c immediately after removal to avoid diffusion of inorganic iodide . autoradiographic assessment of over 1000 cryosections ( exposed either at -20 c or after thawing and washing out unbound iodide ) showed two types of cold follicles , namely those that failed to accumulate iodide and , therefore , did not organify iodine , and those that readily accumulated iodide but failed to bind it , suggesting a failure of apical membrane peroxidase . the two types of pathogenetically different cold follicles coexisted in an apparently randomly intermingled fashion throughout the whole goiter . 
primary hyperparathyroidism and severe hypercalcemia with low circulating 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d. we report a postmenopausal woman with primary hyperparathyroidism ( phpt ) and severe hypercalcemia while her total calcium intake was more than 2 g daily . despite a markedly elevated intact pth level , her serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d [ 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d ] level was low ( 17 pmol/l ; 7 pg/ml ) . with reduced calcium intake , her serum calcium normalized , and 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d increased to 122 pmol/l ( 51 pg/ml ) . at the same time , intact pth decreased to 32 % of the initial value . phpt may be associated with low circulating 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d levels . furthermore , low 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d levels in phpt may be due to a direct effect of severe hypercalcemia and be reversible with correction of hypercalcemia . 
low prevalence of thyrotropin receptor antibody in primary hypothyroidism in japan . the prevalence of tsh receptor antibody ( trab ) , measured by rra assay ( tsh-binding inhibitor immunoglobulin , tbii ) and biological stimulation-blocking assay ( thyroid-stimulation blocking antibody , tsbab ) , was examined in 134 consecutive patients with primary hypothyroidism due to autoimmune thyroiditis [ 83 patients with goitrous hashimoto 's disease ( group a ) and 51 with primary atrophic hypothyroidism ( group b ) ] . in group a , tbii was detected in 6 patients ( 7 % ) , tsbab in 7 ( 8 % ) , and both in 4 ( 5 % ) . similarly , in group b , tbii was detected in 7 patients ( 14 % ) , tsbab in 7 ( 14 % ) , and both in 5 ( 10 % ) . tbii with tsbab activity was low or moderate in group a , but strongly positive in group b. no relationship was apparent in either group between tbii or tsbab activity and any clinical or laboratory parameter examined . moreover , no clinical or laboratory findings distinguished patients with trab from those without . the low prevalence of trab in primary hypothyroidism suggests that intrathyroidal cell-mediated destructive mechanisms may be more important in the pathogenesis of hypothyroidism in autoimmune thyroiditis . 
clonal origin of pituitary adenomas . as the pathogenesis of pituitary adenomas remains unclear , the tumor clonal composition of these common neoplasms was studied . clonality was determined in female patients by analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphisms of the x-chromosome genes hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase and phosphoglycerate kinase in conjunction with their respective methylation patterns . peripheral lymphocyte dna was screened from 62 female patients undergoing transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma . eleven patients were heterozygous for the bgli site on pgk , 4 for the bamhi site on hprt , and 1 patient for both sites . of these 16 patients , 3 had acromegaly , 4 had cushing 's disease , 7 had hyperprolactinemia , and 2 were clinically nonfunctional . after surgery , morphological study , including immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy of the pathological specimens , allowed a direct comparison between clonality and tumor cell type . control fresh normal pituitary tissue was found to be polyclonal . the following tumors were monoclonal : all 3 somatotroph adenomas , 4 of 4 lactotroph tumors , 3 of 4 corticotroph cell adenomas , a gonadotroph adenoma , and a nonsecretory adenoma . a mixed plurihormonal adenoma was polyclonal , as were 2 tumors consisting of adenomatous lactotrophs interspersed with nontumorous adenohypophyseal pituitary tissue and one corticotroph adenoma mixed with normal pituitary tissue . functional pituitary adenomas derived from somatotrophs , corticotrophs , or lactotrophs and nonsecretory tumors are monoclonal in nature , suggesting that somatic cell mutations precede clonal expansion of these cells and play a major role in pituitary tumorigenesis . 
effect of chronic treatment with the glucocorticoid antagonist ru 486 in man : toxicity , immunological , and hormonal aspects . suppression of immune function was traditionally thought to occur only with pharmacological levels of glucocorticoids . however , recent studies in rodents have suggested that glucocorticoids exert tonic antiinflammatory/immunosuppressive effects even at basal nonstress concentrations . to examine whether basal glucocorticoid secretion modulates immune function in man we employed the specific glucocorticoid receptor antagonist ru 486 . if a tonic level of inhibition of the immune system by basal glucocorticoid levels was present , then a potentiation or enhancement of immune function might evolve in the absence of glucocorticoid action . to examine this hypothesis , we studied 11 healthy male normal volunteers who received ru 486 ( 10 mg/kg . day ) or placebo vehicle , divided into 2 daily oral doses , for 7-14 days . blood samples were collected every 2 days for measurement of plasma acth and cortisol concentrations along with 24-h urine samples for measurement of 17-hydroxysteroid and free cortisol excretion . complete and differential blood counts , erythrocyte sedimentation rates , c-reactive protein , antinuclear antibodies , rheumatoid factor , and quantitative immunoglobulins were also determined at 2-day intervals . leukocytes were obtained by leukopheresis for phenotypic characterization and functional analysis before and 7 days after the initiation of ru 486 or placebo therapy . blockade of cortisol receptors with ru 486 was associated with marked compensatory elevations of plasma acth and cortisol and increases in 24-h urinary excretion of 17-hydroxysteroids and free cortisol . unexpectedly , 8 of the 11 subjects developed generalized exanthem after 9 days of ru 486 treatment . one subject developed symptoms and signs consistent with the diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency . total white blood cell counts , absolute lymphocyte , neutrophil and eosinophil counts , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and quantitative immunoglobulins did not change with ru 486 therapy . similarly , t - , b - , and natural killer cell subsets did not change during ru 486 treatment . furthermore , functional evaluation of lymphocyte cytotoxicity and proliferation revealed no changes . we conclude that administration of high doses of ru 486 to normal volunteers does not result in measurable enhancement of immune function . this suggests that in man , glucocorticoids may not exert a tonic inhibitory effect on the immune system as they appear to do in rodents . alternatively , the compensatory increase in endogenous cortisol may obviate any effect of the glucocorticoid antagonist on the immune system . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
adrenal medullitis in type i diabetes . to investigate whether cell-mediated immunity against the adrenal medulla occurs in type i diabetes ( iddm ) , we conducted a retrospective autopsy study of adrenal glands from iddm and nondiabetic subjects using formalin-fixed tissue . forty-four iddm subjects , aged 4-67 yrs ( mean + / - sd , 44.8 + / - 15.4 ) with a duration of iddm from 0-55 yr ( 28.6 + / - 14.2 ) , and 29 nondiabetic controls , aged 8-82 yr ( 51.8 + / - 18.6 ) , were evaluated for a lymphocytic infiltrate using uchl1 , which recognizes a subpopulation of resting t-lymphocytes and most activated t-lymphocytes . immunohistochemistry using antihuman b-cell antibody ( l26 ) was also performed . sections were scored for both lymphocytic infiltrates and fibrosis [ none ( 0 ) , small ( 1 ) , moderate ( 2 ) , or large ( 3 ) ] . blinded scoring was performed . a moderate to severe uchl1 infiltrate was present in 9 of 44 ( 20 % ) iddm , compared with 1 of 29 ( 3 % ) control subjects ( p less than 0.04 ) . mild to severe fibrosis ( score 1 , 2 , or 3 ) was present in 22 of 42 ( 52 % ) iddm subjects compared with 4 of 25 ( 16 % ) control subjects ( p = 0.003 ) . eight of 42 ( 19 % ) iddm subjects had moderate to severe fibrosis ( score 2 or 3 ) compared with 1 of 25 ( 4 % ) control subjects . seventeen of 44 ( 39 % ) iddm subjects had either a moderate to large cellular infiltrate or moderate to severe adrenal medullary fibrosis compared with 2 of 29 ( 7 % ) control subjects ( p = 0.003 ) . staining of the adrenal medulla with l26 revealed a large cellular infiltrate in only one subject who was uchl1 negative . adrenal medullitis was observed in 20 % of iddm subjects , suggesting that the adrenal medulla may be another immunological target in iddm . 
minimal model analysis of intravenous glucose tolerance test-derived insulin sensitivity in diabetic subjects . although minimal model analysis of frequently sampled iv glucose tolerance tests ( fsigts ) to measure insulin sensitivity is well recognized , application has been limited by the need for endogenous insulin secretion . in the present study we determined whether use of exogenous insulin could permit minimal model assessment of insulin sensitivity ( si ) to be extended to diabetic subjects . normal volunteers had separate fsigt assessments supplemented with both tolbutamide and insulin to accelerate glucose disappearance , while diabetics had a fsigt supplemented only with insulin . there was a strong and highly significant correlation between the two assessments in normal subjects ( r = 0.87 ; p less than 0.001 ) , and the rank order of si generally was maintained with the two assessments over a 3-fold range of si ; however , insulin-determined si was 16 % lower ( 3.4 + / - 0.4 vs. 4.1 + / - 0.4 x 10 ( -4 ) min/microu . microl ; p less than 0.01 ) . diabetic subjects had markedly lower insulin sensitivity than controls ( si = 0.61 + / - 0.16 ; p less than 0.0001 ) . across all subjects , the level of fasting serum glucose was correlated inversely with both insulin sensitivity ( r = -0.62 ; p less than 0.05 ) and acute insulin responses ( r = -0.72 ; p less than 0.02 ) ; however , insulin sensitivity in diabetic subjects with little insulin secretion ( 0.6 + / - 0.2 ) was comparable to insulin sensitivity in diabetic subjects with near-normal responses ( 0.6 + / - 0.3 ) . in subjects with fasting hyperglycemia , there were significant correlations between insulin sensitivity and body mass index , percent fat mass , and waist/hip ratio ( all p less than 0.03 ) . among all female subjects , there was also a strong correlation between insulin sensitivity and upper body obesity , as measured by waist/hip ratio ( r = -0.68 ; p less than 0.02 ) . model parameters also permitted glucose uptake to be estimated in diabetic vs. normal subjects at comparable hyperglycemia ( 11.1 mmol/l ) . total glucose uptake was decreased in diabetic subjects ( 5.2 + / - 0.8 vs. 12.7 + / - 1.7 mg/min . kg in normals ; p less than 0.001 ) , insulin-dependent glucose uptake was diminished to a greater extent ( 1.3 + / - 0.4 vs. 6.2 + / - 1.2 ) than noninsulin-independent glucose uptake ( 3.9 + / - 0.5 vs. 6.4 + / - 0.9 ; both p less than 0.02 ) . administration of insulin permits minimal model fsigt analysis to be applied to diabetic as well as normal subjects , yielding information about both insulin - and noninsulin-mediated glucose uptake as well as insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion . 
parathyroid hormone and cirrhosis of the liver . fifty patients with liver cirrhosis ( 36 alcoholic , 1 drug-induced , 7 posthepatitic , and 6 cryptogenic ) and normal renal function were investigated to determine whether pth levels in serum , measured using the common midregion human pth - ( 44-68 ) ria , are elevated in such patients and whether this is related to impaired liver function rather than to the effect of secondary hyperparathyroidism . their data were compared with those from 25 control subjects . the median pth level of 462 + / - 18 ng/l ( + / - sem ) was significantly increased ( p less than 0.01 ) in cirrhotics compared with that of 236 + / - 13 ng/l in the control group . significant correlations were found between pth levels and parameters of liver function such as prothrombin time ( r = -0.40 ; p less than 0.01 ) , albumin as a percentage of total protein ( r = -0.48 ; p less than 0.01 ) , bilirubin ( r = 0.35 ; p less than 0.05 ) , albumin ( r = -0.34 ; p less than 0.05 ) , and cholesterol ( r = -0.32 ; p less than 0.05 ) , but not for antipyrine clearance , suggesting increasing pth with decreasing liver function . the median calcium level ( 2.26 + / - 0.03 mmol/l ) , corrected for changes in albumin , was near the lower limit of the normal range ( 2.25-2 .60 ) , but corrected calcium and pth were positively correlated ( r = 0.33 ; p less than 0.05 ) , indicating that the elevation is not reactive to calcium depletion . a negative correlation existed between pth and 25-hydroxy-cholecalciferol ( r = -0.49 ; p less than 0.05 ) , the main circulating metabolite of vitamin d. normal values in an immunoradiometric assay that detects the whole sequence of human pth - ( 1-84 ) suggest that fragments rather than the intact hormone are responsible for pth elevations in cirrhosis . the positive correlation between midregion pth and corrected calcium is probably an artifact of the correction formula . in conclusion , midregion pth fragments are increased in patients with liver cirrhosis . the reason for this elevation may well be the impaired liver function rather than secondary hyperparathyroidism . 
tumor necrosis factor : a putative mediator of the sick euthyroid syndrome in man . tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf ) is believed to be an important mediator in many diseases that are associated with the sick euthyroid syndrome . to investigate the effect of tnf on thyroid hormone metabolism , we performed a controlled study in six healthy postabsorptive males , in whom plasma thyroid hormones and tsh were sequentially measured after iv bolus injections of recombinant human tnf ( 50 micrograms/m2 ) and isotonic saline . during the 10.5-h study tnf produced the characteristic changes in circulating thyroid hormones and tsh observed in the sick euthyroid syndrome . compared with the control experiment , tnf induced significant decreases in t3 ( -36 + / - 2 % ; saline , -20 + / - 3 % ; p less than 0.05 ) and tsh levels ( -68 + / - 3 % ; saline , -44 + / - 8 % ; p less than 0.05 ) and a significant increase in rt3 values ( +48 + / - 11 % ; saline , -12 + / - 7 % ; p less than 0.05 ) . t4 and free t4 index were not affected by tnf . free t4 showed a mean transient increase of 18 % in five subjects ( nonsignificant ) , which occurred synchronically with a transient 3.5-fold rise in circulating ffa levels . our results suggest that tnf is involved , either directly or indirectly , in the pathogenesis of the sick euthyroid syndrome . 
thyroid abnormalities in the mccune-albright syndrome : ultrasonography and hormonal studies . hyperthyroidism and goiter have been reported frequently in association with the mccune-albright syndrome ( mas ) . to assess the prevalence and extent of thyroid abnormalities in girls with mas , we studied 19 patients [ mean age , 6.6 + / - 1 ( + / - se ) yr ; mean bone age , 9.5 + / - 1 yr ] and 18 normal control girls ( mean age , 10.3 + / - 0.5 yr ) . all patients appeared euthyroid when examined ; 1 was taking antithyroid medication . ultrasonography revealed thyroid abnormalities in 7 patients , including generalized inhomogeneity , small ( 2-4 mm ) and large ( greater than 10 mm ) hypoechoic regions , and echogenic nodule-like regions . repeat ultrasonography after intervals of 9-18 months showed enlargement of large hypoechoic regions in 2 patients . in the patients with abnormal ultrasound findings , serum tsh was uniformly low or suppressed both at baseline and after administration of 7 micrograms/kg trh . the mean serum t3 level in this group was significantly higher than that in controls ( 2.9 + / - 0.2 vs. 2.3 + / - 0.1 nmol/l ; p less than 0.05 ) , whereas mean serum t4 , free t4 , and t4-binding globulin levels did not differ from those of controls . in the remaining 11 patients , thyroid ultrasonography was normal , and the serum levels of t3 , t4 , free t4 , and tsh were normal . bioassay showed no detectable thyroid-stimulating activity in the plasma of the mas patients with suppressed tsh levels . none of the patients became overtly thyrotoxic over 3-6 yr of observation , and their serum iodothyronine levels remained stable . we conclude that thyroid dysfunction is common in girls with mas , but that it may be clinically occult and not rapidly progressive . the thyroid dysfunction , like that of the ovaries , is associated with structural abnormalities in the gland itself , together with suppressed levels of the respective stimulating hormones . 
effects of repetitive administration of corticotropin-releasing hormone combined with lysine vasopressin on plasma adrenocorticotropin and cortisol levels in secondary adrenocortical insufficiency . to examine the functioning of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis in secondary adrenocortical insufficiency , we administered 100 micrograms synthetic human crh , iv , plus 10 u lysine-8-vasopressin ( lvp ) , im , three times daily for 3 consecutive days . the changes in plasma acth and cortisol levels during the administration and the response to an insulin tolerance test ( itt ) conducted before and after the administration were determined . in three patients with isolated acth deficiency , basal plasma acth and cortisol levels were undetectablly low , and there was no response noted in the itt or during crh-lvp administration throughout the observation period . in four patients with adrenocortical insufficiency who had undergone successful transsphenoidal microadenomectomy for cushing 's disease and in six patients who had undergone curative unilateral adrenalectomy for cushing 's syndrome , basal plasma acth levels were low , but responded considerably to both stimulation tests . along with the 3 days of crh-lvp stimulation , however , neither the peak nor the time-integrated acth response was significantly enhanced , because of the variability of the responses among the patients . compared with the acth response on the last day of crh-lvp stimulation , the subsequent itt tended to induce a lower acth response in the post-cushing 's disease patients and a higher response in the post-cushing 's syndrome patients . regarding the plasma cortisol levels , the basal , peak , and integrated responses tended to increase daily during crh-lvp administration . conversely , the itt after repetitive crh-lvp administration induced a higher cortisol response than the test before crh-lvp administration in the post-cushing 's disease patients . no serious complications were noted in any of the patients during or after the treatment . the present findings indicate that 1 ) repetitive administration of crh in combination with lvp is a safe and valuable provocation test to examine the pituitary acth reserve and the integrity of the pituitary-adrenocortical axis ; 2 ) isolated acth deficiency is usually due to a defect at the pituitary level ; 3 ) with respect to adrenocortical responsiveness , post-cushing 's disease patients show a better accumulation of the provocative effect than do post-cushing 's syndrome patients ; and 4 ) both hypothalamic and pituitary dysfunction are responsible for adrenal hypofunction in patients after hypercortisolemia , but post-cushing 's syndrome patients ( especially those with a short period of hypercortisolemia ) appeared to have less impairment of hypothalamic acth-releasing activity than post-cushing 's disease patients . 
gastrointestinal side-effects of octreotide during long-term treatment of acromegaly . gastrointestinal side-effects of prolonged therapy ( greater than 2 yr ) with the long-acting somatostatin analog octreotide were studied in 10 acromegalic patients . after 2 yr of therapy , 6 of 10 patients had newly developed gallstones , complicated by cholangitis and jaundice in 1 . serum vitamin b-12 concentrations declined in all 10 patients [ from 380 + / - 32 to 172 + / - 21 pmol/l ( mean + / - se ) ; p = 0.023 ] and became abnormally low in 4 . gastric biopsy specimens , obtained during gastroscopy ( 9 patients ) , showed moderate to severe active gastritis , with damage to the superficial and deeper layers of the mucosa in 9 of 9 and focal atrophy in 7 of 9 patients . campylobacter pylori was found in the antral mucosa in 8 of 9 patients . although information is lacking on similar studies in untreated acromegalic patients , we suggest that patients receiving chronic octreotide therapy be closely monitored for these and possible other side-effects related to gastrointestinal actions of octreotide . 
thyroiditis as the presenting manifestation of disseminated extrapulmonary pneumocystis carinii infection . a 38-yr-old male with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome developed neck pain in association with mild hyperthyroidism and a diffusely enlarged thyroid gland . radioactive iodine scanning was consistent with thyroiditis , and biopsy of the thyroid demonstrated the presence of pneumocystis carinii in thyroid tissue . treatment with pentamidine followed by trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole led to rapid normalization of thyroid size in association with the development of hypothyroidism . this case illustrates the natural history of pneumocystis carinii thyroiditis and suggests that thyroid disease be added to the spectrum of human immunodeficiency virus-associated endocrine dysfunction . 
eruptive seborrheic keratoses in a young woman with acromegaly . the sign of leser-trelat , or eruptive seborrheic keratoses , is purported to be a cutaneous marker for many underlying malignancies . elevation in levels of growth factors has been postulated to be the stimulus for the sudden eruption of multiple new seborrheic keratoses . in support of this hypothesis we present a case of eruptive seborrheic keratoses in a young woman with acromegaly and elevated levels of growth hormone . 
prolonged anginal perceptual threshold in diabetes : effects on exercise capacity and myocardial ischemia . anginal perceptual threshold ( the time from onset of 0.1 mv of st segment depression to onset of angina during treadmill exercise ) is prolonged in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease . in the present study , the functional significance of this perceptual abnormality was evaluated by analysis of its effect on exercise capacity and the severity of myocardial ischemia . treadmill exercise in 32 diabetic patients and 36 nondiabetic control patients showed a close linear correlation between the time to onset of electrical ischemia ( st segment depression ) and exercise capacity in both groups ( r = 0.8 and 0.9 , respectively ; p less than 0.001 ) . however , the slope of the relation was flatter in the diabetic group because prolongation of the anginal perceptual threshold permitted continued exercise as ischemia intensified . the anginal perceptual threshold itself showed a close linear correlation with exercise capacity in the diabetic group ( r = 0.8 , p less than 0.001 ) , although in the nondiabetic group these variables were unrelated . the permissive effect of a prolonged anginal perceptual threshold on exercise capacity is undesirable as reflected by its correlation with ischemia at peak exercise ( r = 0.6 , p less than 0.001 ) : the longer the threshold , the greater the exercise capacity and the more severe the ischemia . indeed , the inverse relation between the severity of ischemia at peak exercise and exercise capacity in the nondiabetic group ( r = 0.4 , p less than 0.02 ) was completely lost in the diabetic group . thus , in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease , anginal perceptual threshold is a major determinant of exercise capacity . 
a review of iodine toxicity reports . this article summarizes case reports , population studies , and experimental studies from the literature concerning adverse effects of exposure to iodine from the mid-1880s to 1988 . exposure to excessive iodine through foods , dietary supplements , topical medications , and/or iodinated contrast media has resulted in thyroiditis , goiter , hypothyroidism , hyperthyroidism , sensitivity reactions , or acute responses for some individuals . reports of maternal iodine exposure during pregnancy or lactation affecting newborn or nursing infants are cited . susceptibility to excess iodine is discussed as well as the relationship between dose and response . it is concluded that some individuals can tolerate very high levels of iodine with no apparent side effects and that iodine intakes less than or equal to 1.000 mg/day are probably safe for the majority of the population , but may cause adverse effects in some individuals . determination of maximum tolerable levels of iodine intake will require human experimental studies at levels between 0.150 and 1.000 mg/day for normal subjects , subjects with autonomous thyroid tissue , and iodine-sensitive subjects . 
risk factors for gallstones among chinese in taiwan . a community sonographic survey . a health survey of adults aged 30 years or more was carried out in southwest taiwan to determine the prevalence of gallstones and to study risk factors associated with gallstones . blood samples were collected and abdominal sonographic examination and anthropometric measurements were performed on a total of 923 people . the 40 gallstone cases detected resulted in a prevalence of 4.3 % . the risk factors explored included age , sex , hepatitis , obesity , hyperlipidemia , and diabetes mellitus ( dm ) . age and dm were the only significant factors associated with gallstones in our study . with a reference group of 30-39-year-olds as a comparison , multiple logistic regression analysis showed a trend effect with odds ratios of 1.73 , 3.74 , and 6.32 for age groups of 40-49 , 50-59 , and 60 or above , respectively . the odds ratio for dm was as high as 2.59 . however , sex , body weight index , chronic hepatitis b , and hyperlipidemia were not significantly associated with gallstones . 
screening diabetic patients for microalbuminuria . abnormal rates of urinary albumin excretion have been shown to predict the development of nephropathy and may signal atherosclerotic disease in diabetic patients . this study demonstrated the feasibility of measuring microalbuminuria in diabetic patients from a large family practice population . although only one half of the 473 diabetic patients offered free screening took advantage of the testing , those participating did not differ in terms of sex , race , type of diabetes , mean age , systolic blood pressure , and fasting blood glucose levels from those not electing to participate . over 40 % of those screened had abnormally elevated albumin excretion rates as defined as greater than 0.02 g of albumin per gram of creatinine . those participating in the screening perceived the process as useful and were able to comply with directions for overnight urine collection . results show that screening for microalbuminuria in diabetic patients cared for by family physicians is feasible , simple , and inexpensive . interventions to slow or reverse the progression of abnormal microalbuminuria and future risk for nephropathy in those with diabetes are underway . 
resistance to ischaemia of small afferent nerve fibres in diabetes mellitus . thermal thresholds were measured in the left forearms of 26 healthy subjects and 10 patients with diabetes mellitus during ischaemic compression block . during the period when ischaemic block of large fibres caused paraesthesia and loss of touch sensation , the cold threshold rose in normals . the cold threshold was less clearly elevated and the warm perception remained unaltered by ischaemia in diabetics . these results show that not only large afferent and efferent nerve fibres but also thinly myelinated a delta and unmyelinated c fibres are resistant to ischaemia in the diabetic nerve . 
magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents : theory and application to the central nervous system . the theoretical aspects of magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging contrast agents are reviewed , and their current applications to the central nervous system ( cns ) and their future applications are discussed . profound differences exist between contrast agents used for mr imaging and computerized tomography ( ct ) . in mr imaging , the contrast agents are not imaged directly but rather act on adjacent protons to shorten t1 and t2 relaxation times . this in turn results in signal intensity changes . the lanthanide metal , gadolinium , in the form of gadopentetate dimeglumine , has been found to be both safe and efficacious as the only currently approved contrast agent for mr imaging . magnetic resonance imaging revolutionized the detection and treatment of disease affecting the brain and spine . initially , it was thought that signal characteristics on mr imaging would allow differentiation of specific pathology . it was soon found that mr studies were able to detect more abnormalities but were less able to characterize them . the recent development of contrast agents for mr imaging has allowed this modality to surpass ct for the evaluation of most cns lesions . at present , contrast-enhanced mr imaging is generally accepted as the study of choice for evaluating acoustic neurinomas , pituitary lesions , meningeal disease , primary and secondary brain tumors , active multiple sclerosis , intradural spinal neoplasms , intramedullary spinal disease , and postoperative states in both the spine and brain . even when contrast-enhanced ct can detect the same abnormalities , evaluation of the lesions in multiple planes on mr imaging can sometimes yield invaluable information , especially prior to surgery . future developments of contrast material for mr imaging include non-gadolinium compounds , intrathecal contrast media , cerebral blood flow and volume evaluation , and , possibly , antibody-labeled contrast agents . 
training obstetrics-and-gynecology residents to manage breast disease . incorporation into a breast care clinic . the american board of obstetricians and gynecologists recently issued a directive that education in breast disease be incorporated into all residency training programs . at the university of michigan medical center , the comprehensive breast care center ( bcc ) provides the vehicle for the education and training of residents in the area of breast disease . the department of obstetrics and gynecology is fully integrated and participates actively in the care of patients in the bcc . 
isolated primary aldosteronism in a patient with adrenal carcinoma and xy/xxy mosaic klinefelter 's syndrome . although breast cancer , germ cell tumors and other neoplasms are known to occur in patients with klinefelter 's syndrome , adrenal carcinoma has not yet been reported in such patients . we describe a rare case of severe primary aldosteronism as the unique manifestation of a large adrenocortical carcinoma in a patient with klinefelter 's syndrome . complete biological and hormonal evaluation was performed . surgical treatment was successful and the patient remained asymptomatic with normal biological and hormonal values after 1 year of followup . 
parathyroid hormone-related peptide in plasma of patients with hypercalcemia and malignant lesions we developed and validated a radioimmunoassay for circulating human parathyroid hormone-related peptide ( pthrp ) , based on a commercial antiserum to the synthetic 1-34 fragment of pthrp , 125i-tyr degrees-pthrp ( 1-34 ) as radioligand , and prior extraction of the native peptide from plasma with c-2 cartridges . we determined immunoreactive pthrp concentrations in plasma samples from 48 healthy persons ( mean + / - sd , 3.1 + / - 1.0 pmol/liter ; range , less than 2 to 5 pmol/liter ) , 8 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism , 36 patients with hypercalcemia and a concurrent malignant lesion , and 9 normocalcemic patients with cancer and increased serum levels of carcinoembryonic antigen or prostate-specific antigen . pthrp was normal in samples from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism ( 3.2 + / - 1.1 pmol/liter ) , secondary hyperparathyroidism ( 2.5 + / - 1.3 pmol/liter ) , and cancer without hypercalcemia ( 2.4 + / - 1.0 pmol/liter ) . in contrast , plasma immunoreactive pthrp levels were increased ( 6.0 to 85.0 pmol/liter ) in 47 % of patients with hypercalcemia and cancer of various types , with or without bone metastatic lesions . large amounts of pthrp were also found in conditioned medium from cultured human prostatic carcinoma cells . thus , pthrp may be a causative factor for hypercalcemia associated with a malignant lesion in at least half of the cases . measurement of circulating pthrp may be of differential diagnostic help in hypercalcemic states . 
central changes in hypothyroid myopathy : a case report . a muscle biopsy from a patient with hypothyroid myopathy showed striking central changes . " cores " were seen in most type 1 fibers with oxidative enzyme preparations . electron microscopy of these areas revealed z disc streaming , myofilament disruption , and absent mitochondria . the myopathy rapidly improved with thyroxine treatment . this biopsy is of interest , as numerous " cores " have not previously been reported in hypothyroid myopathy . 
thickness of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque and ischemic risk . noninvasive duplex scanning of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque was performed in 286 consecutive patients referred to a cerebrovascular diagnostic laboratory . the presence and thickness of such plaque in the region of the carotid bifurcation were examined for association with the degree of vessel stenosis , age , sex , smoking history , history of prior transient ischemic attack or stroke , and systemic manifestations of atherosclerotic disease . atherosclerotic plaque thickness was positively correlated with degree of vessel stenosis ( p less than 0.0001 ) . both parameters were independent predictors of cerebrovascular events but plaque thickness was a better predictor of prior transient ischemic attacks ( p less than 0.05 ) , and vessel stenosis was a better predictor of prior stroke ( p less than 0.005 ) . patient age ( p less than 0.001 ) and pack-years of cigarette use ( p less than 0.001 ) were independent positive predictors of carotid atherosclerotic plaque thickness . the greatest effect of smoking and atherosclerotic plaque thickness was seen in heavy smokers younger than age 55 . both carotid artery plaque thickness and pack-years of smoking were significant independent predictors of other systemic manifestations of atherosclerotic disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . such noninvasive scanning of carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque demonstrates the significant role of age and smoking in the progression of disease . it also suggests a significant role for carotid atherosclerotic artery plaque in the pathophysiology of cerebrovascular events , especially transient ischemic attacks , even prior to the production of a flow-limiting stenosis . finally , noninvasive screening of carotid artery plaque may provide a useful marker for the patient at risk for systemic atherosclerotic disease and identify the patient for whom maximal atherosclerotic risk factor modification is needed . 
radiation necrosis of the optic chiasm , optic tract , hypothalamus , and upper pons after radiotherapy for pituitary adenoma , detected by gadolinium-enhanced , t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging : case report . a 26-year-old woman was treated for a prolactin secreting pituitary adenoma by surgery and radiotherapy ( 5860 rads ) . fourteen months later , she developed right hemiparesis and dysarthria . a t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan using gadolinium contrast showed a small , enhanced lesion in the upper pons . seven months later , she had a sudden onset of loss of vision , and radiation optic neuropathy was diagnosed . a t1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan showed widespread gadolinium-enhanced lesions in the optic chiasm , optic tract , and hypothalamus . magnetic resonance imaging is indispensable for the early diagnosis of radiation necrosis , which is not visualized by radiography or computed tomography . 
pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke 's cleft cyst this report describes a case of symptomatic pituitary hemorrhage into a rathke 's cleft cyst in a 25-year-old woman . the literature on pituitary hemorrhage in nonadenomatous sellar tumors is reviewed . 
suprasellar pituitary adenoma arising from the pars tuberalis : case report . a rare case of suprasellar pituitary adenoma arising from the pars tuberalis in a 53-year-old woman is presented . the tumor was located exclusively above the diaphragma sellae , and no invasion into the sella turcica was noted . 
treating diabetes in the elderly . what are the special considerations ? management of diabetes in elderly patients generally follows the same lines as in younger patients ; that is , improvement of blood glucose status with diet , oral hypoglycemic , and insulin therapy as required . older patients are more fragile , however , and more caution must be used with therapeutic interventions . 
aberrant splicing of androgen receptor mrna results in synthesis of a nonfunctional receptor protein in a patient with androgen insensitivity . androgen insensitivity is a disorder in which the correct androgen response in an androgen target cell is impaired . the clinical symptoms of this x chromosome-linked syndrome are presumed to be caused by mutations in the androgen receptor gene . we report a g ---- t mutation in the splice donor site of intron 4 of the androgen receptor gene of a 46 , xy subject lacking detectable androgen binding to the receptor and with the complete form of androgen insensitivity . this point mutation completely abolishes normal rna splicing at the exon 4/intron 4 boundary and results in the activation of a cryptic splice donor site in exon 4 , which leads to the deletion of 123 nucleotides from the mrna . translation of the mutant mrna results in an androgen receptor protein approximately 5 kda smaller than the wild type . this mutated androgen receptor protein was unable to bind androgens and unable to activate transcription of an androgen-regulated reporter gene construct . this mutation in the human androgen receptor gene demonstrates the importance of an intact steroid-binding domain for proper androgen receptor functioning in vivo . 
antidiabetic agents . although either insulin or oral hypoglycemics may be used in conjunction with diet and exercise in the management of type ii diabetes , drug therapy for type i diabetes involves only insulin . c-peptide levels can be tested to assess whether the patient has remaining pancreatic endocrine function . patients being started on insulin for the first time should receive a single injection of an intermediate-acting insulin of " human " origin at a dose of approximately 0.5 u/kg . thereafter , fasting , mid-morning , mid-afternoon , bedtime , and possibly early morning blood sugars should be examined periodically to determine if the insulin dose needs to be increased , decreased , split , or if the patient needs to be on a two-insulin regimen . intensive insulin therapy has become commonplace to control plasma glucose levels in the majority of patients receiving insulin therapy . proper patient education regarding the insulin regimen , injection techniques , blood glucose monitoring , as well as diet , exercise , and foot care are essential if the patient 's diabetes is to be controlled adequately . guidelines for " adequate " glycemic control are outlined in table 6 . recent evidence suggests that tight control of plasma glucose levels may decrease the macrovascular complications of diabetes . although there is also evidence to suggest that the onset of microvascular complications might be delayed with strict glycemic control , the data are conflicting . the benefits of strict control must be weighted against the problems of hypoglycemia experienced by many patients who attempt tight control of their blood glucose levels . biguanide compounds are available in europe , but the sulfonylureas comprise the only class of oral agents in the united states commercially available for the treatment of type ii diabetes . the two generations of these drugs reflect their potency and possible side-effect profiles . of the first-generation agents , tolbutamide and chlorpropamide are the most widely prescribed . tolbutamide is the weakest of the sulfonylureas , possibly making it a good drug for initiating oral therapy in the elderly . chlorpropamide is becoming a less popular agent because of its long duration of action and its increased incidence of side effects . of the second-generation agents , glyburide offers a better dosing schedule ( once daily compared with twice daily for glipizide ) ; however , glyburide may produce a greater incidence of hypoglycemia , particularly in the elderly or in patients with significant renal impairment . there are few good studies comparing these two drugs so that recommending one over the other is difficult . drug interactions are numerous with the first-generation drugs , but less so with the newer second-generation agents . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
adrenal dysfunction in patients with renal amyloid . amyloidosis is a multi-system disease . renal involvement often leads to end-stage renal failure , which carries a poor prognosis . this paper reports the adrenal status of 22 patients with renal amyloid who were considered for or who had been commenced on renal replacement therapy . twelve patients were considered or found to have aa amyloid and the remaining 10 had al amyloid . of 16 patients tested , seven demonstrated an abnormal response to a synacthen test . four patients died at addisonian crisis and hypo-adrenalism probably contributed to the deaths of a further two patients . amyloid deposition was found in the adrenal glands in seven patients who died of systemic amyloidosis and renal failure . it is recommended that all patients with renal amyloid should have an assessment of adrenal function performed and if abnormal replacement steroid therapy should be commenced . 
long-term results following 131i treatment for graves ' disease in hong kong chinese -- discriminant factors predicting hypothyroidism . the clinical outcome of 1028 hong kong chinese patients with graves ' disease treated with radioiodine therapy and followed for a mean of 9.85 + / - 4.84 years ( range 2-20 ) was analysed . retreatment was required by 413 patients ( 40.2 per cent ) , with 134 patients ( 13.0 per cent ) requiring more than two 131i doses . one hundred and eighty-nine patients received carbimazole after 131i until euthyroidism was achieved . the cumulative incidence of hypothyroidism at one , five , 10 and 15 years was 9.6 per cent , 31.4 per cent , 53.8 per cent and 65.8 per cent , respectively . the average incidence of hypothyroidism after the first two years was 3.3 per cent per annum . stepwise logistic regression analysis of pretreatment variables suggested that a combination of adjunctive carbimazole therapy , absence of ophthalmopathy and longer effective half-lives of 131i were of value in predicting which patients were less likely to develop permanent hypothyroidism . however , the probability of accurately predicting permanent hypothyroidism based on the present model was only 60 per cent . we believe that no single pretreatment variable , or combination of variables , predicts long-term hypothyroidism with sufficient confidence to justify the use of a ' formula ' approach for prescribing 131i therapy for graves ' disease . 
underexpression of beta cell high km glucose transporters in noninsulin-dependent diabetes [ published erratum appears in science 1990 nov 30 ; 250 ( 4985 ) :1195 ] the role of defective glucose transport in the pathogenesis of noninsulin-dependent diabetes ( niddm ) was examined in zucker diabetic fatty rats , a model of niddm . as in human niddm , insulin secretion was unresponsive to 20 mm glucose . uptake of 3-o-methylglucose by islet cells was less than 19 % of controls . the beta cell glucose transporter ( glut-2 ) immunoreactivity and amount of glut-2 messenger rna were profoundly reduced . whenever fewer than 60 % of beta cells were glut-2-positive , the response to glucose was absent and hyperglycemia exceeded 11 mm plasma glucose . we conclude that in niddm underexpression of glut-2 messenger rna lowers high km glucose transport in beta cells , and thereby impairs glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and prevents correction of hyperglycemia . 
prevalence of previously undiagnosed hypothyroidism in residents of a midwestern nursing home [ published erratum appears in south med j 1991 jul ; 84 ( 7 ) :936 ] hypothyroidism in the elderly may be associated with nonspecific symptoms . to determine the prevalence of undiagnosed hypothyroidism in residents of a skilled nursing facility , we screened 434 male and 137 female residents , aged 60 years or older , for thyroid dysfunction . overt hypothyroidism was found in three men and two women . subclinical hypothyroidism was diagnosed in 42 men ( 9.7 % ) and 20 women ( 14.6 % ) . tests for thyroid antibodies were positive in all patients with overt hypothyroidism and in 12 ( 34 % ) of the 35 men and 12 ( 67 % ) of the 18 women with subclinical hypothyroidism who had thyroid antibody testing . all residents with newly diagnosed overt hypothyroidism and 54 ( 87 % ) of the 62 with subclinical hypothyroidism had been under medical observation for 1 year or longer . the institutionalized elderly should be screened for hypothyroidism because this abnormality may otherwise remain undiagnosed . the detection of subclinical hypothyroidism is important , as affected individuals are at risk for further decline in thyroid function . 
tamoxifen therapy for painful idiopathic gynecomastia . we have evaluated the efficacy of the antiestrogen tamoxifen in six men with painful idiopathic gynecomastia . subjects were given either tamoxifen or placebo for 2 to 4 months and then were given the other agent for an identical period . breast size was considered to have been reduced only if it had decreased by one or more marshall-tanner stages during the treatment period . pain reduction with tamoxifen therapy was statistically significant for the group , occurring in five of six subjects during tamoxifen treatment and in only one of six during the placebo period . size reduction with tamoxifen was only marginally significant for the entire group , but occurred in all three subjects who were initially in marshall-tanner stage iii and in none of the three subjects who were initially in stage v. during tamoxifen treatment , there was a significant increase in the serum levels of luteinizing hormone and total estradiol and a marginally significant increment in the total testosterone level . 
cytophagic histiocytic panniculitis evolving into total lipodystrophy . a 15-year-old boy had persistent fever with severe neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , coagulation disorder , and marked elevation of lactate dehydrogenase values . a diagnosis of cytophagic histiocytic panniculitis was made after repeated skin biopsies . three years after onset , he gradually lost 20 kg in body weight , and both skin and bone marrow specimens revealed degenerative changes of fatty tissue without any inflammatory cells . these findings suggest that total lipodystrophy syndrome results from the inflammatory destructive process of adipose tissue . to our knowledge , our report is the first to show , in a series of histologic studies , that an inflammatory destructive process may be involved in some cases of total lipodystrophy syndrome . 
the predictive value of needle localization mammographically assisted biopsy of the breast . this study was done to review critically the experience at the university of california at san diego in needle localization mammographic biopsy of the breast with regard to use and accuracy in identifying early carcinoma of the breast . ninety-seven patients underwent needle localization mammographic biopsy of the breast between 1985 and 1987 . indications for this procedure included the presence of microcalcifications or a mass shown on mammographic examination , or both , in conjunction with physical examination which did not define a discrete abnormality in the area . mammographic , demographic , pathologic , hormone receptor data and staging information were recorded and processed on the microvax ii computer ( digital equipment corporation ) . twenty-four per cent of lesions with needle localization mammographic assisted biopsy proved to be malignant . sixteen lesions were diagnosed as an infiltrating ductal carcinoma and ten of these had an accompanying intraductal carcinoma . over-all , intraductal carcinoma was present in 16 of the 23 specimens diagnosed as malignant . at biopsy , the margins were clear in 17 of 23 , and vascular invasion was present in only one patient with an infiltrating lobular carcinoma . five were tumor in situ , 12 were stage 1 and five were stage 2 ( staging information was not available in one instance ) . hormone receptor data were available in 17 of 23 specimens . estrogen receptors were positive in 13 and progesterone receptors were positive in six . the smallest preinvasive malignant lesion was 4 millimeters , as seen on the mammogram , and the smallest free-standing invasive lesion was 8 millimeters . preinvasive lesions ( intraductal ) presented as microcalcifications in 80 per cent . invasive lesions presented as either a mass ( n = 9 ) or as a mass and microcalcifications ( n = 5 ) in 81 per cent . all five lesions presenting as both a mass and microcalcifications on mammogram proved to be malignant . multifocal lesions on mammographic examination which proved to be malignant were multifocal pathologically in only 50 per cent . needle localization mammographic biopsy is useful in detecting early carcinoma of the breast . biopsy should be done on lesions presenting on mammogram as both a mass and microcalcifications and not observed . focality of lesions on mammogram does not correlate with focality on biopsy and may be misleading as criteria for operative planning . 
calcifications of the breast after reduction mammoplasty . mammograms of 152 patients after mammoplasty were studied and 37 patients were noted to have calcifications . the pattern of these calcifications was studied to determine if specific characteristics could be identified . the calcifications were found to occur within the skin of the breast , mainly at a periareolar location . the ability to identify these benign calcifications further aids in reliably monitoring patients by mammography after reduction mammoplasty . 
severe primary hyperparathyroidism in a neonate having a parent with hypercalcemia : treatment by total parathyroidectomy and simultaneous heterotopic autotransplantation . neonatal primary hyperparathyroidism is a life-threatening disease because of marked hypercalcemia and severe respiratory distress caused by the hypoplastic thorax and occasional rib fractures . we report a 29-day-old girl treated by total parathyroidectomy and simultaneous autotransplantation of parathyroid tissue ( one fifth of each of the two glands ) in the femoral quadriceps muscle near the groin . at the time of operation , all four of the parathyroid glands were markedly enlarged , and their total weight was 900 mg . part of the resected parathyroid tissue was cryopreserved for further autotransplantation should hypoparathyroidism develop . two years six months after surgery , the infant was well and had normal levels of serum calcium and immunoreactive parathyroid hormone in the absence of any supplementary treatment . asymptomatic hypercalcemia in the presence of abnormally low fractional excretion of calcium was found in the father . based on our experience and review of the literature , we recommend total parathyroidectomy , autotransplantation , and cryopreservation for the neonate with primary hyperparathyroidism . 
silent myocardial ischemia and infarction in diabetics with peripheral vascular disease : assessment by dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy . we investigated the incidence of silent myocardial ischemia and infarction as assessed by dipyridamole thallium scintigraphy in 30 diabetic patients with peripheral vascular disease and without clinical suspicion of coronary artery disease . seventeen patients ( 57 % ) had thallium abnormalities , with reversible thallium defects compatible with ischemia in 14 patients ( 47 % ) and evidence of prior , clinically silent myocardial infarction in 11 patients ( 37 % ) . thallium abnormalities were most frequent in patients with concomitant hypertension and cigarette smoking ( p = 0.001 ) . these results suggest that unsuspected coronary artery disease is common in this particular group of patients with diabetes mellitus . 
subgroups of patients with atypical circadian patterns of symptom onset in acute myocardial infarction . circadian variation of onset of acute myocardial infarction has been noted in many studies and may carry important implications . however , only a few previous studies have attempted subgroup analysis . in 4,796 patients with documented acute myocardial infarction , the time of symptom onset was recorded . as in other studies , a peak occurred in the morning hours from 6 a.m. to noon with 28 % of the population ( 1.16 times the average percent for the other time periods ) experiencing symptom onset in that period ( p less than 0.001 ) . there was a second lower peak ( 25 % ) in the evening hours between 6:01 p.m. and midnight , also observed in some previous studies . whether the presence of subgroups with specific clinical characteristics would exhibit different patterns and thereby contribute to these peaks in the overall population was then determined . in patients with a history of congestive heart failure ( n = 606 ) or with non-q-wave infarction ( n = 832 ) , a pronounced peak ( 29 % ) occurred only in the evening hours . in patients greater than 70 years of age ( n = 1,422 ) , smokers ( n = 2,057 ) , diabetics ( n = 767 ) , women ( n = 1,213 ) and patients taking beta blocking drugs ( n = 847 ) , 2 nearly equal peaks were observed . finally , in patients with previous myocardial infarction ( n = 1,104 ) , no peaks were observed . in a subgroup of patients ( n = 1,084 ) free from the most important modifying factors , there was a single very pronounced late morning peak ( 32 % ) , 1.39 times the average percent for the other time periods ( p less than 0.001 ) , without evidence of a second evening peak . 
iodine and selenium deficiency associated with cretinism in northern zaire . selenium status was determined in an endemic-goiter area and in a control area of zaire . compared with the reference values of a noniodine-deficient area , serum selenium in subjects living in the core of the northern zaire endemic-goiter belt ( karawa villages ) was seven times lower in 52 school-children and similarly low in 23 cretins ; erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase ( rbc-gpx ) was five times lower in schoolchildren and still two times lower in cretins ( p = 0.004 ) . in a less severely iodine-deficient city of the same endemia ( businga ) , selenium status was moderately altered . rbc-gpx activity was linearly associated with serum selenium concentration up to a value of 1140 nmol/l and leveled off at approximately 15 u/g hb at greater selenium concentration . at karawa villages , selenium supplementation normalized both the serum selenium and the rbc-gpx . this combined iodine and selenium deficiency could be associated with the elevated frequency of endemic myxedematous cretinism in central africa . 
disproportionate septal hypertrophy associated with erythroblastosis fetalis . we retrospectively reviewed clinical and echocardiographic data on 10 newborns with erythroblastosis fetalis who were admitted to our nurseries between 1984 and 1988 and who required a double-volume exchange transfusion and neonatal intensive care . echocardiograms were performed in the first 48 hours of life . in 5 patients , disproportionate septal hypertrophy was demonstrated ; 1 additional patient had biventricular hypertrophy with a thickened septum but not disproportionate septal hypertrophy . the mean septal : left ventricular free-wall ratio for the group ( n = 10 ) was 1.37 . no correlation was apparent between the occurrence of disproportionate septal hypertrophy and newborn glucose , bilirubin , or hematocrit values . when analyzed separately , the 4 patients who did not receive intrauterine blood transfusions had a ratio of 1.73 + / - 0.21 ( mean + / - sem ) ; this was significantly greater than the ratio in the 6 patients who were transfused in utero ( 1.13 + / - 0.24 ) . in patients who underwent transfusions , there was no correlation between the number of transfusions and the septal : left ventricular ratio . this study reports a significant but previously unrecognized cardiac hypertrophy with disproportionate septal hypertrophy in patients with erythroblastosis fetalis . our data suggest a sparing effect of intrauterine fetal transfusions . the mechanism by which these transfusions may affect the hypertrophic development of the myocardium remains to be determined . 
ultrasonography in the differentiation of complicated and uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis . differentiation of uncomplicated pyelonephritis versus complicated pyelonephritis has always been problematic . no clear physical signs or symptoms are diagnostic . to study differences between the two , we retrospectively reviewed charts of patients admitted to charity hospital , new orleans , with febrile urinary tract infections . criteria for inclusion were pyuria , positive urinary culture , and signs or symptoms of pyelonephritis . all patients underwent renal ultrasonography ( us ) before other diagnostic tests . us identified a potential emergency ( hydronephrosis or abscess ) in 11 of 98 patients ( 11.2 % ) . the only significant contributing factor was the presence of diabetes mellitus , which was present in five of 11 emergent conditions and eight of 73 of the remainder ( p = 0.003 ) . us is inexpensive , easily obtainable in the emergency room , and sensitive enough to screen patients with pyelonephritis for complications . however , we believe it is mandatory in diabetics , because of the high incidence of abnormalities in this population . 
does magnesium play a role in the hypokalemia of bartter 's syndrome ? a patient with bartter 's syndrome manifested hypomagnesemia in addition to hypokalemia . under conditions of maximal free water production , he had a fractional distal solute reabsorption of 0.65 , a value consistent with a renal defect in sodium chloride reabsorption in the thick ascending limb of the loop of henle . this is also the site of 65 % to 70 % of urinary magnesium reabsorption . with magnesium supplementation and amiloride , the urinary potassium decreased and the serum potassium increased . atrial natriuretic peptide concentrations in the plasma were low . evaluation of family members showed five of nine offspring had hypokalemia with no disorder in the parents , an apparent autosomal recessive mode of inheritance . this is a us government work . there are no restrictions on its use . 
the mutation for medullary thyroid carcinoma with parathyroid tumors ( mtc with pts ) is closely linked to the centromeric region of chromosome 10 . two new morphs ( f and g ) detected by the centromeric alpha satellite probe p alpha 10rp8 and d10z1 in hinfi digests are linked to the psti polymorphisms of d10z1 , confirming their chromosome 10 location . the f and g morphs were in strong linkage disequilibrium with each other but were in weak linkage disequilibrium with the a and b morphs defined in psti digests . data for haplotypes formed by using the a and f morphs improved the lod score for linkage between the disease locus for multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a ( men2a ) and d10z1 ( z = 14.06 at theta = 0 ) in the six large families studied by wu et al . furthermore , the locus that codes for a distinct phenotype , medullary thyroid carcinoma ( mtc ) with parathyroid tumors ( pts ) and no pheochromocytomas ( pheos ) ( referred to as mtc with pts ) , in one of the families was closely linked to two markers , d10z1 and rbp3 , with lodscores of 2.86 and 3.54 , respectively , at theta = 0 . a possible allelic association was noted between disease phenotypes and centromeric haplotypes . the phenotype mtc and pheos with and without pts was associated with the same relatively common centromeric haplotype ( a + b-f-g - ) in the four families in which all four morphs could be determined , while the phenotype mtc with pts was associated with the rare centromeric haplotype ( a-b-f-g + ) in one family . 
a new dna marker ( d10s94 ) very tightly linked to the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2a ( men2a ) locus . combined somatic cell hybrid and linkage studies between d10s94 and five pericentromeric loci ( fnrb , d10z1 , men2a , rbp3 , and d10s15 ) have localized the new dna sequence pcl1/a1s -6 - c23 at d10s94 to 10q11 .2 . no recombinants were observed between d10s94 and d10z1 or men2a . d10s94 maps in proximal 10q11 .2 very near to men2a . there are three possible orders for the six loci that we investigated from the centromeric region of chromosome 10 . at present the genetic data do not allow us to order men2a with respect to d10z1 and d10s94 . the three possible orders are fnrb-d10z1-d10s94-men2a-rbp3-d10s15 , fnrb-d10z1-men2a-d10s94-rbp3-d10s15 , and fnrb-men2a-d10z1-d10s94-rbp3-d10s15 . in view of the fact that no recombinants between d10s94 and men2a or between d10s94 and d10z1 were observed , the combined haplotypes formed from rflps and d10z1 and d10s94 will increase the informativeness and accuracy of genotype prediction for at-risk members of the families having the men 2a syndrome , particularly when the affected parent is female . the localization of d10s94 with respect to men2a will prove valuable in experiments directed toward cloning the men2a locus . 
interrelationships between age , thyroid volume , thyroid nodularity , and thyroid function in patients with sporadic nontoxic goiter . purpose : to test the hypothesis that during the natural history of sporadic nontoxic goiter ( sng ) , a diffuse goiter precedes a multinodular goiter with gradual development of autonomous thyroid function . patients and methods : a cross-sectional survey of 102 consecutive patients with sng ( seven male , 95 female ) was performed . thyroid volume was measured by ultrasonography , and plasma thyroid-stimulating hormone ( tsh ) by a sensitive assay ( tsh immunoradiometric assay ) . results : patients with a multinodular goiter were older and had a larger thyroid volume than patients with a diffuse or uninodular goiter . plasma free thyroxine ( t4 ) and total triiodothyronine ( t3 ) were higher and plasma tsh was lower in patients than in normal subjects . free t4 was higher in the subgroup of patients with a multinodular goiter and a decreased tsh response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone . plasma tsh ( y , in mu/l ) was negatively related to thyroid volume ( x , in ml ) : y = 8.2x-0 .667 ( r = 0.578 , p less than 0.001 ) . thyroid volume ( y , in ml ) was positively related to age ( x , in years ) : y = -21.8 + 2.0 x ( r = 0.455 , p less than 0.001 ) ; and to duration of goiter ( x , in years ) : y = 40.6 + 2.1 x ( r = 0.505 , p less than 0.001 ) . the annual increase in thyroid volume was calculated at 4.5 % . conclusion : the data suggest a continuous growth of sng and provide support for the concept of increasing thyroid nodularity and autonomy of thyroid function -- related to increasing thyroid volume -- during the natural history of this disorder . 
amputation prevention in an independently reviewed at-risk diabetic population using a comprehensive wound care protocol . an independent review panel composed of an orthopedic surgeon , a vascular surgeon , and an endocrinologist was convened to conduct a case history review . the 71 patients reviewed had 124 wounds on 81 limbs and participated in the comprehensive wound management program of the university of minnesota . based on their expertise , the review panel classified the wounds by severity and identified the limb 's risk for amputation . the resulting scores were then compared with the patient 's actual outcome . the review panel predicted 65 ( 80 % ) of the limbs would be salvaged and 16 ( 20 % ) would be amputated . the actual outcome was that 75 ( 93 % ) of the limbs were salvaged and 6 ( 7 % ) were amputated ( p less than 0.005 ) . the university 's wound management program was highly successful , compared with the predictions of the reviewers . 
ponderal index as a predictor of postoperative complications . four hundred sixty-eight patients undergoing elective surgery were prospectively followed for the development of postoperative complications . there was a trend toward increasing complication rate with a lower ponderal index . however , lower ponderal indices were associated with increasing rates of diabetes mellitus and hypertension . of these patients , forty cases with postoperative complications were matched to 40 control cases for sex , age , concomitant illness and operation performed . the cases of postoperative complications had a statistically significantly lower ponderal index than the controls ( 11.98 versus 12.43 ) . the increased risk of postoperative complications in those patients with a ponderal index of less than 11 was 3.36 , and less than 13 was 3.44 . surgeons who treated patients with lower ponderal indices need to have a high index of suspicion for the development of postoperative complications in these patients . 
nonsurgical management of breast infections in nonlactating women . a word of caution . management options for infectious mastitis have traditionally been limited to surgical drainage . with the advent of percutaneous fine needle aspiration ( fna ) , nonoperative treatment may be an alternative , though criteria for use have not been defined . during a 30-month period , 22 women presented with breast infection . treatment was instituted based upon the clinical stage of infection . patients with cellulitis ( n = 8 ) were managed with diagnostic fna/antibiotics . those with focal abscess ( n = 10 ) underwent fna of the cavity/antibiotics . patients with multiloculated abscess ( n c = 3 ) underwent urgent surgical drainage . of the 19 patients initially treated nonoperatively , resolution occurred in nine ( 47 % ) ; stage of infection did not effect outcome . surgical drainage was required in the remainder ; two cancers were found . fna cytology in these ( and all ) patients was negative for malignancy . all underwent mammography during treatment . in 17 ( 77 % ) cancer was considered of low probability . the only patient with a mammogram highly suspicious for cancer had fat necrosis on biopsy . bacterial cultures were positive in 79 per cent , virtually all with gram ( + ) cocci . four patients harbored gram ( - ) organisms as well , two in concert with breast cancer . conclusions : 1 ) select breast infections can be successfully managed nonoperatively , 2 ) the accuracy of fna and mammography in the diagnosis of breast cancer may be impaired by coincident infection , 3 ) the finding of a gram ( - ) breast infection warrants abandonment of nonoperative management in favor of tissue confirmation of the disease process . 
cardiovascular effects of the somatostatin analog octreotide in acromegaly . objective : to determine the cardiovascular effects of the somatostatin analog octreotide in patients with acromegaly . design : prospective nonrandomized study . setting : referral-based endocrinology clinic . patients : seven patients with active acromegaly , three of whom had refractory congestive heart failure . the other four patients were free of symptoms associated with heart failure . interventions : all patients were treated with octreotide , 100 to 500 micrograms subcutaneously three times daily . the three patients with heart failure continued to receive cardiovascular therapy ( angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , digitalis , diuretics ) . measurements and main results : during octreotide therapy , patients showed a rapid decrease in growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor 1 ( igf-1 ) : mean levels ( + / - sd ) fell from 28.1 + / - 32.7 micrograms/l to 5.2 + / - 8.3 micrograms/l and 740 + / - 126 micrograms/l to 372 + / - 64 micrograms/l , respectively ( p less than 0.025 ) . plasma volume returned to normal and heart rate decreased significantly . in the four patients without heart failure , right-heart catheterization done before and after 3 months of octreotide therapy showed an 18.3 % + / - 11 % reduction in stroke volume and a return to normal of the cardiac index . the three patients with congestive heart failure , evaluated before and after 40 days and up to 2 years of therapy , showed a dramatic clinical improvement that was associated with an increase in stroke volume ( by 24 % to 51 % ) . in these patients , the cardiac index remained in the normal range , filling pressures were markedly decreased , and pulmonary wedge pressure returned to normal . this improvement was sustained for up to 3 years in the two patients with heart failure who were receiving long-term treatment . conclusion : the rapid and sustained cardiac improvement seen in our patients shows that octreotide therapy for patients with acromegaly may be highly beneficial , even in those patients with advanced cardiac failure . 
intraoperative blood pressure . what patterns identify patients at risk for postoperative complications ? while monitoring blood pressure is a routine part of intraoperative management , several methods have been proposed to characterize intraoperative hemodynamic patterns as predictors of postoperative complications . in this prospective study of a high-risk population of hypertensive and diabetic patients undergoing elective noncardiac surgery , one objective was to compare different approaches to the assessment of intraoperative hemodynamic patterns to identify those patterns most likely to be associated with postoperative complications . twenty-one per cent of the 254 patients sustained cardiac or renal complications after operation . patients with more than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases in mean arterial pressure ( map ) or patients with less than 1 hour of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg decreases and more than 15 minutes of greater than or equal to 20-mmhg increases were at highest risk for postoperative complications . together these two patterns had a 46 % sensitivity rate and a 70 % specificity rate in predicting postoperative complications . using 20 % change in intraoperative map produced results nearly identical to 20-mmhg changes . when the duration of 20-mmhg changes was accounted for , changes of a greater magnitude ( e.g. , 40 mmhg ) were not significant independent predictors of complications . the use of the mean difference from preoperative map was misleading because patients who experienced both high and low maps tended to have nearly normal mean maps , but high complication rates . the absolute magnitude of intraoperative maps , regardless of the preoperative levels , also was evaluated . the overall mean intraoperative map was not a significant predictor of complications . specific intraoperative maps ( e.g. , less than 70 mmhg and more than 120 mmhg ) also were evaluated . while neither was a significant predictor , there was a trend for increased complications among patients whose maps decreased to less than 70 mmhg . intraoperative blood pressure should be analyzed in relation to the patient 's preoperative blood pressure . prolonged changes of more than 20 mmhg or 20 % in relation to preoperative levels were significantly related to complications . 
acute hypercalcemic crisis after an open heart operation . acute hyperparathyroidism developed in a previously normocalcemic 64-year-old woman during the first week after a coronary operation . prolonged qt interval in the electrocardiogram and hypercalcemia were documented on the fourth postoperative day . neck exploration on the fifth postoperative day revealed a lower right parathyroid adenoma . parathyroidectomy resulted in rapid and dramatic improvement of the clinical picture and normalization of laboratory values . 
medical comorbidity of major depressive disorder in a primary medical practice . despite much speculation about the relationship between depression and medical comorbidity in primary care settings , few investigators have examined this issue empirically . using a two-stage screening procedure , we assessed 618 patients aged 18 to 64 years in an academic general medicine clinic . forty-one patients ( 6.6 % ) suffered from a current episode of major depressive disorder ( mdd ) . we compared this group with a 20 % random sample of nondepressed patients . while patients with mdd were younger ( mean age , 41.1 vs 47.2 years ) , they were assessed by the duke university severity of illness scale as having more severe medical illness . patients with mdd were more likely to have malignant tumors and " ill-defined conditions " than nondepressed patients . the 18 patients with mdd ( 44 % ) who were correctly diagnosed by their physicians had less severe medical illness than those whose depression was clinically undetected . a logistic regression model predicting mdd group membership included female gender , younger age , higher duke university severity of illness scale score , and more frequent inactive ill-defined diagnoses . these findings are consistent with assertions : ( 1 ) patients with mdd have more physical illness than nondepressed patients and/or ( 2 ) somatic symptoms and disability caused by mdd add to the burden of physical illness . 
thyrotoxicosis induced by topical iodine application . we describe an elderly man who was admitted with congestive cardiac failure and found to have thyrotoxicosis . he did not have goiter , and he had normal radioiodine uptake in his neck . serum iodine levels were elevated , explaining the lack of increase in radioiodine uptake in the thyroid gland . he had multiple pressure sores , which were treated with povidone-iodine ( betadine ) soaks . biochemical data were consistent with graves ' disease unmasked by topical iodine application . povidone-iodine soaks are commonly used in decubitus ulcer care and warrant special attention in patients with preexisting thyroid disorders . we have reviewed the literature on this unusual complication . 
the influence of hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus on immediate and 3-month morbidity and mortality after acute stroke . fasting serum glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , and fructosamine concentrations were determined in 304 consecutive subjects admitted with acute stroke , within 48 hours of ictus . based on the medical history and these results , subjects were divided into known diabetics , newly diagnosed diabetics , subjects with stress hyperglycemia , and nondiabetics . the type of stroke was classified as lacunar infarct , cerebral infarct , or intracerebral hemorrhage , based on clinical examination by a neurologist and computed tomographic brain scan and/or autopsy . immediate and 3-month outcomes were examined in relation to ( 1 ) fasting glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , and fructosamine levels by stroke subtypes , and ( 2 ) glucose tolerance categories by stroke subtypes . a high fasting glucose level was associated with an increased mortality , but this was observed only among patients with intracerebral hemorrhage . patients with stress hyperglycemia , but not diabetics , had increased mortality . in spite of having similar glucose concentrations to those patients with stress hyperglycemia , diabetics did not have a worse outcome compared with nondiabetics . it is concluded that the association between glucose concentration and outcome is a reflection of stress relating to stroke severity , rather than a direct harmful effect of glucose on damaged neurons . 
adverse mortality experience of a southwestern american indian community : overall death rates and underlying causes of death in pima indians . as part of an ongoing epidemiologic study , the death rate and causes of death during 1975 through 1984 were determined in pima indians who resided in the gila river indian community ( gric ) in 1965 and later . death certificates were available for 677 of the 681 deaths . in 78 % of the deaths , the underlying cause recorded on the death certificate agreed with the cause determined after review of all available relevant records . the age - and sex-adjusted average annual death rate for the gric population ( 1639/100 ,000 ) was 1.9 times ( 95 % ci 1.7-2 .0 ) the 1980 rate for the u.s. all races ( 878/100 ,000 ) . in pima males , whose death rate was substantially higher than that of pima females , the age-adjusted death rate was 2.3 times that in u.s. males , all races . moreover among males 25-34 years of age , the pima death rate was 6.6 times that for the u.s. all races . diseases of the heart and malignant neoplasms caused 59 % of u.s. deaths in 1980 , but only 19 % of gric deaths . by contrast , the age - and sex-adjusted mortality rate in the gric pima was 5.9 times the rate of the u.s. all races for accidents , 6.5 times for cirrhosis , 7.4 times for homicide , 4.3 times for suicide , and 11.9 times for diabetes . tuberculosis and coccidioidomycosis were important causes of death in the pima , for whom infectious diseases was the tenth leading cause of death . the findings indicate that programs to improve the adverse mortality experience of the gric population should emphasize factors related to fatal accidents , alcoholic cirrhosis , homicide , suicide , diabetes mellitus , and infectious diseases . young pimas , especially the males , should be the primary focus of such preventive efforts . these findings and recommendations probably apply to many native american populations . 
gallstones , cholecystitis and diabetes [ published erratum appears in surg gynecol obstet 1991 jul ; 173 ( 1 ) :72 ] findings from studies showing an increased incidence of gallstones in diabetic patients do not control for other variables , such as obesity . there is no proof that diabetic patients have more gallstones . gallstones do not cause diabetes mellitus . the principal gallbladder pathologic feature in diabetic patients is a functional deficit of uncertain etiologic factors , creating a large , flaccid , poorly emptying organ . bile acid and lipid composition are usually increased in diabetic patients . cholecystitis seems to be a more serious disease in diabetic patients , with worse infectious sequelae and more rapid disease progression . this conclusion has not been examined statistically . even with modern care , the complication rate for operations upon the biliary tract in patients with diabetes is increased . those with diabetes are generally older than other patients requiring cholecystectomy . systemic changes of aging partly explain increased morbidity and mortality . diabetic patients with symptomatic gallbladder disease usually require operation . risk of cholecystectomy in diabetic patients is similar to that in nondiabetics . prophylactic cholecystectomy for diabetic patients with " silent " gallstones was formerly recommended because of an apparent high risk of cholecystitis . until the natural history of gallstones in those with diabetes has been defined , such patients should be considered in danger of serious illness . the risk of acute cholecystitis in diabetic patients with stones is probably significant enough to warrant the performance of early cholecystectomy . 
unusual variants of adrenal pseudocysts with intracystic fat , myelolipomatous metaplasia , and metastatic carcinoma . five previously unreported cases of adrenal pseudocysts are described that demonstrate a wider range of histologic appearances than has been previously recognized in these lesions . one pseudocyst removed from an asymptomatic 59-year-old female contained intracystic nests of cytologically malignant cells of unknown origin . workup revealed a left breast mass , which on biopsy showed an infiltrating ductal carcinoma with neoplastic cells that were cytologically similar to those found within the cyst contents . four other pseudocysts are described with variable numbers of intracystic vascular structures and benign adrenal cortical cells . in addition , intracystic mature adipose tissue was observed in all four cases , with myelolipomatous metaplasia found in one . awareness of the wide histologic variability of these lesions should improve diagnostic accuracy and allow distinction from adrenocortical neoplasia and myelolipoma . 
the influence of renal function on diabetic foot ulceration . we examined the effect of renal function on the formation , severity , and outcome of diabetic foot lesions . information was collected from a retrospective hospital chart survey and analyzed by univariate and multivariate linear regression analysis . creatinine clearance , peripheral neuropathy , and peripheral vascular disease were all found to be independently associated with formation of foot lesions , indicating that each of these acts by distinct biologic mechanisms . renal function had no bearing on the severity of lesions or on their eventual healing . we conclude that foot ulcers are more likely to develop in diabetic patients who also suffer from renal impairment , but they are no less likely to heal than are those in patients with normal renal function . we further conclude that attempts to preserve functional limbs in these patients are justified . 
simplified two-stage below-knee amputation for unsalvageable diabetic foot infections . a simplified two-stage below-knee amputation for unsalvageable diabetic foot infections was done on 19 limbs with 84 % good results for healing . the first stage was the standard below-knee amputation with a long posterior flap in which the fascia and skin were closed in the central portion with the medial and lateral portions of the wound left open for drainage . the second stage was delayed until closure of the open wounds three to seven days after the first stage . wagner 's classification of diabetic foot lesions was used to stratify these cases . grades 3 and 4 foot infections had a uniformly good prognosis for healing with this surgical technique . grade 5 foot infections had a poor prognosis for healing , especially if associated with renal failure and dialysis , even with an initial guillotine amputation . 
distribution of elements and water in peripheral nerve of streptozocin-induced diabetic rats . accumulating evidence suggests that alterations in na , ca , k , and other biologically relevant elements play a role in the mechanism of cell injury . the pathogenesis of experimental diabetic neuropathy is unknown but might include changes in the distribution of these elements in morphological compartments . in this study , this possibility was examined via electron-probe x-ray microanalysis to measure both concentrations of elements ( millimoles of element per kilogram dry or wet weight ) and cell water content ( percent water ) in frozen , unfixed , unstained sections of peripheral nerve from control and streptozocin-induced diabetic rats . our results indicate that after 20 wk of experimental diabetes , mitochondria and axoplasm from myelinated axons of proximal sciatic nerve displayed diminished k and cl content , whereas in tibial nerve , the intraaxonal levels of these elements increased . in distal sciatic nerve , mitochondrial and axoplasmic levels of ca were increased , whereas other elemental alterations were not observed . these regional changes resulted in a reversal of the decreasing proximodistal concentration gradients for k and cl , which exist in nondiabetic rat sciatic nerve . our results can not be explained on the basis of altered water . highly distinctive changes in elemental distribution observed might be a critical component of the neurotoxic mechanism underlying diabetic neuropathy . 
influence of obesity , impaired glucose tolerance , and niddm on ldl structure and composition . possible link between hyperinsulinemia and atherosclerosis . the possible causes of the enhanced risk for coronary heart disease ( chd ) were examined in morbidly obese women with normoglycemia , impaired glucose tolerance ( igt ) , and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) before and after gastric bypass surgery . compared with age-matched lean women , plasma lipid and apolipoprotein concentrations of the obese women before surgery favored atherogenesis . the risk for chd may further be exacerbated in the igt and niddm groups by the prevalence of smaller and denser low-density-lipoprotein ( ldl ) particles . ldl size correlated negatively with plasma insulin levels independent of triglyceride levels , age , or body mass index ( bmi ) . after surgery , bmi , plasma insulin , and triglyceride levels decreased , but ldl size increased , and ldl density decreased . neither cholesterol nor ldl cholesterol levels were affected after surgery , but high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol was increased in all patients after surgery . although the mechanisms underlying the changes in the properties of ldl could not be determined from this study , these changes appear to be of benefit in reducing chd risk in these patients . 
nephropathy in model combining genetic hypertension with experimental diabetes . enalapril versus hydralazine and metoprolol therapy . we compared the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and a conventional antihypertensive regimen ( hydralazine and metoprolol ) on kidney function , albuminuria , and glomerular ultrastructure in hypertensive diabetic and nondiabetic rats . diabetes was induced with streptozocin at 8 wk of age in spontaneously hypertensive ( shr ) rats . antihypertensive drugs were administered in drinking water from the time of induction of diabetes in all groups . blood pressure reduction was equal in the diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats receiving either enalapril or hydralazine plus metoprolol . in diabetic shr rats , there was a rise in serum creatinine after 32 wk , which did not occur in diabetic rats treated with either antihypertensive regimen or in nondiabetic rats . both drug regimens reduced albuminuria in diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats to a similar degree . enalapril and the combination of hydralazine and metoprolol were associated with decreased glomerular basement membrane thickness and glomerular volume in diabetic and nondiabetic shr rats without significant effect on fractional mesangial volume . thus , antihypertensive therapy retards the development of albuminuria , glomerular basement membrane thickening , and glomerular hypertrophy in the rat in the presence or absence of diabetes . no specific benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition was observed in these hypertensive models of nephropathy . human studies comparing the effects of different classes of antihypertensive drugs on kidney function , proteinuria , and glomerular morphology are warranted . 
epitope mapping of human thyroglobulin . heterogeneous recognition by thyroid pathologic sera . thyroglobulin is the major ag of the thyroid gland involved in autoimmune pathologies . epitope mapping was carried out with a rabbit polyclonal immune serum against fusion proteins expressed in prokaryotic cells . after screening of an initial human thyroglobulin cdna library and subcloning of immunoreactive clones , seven epitopes were characterized and localized on the human thyroglobulin monomeric molecule . one was close to each extremity of the molecule , and five others were concentrated in the middle , covering a sixth of this 2748-amino-acid chain . the immunoreactivities of 18 autoimmune sera from different thyroid pathologies were tested against the seven previously characterized epitopes . those from hashimoto 's thyroiditis were the most immunoreactive . immune responses were heterogeneous for sera from different pathologies as well as for those from the same pathology . the central epitopes and the near-c-terminal epitope , however , were the epitopes most often recognized by the immune sera . these findings show that some autoepitopes overlap accurately with some heteroepitopes characterized by a polyclonal immune serum directed against the mature protein . 
genetic evidence equating sry and the testis-determining factor . the testis-determining factor gene ( tdf ) lies on the y chromosome and is responsible for initiating male sex determination . sry is a gene located in the sex-determining region of the human and mouse y chromosomes and has many of the properties expected for tdf . sex reversal in xy females results from the failure of the testis determination or differentiation pathways . some xy females , with gonadal dysgenesis , have lost the sex-determining region from the y chromosome by terminal exchange between the sex chromosomes or by other deletions . if sry is tdf , it would be predicted that some sex-reversed xy females , without y chromosome deletions , will have suffered mutations in sry . we have tested human xy females and normal xy males for alterations in sry using the single-strand conformation polymorphism assay and subsequent dna sequencing . a de novo mutation was found in the sry gene of one xy female : this mutation was not present in the patient 's normal father and brother . a second variant was found in the sry gene of another xy female , but in this case the normal father shared the same alteration . the variant in the second case may be fortuitously associated with , or predisposing towards sex reversal ; the de novo mutation associated with sex reversal provides compelling evidence that sry is required for male sex determination . 
a human xy female with a frame shift mutation in the candidate testis-determining gene sry . the primary decision about male or female sexual development of the human embryo depends on the presence of the y chromosome , more specifically on a gene on the y chromosome encoding a testis-determining factor , tdf . the human sex-determining region has been delimited to a 35-kilobase interval near the y pseudoautosomal boundary . in this region there is a candidate gene for tdf , termed sry , which is conserved and specific to the y chromosome in all mammals tested . the corresponding gene from the mouse y chromosome is deleted in a line of xy female mutant mice , and is expressed at the expected stage during male gonadal development . we have now identified a mutation in sry in one out of 12 sex-inversed xy females with gonadal dysgenesis who do not lack large segments of the short arm of the y chromosome . the four-nucleotide deletion occurs in a sequence of sry encoding a conserved dna-binding motif and results in a frame shift presumably leading to a non-functional protein . the mutation occurred de novo , because the father of the sporadic xy female that bears it has the normal sequence at the corresponding position . these results provide strong evidence for sry being tdf . 
the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor paroxetine is effective in the treatment of diabetic neuropathy symptoms . the effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor paroxetine on diabetic neuropathy symptoms was examined in comparison to imipramine and placebo in a randomised , double-blind , cross-over study . paroxetine was given as a fixed dose of 40 mg/day , while the dose of imipramine was adjusted to yield optimal plasma levels of imipramine plus desipramine of 400-600 nm . paroxetine significantly reduced the symptoms of neuropathy as measured by both observer - and self-rating , but was somewhat less effective than imipramine . however , patients showing a weaker response to paroxetine than to imipramine had lower plasma concentrations of paroxetine than patients with similar response to the 2 drugs . on imipramine 5 patients dropped out because of intolerable side effects and 4 of 19 patients completing the study reported withdrawal symptoms after discontinuing imipramine . on paroxetine no patients dropped out due to side effects and no withdrawal symptoms were reported . self-rating showed no depressive symptoms at baseline , and no changes during the study . neither paroxetine nor imipramine caused changes in objective measures of peripheral nerve function . in conclusion , 40 mg paroxetine/day significantly reduced the symptoms in peripheral diabetic neuropathy , and it was suggested that by dose adjustment on the basis of drug level monitoring , paroxetine may become as effective as imipramine . paroxetine was devoid of the often disturbing autonomic side effects limiting the use of imipramine in several patients . 
advanced protein glycosylation induces transendothelial human monocyte chemotaxis and secretion of platelet-derived growth factor : role in vascular disease of diabetes and aging . diabetes and aging are commonly accompanied by arterio - and atherosclerosis . infiltration of the arterial subendothelial intima by macrophages/monocytes is an important early event preceding the development of atheromatous lesions ; these macrophages are known to produce mitogenic factors in early atherosclerotic lesions . it has been previously shown that , over time , vascular matrix accumulates proteins nonenzymatically modified by advanced glycosylation end products ( ages ) . in view of the fact that macrophages/monocytes have age-specific receptors associated with the expression of several growth factors , we investigated the possibility that ages mediate initial monocyte-vessel wall interactions that occur before overt formation of vascular lesions . this study demonstrates that ( i ) in vitro - and in vivo-formed ages are chemotactic for human blood monocytes , ( ii ) sub-endothelial ages can selectively induce monocyte migration across an intact endothelial cell monolayer , and ( iii ) subsequent monocyte interaction with age-containing matrix results in the expression of platelet-derived growth factor . these results support the existing hypothesis that in vivo-forming glucose-derived protein adducts can act as signals for the normal turnover of senescent tissue protein by means of the age-specific receptor system . time-dependent glucose-induced deposition of ages on matrix proteins may promote monocyte infiltration into the subendothelium . subsequent age-triggered macrophage activation and consequent elaboration of proliferative factors may normally coordinate remodeling but may also lead to the diverse pathogenic changes typical of arterio - and atherosclerosis in diabetic or aging populations . 
lithiumogenic disorders of the thyroid and parathyroid glands as surgical disease . little notice has been paid in the surgical literature to problems with psychoeffective lithium , which by interfering with adenylate cyclase affects thyroid and parathyroid function , causing hypercalcemia , hyperparathyroidism , and hypothyroidism . seven patients with lithiumogenic hyperparathyroidism occurring after years of lithium therapy underwent treatment and manifested osteoporosis ( n = 2 ) , hypertension ( n = 2 ) , nephrolithiasis ( n = 1 ) , coma ( n = 1 ) , rising hypercalcemia ( n = 1 ) , goitrous myxedema ( n = 4 ) , nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ( n = 2 ) , renal failure ( n = 2 ) , and hyperlipidemia ( n = 1 ) . disease-directed parathyroidectomy ( without morbidity ) was curative . unique laboratory findings included normal serum phosphorus and reduced urinary calcium and cyclic adenosine monophosphate values . three separate cases of thyroid carcinoma after long-term lithium therapy were also treated , being preceded by myxedema ( n = 2 ) and concurrent with hyperparathyroidism ( n = 1 ) . there has been only one previous report of lithium-associated thyroid carcinoma . all patients taking lithium should undergo surveillance for thyroid and parathyroid dysfunction and neoplasia , and appropriate surgical and medical treatment should be considered in each situation . although hyperparathyroidism may be reversible with lithium discontinuance , such therapy may be obligatory for patient well-being , thus dictating parathyroidectomy . 
multiple parathyroid adenomas : report of thirty-three cases . an increasing number of patients with primary hyperparathyroidism are found to have two or three enlarged parathyroid glands . of 865 patients successfully operated on by one surgeon ( j.n.a. ) , multiple enlarged parathyroid glands ( adenomas ) were found and resected in 33 cases ( 3.8 % ) , with resulting normocalcemia lasting from 1 to 22 years ( mean 5.8 ) . twenty-nine patients had two adenomas and four had three adenomas . in 28 patients the multiple adenomas were synchronous . twenty-five patients underwent removal of all of the enlarged parathyroid glands in one operation ; in three patients one adenoma was removed , reoperation for persistent hypercalcemia was performed , and a second adenoma was resected with cure . in five patients one adenoma was removed , normocalcemia ensued for 3 to 18 years , and a second ( metachronous ) adenoma occurred and was resected successfully . although 10 of 70 enlarged parathyroid glands removed were labeled hyperplasia , cure in all but one of our patients by selective resection of only enlarged parathyroid glands emphasizes the unreliability of histologic criteria in differentiating between parathyroid adenoma and hyperplasia . based on this study , we support the existence of multiple adenomas and advocate removal of only macroscopically enlarged parathyroid glands in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism . 
endosonography in the localization of parathyroid tumors : a preliminary study . a preoperative transesophageal exploration of the parathyroids by endosonography was performed on 23 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism . the system used was a 7.5 mhz transducer mounted on the tip of an endoscope with an external diameter of 13 mm . the field of visualization was 360 degrees . a retrograde exploration was done moving up from the aortic arch to the upper esophageal sphincter . all patients underwent surgery afterward , and adenomas were found . in 12 cases the adenoma was visualized . all 12 adenomas were posteriorly located on the right side ( four cases ) and left side ( eight cases ) of the esophagus . nine of these 12 tumors were on the posterior face of the thyroid lobes , with six tumors in the middle one third of the thyroid lobe and three in the lower one third of the thyroid lobe . the other three tumors were located below the lower pole of the thyroid lobes in the upper posterior mediastinum . mean tumor weight was 1165 mg . of the 11 tumors that could not be visualized , eight tumors were anteriorly located ; three of these tumors were on the anterior and lateral surface of the lower pole of the thyroid , and five were in the thyrothymic tracts . the remaining three tumors were located on the back of the thyroid lobes ; two of these tumors were at the upper esophageal sphincter , and one was on the side of the pharynx . mean tumor size was 1334 mg . localization of parathyroid tumors by endosonography appears possible but only if lesions are located posteriorly , close to the esophagus . endosonography is not indicated before routine cervical exploration for primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism . as in other such studies , endosonography could be useful in cases of persistent or recurrent hyperparathyroidism . 
oral calcium load test : diagnostic and physiologic implications in hyperparathyroidism . an oral calcium load test ( clt ) ( 1 gm ca/50 kg ) was administered to 11 control subjects and 35 patients with overt hyperparathyroidism to assess its efficacy in diagnosis of hyperparathyroidism . all participants were placed on a low-calcium diet 3 days before the clt . intact parathormone and ionized calcium ( cai ) levels were measured 0 , 1 , 2 , and 3 hours after clt . initial cai and parathormone ( mean + / - se ) were 1.22 + / - 0.01 mmol/l and 2.94 + / - 0.03 pmol/l in the control group compared with 1.43 + / - 0.02 mmol/l and 10.6 + / - 2.2 pmol/l in the group with hyperparathyroidism . both groups had a similar percent increase in cai values ( control , 5.9 % + / - 0.8 % ; hyperparathyroidism , 6.3 % + / - 0.6 % ( p greater than 0.1 ) . a decline in parathormone levels of 47.6 % + / - 2.8 % in patients with hyperparathyroidism was significantly less than the 75.3 % + / - 5.3 % decline observed in control subjects ( p less than 0.025 ) . three hours after clt , parathormone was suppressed in control subjects , whereas a rebound occurred in patients with hyperparathyroidism . postoperative clt demonstrated a higher mean percent cai increase and percent parathormone decline ( cai , 8.9 % + / - 1.1 % ; parathormone , 67.9 % + / - 1.8 % ) compared with preoperative values ( cai , 6.0 % + / - 1.0 % ; pth , 49.6 % + / - 4.3 % ) ( p less than 0.025 ) , and 3 hours after calcium intake , parathormone remained suppressed , similar to control subjects . after surgery , three patients had elevated parathormone and low normal cai levels and parathormone response to a clt confirmed the diagnosis of secondary hyperparathyroidism . in conclusion , a clt ( 1 ) can confirm the diagnosis of hyperparathyroidism and successful parathyroidectomy , ( 2 ) distinguished postoperative secondary from persistent primary hyperparathyroidism , ( 3 ) demonstrated nonautonomy of abnormal parathyroid glands with a parathormone response to a calcium load characterized by an earlier nadir , decreased suppressibility , and more rapid recovery , and ( 4 ) produced dynamic changes that did not distinguish patients with hyperparathyroidism from control subjects or hyperplasia from adenoma . 
function in athymic nude mice of parathyroid heterografts from patients with primary hyperparathyroidism and secondary hyperparathyroidism . heterotransplantation of adenomatous parathyroid glandular tissue from humans with primary hyperparathyroidism into athymic nude mice creates a unique animal model of this disease . the mice manifest high concentrations of both midregion/c-terminal human parathyroid hormone and biologically active intact human parathyroid hormone relative to either mice with no implants or mice that received normal human parathyroid tissue . secretion of these substances is maintained in most mice for at least 9 to 13 months after implantation . in addition , animals that have experienced implantation exhibit other characteristics associated with human primary hyperparathyroidism including relative hypercalcemia and increased renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d-1 alpha-hydroxylase activity . we also measured these parameters in a group of nude mice that received transplantation of a similar mass of hyperplastic parathyroid tissue that was obtained from patients with uremic secondary hyperparathyroidism . although we hypothesized that the level of human parathyroid hormone secretion from these implants would fall over time in response to the normal host environment , hormone levels remained as high as those in recipients of adenomatous heterografts , even after 9 to 13 months . moreover , similar biologic effect of the excess parathyroid hormone ( i.e. , relative hypercalcemia , hyperphosphatasemia , and increased 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d biosynthesis ) were detected . these animal models should prove extremely useful in supplementing our understanding of hyperparathyroid disorder in man . 
evaluation of metastatic cardiac calcification in a model of chronic primary hyperparathyroidism . recent reports have fueled an interest in the prevalence and significance of metastatic calcium deposition in patients with chronic hyperparathyroidism . experimental data are limited by the lack of suitable in vivo animal models . we have developed a model of marked hypercalcemia and overproduction of parathyroid hormone using somatic gene transfer . briefly , the process involves infection of cultured rodent fibroblasts ( rat-1 cells ) with a retroviral expression vector that contains the gene encoding human parathyroid hormone . fibroblasts are grown to confluence on collagen-coated dextran microcarrier beads and are injected into the peritoneal cavities of syngeneic fisher rats . human parathyroid hormone production in rat serum is quantified by an immunoradiometric assay for human parathyroid hormone ( 1-84 ) , which does not recognize rat parathyroid hormone . these rats consistently show production of human hormone within a week . levels increase progressively , often to 1 ng/ml within 60 days of injection . serum calcium showed a concomitant rise to an average of 15.5 mg/dl . in this study , 13 rats that had been transplanted with parathyroid hormone-producing fibroblasts were killed 80 days after injection . examination of the skeleton revealed demineralization and histopathologic sequelae of parathyroid hormone excess with extensive osteoclastic bone resorption . examination of the hearts revealed calcification in five of 13 hearts . there was no involvement of major coronary arteries or conducting systems , but there was calcification of cardiac myocytes , primarily in subepicardial region . this model may permit an understanding of the mechanisms for sudden cardiac death in severe hypercalcemia . 
cardiac calcific deposits in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism : preliminary results of a prospective echocardiographic study . to explain the incidence and significance of mitral and aortic valve calcification and calcific deposits in the myocardium , a prospective echocardiographic study was performed with 21 consecutive patients who had primary hyperparathyroidism ( php ) and with 21 age - and sex-matched control subjects with normocalcemia . calcific deposits in the myocardium were seen in 13 patients ( 62 % ) with php , mainly in the interventicular septum , and in one control subject . aortic valve calcification was observed in 12 patients ( 57 % ) with php and in one control subject . calcification of the mitral valve was found in seven patients with php ( 33 % ) and three controls ( 14 % ) . calcification led to mild or moderate stenosis of the aortic valve in three patients with php and of the mitral valve in two patients with php . no stenosis was found in the subjects in the control group . both calcification of the aortic and mitral valves and calcific deposits in the myocardium are common in patients with php and can be detected noninvasively by echocardiography . because of the potential relationship of elevated calcium , calcification , and valvular heart disease , clinical evaluation of php should include echocardiographic studies before surgery is performed and during follow-up examination . 
hyperparathyroidism and cellular mechanisms of gastric acid secretion . patients with hyperparathyroidism appear to be a particular risk for peptic ulcer disease . to test the hypothesis that hypercalcemia or parathyroid hormone plays a role in promoting ulcer disease , we studied the effect of varying concentrations of extracellular calcium on acid secretion using in vitro isolated rabbit gastric glands . acid secretion was assessed by the accumulation of carbon 14-labeled aminopyrine ( 14c-ap ) . glands were incubated with varying calcium concentrations in the unstimulated state and with histamine or carbachol ( 10 ( -7 ) to 10 ( -4 ) mol/l ) in 1 or 2 mmol/l calcium medium . the effect of parathyroid hormone was also examined under identical conditions . compared to 1 mmol/l standard calcium medium , unstimulated 14c-ap accumulation was significantly inhibited ( p less than 0.05 ) at both lower ( 0.33 mmol/l ) and higher ( 2 and 2.5 mmol/l ) calcium concentrations . accumulation of 14c-ap in response to histamine stimulation was unaffected by alteration of extracellular calcium ( p greater than 0.2 ) . carbachol-stimulated 14c-ap accumulation was significantly augmented ( p less than 0.01 ) by an increase in calcium concentration from 1 to 2 mmol/l . the addition of parathyroid hormone ( 10 ( -7 ) to 10 ( -4 ) mmol/l ) alone or in combination with carbachol or histamine ( 10 ( -6 ) mmol/l ) incubation did not alter 14c-ap accumulation . these data suggest that elevations in extracellular calcium play an active role in the potentiation of cholinergic-mediated gastric gland acid secretion and may thereby play a role in hyperparathyroid-related ulcer disease . 
management of cushing 's syndrome secondary to adrenal adenoma during pregnancy . this report discusses our experience with two patients who had unilateral adrenalectomy during pregnancy as treatment for cushing 's syndrome secondary to an adrenal adenoma . previously only five patients with this clinical problem who underwent unilateral adrenalectomy during pregnancy had been reported . we have reviewed the world literature on cushing 's syndrome in pregnancy secondary to an adrenal adenoma . a total of 19 patients who had unilateral adrenalectomy for this problem after the completion of pregnancy were identified . the review of world literature and the two patients who are the subject of this report were the basis of our analysis of fetal death , neonatal complications , and maternal complications in seven pregnancies during which unilateral adrenalectomy was performed ( group 1 ) compared to the 19 pregnancies that were associated with unilateral adrenalectomy at the completion of pregnancy ( group 2 ) . of the seven pregnancies in group 1 , one fetal death and no neonatal complications occurred , but fetal death and neonatal complications occurred in 12 of the 19 pregnancies in group 2 . four of the seven mothers in group 1 had complications ; 16 of the 19 mothers in group 2 had complications . this study suggests that adrenalectomy during pregnancy should be considered as a therapeutic option in the management of cushing 's syndrome secondary to an adrenal cortical adenoma . 
the role of adrenalectomy in cushing 's syndrome . forty-four patients with cushing 's syndrome were treated by adrenalectomy between 1975 and 1989 . twenty patients had adrenal adenomas : 13 with obvious cushing 's syndrome and 7 whose disease was subclinical , detected after evaluation of an incidentally discovered adrenal mass ( es ) . twelve patients underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for cushing 's disease after failed transsphenoidal explorations and pituitary irradiation . six patients had primary adrenal hyperplasia , five as manifestations of carney 's complex . two others underwent bilateral adrenalectomies for ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone from carcinoid tumors . four patients had adrenocortical carcinoma treated with transabdominal adrenalectomy . three are alive from 8 years to 5 months . there was one postoperative death ( 2.3 % ) caused by coagulopathy and multiple organ failure and three ( 7 % ) minor postoperative complications . follow-up showed good to excellent results in 95 % of patients . it is concluded that adrenalectomy provides prompt relief from the severe morbidity of cushing 's syndrome regardless of the cause . it is the treatment of choice for adrenal adenomas , carcinomas , primary hyperplasia , and selected patients with cushing 's disease . 
cytoreductive hepatic surgery for neuroendocrine tumors . we retrospectively reviewed 37 patients who underwent hepatic resection between 1970 and 1989 to evaluate the role of cytoreductive hepatic surgery in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors ( carcinoid , 24 ; islet cell , 13 ) . seventeen resections were curative ( no gross residual tumor ) ; nine patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and seven patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor . eight of nine patients with symptomatic endorcrinopathies obtained complete relief of symptoms ; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 2 to 82 months ( mean , 26 months ) . six of seven patients with symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief ; five are alive with no evidence of disease at 5 to 28 months ( mean , 14 months ) . one symptom-free patient underwent curative hepatic resection 5 years after abdominoperineal resection for a rectal carcinoid . twenty resections were palliative ( gross residual tumor ) ; 16 patients had symptomatic endocrinopathies and 4 patients had symptoms caused by the primary tumor . eight of 16 patients with symptomatic endocrinopathies obtained complete relief ; five are alive at 2 to 30 months ( mean , 11 months ) , with a mean duration of complete relief of 6 months ( 3 to 12 months ) . all four patients who underwent resection for symptoms caused by the primary tumor obtained complete relief ; two are alive and symptom free at 10 and 101 months . our experience suggests that curative surgery should be considered in all patients with completely resectable metastatic disease and that palliative surgery , despite the short duration of complete relief , should be considered in selected patients because it delays and may reduce the subsequent need for medical therapy . 
the utility of circulating levels of human pancreatic polypeptide as a marker for islet cell tumors . the measurement of plasma levels of human pancreatic polypeptide ( hpp ) has been reported to be clinically useful in predicting the existence of pancreatic islet cell neoplasms in patients with familial multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 ( fmen-i ) and the possible presence of metastatic disease in patients with islet cell tumors . however , these studies have not been prospective and involve small numbers of patients . in this study , fasting plasma samples from 36 patients with biopsy-proved islet cell tumors were analyzed for hpp by radioimmunoassay and compared with age-matched control subjects . of 13 patients with fmen-i who had islet cell tumors , 7 ( 54 % ) had elevated plasma hpp levels before surgery . after resection of all islet cell tumors , 4 of 12 patients evaluated after surgery still had elevated levels . fifteen patients had islet cell tumors that were localized ( seven insulinomas and eight gastrinomas ) , but none of these patients had elevated hpp levels , either before or after surgery . nine patients , including one with fmen-i , with metastatic islet cell tumors to the liver were studied ; three with more advanced disease had elevated hpp levels before surgery . each of the nine patients underwent resection of all gross disease and the three patients with elevated preoperative levels had normal postoperative hpp levels . our results indicate that basal plasma levels of hpp were not clinically useful . the hpp levels did not reliably predict the presence of islet cell tumors in patients with fmen-i , because 46 % of patients with tumors did not have elevated plasma levels , and in those with elevated values hpp levels did not reliably predict the resection of all tumor . plasma levels of hpp have no utility in patients with localized sporadically occurring islet cell tumors and limited utility ( 33 % ) in predicting the presence of metastatic islet cell tumors to the liver . 
the intraoperative incidence of detectable bilateral and multicentric disease in papillary cancer of the thyroid . this is a prospective study to determine the incidence of grossly detectable multicentric and bilateral cancer at operation in patients who , before surgery , were believed to have a unilateral lesion . the opposite lobe was inspected at the time of operation and the surgeon made a determination as to whether there was bilateral and/or multicentric disease present . a total thyroidectomy was then carried out and the accuracy of the surgeon 's judgment was established by permanent-section pathologic examination . fifteen of the 44 patients were assessed to have gross bilateral disease . thirteen of these were confirmed by pathologic examination . one case of microscopic bilateral disease was not recognized by the surgeon . seventeen patients were thought to have unilateral multicentric disease . fifteen of these cases were confirmed by microscopy and an additional seven cases were documented to have secondary foci . it is obvious from this study that most disease that is called microscopic disease is actually palpable . a review of the literature confirms this . it was very unlikely for a patient who did not have unilateral multicentric disease to have a contralateral focus of carcinoma . the incidence of bilateral disease was 32 % , and the incidence of multicentric disease was 50 % ; the surgeon was very accurate in assessing this . we believe that surgeons who advocate lobectomy as the primary treatment for thyroid cancer are recognizing grossly detectable disease in a significant number of patients and thus are doing total thyroidectomies in most patients with bilateral disease . 
clinicopathologic and flow cytometric dna study of medullary thyroid carcinoma . sixty-one patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma were investigated to establish relationships between the neoplasm 's dna content , other clinicopathologic factors , and patient survival ( at least 5 years ' follow-up ) . there were 26 ( 42.6 % ) familial and 35 ( 57.4 % ) sporadic carcinomas . forty-two neoplasms ( 68.8 % ) were diploid and 19 ( 31.2 % ) were aneuploid by flow cytometric assessment . in univariate analysis , age , hereditary background , dna content , calcitonin immunoreactivity , and type of surgery were strong predictors of clinical outcomes . in multivariate regression analysis , none of these factors was an independent prognosticator . patients ' gender , clinical stage , histologic subtype , and amyloid content of the tumor did not influence survival . 
pericardial effusion in primary hypothyroidism . pericardial effusion is reported to occur in 30 % to 80 % of subjects with hypothyroidism . however , these earlier studies were conducted when the diagnosis of hypothyroidism was only suspected and was confirmed only in the presence of classic clinical features . in contrast , the diagnosis has recently been established in the early mild stage or more often in an asymptomatic stage because of more frequent or routine determinations of thyroid function tests , especially in the elderly . thus the subjects in the older studies were severely hypothyroid at the time of diagnosis and may not be representative of the present hypothyroid population . for this reason , 30 subjects with hypothyroidism were evaluated with echocardiography to reassess the evidence of pericardial effusion in this disorder . only two subjects demonstrated pericardial effusion , and in only one of them with severe disease could the pericardial effusion be attributed to hypothyroidism , since it resolved on the patient 's attaining the euthyroid state . thus the incidence of pericardial effusion was only 3 % to 6 % , depending on the inclusion of one or both subjects , an extremely infrequent occurrence when compared with that of previous studies . moreover , the occurrence of pericardial effusion in hypothyroidism appears to be dependent on the severity of the disease . thus pericardial effusion may be a frequent manifestation in myxedema , an advanced severe stage , as previously found , but a rare association of hypothyroidism , an early mild stage , because of the timeliness with which the latter condition is nowadays detected . 
final height in boys with untreated constitutional delay in growth and puberty . to determine the natural history and psychological impact of the growth pattern in boys with constitutional delay in growth and puberty ( cdgp ) , 43 boys presenting with short stature due to cdgp were followed up to final height . at presentation mean ( sd ) chronological age was 14.0 ( 1.9 ) years , bone age delay 2.7 ( 1.0 ) years , standing height standard deviation score ( sds ) -3.4 ( 0.6 ) , and predicted adult height sds -1.3 ( 0.7 ) . final adult height sds was -1.6 ( 0.9 ) , measured at 21.2 ( 2.6 ) years . there was no significant difference between final height and predicted adult height , but there was a significant difference between final height and measured mid-parental height . psychological questionnaires showed no significant difference in self esteem , marital , or employment state between the cdgp group and a control group . there was no correlation between self esteem and final height , but 25 felt their growth delay had affected their success either at school , work , or socially and 20 would rather have had treatment to advance their growth spurt . this study supports the more frequent use of active medical treatment to advance growth in boys with cdgp , and shows that although boys with cdgp reach their predicted heights , this is short for their families . 
short stature , mental retardation , and hypoparathyroidism : a new syndrome . eight children ( four boys and four girls ) with extreme failure to thrive , dysmorphic features , developmental delay , hypoparathyroidism , and abnormal skeletal survey were studied . they were the products of seven consanguinous marriages , two of the patients being brothers . in the remaining six families , a further four children had affected siblings who had died in infancy . when assessed the children were aged 0.47-12 .8 years ; sd scores were less than -2 for height , weight , and head circumference in all patients . the children had identical facies with deep set eyes , depressed nasal bridge with beaked nose , long philtrum , thin upper lip , micrognathia , and large floppy earlobes . they were all developmentally retarded . the following abnormalities were found on investigation : hypocalcaemia in all ( of whom six of seven had hypoparathyroidism ) , medullary stenosis and other skeletal survey defects in seven of the eight children , and reduced numbers of t cell subsets in four of four tested . we believe that these children represent a new , as yet undescribed genetically determined syndrome . 
hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia in small for dates babies . blood glucose concentrations were measured prospectively in 27 small for dates infants in the first 48 hours after birth : 10 infants became hypoglycaemic . of these , five had inappropriately raised plasma insulin concentrations . plasma free fatty acids were lower and carbohydrate intake higher in these five infants , further supporting the diagnosis of hyperinsulinism . the hypoglycaemia recurred in four of the five hyperinsulinaemic infants , but in none of those who were not hyperinsulinaemic . hyperinsulinism is common in small for dates babies . it is important to recognise this because hypoglycaemia is likely to recur and appropriate treatment is needed to prevent long term sequelae . 
reappraisal of thyroxine treatment in primary hypothyroidism . the optimum daily dose of thyroxine was calculated for 13 children aged 3-16 years with primary hypothyroidism by titrating their doses at monthly intervals . the condition of the thyroid was assessed by sensitive assay of thyroid stimulating hormone concentrations , as well as measurement of total and free thyroid hormone concentrations and systolic time interval ratios . serum thyroid stimulating hormone concentration was found to be the most responsive to small changes in thyroxine . the calculated optimum daily replacement dose of thyroxine ( 102 micrograms/m2 or 3.5 micrograms/kg ) was fractionally lower than that previously recommended , and was more closely related to surface area ( coefficient of variation 8.2 % ) than to body weight ( coefficient of variation 16.2 % ) . our results suggest that though monthly may be the optimal time interval for increases in the dose of thyroxine , any reduction in the dose should be made more gradually . 
endocrine function and morphological findings in patients with disorders of the hypothalamo-pituitary area : a study with magnetic resonance . evaluation of the sellar area was performed with magnetic resonance imaging in 101 patients ( age range 0.8-27 years ) with hypopituitarism , isolated diabetes insipidus , hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism , and central precocious puberty . the hypopituitary patients ( n = 70 ) included multiple pituitary deficiency ( n = 23 ) , pituitary deficiency with diabetes insipidus ( n = 5 ) , and isolated growth hormone deficiency ( n = 42 ) . the patients with multiple pituitary deficiency showed pathological morphological findings in all cases , with stalk and posterior lobe always involved . the group with associated diabetes insipidus had abnormal stalk in four of five cases and posterior lobe not visible in all cases . only five of 42 ( 12 % ) patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency had abnormalities of the sellar area . in two out of four patients with isolated diabetes insipidus posterior lobe was not seen . all patients with hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism ( three with kallmann 's syndrome , one prader-willi syndrome , and two idiopathic hypogonadism ) appeared normal . in precocious puberty ( n = 21 ) the three patients with onset of symptoms before age 2 years exhibited a hypothalamic hamartoma , whereas in the others with onset of puberty between age 2 and 7 the magnetic resonance image was normal in 17 of 18 patients . the probability of finding a pathological magnetic resonance image was considerably high in our patients with multiple pituitary deficiency , isolated diabetes insipidus , and precocious puberty with very early onset of symptoms . on the contrary , purely functional abnormality is suggested in most patients with isolated growth hormone deficiency , hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism , and precocious puberty with later onset of symptoms . 
surgical strategy in thyroid disease . over the past 8 years , 311 patients have undergone surgical treatment by the senior authors for thyroid disease . over 80 % of the cases were performed by the head and neck surgical service at olive view county hospital , sylmar , calif , with the remainder performed at ucla-affiliated institutions . this service is an important source of thyroid surgical training for ucla head and neck residents who rotate through this major affiliate . the purpose of this communication is to review our experience with these cases ; to describe our overall surgical strategy ; and to detail the specifics of our surgical procedure , which we have developed to safely train residents in the treatment of these challenging cases . this article deals with the specific problems of preservation of the recurrent nerve , the parathyroid glands , and the techniques for reimplantation of injured parathyroid glands ; the management of larger , substernal thyroid glands ; and our techniques for partial thyroid surgery . in addition , the difficult decisions in the management of thyroid cancer , such as completion thyroidectomy ; the management of lymph node mestastases ; and how tracheal , esophageal , or laryngeal invasion should be managed are discussed . an initial section describing the general preoperative examination of these patients is also included , so that the proper surgical strategy can be developed prior to entering the operating room . 
hyperinsulinemia increases the amount of glut4 mrna in white adipose tissue and decreases that of muscles : a clue for increased fat depot and insulin resistance . to mimick a state of hyperinsulinemia , normal rats were infused with insulin for 4 days via minipumps , and compared to saline infused rats . at the end of the experimental period , the abundance of mrna was increased in white adipose tissue ( wat ) and decreased in muscles of " insulinized " rats compared to controls . these findings were accompanied , in all tissues considered , except the diaphragm , by parallel changes in the amount of the glucose transporter protein and by parallel changes in the in vivo glucose utilization index . hyperinsulinemia is thus a driving force in stimulating adipose tissue metabolic activity , while bringing about incipient muscle insulin resistance . 
physician documentation of diabetes care : use of a diabetes flow sheet and patient education clinic . we assessed two interventions designed to improve the care of patients with diabetes mellitus by documenting the complications of their disease . these were a flow sheet , included with outpatient medical records , and a weekly patient education clinic , in which a nurse educator provided individualized instruction to patients with diabetes . physician compliance with recommendations of the national diabetes advisory board for diabetes care was measured before ( n = 45 ) and after ( n = 158 ) these interventions . the numbers of referrals to ophthalmologists increased from 22 % to 46 % , urinalyses increased from 58 % to 77 % , and lower extremity examinations increased from 36 % to 61 % . nutrition education documentation increased from 51 % to 69 % , and diabetes education documentation increased from 31 % to 61 % . these results suggest that a significant improvement in physicians ' documentation of care of patients with diabetes can be achieved by using a flow sheet and a diabetes patient education clinic . 
primary adrenal insufficiency : a new cause of reversible gastric stasis . primary adrenal insufficiency is known to cause a wide spectrum of sometimes severe upper gastrointestinal symptoms ; however , it has not previously been shown to be the cause of reversible gastric stasis . we have documented such a case in which the symptoms and physiologic abnormalities associated with gastric stasis were reversed by steroid replacement . a follow-up radionuclide gastric-emptying study after physiologic steroid replacement showed complete normalization of gastric emptying . although gastric stasis has long been suspected of being present with primary adrenal insufficiency , this represents the first case in which it has been documented , and so should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with chronic nausea and vomiting . 
surgical complications of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . surgical experience with 260 consecutive patients with chronic renal failure receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( capd ) at one medical center from 1980 to 1989 is reviewed . patients received capd for a mean of 24.2 months ( range : 3 days to 91 months ) . catheter longevity consistently improved in all but 1 year from 1984 to 1989 , as did exit-site and tunnel infections . of 311 catheters inserted , 151 ( 49 % ) required removal , of which 111 ( 74 % ) were attributed to peritonitis . cumulative patient survival was 80 % , 60 % , and 53 % at 1 , 2 , and 3 years , respectively . diabetic patients had statistically significant lower survival rates . additional complications including catheter leakage , catheter malposition , catheter obstruction , and abdominal wall hernias were negligible . although capd is not free from serious complications , our data show remarkable improvement since 1980 in catheter longevity , hospital stay , and infection rates . 
in vitro and in vivo testing of an electrocatalytic glucose sensor . a prerequisite for the development of an implantable artificial pancreas is the availability of a stable , long-life glucose sensor . platinum ( pt ) catalyzed electrodes have been demonstrated in vitro to show high sensitivity to glucose and long cycle life but are more sensitive to co-reactants compared with enzymatic methods . the authors developed a special data processing method ( compensated net charge ratio , or cncr ) in which the measured electrode response is very sensitive to glucose , completely insensitive to urea , and only moderately sensitive to amino acids . other endogenous and exogenous co-reactants show only minor interferences . the cncr method involves the determination of the ratio of net oxidation charge to total charge during one complete cycle of a cyclic voltammogram . prototype electrodes tested in vitro in spiked plasma have shown typical sensitivities of greater than 2 x 10 ( -4 ) cncr units per 1 mg/dl change in glucose concentration , with linear response up to 400 mg/dl . for in vivo testing , a modified 5 f vascular catheter with membrane covered surface mounted electrodes was used at a vena cava site in swine . several sensor designs were tested in vivo , with sensitivities of 1-5 x 10 ( -4 ) cncr units ( mg/dl ) . 
anti tsh-receptor antibodies in pregnant patients with autoimmune thyroid disorder . the study was designed to test further the usefulness of the radioreceptor assay of thyroid stimulating hormone ( tsh ) binding inhibitory immunoglobulins ( tbii ) and the bioassay of thyroid stimulating antibodies ( tsab ) or tsh stimulated camp response inhibitory antibodies ( tbkab ) in the prediction of neonatal thyroid dysfunction . of 63 pregnant women with a current or past history of autoimmune thyroid disorder , 11 ( one with active and six with a past history of graves ' disease and four with autoimmune thyroiditis ) gave birth to a baby with transient hyper or hypo-thyroidism . only high maternal titres ( which could persist after partial thyroidectomy ) of anti tsh-receptor antibodies ( trab ) led to neonatal hyperthyroidism . both types of assay were able to detect the antibodies responsible for transitory neonatal autoimmune thyroid disease . tbii values reflected tsab titres so that there was a significant correlation between the results of both assays in women with graves ' disease and in neonatal sera . positive tbii and tbkab activities were present in 5 of the 28 women with autoimmune thyroiditis . therefore , when tbii is positive , the functional characterization of the antibodies warrants the use of the bioassay . 
preoperative cytology and mammography in patients with single-duct nipple discharge treated by surgery . microdochectomy has been the routine management for single-duct nipple discharge . our review of 176 consecutive patients surgically treated between 1975 and 1988 revealed eight patients with in situ carcinomas and seven with infiltrative carcinomas . seventeen patients had multiple papillomas , two had atypical hyperplasia and two had atypical epitheliosis . case selection for surgery has recently been advocated . in our study , nipple discharge cytology was helpful in 67 per cent of cases with underlying malignant pathology . mammography was found to be unreliable , alerting suspicion in only two of 15 cases . 
microdochectomy for discharge from a single lactiferous duct . microdochectomy for persistent discharge from a single lactiferous duct was performed in 162 women . invasive or in situ ductal carcinoma was diagnosed in 16 patients ( 10 per cent ) , none of whom had a palpable lump . the discharge was blood-stained in 14 of these women and in two it was clear . mammography was performed in 15 of these 16 patients and was abnormal in only five . three patients had atypical ductal hyperplasia , one of whom subsequently developed an invasive ductal carcinoma . microdochectomy for persistent discharge from a single lactiferous duct is curative and gives a diagnosis of the cause . it remains the treatment of choice whether the discharge is blood-stained or clear . 
thallous chloride uptake and dna profile in parathyroid adenomas . thallium isotope scintigraphy is used to localize parathyroid adenomas but the mechanism underlying the technique is poorly understood . while larger adenomas are reliably localized the results are less certain for small tumours . this study explores the relationship between cellular dna profile and thallium uptake ( localization accuracy ) in 24 parathyroid adenomas . the dna profile was assessed using flow cytometry and standard subtraction thallium scintigraphy was performed before surgery . fifteen of the 24 adenomas demonstrated excessive mitotic activity and 13 of these glands were accurately localized . of the remaining nine glands , only five were localized accurately ( p less than 0.01 , chi 2 test including yates ' correction ) . this difference in thallium uptake could not be accounted for on the basis of gland weight . thallium localization of parathyroid adenomas is related to mitotic activity . this may explain some of the limitations of this technique . 
sudden death associated with undiagnosed graves ' disease . hyperthyroidism may result in multiple symptoms attributable to an excess of thyroid hormone . we report a case of graves ' disease in association with sudden death in a previously healthy , undiagnosed young female . this case illustrates an unusual initial presentation of graves ' disease . 
parasympathetic nervous system activity in hypothyroidism determined by r-r interval variations on electrocardiogram . little is known about the relationship between hypothyroidism and the parasympathetic nervous system . r-r interval variations revealed by electrocardiogram ( ecg ) are known to be a useful clinical indicator of abnormalities of parasympathetic nervous system activity . studies were conducted in hypothyroid patients , and significant reductions in r-r interval variations were observed in patients with primary severe hypothyroidism due to hashimoto 's thyroiditis , and in patients with graves ' disease who became severely hypothyroid during antithyroid drug therapy . r-r interval variations were restored to normal levels in both groups of patients after treatment . the present investigation suggests that in marked hypothyroidism there are hypofunctional abnormalities in the parasympathetic nervous system in association with a reduction in the levels of serum t4 and t3 . 
diagnostic applicability of intact and midregion/c-terminal parathyroid hormone assays in calcium metabolic disorders . we compared measurements of parathyroid hormone ( pth ) using two assays , in order to detect intact pth and midregion/c-terminal pth ( m/c-pth ) in a variety of calcium metabolic disorders . the series consisted of a total of 101 patients , including subjects with primary hyperparathyroidism ( n = 24 ) , hypoparathyroidism ( n = 18 ) , hypercalcaemia of malignancy ( n = 10 ) , moderate chronic renal failure ( n = 14 ) , chronic renal failure undergoing haemodialysis ( n = 19 ) , and small bowel disorders ( n = 16 ) . the intact pth assay was superior to the m/c-pth assay in reflecting parathyroid function in primary hyperparathyroidism , hypoparathyroidism and hypercalcaemia of malignancy . in patients with chronic renal failure , both assays were indicators of a comparable number of patients with elevated pth levels . intact pth proved most reliable in detecting changes in parathyroid hormone secretion in response to variations in ionized calcium induced by haemodialysis . in patients with extensive intestinal resection , both assays showed increased levels of pth . it is concluded that measurement of intact pth is a more reliable index of parathyroid function than measurement of midregion/c-terminal pth . thus such an approach should be the one of choice for clinical evaluation of calcium homeostasis . 
coronary artery disease in chinese males without hypercholesterolaemia the aim of this study was to determine the frequency of various metabolic risk factors for coronary artery disease ( cad ) in 246 male patients studied over a 2-year period . cad was diagnosed on the basis of a history indicative of angina pectoris , an electrocardiogram diagnostic of myocardial ischaemia , and a positive coronary angiogram . thirty-eight per cent of this population had diabetes , hypertension or both . of the remaining individuals , 39 % had a plasma cholesterol concentration greater than 5.2 mmol l-1 , whereas 23 % had a cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 . plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels of a non-smoking subset of those subjects with a total cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 were compared with values of a matched group of individuals who did not have significant vessel disease as revealed by angiography . the results of these investigations indicated that patients with cad and a plasma cholesterol concentration less than 5.2 mmol l-1 exhibited an increase in plasma triglyceride concentration and a decrease in plasma hdl-cholesterol concentration . since these subjects were not diabetic , hypertensive or hypercholesterolaemic , it is suggested that the observed changes in triglyceride and hdl metabolism made a major contribution to the cad in these individuals . 
rebound increase in serum thyrotropin , anti- ' microsomal ' antibodies and thyroglobulin after discontinuation of l-thyroxine . we assayed serum thyrotropin ( tsh ) , antimicrosomal antibodies ( msa ) , antithyroglobulin antibodies and thyroglobulin in seven individuals with subclinical autoimmune hypothyroidism during two 6-month periods with l-thyroxine substitution and placebo , respectively . serum tsh decreased during l-thyroxine administration , with a rebound increase in serum tsh of about 6 months duration during placebo treatment , and a parallel increase in serum thyroglobulin . in agreement with previous observations by other groups , we found decreased serum concentrations of msa during l-thyroxine treatment in three individuals . in addition , a slow but significant transient increase in serum msa was recorded during placebo administration in the four individuals who showed the most pronounced increase in serum tsh ( greater than 20 mu l-1 ) . this association between serum levels of msa and tsh is most probably related to antigen presentation at the surface of the thyrocyte . we conclude that changes in serum tsh concentration should be taken into account in the interpretation of msa in patients with thyroid disease , whether untreated or treated with l-thyroxine . 
bartter 's syndrome and diabetes mellitus . we here report a case of bartter 's syndrome occurring in association with diabetes mellitus . the patient , an insulin-dependent diabetic , presented with hypokalaemia , inappropriate kaliuresis and metabolic alkalosis . he had high plasma renin activity , relatively low plasma aldosterone , and resistance to infused angiotensin ii . a high potassium diet raised total body potassium and serum potassium , did not affect plasma renin activity , but raised plasma aldosterone significantly and did not alter the resistance to angiotensin ii . indomethacin administered acutely reduced urinary potassium and kallikrein excretion and , on chronic administration , lowered plasma renin activity , urinary chloride excretion , and raised serum potassium . salt restriction resulted in a prompt and significant reduction in urinary sodium and chloride excretion . urinary kallikrein excretion was very high throughout , increased with sodium restriction , and decreased with sodium loading . oral potassium supplementation partially corrected the hypokalaemia , but did not affect blood sugar control . in this patient the primary defect appears to have been primary urinary potassium wasting , rather than sodium or chloride wasting . the striking effects of indomethacin suggest that prostaglandins may play a fundamental role in the genesis of the syndrome . 
reliability of death certificate diagnoses . consistency between death certificates and clinical records from 5 general hospitals in kuwait was studied for 470 deaths with the following underlying or associated causes : hypertensive ( hyp ) , ischaemic heart diseases ( ihd ) , cerebrovascular diseases ( cvd ) and diabetes mellitus ( dm ) . direct causes were not considered since they are of little interest analytically . only deaths with definite or most probable ascertainment were included . one cardiologist , who was provided with the who criteria and relevant documents on death certification , independently reviewed the records . to test the reviewer 's bias and the reliability of his judgement , an adjudication process was effected by having one senior cardiologist re-review a random subsample of 140 records . the two reviewers showed good agreement . specific diagnoses criteria for deciding the underlying cause of death in multiple morbid conditions by the reviewer were followed . due to possible reviewer bias , we aimed at measuring the difference between initial certifiers and the reviewer rather than measuring the diagnostic accuracy of initial certifiers in reference to the reviewer . the agreement index kappa showed poor agreement between original and revised certificates . the original certificates under-estimated cvd as an underlying cause of death by 69.2 % , dm by 60 % , ihd by 33.5 % and hyp by 31.8 % in our sample . associated causes were also consistently under-estimated by initial certifiers as compared with the reviewer . this bias calls for basing mortality statistics in kuwait on hospital death committees ' reports rather than on initial certifier death certificates , use of multiple-causes of death instead of one underlying cause and adequate training of the medical profession on the value and process of death certification . 
an inconsistent relationship between insulin and blood pressure in three pacific island populations . the evidence linking insulin to blood pressure is controversial , and results for groups similarly categorized by body mass , glucose tolerance and hypertensive status are often contradictory . we have investigated the relationship in three population-based samples of micronesian ( nauru ) , polynesian ( western samoa ) and melanesian ( new caledonia ) pacific islanders , who are known to be susceptible to obesity , non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ( niddm ) , hyperinsulinaemia and hypertension . after controlling for age and body mass index ( bmi ) , mean fasting and 2-hr ( post 75 g glucose ) insulin levels were not significantly different between hypertensive and non-hypertensive subjects , in any population or glucose tolerance sub-group , excepting 2-hr insulin in new caledonians with normal glucose tolerance . similarly , there were no strong trends for a higher prevalence of hypertension amongst those with insulin levels in the upper quartile of the distribution of each population , although it was apparent in some bmi/glucose tolerance sub-groups of two populations . multiple linear regression analyses also showed an inconsistent and where present , weak , independent association between insulin and blood pressure in models predicting both systolic and diastolic blood pressure . we therefore conclude that the hypothesis implicating insulin as a major determinant of blood pressure and as the pathophysiological link between obesity , niddm and hypertension is not strongly supported either by the literature or the present data . 
adenocarcinoma of the prostate in a 41-year-old man with xxy karyotype and chronic lymphocytic leukemia : report of a case . we report a case of adenocarcinoma of the prostate in a 41-year-old man with 47xxy karyotype ( klinefelter 's syndrome ) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia . the increased incidence of malignancy in individuals with klinefelter 's syndrome has been well documented for certain neoplasms . adenocarcinoma of the prostate has not been reported previously in a patient with klinefelter 's syndrome and a 47xxy karyotype . absence of mosaicism was confirmed by peripheral lymphocyte , skin fibroblast , bone marrow cell and spleen stroma fibroblast cultures . chronic lymphocyte leukemia , especially the t-cell cytotoxic/suppressive variant , may additionally add to an immunological deficit . since carcinoma of the prostate , klinefelter 's syndrome and chronic lymphocytic leukemia are common , the lack of a previous report is interesting . etiological aspects are discussed . 
